-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Orange Box
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/halflife2episode2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Portal is an amazing combination of thought-provoking gameplay and a terrific sense of humor.
 Outstanding sound across all five games.
 You won't be finished with everything on the disc anytime soon.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Playing through all three Half-Life 2 games in succession makes Episode One stand out as a relatively weak link.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 10, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.5
Critic Score: 9.6, 58 Review (s)
User Score: 9.2, 9,002 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Valve Software
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date: Oct 10, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Between Half-Life 2, Portal, and Team Fortress 2, you're bound to find something you'll absolutely 
 love in The Orange Box. 

  It's hard to talk about what Valve's The Orange Box offers without immediately falling into an 
 impression of some sort of late-night pitchman for fantasy knives and alternative cleaning products. 
 That's partially because the name "The Orange Box" sounds more like some kind of citrus-scented 
 bathroom cleanser than a video game, and partially because this five-games-in-one package is the 
 kind of crazy deal that almost forces you to shoutNow  how much would you pay?" With three amazing 
 new games and two classics all in one package, it's impossible to go wrong with The Orange Box. 

           Episode Two gives you some new enemies to fight as you make a break for friendly territory. 

  With your purchase of The Orange Box, you'll get Half-Life 2: Episode Two, Team Fortress 2, and 
 Portal. They're all based on the same graphics engine, but they're all incredibly different games, 
 which ensures that there's something for everyone. You'll also get 2004's Half-Life 2 and 2006's 
 Half-Life 2: Episode One, which is handy if you aren't up to speed with what Gordon Freeman's been 
 doing over the past few years. On the PC, you'll launch each game separately. On the Xbox 360, 
 the game boots up to a menu where you can easily select any of the five games, and quitting out 
 of a game brings you back to the selection menu.  

  Let's start with new stuff. Episode Two is the continuation of the Half-Life 2 story. It picks 
 up right where Episode One leaves off, with Alyx helping Gordon out of the rubble of a train crash. 
 You've escaped from City 17, which now looks more like a smoking crater in the ground with a huge, 
 swirling portal floating over it. But you aren't safe just yet. You've escaped with information 
 that the Combine very much wants to get back from you, so the chase is on again. Fortunately, you'll 
 do much more than just run in Episode Two. The biggest difference here is that Alyx doesn't directly 
 accompany you through the entire game. You'll split up much more frequently, so, for example, you'll 
 find yourself working your way through antlion nests and crushing antlion grubs all by your lonesome. 
 You'll also negotiate a mine with the help of a vortigaunt who happens to serve as a subtle form 
 of comic relief. It spouts dialogue that plays off of the serious, spiritual tone that most of 
 these aliens take, only applying it to things such as crates full of supplies that just flew down 
 a broken mineshaft and out of reach. These bits alone give Episode Two a much different tone than 
 the previous games, but there are also significant gameplay alterations.  

  Episode Two marks the return of the lengthy vehicle sequences seen in Half-Life 2. There's a large 
 block of action that takes place with you moving from spot to spot in what appears to be a stripped-down 
 Dodge Charger. There are also a couple of big set pieces, such as one sequence where you have to 
 defend the center of a mine from relentless antlion attacks. Likewise, the game's final sequence 
 takes place in a wide-open area and, without getting too specific, feels very different from anything 
 Half-Life 2 has done so far. Although you won't encounter any new weapons in Episode Two, the developers 
 have at least broken the flashlight power meter out from the same auxiliary power that you use 
 to sprint. This is a smart change that doesn't make much sense in terms of continuity between episodes, 
 but it's handy and the sort of thing you wish they'd roll back into the much darker, much more 
 flashlight-oriented action of Episode One. At about four or five hours, Episode Two is also longer 
 than Episode One.  

  With all that Half-Life, you'd think that the other two parts of this package would be minor additions 
 thrown in to make the deal sound more attractive. But Portal is probably the greatest thing about 
 The Orange Box. It's a clever mix that combines first-person action with very focused puzzle-solving. 
 It's also completely hilarious. The premise is simple. You're a woman who wakes up in a tiny box 
 inside some lab facility run by a mysterious company called Aperture Science. You're presented 
 with a portal that lets you walk out of the room and into another. From there, the game gradually 
 introduces you to portals and eventually gives you a gun that you can use to fire portals onto 
 walls, ceilings, and floors. Your primary and alternate fire buttons are used to create blue and 
 orange portals, respectively, and walking, jumping, or falling into one portal sends you out of 
 the other one. You can also pick up objects, such as large boxes, which often must be placed on 
 large buttons to open doors so you can proceed through a variety of test chambers.  

           Portal can be a real mindbender, so stop and think about what you're doing before you 
 do it.      

  Along the way, a computerized female voice guides you... and misguides you. The dialogue from the 
 computer supervising your test gets more and more overtly funny as you play and leads to a very 
 satisfying conclusion, including what might be the best end-credit song ever written. Later puzzles 
 force you to pull off some tricky portal maneuvers and require you to consider how much momentum 
 you have when you enter a portal, given that the same momentum is carried with you when you come 
 out the other side. So if you jump down into a floor portal and have the exit portal set on a side 
 wall, you'll rocket out of that portal with the velocity you had when falling into the hole on 
 the floor.  

  Upon finishing Portal, which may take you three hours or so if you're able to quickly grasp the 
 concepts that are presented, you'll unlock a series of advanced challenges. These include six harder 
 versions of puzzles from the main game, and challenges that ask you to finish levels under certain 
 limits, such as the time it takes you to complete the level, the number of portals you use, or 
 the number of steps you take. The advanced puzzles are tough, but not impossible. However, the 
 challenges are much rougher. There are bronze, silver, and gold medals awarded for each of the 
 three challenge types across six levels. Even after you've figured out the puzzles, Portal remains 
 fun and is worth coming back to again and again, just to listen to the dialogue and spend a few 
 fleeting moments with the weighted companion cube. It's a shame that it had to end this way.   
   

  Team Fortress 2 is the multiplayer component to The Orange Box, and it's been a long time coming. 
 Almost a decade, in fact. But we'll leave out the history lesson and get right down to business. 
 Like its predecessor, Team Fortress 2 is a class-based multiplayer shooter in which the red team 
 dukes it out with the blue team. There are six maps in the game, each with its own set of objectives. 
 So 2fort is your basic "capture the flag" type of game, wherein each team tries to get into the 
 basement, collect the enemy's intelligence (a briefcase) , and return it home. The rest of the maps 
 deal with the capture and defense of control points in different ways. For example, some maps put 
 both teams on a course to capture the enemy's base, but require you to control the other points 
 on the map to get a shot at the final objective. Hydro is an interesting map because it takes the 
 control-point concept a little further by breaking each point up into its own specific area of 
 the map. After each capture, the game is reset; a different part of the level is used for the next 
 conflict, which makes it feel like multiple maps in one level. That's a good thing, too, because 
 the downside of TF2 is that there are only six maps to choose from, and 2fort is the only capture-the-flag 
 map.  

           Engineer turrets are a handy way to protect key points on the map.      

  Choosing 
 your character class is a vitally important decision. The right answer is a mixture of personal 
 preference and your current situation, because each class has unique weapon loadouts and abilities. 
 The scout can't take as much damage as other classes, but he's faster, can double jump, and captures 
 control points twice as quickly as other classes, which makes him a vital but fragile man on the 
 battlefield. The soldier is your standard no-frills class, but his default weapon is a rocket launcher, 
 which is handy. The pyro packs a flamethrower, which is fun to use. Then there's the demo man as 
 well as the heavy, both of whom are slower-moving, tougher targets that bring heavy firepower along 
 with them. The engineer's main weapon is a shotgun, but he can also build things such as turrets 
 and teleporters, which can have a huge impact on the game. The medic can heal other players and 
 let out an ubercharge that can turn players invincible for brief periods of time. Teaming up a 
 medic with a heavy can be an incredibly devastating combo. There's a sniper class for those who 
 like to shoot people in the face from long distances. Finally, there's the spy class, which you 
 can use to disguise yourself as a member of the opposite team, turn invisible, and place sappers 
 that eliminate pesky engineer turrets. The classes feel as if they've been balanced out fairly 
 well, and for each action there's an appropriate counter. But none of that sounds particularly 
 special, does it?  

  The thing that makes Team Fortress 2 so special is its graphical style. Rather than going with 
 the ultrarealistic military look that's still all the rage these days with the kids, TF2 has an 
 over-the-top, cartoonish design to it that starts with the great-looking characters. They're really 
 well animated, and each class just has a ton of personality. The level design holds up its end 
 of the bargain, with a visual style that occasionally reminds you of old Road Runner cartoons with 
 their rocky, Southwestern styles.  

           The good doctor's not much of a public speaker, but he gets his points across.      

 
  In case you haven't played the two already-released games in the Half-Life 2 saga, they tell the 
 story of Gordon Freeman, your silent protagonist. At the end of the original Half-Life, the scientist 
 was placed into stasis by a mysterious, nameless figure known outside of the HL universe as the 
 G-Man. This governmental-looking guy pops up right at the beginning of HL2 to awaken Gordon and, 
 apparently, place him on a train headed into City 17. This is a very different world than the one 
 Gordon left behind. Time has passed, though it's unclear how much. The alien invasion from the 
 first Half-Life has resulted in the Seven Hour War, at the end of which humanity surrendered to 
 a force now known as the Combine. But even with the human race under complete lockdown, there's 
 still a group of rebels out there fighting for freedom. Some of these rebels are scientists that 
 come directly from the Black Mesa facility where the original Half-Life took place. You quickly 
 hook up with the rebels and the "good" aliens, the vortigaunts, all of whom speak of you in hushed 
 tones, as though you were a legendary hero. Half-Life 2 is a very lengthy adventure with somewhat 
 odd pacing. The game contains two very long vehicle sequences that perhaps go on a bit too long, 
 but let's let sleeping dogs lie. This 2004 game is an absolute classic that should be played and 
 enjoyed by almost anyone that comes into contact with it.     

  Episode One picks up right after the events of Half-Life 2 and serves as a sort of epilogue to 
 the Half-Life 2 story. Without going too deep into the plot events, City 17 is about to blow up 
 and you are way too close to it to survive the blast. Joining you is Alyx Vance, a girl that pops 
 up to fight alongside you at various points in Half-Life 2. Here, she's with you for most of the 
 game, for better and for worse. On the one hand, she's a great computer-controlled gunner who feels 
 almost indestructible, which means that you can sit back and let her do most of the fighting if 
 you feel like it. On the other hand, her excitable nature can be a little grating, and it feels 
 as if she's along for the ride just to point out stuff that the developers wanted you to see. Most 
 of her speech seems to follow the formula of "Hey, Gordon, look at this [key item you need to interact 
 with to proceed] " or "Whoa, look at this [scripted sequence of things falling down or exploding] !" 

  The story is probably the weakest point about Episode One, considering that nothing really happens. 
 You start playing, and your goal is to delay the blast; you do that, and then escape. Along the 
 way, though, you'll experience some neat gameplay, much of which is built around the use of the 
 gravity gun. Compared to the huge adventure in Half-Life 2, Episode One was a weird way to continue 
 the adventure. Now that you can play it as a three- or four-hour chunk of a larger package, it 
 works much better.  

           Half-Life 2 and Episode Two both have very long vehicle sequences.      

  By comparison, 
 the graphics in the Half-Life games and in Portal are vastly different, even though all of these 
 games are running on variations of the same engine. The Half-Life 2 games do a great job of showing 
 you torn-apart human cities and postapocalyptic landscapes, and they still have some of the best 
 facial animation you'll see in a video game. Portal has a pristine laboratory look to most of its 
 levels that really fits with the game's premise, and the effects for the portals themselves are 
 pretty cool. TF2's unique visual style sets it apart from the cookie-cutter military shooters out 
 there and injects some humor into the proceedings at the same time.  

  The package also has wonderful sound across all of its games. Half-Life 2 and its additional episodes 
 probably have the best (and most) music of the bunch, and the soundtrack in the Half-Life games 
 is really great. Portal and TF2 definitely have some good music, as well. Likewise, there's a healthy 
 amount of voice acting across the five games, and most of it is quite good. The Team Fortress 2 
 classes all have specific voice taunts that add to their personalities. Portal's computer voices 
 are outstanding, and the different characters in Half-Life 2 turn in terrific and believable performances. 

  With The Orange Box out on both the PC and the Xbox 360, it's worth noting that there are a handful 
 of differences between them, but it's hard to go wrong with either version. For starters, the PC 
 version is $10 cheaper and, provided that you have modern hardware, it also looks better than the 
 Xbox 360 version. The 360 version doesn't run as smoothly, though its frame rate is hardly a problem, 
 either. Furthermore, the textures used throughout Half-Life 2 simply don't look as good in 2007 
 as they did in 2004. Consequently, viewing them on a large HDTV doesn't really do them any favors, 
 though the 360 version utilizes high dynamic range lighting that gives you more realistic-looking 
 effects than Half-Life 2 had on the PC at its time of release.  

  Of course, the 360 version has achievement points. In fact, it has 99 separate achievements, more 
 than any other game to date, though they still total up to 1,000 points overall. Spreading the 
 1,000 across five games means that no single achievement is worth very much, even though some of 
 them ask you to do some out-of-the-ordinary things, such as playing through the entire Ravenholm 
 chapter using only the gravity gun, or finishing Episode One and firing exactly one bullet over 
 the course of the entire game. Each game has an achievement browser that shows you the achievements 
 that relate to that specific game, though some of the achievements for the Half-Life 2 games cross 
 over from one game to another.  

           An achievement browser shows you the tasks that apply to each specific game.      

 
  The achievement browser that Valve has built also shows your progress in some cases. For example, 
 there's an achievement for smashing every single antlion grub in Episode Two. The catch is that 
 there are 333 grubs in all. It's nice to know how many you have left. On the PC, Valve has rolled 
 an achievement system into Steam, its digital content delivery system. The community side of Steam 
 now lets you look at how long players spend playing each game, and the same achievements used in 
 Team Fortress 2, Portal, and Episode Two are also present in your Steam profile. The difference 
 is that they don't tie back into your Microsoft-branded gamertag, and there's no point count associated 
 with each achievement on the PC, either. It's an interesting addition to the service, which is 
 becoming quite a service these days, though we're still patiently waiting for a fully digital burrito-delivery 
 system to be implemented.  

  But that's beside the point. You don't need burritos, sealed dealer cases of baseball cards, or 
 fully integrated fitness systems thrown in at no additional charge to make The Orange Box a great 
 deal. It's practically guaranteed that if you enjoy video games, you'll find at least one thing 
 to like in this collection, though there's also a very good chance that you'll really enjoy all 
 of it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (576 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jercioh
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 15, 2009 9:16 am PT
Review:  once again self written
  
  
  Accessing the five games is easy, thanks to a simple, but elegant menu system. You can hop into 
 any of the Half-Life components without having beaten the prior versions. So, if you've played 
 Half-Life 2 before, you can skip it (though you really should play it again) , and go right into 
 the episodic content. Also included for every game (save HL2) is director commentary which offers 
 an in-depth look at level and map design as well as story elements for the Half-Life universe. 
 It's about as slick a package as you will find on a console. The only failure is the horrendous 
 box art, which I'm pretty certain was designed by a select group of mildy-talented fifth graders. 
 
  
  
  What helps Half-Life 2 stand out, particularly for a console title, is the use of physics. Most 
 games that use physics do so merely to wow you with some nifty visuals. Half-Life 2 uses it for 
 gameplay. And not just in isolated cases. The design is built around the physics engine. This is 
 as immersive an experience as you can get, both from the excellent voice work and the exhilarating 
 gameplay. 
  thank you for watching and happy new year to you all ?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmeads
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2009 10:44 am PT
Review:  Alright! 5 games in one!
  I'm sure most people are familiar with Half-Life. You can play Half-Life 2, HL2 episode 1, and 
 HL2 episode 2. Each have their own storyline. If you aren't familiar with the series, here's what 
 goes down: you are Gordon Freeman, and you have to kill Combine, head crabs, etc. by shooting them 
 down in imaginative places with cool guns or by throwing things i. e. TOILETS. There are also times 
 when you have to complete puzzles, adding a nice other-side to the game. Its just FUN.
  There's also Team Fortress 2. As you can guess, its the second game in the series. There's capture 
 the flag, defend/attack the territories (depending on which round) and defend/attack the territories 
 (you're on both offense and defense) . Its strictly multiplayer, and a blast to play. You've got 
 an abundance of classes each with their own purpose. Heavy weapons, scout, spy, demolitions man, 
 medic, sniper, soldier, and engineer; each with a different style of play.
  Then comes along an obscure, new game. I believe it was actually a college project. But no matter; 
 it is great.
  PORTAL; the name says it all. You shoot a blue and yellow portal (after acquiring them) and the 
 first one you shoot is basically point A and going into point A makes you come out at point B. 
 This is the way you traverse the puzzling levels. You get past chasms, turrets, plasma balls etc. 
 Valve takes a whole new approach with this game. Its great fun, and has quite a bit of humor thrown 
 in. Its got a great twist-ending, too. So come in, they've got cake!
  Overall, The Orange Box is Valve's way of saying "YOU SEE THESE GAMES? YEAH?? THESE ARE WHY WE 
 ARE AWESOME!" And its true; these games rock. If you want sucky games, don't get this. If you want 
 good games, don't get this. If you want superb games, get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chacarron11
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2009 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Alright! 5 games in one!
  I'm sure most people are familiar with Half-Life. You can play Half-Life 2, HL2 episode 1, and 
 HL2 episode 2. Each have their own storyline. If you aren't familiar with the series, here's what 
 goes down: you are Gordon Freeman, and you have to kill Combine, head crabs, etc. by shooting them 
 down in imaginative places with cool guns or by throwing things i. e. TOILETS. There are also times 
 when you have to complete puzzles, adding a nice other-side to the game. Its just FUN.
  There's also Team Fortress 2. As you can guess, its the second game in the series. There's capture 
 the flag, defend/attack the territories (depending on which round) and defend/attack the territories 
 (you're on both offense and defense) . Its strictly multiplayer, and a blast to play. You've got 
 an abundance of classes each with their own purpose. Heavy weapons, scout, spy, demolitions man, 
 medic, sniper, soldier, and engineer; each with a different style of play.
  Then comes along an obscure, new game. I believe it was actually a college project. But no matter; 
 it is great.
  PORTAL; the name says it all. You shoot a blue and yellow portal (after acquiring them) and the 
 first one you shoot is basically point A and going into point A makes you come out at point B. 
 This is the way you traverse the puzzling levels. You get past chasms, turrets, plasma balls etc. 
 Valve takes a whole new approach with this game. Its great fun, and has quite a bit of humor thrown 
 in. Its got a great twist-ending, too. So come in, they've got cake!
  Overall, The Orange Box is Valve's way of saying "YOU SEE THESE GAMES? YEAH?? THESE ARE WHY WE 
 ARE AWESOME!" And its true; these games rock. If you want sucky games, don't get this. If you want 
 good games, don't get this. If you want superb games, get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simpsons_28
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2009 7:38 pm PT
Review:  "Hey do you want the Orange box! It has 5 games in one!"
  "Dude that's probaly 100$ I'm not rich"
  "It's only 50 bucks."
  "No freaking way!"
  PROS:
 
  5 games one box.
  CONS:
  Haha that's funny!
  Here are seprete reviews for each game!
  Half life 2
  PROS:
  A great sequel to a great game!
  Great story with great characters.
 
  The gravity gun
  Dog
  No Cutscenes!!!
  CONS: 
  Why are you asking me that?
  Half Life 2 Episode 1
  PROS:
  you get a partner. with great AI. With you the entire game.
 
  Gameplay is still superb.
  CONS:
  5 Chapters!!!!! What do you think I don't have arms!
  HALF LIFE 2 EPISODE 2
  Pros:
  Story is still great.
  Awesome cliffhanger
  Gameplay is still 
 great.
  CONS:
  The strider battle turns into an un fun battle.
  TEAM FORTRESS 2
  Pros:
  Many classes to choose from.
  Time killing multiplayer.
  Cons:
  Not many maps to 
 choose from.
  PORTAL
  Pros:
  Glados is great
  Fun challenging gameplay
  Best ending theme ever!
  CONS:
  SO SHORT!
  And that's my review for the orange box and everything 
 in it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LtReviews
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2009 11:07 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box is the pinnacle of gaming. 
  
  It consists of 5 games in total; Half life 2, Half life 2 episode 1, Half life 2 episode 2, Portal, 
 and Team Fortress.
  
  Half-life series: Graphics are amazing. The physics are undoubtedly the perfect recreation of gravity. 
 Voice acting is flawless- every character has their own personality, and you grow attached to them 
 throughout the game. Their expressions convey emotions that you can't get out of flapping-jaw speech 
 animations in other games. It mixes puzzles into the first person shooter formula, using the gravity 
 gun- make the terrain work for you as a weapon. Cinematics do not take away from the immersion 
 in this world, because there are none after the beginning, you see everything through Gordon Freeman's 
 eyes, and the story is told perfectly- A dystopian future in which the world has been occupied 
 with Nazi-like "combine" invaders. I can't explain it all, but it's an amazing story of how human 
 will is unbreakable when stretched to the limits and tested. 
  
  Portal: MIND BENDING. Puzzle games now have become 3D or 3-Dimension, but portal makes the new 
 4th dimension. The mechanics are simple; the puzzles are not. They usually consist of getting from 
 one side of a room to the other, in such a way, that it is impossible to do so without traveling 
 through your own portals, placing them hundreds of time, trying to make moment shift to get you 
 over impossible obstacles. In my honest opinion, best puzzle game ever made; the only problem, 
 is I wish it was longer (maybe 6-8 hours, but this differs greatly on your ability to solve puzzles, 
 for some it could be 5 hours, and others 15, it took me about 7 and a half) and once you know how 
 to solve the puzzles, it will be a good month before you can play through the game again, without 
 remembering all the answers to the puzzles (but maybe less, since the puzzles are just so incredibly 
 complicated, it's like solving a new one each time you replay the level)
  
  Fortress: Some games like Halo have great multiplayer, but games like Team Fortress, which where 
 made for the sole purpose of multiplayer, can perfect the formula. You can play the same map many 
 times, and still not feel like it's a repetitive experience. Each class plays so dramatically different 
 from the others. Traditional class based multiplayer, really don't have as much differences between 
 the classes. But here, you have to play to your class's strengths to the benefit of your team, 
 and what class you pick every time you spawn, will determine much. Besides that, capture the flag 
 has never been as fun. 
  Overall; perfect. In order to find flaws in this game, you'd have to be purposely looking, and 
 trying hard to find something wrong with it, therefore I believe those potential flaws are negligible, 
 leaving only the perfectly polished games, for the best value I've ever seen. You'll want to buy, 
 instead of rent, since it will take you over 20 hours to finish the three half-life episodes alone.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyberspider2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 6:02 am PT
Review:  Video game packages have always been rejected but you shouldn't reject this wonder, 
  
  The orange box is split into 5 games which means I should split my review in 5 sections. 
  
 
  I've always loved Half life (I haven't typed a review yet so please wait) and it's award winning 
 sequel. The story of Gordon Freeman draws after the ending of half life in which an unknown alien 
 force takes over the planet.
  After greeted by the mysterious (and somewhat creepy) Gman, you are on a train to city 17 (reference 
 to stalag 17) which is controlled by the combine, an evil alien race bent on enslaving and later 
 exterminate the human. the combine have some reference on WW11 german soldiers
  your job is to help dr. kleiner and friends liberate both humans and xenians.
  the gameplay of 
 it is smashing where you have a ton of weapons to shoot combine soldiers with, the weapon switching 
 is awkward, pressing multiple times on the d-pad.
  
  Now with team fortress 2, which is a Highly addictive multiplayer experience where you play as 
 9 unique and cartoonish classes. My three favorite classes are sniper, engineer and pyro.
  
  Portal on the other hand is a comedic action adventure, you are a lab rat and you are required 
 to use the portal gun to solve puzzles which works so well to get your cake. sadly it's too short 
 but if you want more portal action get portal still alive.
  9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DYMongoose
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 11:50 pm PT
Review:  Portal is a brilliant piece of work. I beat the base game in about 2 days, so it's not too hard. 
 But there's plenty of challenges to complete after it's been beaten, so it's not too easy to finish 
 completely either. The antagonist character is one of the best combinations of humor and villainy 
 I've seen in a very long time.
  
  Team Fortress is very interesting. The nine different classes all have distinct character, and 
 are varied enough to make each one equally useful. I haven't played enough to give much more of 
 a review than that, but so far I like it a lot. My only complaint is that the game is multi-player 
 only. It would be nice to be able to go after NPC characters to get to know how the classes handle 
 before jumping online with veterans. Here's hoping the PC updates make it to XBox Live soon.
  
  I'm yet to play Half-Life, but I'm sure there are more than enough reviews for the stand alone 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phar_cyde
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Well we'll start off with half life 2 and work our way up. Half life 2 is is not only a very fun 
 game but it has a very good single player replay value which is more than I can say for most games. 
 I found my self replaying it 6 or 7 times to collect all the **** for the achievements, very fun. 
 episode's 1 & 2 are the same, great replay value and very fun. Portal is next, it is a very fun 
 game, makes you think. some people say that it is worth the sixty alone, ya don't lisen to them. 
 but still good. And finaly team fortress. it being my most favorete multiplayer of all time. it 
 has awsome replay value and I just can't get enough,. every thing is very well ballenced. The only 
 other thing their is to say about this is the price. 3 games and 2 expansions for sixty dollars 
 is very good, and it's proabley even cheaper now. so I fully reccomend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harley89bo
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2009 9:31 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box is the BEST investment you can make in gaming. It includes 5 great games, Half-Life 
 2 (episode 1&2) , Portal, and Team Fortress 2. There is nothing bad that can be said about this 
 bundle of games, because its all for the cost of one. No disk swaping, everything is on one disk. 
 And the games are great, really great. Half-Life 2 is my person favorite game of decade and the 
 episodes continue that. Portal is one of the most innovative video games of all time. And Team 
 Fortress 2 is a fun multi-player game to waste some hours with.
  
  The only bad for each individual game are..
  
  Half-Life 2 there is nothing bad.
  Episode 
 1 is too short and doesn't advance much story.
  Episode 2 is short, but still awesome.
  Portal is way too for how fun it is.
  Team fortress 2 is just an average game.
  
  But they 
 are all must play for anyone.
  
  Valve does it again with a gift to all gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abassler
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2009 2:04 am PT
Review:  There are 5 games in the Orange Box
  Half Life 2, Half Life 2 episode 1, Half Life 2 episode 2, Portal, and Team Fortress 2. 
  My 
 review doesn't take TF2 into account because it's the multi player component for the Orange Box, 
 and I'm not connected to live.
  
  The remaining games are fantastic. 
  Portal is not only an instant classic, but exceeds in being the highlight of this package managing 
 to overshadow Half Life 2 which was already a classic.
  
  Portal is a short (first play through took me 2.5 hours.) but sweet puzzle game, complete with 
 intriguing story and compelling characters. This isn't a negative though its a plus bored and have 
 an hour to kill pop in Portal and enjoy some cake. I played through it numerous times and then 
 I bought it via Valve's download service Steam and played through the game a couple more times, 
 although I bought it on the PC primarily so I can play the user created levels. Money well spent 
 though.
  
  Half Life 2 was already considered a classic on the PC and here it is on the Xbox 360, It still 
 looks amazing, it sounds amazing. Its an Incredibly well designed game. I had a problem with the 
 pacing during some parts of this game, the Half Life 2 physics puzzle are a hall mark of the series 
 but they can be integrated into the game better, and in fact are implemented better during in each 
 of the episodes.
  
  I love the story and the feel of the Half Life world and each of the episode takes that and pushes 
 it to new levels of greatness.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drugsrbadmkay16
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2009 10:13 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box (Xbox 360)
  
  Storyline: A+
  Well there are actually five games included in one, if you didn't already know. The first game 
 is the sequel to the phenomenal groundbreaking experience of 'Half-Life'. Your main goal throughout 
 the game is to escape City 17 (where the original ended) . You battle through obstacles and lots 
 of plot twisting events that will truly make you feel uncomfortable... in the greatest way. I'm 
 not going to get more into the 'Half-Life 2' storyline though, because it would be too spoiling 
 for all you who haven't had the opportunity to play it. These events continue in the next two games 
 on this one disc: 'Half-Life 2: Episode 1' and of course 'Half-Life 2: Episode 2'. Like I said, 
 though, I just can't get into it anymore than this. I will say this, however: prepare to come face 
 to face with some disturbing creatures in the first and second episodes. The ending to these three 
 games honestly left me in tears. It is truly the most inspirational and heart-breaking story ever, 
 even if you don't realize it at first. There's just something about the way Valve made it that 
 made you connect with each character as if you truly knew them. So once it was all over and everything 
 is left in suspense, you get pretty damn emotional having to say goodbye until 'Half-Life 3'. Hold 
 on a second, I need to grab a tissue. To the next game, we have the outbreaking 'Portal'. The thing 
 about 'Portal' that was so incredible was how it was unlike any other game ever created. It's a 
 new genre of its own. In fact, I wouldn't be surprised if GameSpot eventually made it into a separate 
 category. Obviously that is a bit of an exaggeration, but I don't know how I could express it any 
 more. You play Alex (from 'Half-Life') who is I guess stuck in the future (although it's hard to 
 tell) . I think it was meant to seem futuristic, but honestly, it didn't matter. You are basically 
 held captive in this 'world', accompanied by a robot: Glados. Now Glados is an interesting character, 
 but lets just says that she doesn't turn out to be the person she claims she is. As you progress 
 through levels, you learn more and more about her and her intentions -- not going any further, because 
 again, it would be a total plot-spoiler and if you haven't played it, you will be pretty angry 
 with me. But it is one damn fun game, I promise you. The last game is 'Team Fortress 2'. There 
 is no storyline to this game, it's just a screw-around online game where you blow everyone and 
 everything up basically. But trust me, Valve succeeded in making that a very positive thing. Storyline 
 in 'The Orange Box' makes this game the groundbreaker it is/will always be.
  
  Graphics: A+
  If you were to pop this game in NOW, in 2009, you might be a little bit disappointed 
 with the visuals. But you need to keep in mind that nothing was changed since the 2004 release 
 of 'Half-Life 2' (I don't think they could've changed them without ruining the game and its classic 
 traits) . If you were to go back in time to 2004 and pop in 'Half-Life 2' into your ORIGINAL Xbox, 
 you could have easily broken your jaw when it slammed into the ground. The problems with it in 
 modern days is its lack of texture (biggest problem) . Everything just seems a little too 2D, unfortunately. 
 To put into easier, more understandable terms: play 'Call of Duty: World at War' and then 'The 
 Orange Box' and you will see what I mean. Another minor problem is the color/contrast of the game. 
 I don't know why, but it just seems to be a little bit off. I am extremely impressed, however, 
 at the level of uniqueness for each games, especially 'Portal'. It's just so different (in a good 
 way) . That kind of makes up for the mediocre graphics otherwise. Actually, it didn't really need 
 to. I'm glad Valve didn't focus so much on the graphics. It may have been a bit distracting to 
 the greatest storyline of all time.
  
  Entertainment: A+
  If you don't enjoy this game, I feel so bad for you. You really cannot understand a videogame if 
 you really don't think this is a good game. It's the most addicting/entertaining game of all time, 
 period. And you don't have to even play multiplayer (only one you can play multiplayer anyways 
 is 'Team Fortress 2') . You will be so into the storyline and plot that it will just mesmerize you. 
 So if you're supposed to have some big exam next week, don't buy this until it's over, because 
 it will literally make you completely forget everything around you. You will become oblivious to 
 society. The fact that a single videogame can have such an amazing, extraordinary effect on you 
 is simply mind-blowing. That's why I am not afraid to say that (and you can quote me here because 
 I will never say this again) this is the best game of all time. Period. Zip. End of discussion.
 
  
  Recommendations: A+
  I am happy to recommend this game to the following people:
  -Anyone who knows a good game when they see it and doesn't worry about graphics as the most important 
 aspect of a game.
  
  Overall: A+
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermanmega
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 5:53 pm PT
Review:  i dont know if its just me or what because i just think these games r so boring.
  
  well i started with portal first because i saw a friend play it and i thought it looked cool. i 
 played it for about an hour and this game is probably the best of all 5 but there were still alot 
 of things i didnt like about it. well to start it was hard, it took me forever to get past even 
 the first level. it was kinda boring to i mean i would walk into a room.... look around and see 
 what was here and where everything was, then i would try to figure out what i could do to open 
 the door. once i started to do the puzzle i would either die by the bouncing laser ball or not 
 shoot a portal fast enough and have to start all over again. after spending 2-3 hours getting past 
 not even the first level i figured it wasnt worth my time and gave up.
  
  well maybe im just not a puzzle person....
  
  so i went to half-life. i thought it was going 
 to be great, seeing all the good scores and reviews is got. i played it for about 30 minutes and 
 i was getting a little bored, 30 minutes and i dont even have a weapon.... so i kept playing and 
 i finally got a wrench and then a pistol. i found the wrench to be better then the pistol lol. 
 i also found this game to be more of a puzzle game then a shooting game. almost every time i had 
 to use my pistol i would run out of ammo and rarely found any ammo. i would run out of ammo, run 
 away, and look for where i needed to go. i got on a boat but there was a wall in the way and a 
 ramp facing the wrong way. so i looked for a way to make the ramp face the boat so i could jump 
 the wall, but after spending 30 minutes looking and trying i got mad and just gave up.\
  
  i went to gamestop the next day and returned it. i never tried the other half-lives or team fortress, 
 but i figured it wasnt worth it for just 1 good game even if it was good.
  
  so i dont know maybe i just didnt give it a chance but i gave it a few hours and i hated every 
 second of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nster81
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2009 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Half-life 2, Episodes 1 and 2, Portal, Team Fortress 2. The Orange Box. 5 Games in one. Not only 
 is this deal the greatest in gaming, Period, but the games are completely amazing! Half-Life 2, 
 a first-person shooter from 2004 that, with it's prequel, helped revolutionize PC gaming. As protagonist, 
 Gordon Freeman, you'll arrive in City 17 to a brutal Combine oppression. The soldiers of the alien 
 Combine are your main adversaries, along with all of the beasts they side with. From Striders, 
 long-legged, towering creatures, to human's turned zombie by "head crabs." This is a very unique 
 FPS in terms of gameplay and graphical enhancement. The game looks amazing on the 360, as it did 
 on the PC, though, the core gameplay is interesting, blending intense action, stellar character 
 design and AI, and even some puzzle aspects as well. It's a very well-developed game and doesn't 
 even show it's age in terms of graphics. Alone would be a must have!
  Next is the other add-on, not new to the package, Half-Life 2: Episode I. It follows the same recipe 
 that it's prequel had and still pulls it off successfully. This is a direct follow-up to HL2, following 
 Alyx and Gordon as they try to escape City 17. It's quite short with only 5 chapters, though, it 
 does get intense around the last couple areas of the game. Worth playing as well!
  Half-Life 2: Episode II. The new Half-Life component to the series and the Orange Box. It delivers 
 a VERY intense Half-Life experience too! The most high action Half-Life to date, for sure! As Alyx 
 and Gordon travel to White Forest, outside of City 17, the Combine are hunting them with a vast 
 number of reinforcements. You'll meet the Hunter, a fast and powerful Combine. Also, the Advisor 
 shows himself, as a powerful telekinetic Combine. The adventure is a little longer than it's predecessor, 
 though packs a big punch! Easily recommendable.
  Portal is a really funky puzzle-based adventure. As your silent protagonist, you'll be put through 
 various tests of the Aperture Science Research Facility with your Handheld Portal Device. You have 
 to figure out these puzzles, using portals as your main tool. The game sets new boundaries for 
 physics and is incredibly funny! Shouldn't be passed over! 
  Lastly, the crazy, fast-paced, ridiculous, class-based multiplayer port, Team Fortress 2. It uses 
 cartoonish graphics that fit the game perfectly and are backed up by good gameplay. The game is 
 genuinely fun, but is pretty heavily team-based. Working together is key to winning the game. The 
 games performance is sometimes very off with a small amount of lag, but under a good connection, 
 is amazing. Master a Class and Team up to Dominate your Adversaries in TF2! 
  A ten is more than able to justify how good this package really is. As it is now a year + old, 
 for only $20.00's, without a shadow of a doubt, a must buy!!!
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Graphics, Game, and Character Designs: 10/10
  Story: 10/10
  Voice Acting: 10/10
  Replay Value: 
 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crackpack
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 31, 2009 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Believe it or not, some people actually bought the XBox 360, not to enjoy online gaming, but to 
 enjoy gaming by ourselves. When the opportunity arose to grab The Orange Box, there was no hesitation. 
 Having read the reviews here at gamespot, I naturally assumed that I was in for hours of shooting 
 hijinks and hilarity. Quite disappointing then, as I started Team Fortress 2 after enjoying Half 
 Life 2 and falling through floors in Portal, to be confronted with the fact that I could only play 
 TF2 in Live. I enjoy a good shootup and years ago, enjoyed running and gunning in Unreal Tournament 
 and Quake, slaying and spawning, wash hands repeat. I just prefer to do it in one-player mode. 
 That way when I suck, it doesn't hurt so bad. 
  
  The graphics in all the games are really good. Half Life 2 is the first shooting game in a long 
 time to hold my attention. I would surely recommend these games for people with a Live login but 
 for those of us who don't, I'd look somewhere else.
  
  I might go hunt down UT3... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthJavelin
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2009 6:06 pm PT
Review:  The orange box is a bundle of five games and one of the best bundles of games you can buy. It gives 
 nice first person shooting action (HL2, and Team Fortress 2) and great puzzles (portal and puzzles 
 integrated into HL2) . The graphics are great mainly due to the source engine. HL2 is a first personshooter 
 with a great story line, and the good thing is you get three of the hl2 games in the series ( so 
 say one would take you about 15 hours the extra 2 give you another 30 hours upping it to 45 hours 
 alone on hl2) . Portal is a fun puzzle game that is extremely unique and addicting. Portal can be 
 a challenge to some, but it is easy to get the hang of it. And lastly TF2 gives the Orange Box 
 its multiplayer. TF2 is a fun classed based Multiplayer game that has a very unique and funny art 
 style. Some people out there might be thinking "Wow this game must be expensive" well its not and 
 i know that the best buy price thing says $59.99 but it is because they have not updated it. IT 
 IS ONLY $19.99 NEW!!!!! Any gamer must buy the Orange box, and anyone who doesnt is making the 
 biggest mistake of their lives. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ramix777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 5:43 pm PT
Review:  This game was one of my first x box titles and is by far my favorite! With the addictive half life 
 series to my favorite game in there, Portal! With the puzzle game sense in it, the first person 
 mode, and the awsome GLaDOS this is a must buy!! And speaking of buying it's 5 games for the price 
 of a simple little used ds game! (about 20.00$!!) And so worth it!! And the gravity gun in half 
 life and also.... the head crabs... "WHAT MORE COULD YOU WANT???"
  And for all you people who think portal is a bad game because it's not all bloody and gorey... 
 Shame. Shame, Shame, Shame!!!
  
  And if you don't have the orange box and you re reading this.... Then go out and buy it!!
  Unless 
 you don't have an x box... (then why would you be reading this???)
  
  So for 30$ buck I'd say its worth 5 games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratchet573
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Orange Box is the greatest deal in gaming history. First of all it comes with the amazing Half 
 Life series, which I think deserves more respect than the Halo series. An amazing story, great 
 gameplay, and the physics engine makes this the definitive shooter for the 360. 
  After your hours of Half Life, you get the amazing game Portal, a series of first person puzzles 
 that literally bends your mind every which way while introducing the most hilarious computerized 
 voice ever. "The cake is a lie" is one of the greatest lines ever in a game. 
  Then, theres the king of online games, team fortress 2. A hilarious multiplayer game thats fun 
 and addicting. Most of the hours I racked up on the Orange Box came from TF. Addicting class based 
 action.
  Overall, the orange box delivers everyone something. Now if only an episode three would come out... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trey555555
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2009 7:10 pm PT
Review:  I played half life 1 and 2. Both were amazing games, I never had a chance to play the expansions 
 so I decided to pick this up. Wow, I picked it up for 30$, not bad at all, comes with episode 1 
 and 2, portal and multiplayer. You have to play through 2 to get the others, but then again I'd 
 play this game 100 times and not get bored. The pysics are amazing, the graphics are top notch 
 (not as good as the pc version though but still very good) , sounds is good, and its overall fun 
 to play. I did have trouble getting into the multiplayer part of the game, but then again Im not 
 going to reduce points for it, its still good for a single player game, about a good 20 plus hours. 
 I was really satisfied with the game, if you havent played the expansions then you should pick 
 this up and go for another spin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bentpeg
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2009 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is one of the greatest video games ever made. Once you start it you can not stop and 
 you get giddy knowing you have two more episodes to  
 unfortunately episode 1 is ridiculously short and episode 2 just keeps you craving for more more 
 more. Where is the next one already? The environments are incredibly detailed but what's better 
 is variety of environments. The story takes you from battling in a city to tunnels to rural areas 
 and mixes things up at just the right times. The controls are precise and the sounds only enhance 
 the exciting experience. 
  
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ejm1234
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 12, 2009 1:20 am PT
Review:  I would have given The Orange Box a higher score if it had only included Portal and Team Fortress 
 2 (The Orange Box comes bundled with the Half Life 2 series, Portal and Team Fortress 2) .
  
  I did not like the Half Life 2 series. The gameplay seems dated and the series is surpassed 
 in quality by many other First-Person Shooters available on the Xbox 360. 
  
  Now, Portal was interesting. It is a very short game, but it is well made and somewhat funny. At 
 its heart, it is a puzzle game that uses the Source Engine of Half Life 2 and consists of 19 test 
 chambers that you must get through. It will probably take you 2 to 3 three hours to get through 
 all the test chambers on your first play through. 
  
  In Portal, you get to use a "portal gun" that allows you to do interesting things with portals 
 to solve the puzzles in the test chambers. There is also an artificial intelligence that is watching 
 and commenting on your progress. I will not spoil the the game by revealing too much (the game 
 is short and somewhat simple, after all) . I will say that the game has an interesting twist as 
 the game progresses and there are some funny moments. 
  
  Team Fortress 2 is a highly addictive game, and if you like FPS multiplayer games, then you will 
 probably like this game. 
  
  Overall, The Orange Box is worth looking into because of Portal and Team Fortress 2. The Half Life 
 2 series is nothing special for a FPS, but I guess you can look at it as a bonus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funkymonkey4710
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 12:46 pm PT
Review:  No matter what you say, paying a good 20 dollars for 5 games in one box is a great deal, but it 
 gets even better when those games are f*ckin amazing!!!!
  
  Half-Life2, Episode 1, Episode 2 - A game with a great story, great controls, nice graphics and 
 a realistic physics engine, it should be hard trying to pass up this amazing game. 
  
  Team Fortress 2 - Easily the worst in the bunch, but believe me it's still alot of fun to play. 
 Think of Halo multiplayer, with less game modes, but more character classes and you have this game 
 in a nutshell. I still say play it because it can be fun when you have friends to play with.
  
  Portal - I loved this game alot!!! It had hilarious dialogue and a very unique gameplay mechanic. 
 Though it can get a little repetitive at times, it makes up for it with a variety of different 
 puzzle environments to use your portal gun in. If you hate this game, then the companion cube will 
 come and stab you so watch out.
  
  If you haven't gotten the Orange Box yet, go get it now, it's the greatest deal in the gaming industry 
 and it houses a heavy load of amazing games!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onehardrocker
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  Nowadays, $60 will get you a decent length single player game and possibly multiplayer, which adds 
 much replay value. With that same $60, The Orange Box gives you the acclaimed Half-Life 2 game 
 and 2 Half-Life Episodes, as well as the completely unique Portal puzzle game, and if that's not 
 enough, one of the best online games of it's year: Team Fortress 2.
  
  Half-Life 2 alone is worthy of a $60 pricetag, had it came out on consoles at the same time it 
 did for PC. The game will take you at least 10 hours to complete, but if you go for all the achievements 
 possibly 15. Episode 1 and Episode 2 were $20 each for the PC when they were released, and they 
 will give you about 5-8 hours of gameplay each.
  
  Portal is what really makes this package standout. It is a puzzle game in which you need to use 
 portals to transverse room with many obstacles in it. It gets really, really challenging and it 
 forces you to really think to beat the rooms. It is the only puzzle game I've enjoyed playing in 
 recent memory.
  
  Team Fortress 2, while it has cartoon-like graphics, looks and plays great. The graphic style certainly 
 give it a different feel from every other realistic looking shooters. In the game, you need to 
 learn to play a class while eliminating the other team. Every class has its strengths and its weaknesses. 
 Learning to play the game and work with other people to accomplish the mission is extremely satisfying.
 
  
  The Orange Box is a game that everyone should own. You cannot find a better value in gaming, and 
 WILL NOT within the next years, especially with the micro-transactions littering games nowadays. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: britanya
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  the emotion built but between the players and characters is so strong that you find yourself getting 
 worried about the characters and relived when they reenter a scene after being whisped away. the 
 story was well set out and very well planned 
  the game was high speed and adventurous but also had its very slow emotional moments 
  the game 
 really made you use common sence to work out hard  
 
  the online section of the game was very boring and not the best in the world it was a disappointment 
 but half life was the best ever
  the game depth of the game is amazing a reason for every decision made by the characters everything 
 in its place 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RippedPenguin
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  I played the Half Lifes and Portal, but the best game on the Orange box is by far Team Fortress 
 Two. It took a lot of guts for Valve to take such a daring step in the look of the classes. It 
 is a cartoon type thing, but the fact that you can blow people to little pieces makes it feel like 
 a big boy game. You could use quick thinking with the Demo Man or simply building machines to fight 
 for you with the Engineer. For instance, if you are the Demo Man (i usually am) you can set traps 
 for the enemy by lining the inside of a doorway with sticky bombs from one of your weapons, and 
 then detonate it when someone walks through it and... BOOM! Their body parts scatter in a 5 foot 
 radius. The Sniper is also a very entertaining to use. He is farely easy to use, but has little 
 health. The only drawback is that a red dot appears where he is aiming. Everyone wants to be the 
 Heavy Weapons Guy, but they don't understand he is only good when taking out clustered mobs with 
 his chaingun. The Demo Man has average health, and I think the most versitile weapons in the game. 
 I swear by him. Team Fortress 2 is my favorite game right now. Very fun and you will just have 
 a gas with it. Its one of those games that you can really relax with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kazater
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  the orange box is an instant succes story, and a bargain everybody should own. the singleplayer 
 action of HL2, HL2ep1 and HL2ep2, the frantic entertainment that is portal, and the wacky multiplayer 
 pwnage that is team fortress 2, anyone with a slight interest in gaming will find something in 
 this box that theyll love. an instant classic.
  i myself find portal to be infinately entertaining, seeing as it poses challenges to you as a player, 
 where you must rethink whatever you may know about physics, seeing as a hole in a wall in front 
 of you, may lead to another hole 40 feet in the air pointing downwards, the world has been turned 
 upside down in this lovely puzzle shooter. Half life 2 pretty much speaks for itself, but i must 
 add: HAHAHAHAHA, great fun.
  team fortress 2 is all out multiplayer carnage, where you choose your class, according to your 
 wn preferences, and then go ballistic. basically just gankage for yer mates. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolls
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  I got this game about a week ago and i cant stop playing.
  OK on the box it claims 5 games but its not, but its still 3 games and when as the last time you 
 got 3 amazing games for 25. 
  Half Life 2 +E2+E3 - Well i havn't completed this yet but i can see from the start that they just 
 keep giving and having played a bit of half life 1 and loving it (in fact i bought it twice) i 
 feel that i can safely say im not going to be disappointed.
  Portal- About a 2 hour experience on your first run though, with tricky puzzles but theres never 
 a time when you get frustrated or wont to put it down. Also even after you complete it it gives 
 you 6 advanced maps and many challenges to beat.
  Team Fortress 2- The best multiplayer console FPS ive ever played. Even though theres not many 
 maps but you never feel board with them and the many perfectly balanced classes you can always 
 play your favorite or adapt to what the situation demands.
  
  Basically its awesome and if you don't have it go buy it and you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misterhumbug
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  Admittedly, I'm not much of a pure first-person shooter fan. And most of the games in this package 
 are exactly that. I remember playing the first Half-Life on PC many years ago, and I loved it back 
 then, since it was pretty innovative for its time. Well, the same can still be said for Episodes 
 1 and 2, which are still some of the best FPS action out there. There storylines are great, the 
 non-player characters are well-done, and the in-game puzzles are challenging. The control-set is 
 good, and the graphics are great.
  
  With all that said, for me the puzzle-game Portal is by far the best thing about this box-set. 
 The gameplay, realistic physics, writing, and voice-acting are some of the most clever and original 
 things I've seen in a video game in a long time. The main antagonist is GLaDOS, a smarmy, overbearing, 
 diabolical computer who both taunts and encourages you throughout the whole experience. Her monologue 
 is hilarious, and her constant nagging keeps the game lively and fun. Aside from her, the puzzle 
 action is innovative, challenging, and totally engaging. I lost many hours playing Portal!
  
  The bottom line of The Orange Box is: if you like first-person shooters, there's a lot here 
 for you, but if you aren't an FPS fan, there's plenty of great stuff for you too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DisturbedMDD
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  I first heard about The Orange Box from a whole bunch of my friends who told me it was pretty fun. 
 After reading a lot of reviews stating that the game is '5 great games all in one box' i felt compelled 
 to purchase the game. Now, I don't agree with the reviews 50% of the time, but I figured, if there 
 are 5 games in it, there has to be at least one decent game in there. I was, unfortunately correct. 
 
  
  The Orange Box contains Half Life 2 with 2 additional "episodes", Team Fortress 2, and Portal. 
 I'll start with Half Life 2. This game has been said to be one of the best computer games to ever 
 come out. I cannot agree or disagree with this. Either way, I feel it should have stayed on the 
 PC. The story behind the game was decent, however, I found myself a little lost with the beginning 
 of the game pretty much picking up where the last one left off, being that I have never played 
 Half Life 1. Now with that said, the actual FPS action in the game was not bad, but with all the 
 other amazing FPS's out there *cough* Bioshock *cough* I felt no reason why anyone would want to 
 fork over money to play this.
  
  Okay on to Team Fortress 2. I'm going to make this one short and sweet. TF2 is one of the worst 
 multiplayer games I have ever played. It was boring, with twitchy controls, and it was too cartoony. 
 It may be fun to gamers first being introduced to multiplayer FPS's, but I'm not a fan. 
  
  Now to the good stuff. Portal is one of the most innovative games I've played. You have to go through 
 rooms and tackle tough obstacles by creating portals to throw boxes at enemies or to cross over 
 a pool of dangerous liquid by simply walking. Overall, this was a surprisingly fun and challenging 
 puzzle game. 
  
  Okay, so even with 1 overrated FPS and a dud of a multiplayer, Portal makes the Orange Box a worthy 
 game set overall. I do not, however, suggest buying it. So I give it a 7.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hickamie14
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box is five games in one. There are two previously released games (Half-Life 2 and Half-Life 
 2: Episode One) , which are as good as ever, and three all new titles (Half-Life 2: Episode Two, 
 Portal, and Team Fortress 2) .
  
  The main draw to The Orange Box will be the all new HL2: Episode Two which throws players into 
 the forest outside of City 17 to fight the Combine. In this new expansion to Half-Life 2 comes 
 the return of vehicles, this time done very well, and the same fast paced action from the other 
 games. The 4-5 hour game once again ends in a cliff-hanger while expanding on the universe and 
 characters. Episode Two is a really great, but short game that you'll definitely enjoy if you like 
 first person shooters.
  
  Portal is a next generation puzzle game that combines fantastic physics, hilarious voice overs, 
 and mind bending puzzles. While disappointingly short, only about 2 and a half hours, Portal is 
 a absolute blast to play with sound controls and a great premise that is executed very well-every 
 gamer should experience Portal.
  
  The multi-player component in The Orange Box is Team-Fortress 2 which features six maps but only 
 one game-type per map. However, the real draw of TF2 is it's balanced class system and cool graphical 
 style. It's not the best multi-player on 360 but it is fun when you find a match that isn't laggy. 
 Team-Fortress 2 is able and interesting multi-player component to the stellar package that is The 
 Orange Box. 
  
  ~~~~~~Story: 9.0~~~~~~Game-Play: 9.2~~~~~~Lasting Appeal: 8.9~~~~~~
  
  THE GOOD: Five games for the price of one | Portal | Very funny | Tighter control scheme in the 
 Episodes.
  
  THE BAD: Team-Fortress 2 is laggy | Graphics are a little out-dated | The new additions are very 
 short | Episode Two adds very little new. 
  
  OVERALL: 9.0 
  One of the best deals in gaming. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fat_otter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Valve is known to be one of the most respected and creative developers out there, and while they've 
 only made 2 complete games (Half Life and Half Life 2) they still know what makes a great game. 
 So what happens when you combine (pun intended) Half Life 2 with its two episodic sequels, Portal, 
 and Team Fortress 2? A recipe for nearly infinite fps fun! If you haven't played Half Life 2, it's 
 about a scientist who comes to the mysterious City 17 that is controlled by communist aliens. Your 
 goal is to start a rebellion against them and escape from City 17. Episode 1 follows the escape 
 from the City, and Episode 2 continues the run through some rural environments outside of the city. 
 All three games manage to provide great fps fun with great graphics, physics, and storytelling. 
 Portal is a completely separate game that follows a human "lab rat" that tests out a new portal 
 gun that can shoot two separate portals that you can travel between. Portal isn't a true fps, but 
 more of a puzzle game that almost anyone can enjoy and never gets too frustrating. Team Fortress 
 2 is the long-awaited follow up to a multiplayer mod for Half Life 1 that features unrealistic 
 class-based, cartoon fun. If you like team-based multiplayer shooters, you'll definitely like Team 
 Fortress 2. And for a (current) $30 price point, you really can't go wrong with the Orange Box. 
 If you like any type of first person shooter, The Orange Box has something for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklesrocks
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 11, 2008 1:45 am PT
Review:  The orange box is valves boxed set of half life 2, hl2 episode 1, hl2 episode 2, portal and team 
 fortress 2. Im going to divide all the games up into sections.
  
  Half life 2: This was released back in 2004 and won numerous rewards and rave reviews, i think 
 that this game is actually very BAD. Yes the most overrated game of all time half life got a sequel 
 which is bland, repetitive and boring with nothing new at all, oh wait its got good physics! but 
 thats about it and when the action picks up there is no soundtrack except for one or two moment 
 but never at the right times. The driving sections are a nightmare with the car driving left and 
 right in the opposite direction making you shout "left! LEFT! NO THE OTHER LEFT!" overall:5 out 
 of 10
  
  Episode 1: Once more half life 2 does nothin new at all, with no new weapons another complete lack 
 of a soundtrack and bland shooting and guess what! 4 hours of gameplay says it all. overall 3 out 
 of 10
  
  Episode 2: For once half life 2 gets good with intense moments and brings some new areas into it 
 and the driving controls have been fixed and also a new enemy to the scene to add to the fun it 
 also has good length. overall 8 out of 10
  
  Portal: this game has some good ideas but falls flat on its face when short game time and absolutely 
 frustrating trial and error gameplay and dont get me started on that robot that talks to you.
 
  
  Team fortress 2: The only truly fun game with cool cartoon graphics and fun gameplay. overall 9 
 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DWhite07
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Everyone I'm sure has heard about Half Life 2, and how wonderful it is. Since the orginal masterpiece 
 Half-Life, it has spawned into and award-winning series. Those games are Half-Life 2, H-L 2 Episode 
 1, and H-L Episode 2. All this and more has been included in The Orange Box.
  
  
  Story: 10/10. From the mean streets of City 17, to the height defining Combine tower, you will 
 experience new characters, enemies, and weapons to help you bring down the Combine, an alien species 
 that took over the city and are making life hell. You, Gordan Freeman, are basically one of the 
 leaders of the Resistance. This story is great and should not be missed.
  
  
  Gameplay: 9/10. While the weapons are fairly easy to use, some technical issues prevent from using 
 them to the fullest. The weapon selection could be difficult, but they don't stop you from using 
 a pheromone that sends insects to kill whatever you throw it at.
  
  
  Multiplayer: 10/10. In 1 of the 5 games, there is a game strictly for multiplayer. Its called Team 
 Fortress 2. You get to pick your class from a Sniper, to a Spy, to a Heavy, or to a Demoman. They 
 are all excellent to play and this game is a huge enjoyment to Half-Life 2 fans.
  
  Other: 10/10. There is one game I forgot to mention, and its Portal. In the game, you control an 
 unnamed protaganist that wields an object that can create portals, hence the title. You go through 
 a series of tests that will make this game a must.
  
  This game has blown my mind. Go buy this game. Now.
  
  DWhite07
  
  Next review, Condemned. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zutolor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  You get 5 games for 30$, all great games, well I will start with the Half life 2 ( that includes 
 episode 1 and 2) it's amazing, it's a first person shooter were you are Gordon Freeman, and you 
 get to shoot things, and watch them die then find other monsters then shoot them. But the story 
 is great but i don't want to spoil a part of it, it can get boring sometimes when you can't find 
 anything to shoot or it isn't a important part of the story but the game shooting and story makes 
 it great. (can't wait to episode 3)
  
  Next we move on to Portal. Portal is one my favorite puzzle game. (well it's pretty much my only 
 favorite puzzle game because I don't really like puzzle games, the only puzzle game I like either 
 than portal is Dr. Mario.) It's were you shoot a portal to finish puzzle, and a Robot how says "You 
 will be Bake then there will be Cake" than at the end you blow it up it and than it sings Still 
 Alive that's on Rock Band and all songs on Rock band are awesome, but there are some minor flaws, 
 some puzzles are hard, then you get stressed, then you throw the controller in too the screen (or 
 keyboard if your playing the PC version of The Orange Box.) but overall it's a great game.
  
  
  Now it's Team fortress 2. It is one of the best online game i ever played, but sadly you 
 have to have Xbox Live to play it, (I need Xbox live Gold.) But with my free trial i was able to 
 try it. it's were you get to chose to be a spy, sniper, heavy, etc, etc. It just matters on what 
 you like.
  So that's my review on The Orange Box
  
  Graphics 8/10 Voice 8.5/10 price 10/10 gameplay 9.5/10 control 9.5/10 Overall 9.5/10
  
  
 
  THE CAKE IS A LIE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danzo337
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 10:40 pm PT
Review:  All I have to say is wow! 5 games in one, suitable for its creative name of, The Orange Box. 
 
  
  The story line in the campaign mode is very attractive, leaves you wanting more with steady progression. 
 Youre actually using your brain on some parts to get through it. Beating this game will leave 
 you with a feeling of triumph. The achievements are endless, probably the most of all 360 games 
 (99 of them.) Awesome sound for your surround sound system.
  
  Ive just beat half life 2 and with 2 more episodes to go through still, the game was so good, I 
 just had to get on here and write a review for it.
  
  The game is at a good price now since it is quite old, a good game to add to your collection, with 
 achievements you can go back to get later on, or if you just want to play with the one of a kind 
 multi-player game it comes with, team fortess 2.
  
  Not being a puzzle fan really, it comes with a game called portal which was surprisingly good. 
 once again, leaves you with a triumphant feeling as you go through it and the game draws you in 
 with its steady progression also. 
  
  All in all, its definately a good bang for the buck, and is a game that any FPS lover should not 
 miss out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duko
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  So I bought HL2 the day it came out on PC. I played maybe 2 hours of it, then got bored.
  There are long parts of the game that are obviously supposed to be fun (like the section on the 
 hovercraft) . I can see the logic - you're in a hovercraft, there's plenty of jumps etc, eventually 
 you get a machine gun mounted on it...
  But for some reason, which I can't quite put my finger on - it just wasn't fun.
  
  In the mean 
 time, I fell in love with the Halo games.
  
  Anyways, fast forward a couple of years, and while using up some annual leave from work, I buy 
 the orange box for the xbox360.
  
  And it came screaming back... at first. Since I've had a week off work, and nothing better to do 
 with my time, I've played through the entire game, plus episode 1 & 2, and "Portal".
  
  I think the best way to describe the "main game", by which I mean Half Life 2, is "an ordeal". 
 It's hard work to play through it, and the fun moments that usually reward you for persevering 
 through hours of such hard work, are few and far between (which is not how I remember the original 
 Half Life) .
  
  However, in Episode 1, and especially Episode 2, things change. There seems to be a *much* heavier 
 focus on the story & characters, with the action broken up by interludes to move the story on.
 
  This seems to work really well. You get some action, often in a concentrated burst, followed by 
 some plot development to keep you hooked into the game.
  
  There are some things in the game I can't quite explain:
  Why do those black head crabs send 
 chills up my spine everytime???
  Why have I been having dreams about Alex? (actually, I don't care why - just as long as they don't 
 stop!)
  
  Overall, I think this game is a huge success - however, if episode 1 & 2 had not exisited, I'm 
 not sure it would have been worth paying money for it.
  I really, really hope other game studios learn from this. What the creators have done here is brilliant 
 - instead of making a game, then making us wait 3 years for the next installment, they put enough 
 work into the game engine so that it still looks good today (which I think is over 3 years after 
 it was first released) . So they release "Episodes", which progress the story and keep gamers playing 
 their game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alan1224
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 12:41 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games you'll find on the 360 and any other platform. You might think that 
 this game isn't really graphicly amazing since it has older games like Half-Life , but games like 
 those still look, sound and play amazing. The new games out of the five are Half-Life 2: Episode 
 2, Portal, and Team Fortress Two.
  
  I was really happy when i saw how much variety there was in this game. You have three amazing sci-fi 
 first person shooters, a first person puzzle game (portal, which is funny and innovative) and Team 
 Fortress Two an amazing multiplayer mayham capture the flag type game. You also get alot of bang 
 for your buck.
  
  This game has a few if no problems that many other games suffer from. It's artisticly and graphicly 
 stunning, it sounds real and great, and has an undiniably super fun gameplay. The Orange Box is 
 a must have for any fps fan or someone looking for a great game that owns a 360, pc or ps3. Go 
 out and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Brahma
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 3:35 am PT
Review:  The package is perfect, what else can I say. 5 games in 1 and nothing can't beat that. Half-Life 
 2 is an instant classic. Sucks you right in. Graphics are beautiful and the game play is so immersive. 
 The story is great and I don't recall being frustrated in any part of the game. The Episode Packs 
 are great also, but a little too short. Portal is a fun, mind challenging game which is great for 
 the family. Team Fortess is a great multiplayer game. Really funny and exciting. The most annoying 
 part in HL2 is when you battle the zombies. They're annoying, very challenging but annoying. Especially 
 the headcrabs where they can just pop out of the nowhere and attack you without knowing its position. 
 I love battling the combine because it is a non-stop gun fight. I can't wait for HL2: E3. From 
 what I've heard, it'll be the best in the series. All in all, this package cannot beat anything 
 out there right now and it's definitely worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmassarani
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Everyone who is familiar with the FPS genre has to at least heard of Half Life. The original was 
 revolutionary, not only a hardcore shooter, but it forced the player to think outside of the "run-and-gun" 
 mindset. Half Life 2, and all the subsequent episodes, are no different. While the type of game 
 (a thinking man's FPS) is no longer a one in a million, HL2 still shows that its the best in the 
 bunch. 
  
  I'm not going to go into the details of Half Life 2, Episode 1, Episode 2, and Team Fortress. I 
 am sure that there are plenty of other places that will go into more details and explain them better 
 than I could. I will however say that Portal, though only 2 hours long, is one of the coolest games 
 I have every played. 
  
  The Good - Decent graphics (amazing for when the original game came out) , solid gameplay, amazing 
 physics system, HUGE amount of gameplay, multiple game styles (FPS / Puzzle / Multi-player) , XBOX 
 achievements force you to play the game multiple ways, AMAZING PRICE.
  
  The Bad - none
  
  The Ugly - none 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsilent1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  It has been said a thousand times before and i insist on saying it again, its the best gaming deal 
 on the market. 
  Team Fortress 2 is ambitious and provides for an extraordinary multi player experience.
  Portal 
 is probably the most innovative game to come out in recent times. And the less i say about the 
 outstanding humor the better lest i begin drooling all over my keyboard. (slurp)
  Half Life 2 : Episode 2 is probably the best in the series and definitely much better than episode 
 one. It feels as if the game suddenly expands onto epic proportions, it has come a long way from 
 the lovable lab-crawler that we knew half life to be... and its all great. It provides everything 
 that every HL fan would ever want and more (Hunters!!! - face em once and u'll never want to go 
 back to headcrabs)
  And for a guy a like me who had played only Half Life, it provided one long dream journey as i 
 played HL2 and both the episodes non stop.
  Whatever ur gaming preferences, this deal will more than just entertain you for a long time to come.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Markuspunker
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Who wouldve known that a game this big, this legendary, would be released as part of a package; 
 Half-Life 2, Half-Life 2 episode 1 and episode 2, a puzzle game that teases the brain, "portal" 
 and the incredibly fun online action shooter Team Fortress 2? thats alot of gaming, alot of time 
 and alot of fun.
  
  Half life has been one of those games that youll pick up and play over again and again and the 
 episode games do just that too. 
  
  the graphics are just slighlty out dated but is still the looker, youll be, traveeling around in 
 vehicles blasting up the enemy wether its human or alien, solving puzzles to get to the end of 
 the objective, and using a gravity gun to pick your enemy up and shoot the poor lad across a hall. 
 
  
  in portal you must get from one room to another by using a gun that opens a portal to that area, 
 and the it gets abit more harder along the way, to the point where you have to avoid getting killed 
 by spheres.
  
  team fortress 2 is an online mulitplayer game that has your usual set of maps, matches, but even 
 has 3 different classes with 3 characters in each. and they are all fun to play with, if you want 
 to stab your enemy in th back and kill them instantly then the spy is for you, or if you love rocket 
 launchers, that option is avaliable. this is a very fun online game that for me, is abit more fun 
 than Gears of War online. either way its no let down. nd the smart cartoon style graphics gives 
 the game or more humourous theme.
  
  The orange box, 5 games, one disk. and its the best FPS ever. Bargain!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: orange_monkey_1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 6:42 am PT
Review:  I still remember the day I bought Half-life 2. I could'nt sleep for at least 2 days before the 
 game's release in anticipation of it. I remember how I first launched the game. I was so excited 
 I could'nt even stop myself from screaming. And then I completed the game in one sitting, amazed 
 all the way through. In 2 years time I bought Episode One. It was'nt as impressive, but it was 
 great anyway. And now, I bought The Orange Box, the best deal in my entire life. Five award-winning 
 games for the price of one! Half-life 2, Episodes One and Two, Portal and Team Fortress 2! How 
 could this be possible? I can't even describe it! Half-life 2 and Episodes One and Two provided 
 about 20 hours of top quality gameplay. Portal gave me a short but amazing experience with its 
 innovative ideas. Finally, Team Fortress 2 can be played for an unlimited amount of time and is 
 one of the best multiplayer games of the year. Every self-respecting gamer should buy this title, 
 if you are a fan of the genre or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HioMyMan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 10:10 pm PT
Review:  so the orange box, simply amazing with really no other way around it. the only game i havent really 
 bothered playing yet is portal, but whatever maybe ill finally come around to doing so one of these 
 days. 
  
  sadly when it comes to half-life2, i really dont know to much about the story at all due to the 
 fact that i never got the chance to play the original half-life. but with that aside it doesnt 
 really change how great HF2, episode 1, and episode 2 are. all three of them are really fun to 
 play and some of the best add-ons to a game ive ever played. 
  
  but now its onto my favorite part of the orange box. teamfortress2. this game is so much fun, so 
 addicting, everything. i can still play it on the regular with no problem, and dont really see 
 myself slowing down untill the games i want next finally decide to come out. 
  
  so sorry for the review if you wanted to read a full review about everyone of these games with 
 great detail, just not happening. not from me atleast. id most likely be here all damn day! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maninatrunk
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Man, what an AMAZING GAME! Or should I say Games?!?!
  
  TEAM FORTRESS 2
  
  My favorite part of the orange box is definitely Team fortress 2, I have easily put in 300 hours 
 in that game alone. It's completely obvious that VALVe put loads of time making sure game-play 
 was balanced between every character to play as, and also that somehow the game-play would Never 
 get old. I haven't played a game this much since Starcraft originally came out! All though the 
 graphics ar not exactly AMAZING they are very crisp and actually fit the game perfect.
  
  PORTAL
  
  Portal is the next aspect of the game, I mean this was a HUGE surprise to me, I mean 
 it's just so different, now mind you that for me the game can get aggravating because at times 
 it's so hard to figure out how to do something, but that is the entire point of the game. 
  
  HALF-LIFE 2
  
  All three games go hand-in-hand, the original Half life 2 was the worst 
 of them, because some of the puzzle solving felt very dated, as well as un-guided. Episode one 
 and two shine brightly though, while puzzle solving is still here, theres a little less of it, 
 and what is there seems more integrated in the world your in. As well as just having a way better 
 balance between shooting and puzzles as well as story telling. I found myself very excited about 
 the story though it really draws me in, cause your just like wow this type of scenario feels completely 
 realistic. I just really loved how balanced everything was in every game in this set.
  
  OVER-ALL
  
  Amazing every game in this package is so balanced. So many games come out that 
 could have been great but you would be like wow, 6 more months of working on it and it would have 
 been a perfect game. The Orange box doesn't give you that feeling, and the thing is, it does it 
 5 SEPERATE TIMES! It almost seems liek that would be impossible, but in fact VALVe has done it.
 
  
  THANK YOU VALVE FOR NOT WASTeING SELF SPACE, AND GIVING GAMES AND GAMERS SOME LOVE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmullen666
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2008 5:49 am PT
Review:  Alright. The Orange Box, as many people should know by know, is a collection of Half Life relation 
 games. It contains 5 games: Half-Life 2, Half-Life 2: Episode 1, the new puzzler Portal, sequal 
 Half-Life 2: Episode 2, and the long awaited sequal to one of the funnest multiplayer team shooters, 
 Team Fortress 2. Now of course you know how Half Life 2 and Episode One are by know, but what about 
 the others. Just one word needed: Awesome. Episode Two is probably the best episode in the Half 
 Life 2 saga. Portal, would have to be one of the greatest puzzle games I have ever played. And 
 also one of the funniest with its "Still Alive" song. And of course, Team Fortress 2 does not fail 
 and makes huge updates with new class modes and multiplayer modes. Overall, The Orange Box will 
 last you while regardless you have Xbox Live or not. Its one of the best game collections to date. 
 I give it
  
  10
  __
  
  10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Recon807
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 3:47 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box for the Xbox 360 reviewed by Matt.
  
  PRESENTATION:
  
  Audio: 8.5/10
  +Very good overall.
  -Minor glitches every once in a while, particularly with Team Fortress 2.
 
  
  Music: 8.5/10
  +Half-Life 2 features an amazing soundtrack.
  +Team Fortress 2 has cool Retro-style music.
  -Portal lacks a real soundtrack.
  
  Visual: 
 9.5/10
  +Half-Life 2 looks unbelievable.
  +Portal is even better.
  +Team Fortress 2 has an awesome cartoon look.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  +Half-Life 
 2 is one of the best FPS's of all-time, and episodes 1 & 2 are great as well.
  +Portal is the one of the smartest and most fun puzzle games ever.
  -Team Fortress 2 is only 
 decent; It lacks good controls and is repetitive.
  
  Multiplayer: 7.5/10
  +Team Fortress 2 is a great team shooter when played with a group of friends.
  -Only Team Fortress 
 2 has multiplayer.
  
  Story: 10/10
  +Half-Life 2 is brilliant and captivating in every sense.
  +Portal, while short, is very well 
 scripted and has a neat plot.
  -Team Fortress 2 has no story, it is only multiplayer.
  
  OVERALL: 9.5/10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wally2nv
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 11:35 pm PT
Review:  the orange box has everything you want its got 5 games in 1 there is nothing more you could want 
 with this game except the fact that there is no split screen multiplayer i say orange box could 
 of been better if it had split screen other than that everything is just perfect this thing has 
 everything you want except split screen multiplayer so lets talk about what the games are the orange 
 box is FPS heven its got half life 2 ep 1,2, it also has portal, portal it a puzzle game it is 
 like one of the best puzzle games ever made its so strategic. Ok now lets talk about team fortress 
 2, team fortress is the multiplayer part of orange box its like COD4 except cartoony so here are 
 the classes there is spy who can turn invisible and discuise himself as friends and theres assult's 
 man and demolition man and then there is the bulder who can make turrets portals and health machines 
 all that stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mowmoocowcoo
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2008 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Halflife itself is an excellent game, with amazing storyline and... its pretty much a game full 
 of those epic movie-like moments. It gives you plenty to think about, and all and all, is very 
 much so worth the time and the money. It's basically like playing a completely epic movie. Episode 
 1 is a bit of a letdown as far as content goes but it's not completely bad, it has some very fun 
 parts to it and connects the story nicely. Episode 2 is worth getting to. It provides many more 
 adrenaline-filled moments and a few quite challenging parts in comparison to the rest of the game. 
 it also has a few cool unique new things worth checking out. you will notice one of them right 
 away. the interface is slightly changed. your flashlight is no longer linked to your AUX power 
 system and charges much more quickly.
  
  Portal is a fun game. there really isn't too much to be said about it other than it's a great way 
 to burn a few hours and has a bit of replay value.
  
  as for Team Fortress... i haven't really tried it yet.
  
  All and all, It's probably worth 
 the money. 
  
  (people, get over it, you can't have a game with this much to it and not have a few graphics errors... 
 its not like they take away from anything. you don't even notice them most of the time.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB2B
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Almost 4 year ago I got Half Life 2 for Christmas. I installed the game on my pc and stepped into 
 the world of Half Life. 
  Last week I bought the Orange Box and stepped back into the world of Half Life and to be honest 
 I was blown away. Of course the graphics of the Half Life 2 are a bit dated, but the gameplay is 
 still totally awesome. The moment you try to escape from City 17 the game takes just the right 
 pace to keep it interresting. 
  Both episodes are also great to play through, but I got to admit that episode 1 is a bit cheap. 
 You get no new enemies, no new weapons. It's just continueing Half Life 2. 
  
  I mainly bought this for HL 2 and both episodes, but the other two games are great too. Portal 
 can be called a FPP (first person puzzle) game and is fun and especially at the end challinging. 
 It's also a nice break of the Half Life action. Team Fortres is the multiplayer game of the package, 
 but to be honest I didn't try it long. Not that's it's not fun, but I wanted to play Half Life.
 
  
  The reason I give this package a 10/10 is because for the money you get one of the greatest shooters 
 of all time + it's expansions and two other games. It's really cheap, especially since the release 
 was some time ago. I payed 40 euro for the package. Or maybe it's that plus some nostalagy.
  
  
  The good old Half Life 2 is still an example for todays first person shooter devs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefuzzybear
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  This game has perfected the gaming experience, almost. only thing i can think of is a few minor 
 details like bodies disapearing in front of you, but I'm just being over picky.
  
  Characters are beleivable and are very hard not to like, even the bad guys.
  
  Graphics are 
 good and of course the facical expressions are spot on.
  
  Great sound! love the touches they do with the music and all the AI sound great and fit well with 
 their characters.
  
  Difficulty is just write on hard. It would be great if they had a even harder difficulty for more 
 hard core gamers
  
  story is alot of fun and keeps you wanting more! bring it on ep3... and finally a game that is 
 longer than 15 hours!
  
  PS: they really should re-do half-life 1 properly... that way people that dont know much about 
 half-life can get into the game and people that do... can fall in love all over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspdemoboy52
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  I remember the day back in 2004 when Half-Life 2 came out, after 6 years of waiting, when people 
 told me I had to play it. I ignored them because I wasn't then, nor am I now, a PC gamer. When 
 I got GameFly earlier this year I saw The Orange Box and thought about Portal and said, "Hey, I 
 should play Portal." After beating Portal, I went on to play Half-Life 2. I wasn't expecting anything 
 amazing but it definitely was. The Orange Box obviously is a collection of games so I will divide 
 the reviews into sections of each game. I will bundle all the Half-Life 2 games together however.
 
  
  Half-Life 2, Ep.1, Ep.2:
  I went into Half-Life 2 with no knowledge of the story but I instantly was made aware of it. The 
 scripting was awesome and the way they tell you the story is great. The characters facial expressions 
 are amazing for a game originally made in 2004. The game obviously went under some enhancements 
 when it was ported over to the 360 but I'm pretty sure that didn't change. The graphics were great. 
 The textures were typical for a 360 game but the water looked really good. The only problem with 
 them was when the game loads after a checkpoint it takes a little while and once it does load it 
 is kinda slow for a few seconds. The controls are very tight when you're walking around, but when 
 you get into a vehicle the controls are very sensitive and loose. The only problem with that however 
 is in Episode 2 when you get the car. The car's steering is way too sensitive. The sound was great. 
 When you get to an enemy-filled area, the music changes to a faster-paced and darker track. The 
 overall gameplay is great due to physics which are amazing. The physics are very important for 
 the famous gravity gun in Half-Life. If you are considering The Orange Box because of Half-Life 
 then definitely get it. If you are considering it for Portal or Team Fortress 2 then Half-Life 
 is a nice bonus.
  
  Portal
  Probably the most popular game in The Orange Box, and YouTube due to the Still Alive credits song, 
 Portal is an instant classic. The only problem I have with Portal is that it seems very short. 
 The game's story gets told progressively through the game by the sarcastic and amusing GLaDOS (the 
 AI robot that watches you and talks to you throughout the whole game) . The graphics are really 
 good for a game that seems pretty simple and basic. The physics are pretty good and are definitely 
 the same engine that Half-Life uses. Once again the loading gets plagued by slow load times and 
 glitchy parts after it loads. The sound is good because GLaDOS' voice echoes around when she talks. 
 Overall this game would be a great standalone edition to the Xbox Live Arcade if it were released 
 by itself.
  
  Team Fortress 2
  This is the game I spent the least amount of time on. It wasn't cause I didn't like it, it was 
 because I didn't have much time and when I did play it I couldn't ever find anyone in a ranked 
 game and I wanted to see what you get for stats when you play ranked. I did get to play with some 
 friends (pill92 I'm looking at you) but other than that it wasn't that great of an online experience 
 when getting on. Although, the few times I did play online I had a lot of fun. The controls are 
 good, although they take a little getting used to. The graphics are pretty good. I like the comic 
 look to everything. The sound is pretty good. The taunts you can do with certain character classes 
 are really funny, too. The whole idea of picking a certain character class is great. The maps are 
 really fun to run around on and the different types of weapons ranging from a baseball bat to a 
 portable turret are always fun to mess around with. Overall this is a game where it could be sold 
 as it's own 360 game (only not for the full $60) .
  Overall here are the stats:
  
  Graphics: 9.0 (due to load times and glitches)
  Gameplay: 9.5
  Sound: 9.5 
  Physics: 8.5 
 (also a culprit in load times)
  
  Score: 9.0/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastermario4000
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Wow, just wow. All five of these games pack a great punch in different categories, but I will mostly 
 be reviewing portal. First off, the wacky multiplayer side of the orange box, Team Fortress 2. 
 I didn't play much of it and I wasn't a fan of it, but if you like that kind of wacky multiplayer 
 experience, go for it. Now onto Half-life. Before the Orange Box, i I had never even heard of half-life, 
 but now I have. Have life is the action packed, intense, scarier side of the Orange Box. It is 
 very fun, especially with the gravity gun. All three episodes have a different style, but they 
 are all action-packed and great fun. Now my favorite part, Portal. Portal is the funniest, most 
 comical and fun video game I have ever played. I think Portal is where the Orange Box really stands 
 out. It's hilarious, it's puzzling, challenging but most of all, fun. Many of the puzzles can be 
 challenging at times, but it is overshadowed by the physics. Nothing is more fun than shooting 
 tqo holes in the universe, going through one and coming out the other. It has tons of replay value 
 not because of hidden items, but because of reliving the hilarity all over again. You'll want to 
 see those hilarious moments many times again. In conclusion, I think The Orange Box is the best 
 video game ever made. One more thing..... THE CAKE IS A LIE!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LooneyCass1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  How good is the Orange Box. Well, 5 games with the cost of one game is an amazing deal. Especially 
 if all of those games are insanly fun! 
  
  The Half-Life Series changed gaming with it's insane graphics and gameplay! Now, you can play the 
 three Half-Life 2 games on the Orange box. But that's three games. The other two are insanly fun 
 as well. 
  
  The biggest game in the Orange Box is Portal, a fun puzzle game that has you creating doorways 
 that you create to get past different puzzles. GlaDos is the best character I have ever seen with 
 her sense of humor and yet suprisingly freaky mood swings. 
  
  The last game is called Team Fortress 2, fans of the original will especially love this game. The 
 classes are back and new maps are here, but that's pretty much it. 
  
  So what do I think about the Orange Box? It's a solid 10/10. I don't play Team Fortress 2 that 
 much, it still is quite fun, but the main reason that I got the Orange Box was the Half-Life 2 
 games and Portal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danmam2
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  As you well know, The Orange Box contains, essentially, five games: Half-Life 2, Half-Life 2: Episode 
 One, Half-Life 2: Episode Two, Portal, and Team Fortress 2. Episode One and Episode Two are merely 
 extra missions for Half-Life 2, picking up exactly where Half-Life 2 ended, with identical control 
 schemes and weaponry. If you're looking for a rock solid first person shooter, Half-Life 2 (along 
 with the expansion packs) will give you about 20 hours of entertainment. I never found myself addicted 
 to the game, but it was fairly fun throughout. I found that it suffered from repetitive gameplay. 
 Portal is innovative and fun, but it's only three or four hours long. I never got hooked on Team 
 Fortress 2. It's a multiplayer-only game, and gives you a twist from your basic online multiplayer 
 FPS with more class-based gaming. Overall, The Orange Box offers about 20-25 hours of rock-solid 
 single player gameplay, plus whatever value you're able to get out of Team Fortress 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan_1973
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  this is a really good opprtunity to have a great pc game on your 360. for those that havent played 
 HL2 yet. this is the perfect chance to get to play the main and continuing episodes without buying 
 them separately. and also portal is a great game. short but very sweet. portal is filled with puzzles 
 and great humor. aksi tean fortress 2 is an awesome class based multiplayer. but you will need 
 xbox live in order to experience team fortress 2. great deal for 5 really good games. but there 
 are some drawbacks. HL2 always keeps the flow very smooth never making it boring but always keeping 
 it intersting. but i always got motion sickness from playing it too much. also when you finish 
 the games you are left wanting more. and why would anyone pass up this offer. this game is great 
 i would recomend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madgitGOW
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2008 4:51 am PT
Review:  First of all i would like to say what an amazing value for money this is!
  
  Half life 2: Well what can i say?
  Great graphics, physics, sound
  
  Half life episode 1: The 
 weaker link of the half life 2 game but none the less still great fun!
  
  Half life episode 2: This episode is epic it's got everything you could want gun fights, great boss 
 battles, car chases, zombies,
  
  Portal: Well.. this game has revolutionized how puzzle games will play forever this game is great 
 with great humour and plenty of puzzles to work your way through. And a brilliant boss battle at 
 the end
  
  Team fortress (multiplayer only)
  This game is absolutely brilliant. Team fortress is a class based team game where there are 2 objectives
 
  
  1. Capture the intelligence.
  2. A terretories style game.
  
  There are a great variety of classes my favourite being the spy.
  And with just over a hundred 
 achievments this will keep you busy till Gears of war 2 and beyond! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H0rr0rG4m3r
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2008 1:32 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box available on Xbox 360, PS3 and PC is a great deal with 5 full games on one disc.
 
  
  The first game is Half Life 2 which is the second game in the half life series. This game has great 
 graphics, fun gameplay and a compelling story.
  
  The second game is Half Life 2: Episode 1 which is the 1st Episode of Half Life 2 which has great 
 graphics and fun gameplay.
  
  The third game is Half Life 2: Episode 2 is the 2nd episode of Half Life 2 and has great graphics 
 and fun gameplay.
  
  Ok enough of the repetitive text and on to the next amazing game called...
  
  P0RTAL, this 
 game is just amazing, full of puzzles and humor and the BEST end of game credits song EVER! I just 
 love P0RTAL!
  
  The final game in The Orange Box is Team Fortress 2 a fun online-only multiplayer game with several 
 classes to choose from like scout, pyro, heavy, spy, engineer etc.
  
  Overall The Orange Box has five amazing games on one disc and for the price of one game! Its a MUST 
 own for all 360, PS3 and PC owners! Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmy_jojohn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  While I have only played Half-Life2, Episode 1, and Episode 2 on The Orange Box; I have to say 
 it is a great deal overall. Although Team Fortress and Portal are not my kind of game, they might 
 be for someone else.
  
  Anywho, Half-Life2 is a great game in which you and other civilians are fighting off alien domination. 
 There are several levels in which you fight off different types of foes. From humans to zombies 
 to giant insects, to organic robots. Level design I think is pretty good. However, the friendly 
 AI can be very annoying. There are a couple of levels in which you drive for most of the level, 
 which breaks the monotony of walking everywhere. One thing I did not like are the sometimes too 
 frequent loading scenes. Overall, Half-Life2 is a great game. I believe it looks even better in 
 the 360 than the original XBOX.
  
  Hal-Life2: Episode 1 picks up right from where Half-Life2 leaves off. This game introduces a couple 
 of new enemies which I thought were cool. Especially the zombines (suicide Combine Zombies) ! There 
 are also quite a few interesting puzzles to solve in this game. The storyline, in my opinion, seems 
 to wash out, however. and the A. I. is super annoying, as they continually get in your way as you 
 try to leave the city before the explosion. Although I enjoyed Episode 1, it was not as good as 
 Half-Life2 and it was way too short.
  
  Half-Life2: Episode 2 again picks up where Episode 1 leaves off. This game is pretty fun. It takes 
 you into different environments than previous episodes, and it presents different challenges. The 
 storyline filled in better than in episode I, and overall I thought it was better than Episode 
 1. The graphics and sound are great, as well. This game introduces "Hunters" which I believe are 
 among the most annoying, but fun, foes. Especially when you have to go head to head with about 
 10 striders in a row. Unfortunately, this game is also short, although longer than Episode 1, and 
 ends on a sour note. I can't help but feel unfulfilled with the ending... but it is still a great 
 game .
  
  Overall, The Orange Box contains several fun and entertaining games which represent many hours 
 of fun for very little money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dante2710
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Nowadays, not only games a lot more expensive, but they are quite short. The orange box has been 
 one of the best deals i have found this generation so far. how can you pass up 5 games within just 
 one disc.
  
  If you ever played half life, you know this game its all about the atmosphere found in the game. 
 This is one of the few first person shooters that does everything right, from the story to the 
 plat-forming events. I loved being able to interact with pretty much every object within the game, 
 using the gravity gun, cheats code just for the fun of it, it just couldn`t get any better than 
 that. While the source engine is getting quite old now, this game still shines beautifully in both, 
 graphics and physics as well. It never gets old, walking around, driving, jumping, hell even swimming. 
 This game will never get stale, though i suggest a break from now and then for those who are playing 
 this game for the first time. Motion sickness is bound to happen, but don`t worry, it happens to 
 the best of us. The gravity gun alone makes this game so enjoyable, how the enemy reacts, characters 
 expressions, even using the bugs to do your own bidding is quite exhilarating. Done be confused 
 about this game, this isn`t only about shooting things up, there are puzzles, plat-forming, and 
 even driving. You get everything in one little package, not only do you get Half life 2, but episode 
 1 and 2 as well. If you enjoy atmospheric games, with fun missions throughout the game, then this 
 game is a must buy.
  
  Now lets move onto Portal. When describing this game, there is one word that comes to mind, its 
 GENIUS. i never through puzzle games could be as fun as this one. While it lacks a deep story, 
 the gameplay alone, the obstacles and being able to use the portal gun will make you appreciate 
 this master piece as it is. Even after you play through the game once or twice, you still have 
 something to keep you going. These are called challenges, some can be frustrating, but once you 
 managed to complete them, it feels great. Not a very long game, but i`ll guarantee you that you 
 will have a blast every second of it.
  
  And last, there is Team Fortress 2, a multiplayer only game. Now, i know a lot of you might be 
 turned off by this, since there are plenty of multiplayer games out there, well i`ll say this once, 
 the originality of this game is outstanding, extremely fun gameplay, funny classes fit to suit 
 any of your taste, and artistically beautiful. You`ll love how this game is so heavily based on 
 team work, the fact that you have so many classes available to you which you can choose from at 
 anytime you chose. And you`ll laugh non stop at their wacky animations as you plat through certain 
 various games. While this game lacks content, it has very little maps and game mode, you`ll never 
 get bored, if content is what you are looking for, then getting this for the PC version might be 
 suited for you. Game has unique weapons for each class as well as different animations depending 
 on their weapons. If you are looking for one of the most unique multiplayer game this generation, 
 then i suggest you give Team fortress 2 a spin. While this game has a very small community, once 
 you get a full party going, its extremely fun.
  
  If you are tight on money, and you want a sweet package to fulfill your game needs for a while, 
 then the orange box is the way to go. Best deal this generation!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legendaryscmt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box comes with five separate games: Half-Life 2, its expansions Episode 1 and Episode 
 2, the newly developed Portal, and Team Fortress 2. While the whole set of games is great, each 
 one plays out a little differently than the rest.
  
  Half-Life 2 was originally released back in 2004. At the time, it was one of the best looking games 
 out there, and it wasn't surprising to see that a couple months later, the game received an Xbox 
 port. While still good, the game suffered from poor frame rate and decreased visuals. However, 
 Orange box does one of the best porting of a game in recent history. Half-Life 2 on the Xbox 360 
 looks just as good as its PC counterpart, and plays out equally. Controls are similar to how they 
 were on the original Xbox, but feel tighter and better balanced with the additions of the left 
 and right bumper use over the original Xbox's black and white buttons. Audio for the game is still 
 as good as it was almost 4 years ago, however, while good, it isn't great. There are times where 
 you hear a person talking, but only just slightly where as when you're looking directly at them, 
 or close to them, you can hear it perfectly. It isn't a major complain, but more of an annoyance. 
 Puzzles retain their complexity and simplicity at times, and encourage that thought be put into 
 them when advancing. Load times are still present, and can sometimes take longer than expected, 
 but considering how far apart they are at times, and how much you'll be doing between them, you 
 won't really notice them at all, and they never come during moments of action or intensity.
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode 1 is the first expansion of Half-Life 2, and picks up directly after its 
 ending. What was new about Episode 1 was the new HDR lighting, and the coop adventure you shared 
 with Alyx Vance, one of the main characters from Half-Life 2. The game looks great with the new 
 lighting, and plays just as good as when it first came out. However, while good, the expansion 
 does have its downfall. Environments are no where near as vast or varied as its predecessor. You'll 
 be fighting your way though hordes of enemies, including the new Zombine, in basically buildings 
 and street tunnels, which gets repetitive. Also, no new weapons are included in this expansion, 
 which is a little bit of a let down, but not as much as you would think it would be. While good, 
 Half-Life 2: Episode 1 is just too short, maxing out at around 3 hours, and isn't as good as you 
 think it could have been.
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode 2 is the second expansion to Half-Life 2, picking up after Episode 1. The 
 main difference in this expansion over Episode 1 is the new environments that Valve decided to 
 create it around. From the start, you're set in the surrounding forests and back country to City 
 17, which look absolutely great. You'll fight your way from the forests around City 17 to the antlion 
 caves and the back roads of the country, all the way to a guarded missile silo. However, like Episode 
 1, Episode 2 does not include any new weapons, but like the first expansion, includes new enemies. 
 The hunters and the acid antlions make their appearance in Half-Life 2: Episode 2, and work out 
 great. The acid antlions are just like the antlions you faced in Half-Life 2 and in Episode one, 
 with the ability to shoot acid at you. However, the hunters introduced in this game are far more 
 deadlier than the new antlions. Ether charging at you in a pack, escorting a Stalker, or just shooting 
 at you, hunters are like smaller versions of the giant Stalkers in the game. They'll charge at 
 you when they're close, and fire their small canons at you when you're far away, and even show 
 emotions. However, with everything good must come the bad. the only real problem with Half-Life 
 2: Episode 2 is its length, which will take you anywhere from 3 to 5 hours to complete. Beyond 
 that, Half-Life 2: Episode 2 is the expansion that Episode 1 should have been.
  
  Introduced in The Orange Box is Portal, a game that revolves around complex puzzle solving and 
 the ability to go almost anywhere with portal technology. The main root of this game is the used 
 of the Portal gun, which lets you create portals nearly anywhere you want to. With this, you must 
 travel from chamber to chamber, solving puzzles set forth from the facility's AI, GLaDOS. As you 
 progress from chamber to chamber, the puzzles get harder, and the game actually gets funnier from 
 the things that GLaDOS says to you. Once you beat the game, new, advanced versions of several of 
 the chambers unlock, along with challenges, such as getting trough a chamber with the least time, 
 portal usage, and steps. Each chamber requires you to think about your actions, and with the portal 
 gun, this game really feels original, and the development did a great job on it. While the main 
 storyline only lasts about 2 hours or so, Portal is probably one of the more addicting games on 
 The Orange Box.
  
  Team Fortress 2 on The Orange Box is the multiplayer only part of the bundle. Each team in Team 
 Fortress 2 can choose between 9 different classes to play as, such as a medic, spy, pyro, etc. 
 The game comes with several maps, but not as huge as a selection as you would think. Each map pits 
 team against team in capturing the other team's capture points, flags, etc. Graphics in this game 
 are simple, with a cartoon look to it, but overall the game does look good and plays out the same 
 way. Get a couple friends into a game and you'll have a good time with Team Fortress 2. It's simple, 
 it's fun, variety of characters along with abilities, you really can't go wrong with this fun online 
 shooter.
  
  Overall, The Orange Box is probably one of the best games out for the Xbox 360 right now. If you 
 include all the games besides Team Fortress 2, you're looking at a 20+ hour game with tons of replay 
 value. Simply put, this is Valve's greatest piece of work.
  
  
  The Good: Comes with 5 separate games, Half-Life 2 plays out just as good as its PC counterpart, 
 expansions to the original game are pretty good, Portal is a great new experience, great multiplayer, 
 the lasting appeal of this game will keep gamers and fans of the series busy for a long time.
 
  
  The Bad: At points, the audio for Half-Life 2 and its expansions are a little weak, the expansions 
 aren't very long, load times sometimes take away from the action and experience.
  
  Buy, rent, pass: The Orange Box is absolutely a buy for any gamer. With 5 games in this bundle, 
 and tons of gameplay, Valve delivered with this bundle and really show what they can do with such 
 a great series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moldyspud
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2008 3:52 am PT
Review:  This is probably the best bundled package I've ever bought. Half life always has great stories, 
 I always love playing through them. The voice acting is great and the mechanics of the game are 
 excellent. The graphics are perfect, and it's just an immersive experience all around. You'll have 
 a hard time walking away from The Orange Box. I don't think anyone needs to know how awesome Half 
 Life is, they all know. 
  
  Too bad there was never any one on Team Fortress 2. I never got to check it out unless people were 
 over. It died off fast, but, it makes sense because it's such a dated game.
  
  Then the real gem is Portal... I never had so much fun being confused. I wish it was 100 times 
 longer with thousands of puzzles. It's brutally short... but so much fun. Your goal is to get from 
 point a to point b after overcoming obstacles. Sounds simple, but it isn't so easy when your in 
 a room with no way out... unless you have a portal gun. It's amazing how many different things 
 you can do with a portal gun... and at the same time, it's amazing how stupid you can be with it. 
 Sometimes you'll drop yourself into a toxic pit because you forgot to open the portal in a different 
 spot. But it's funny, not frustrating. I never found myself annoyed with the game, just sitting 
 there scratching my head thinking "How the hell am I going to do that?!"
  
  Portal is a great challenge, and hilarious at the same time. I recommend The Orange Box because 
 it brings good stories and challenging puzzles. Definitely worth the money and time. I just wish 
 the games were a little bit longer and it'd have a 10. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogcrazyant1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Lets start with portal. Portal is my favorite puzzle game in the whole world. I like playing it 
 everyday. Even though it could someone 30 minutes to beat all the original levels, it is still 
 fun to complete and finish. Once you beat it, you get all new screens for each game. Once I beat 
 portal, i looked at GAMESPOT (go gamespot!) and looked up codes for it. Even though i got most 
 of the achievements already (including Vanilla Crazy Cake) without cheating, its fun to do it again 
 with cheats. The advanced are fun also and makes you want to play Portal 2 if one comes out which 
 im pretty sure was confirmed. Nothing is wrong with portal.
  
  The Half life's. Exactly like the PC Half Life 2. Just with awesome achievements and they are easy 
 to get. And the gravity gun is the coolest gun on the gaming planet. Enough said. Plus you get 
 the episode 1 and 2 to go with it. Awesome. This must be the most money saving game ever.
  
  But there is one thing that makes this game NOT a ten. Team Fortress. yea its cool to have 
 all the classes, but its mo use if you have xbox live, which i do, im just saying its not a great 
 thing without it. and then all those cheap kills and i think i suck at it but i dont like the game 
 at all really. but thats the only reason why orange box isnt my favorite game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Children_of_Men
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  I would pay the price of the whole orange box for each of these games alone.
  
  Each game in this bargain is completely revolutionary in some way...
  
  Half-Life 2 has already 
 come out before this obviously, but now brings its addictive experience to the 360 and PS3. The 
 famed game has brought new things to the fps table such as physics and total first-person immersion.
 
  
  Episode 1 came out in 2006 and wowed people with its improved graphics, npc intelligence, and Zombines.
 
  
  Then, Episode 2 came out with the orange box and blew us away again just as Episode 1 did with 
 new levels, addition to the story, and even more new enemies such as hunters.
  
  However, we can't forget about the online play. You weren't gonna forget that in a game like this, 
 would you Valve? Well they do the same as the others with Team Fortress 2 which is the sequel to 
 the legendary Team Fortress Classic. They combine simple gameplay mechanics, outstandingly different 
 visual design, and a huge array of different classes to choose from.
  
  But definitely, the most revolutionary and innovative game on the orange box, which made many forget 
 about the other games on it, Portal. No one has ever seen anything like it. With this new style 
 of gameplay, Valve has only touched the tip of the iceberg. Although Portal is a little short, 
 it provides everything the player wants, has simple and logical ways of explaining its mechanics, 
 and has great voice work by Ellen McLaine.
  
  All these come together to create the greatest bargain in gaming history.
  
  I recommend you 
 buy this game right now if you want it. There is absolutely no need for renting this especially 
 with the recent price drop.
  
  In conclusion, i hope you love this game as much as i did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paladin_King
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  The intro: So I finally finished this game after several months of on and off play. Is it good? 
 Is it bad? Does it live up to the hype? Why the heck did it take me so long? Read on. Due to the 
 grab-bag nature of the orange box, every game will be getting it's own bit in the Pros and Cons... except 
 for the episodes, which have been lumped together with Half-Life 2 for simplicity's sake.
  
  
  The Pros (Half-Life 2 + episodes)
  
  This game truly has an excellent story. This cannot 
 be understated. By the end of episode 2, you will truly care about the main characters and you 
 will very much feel a part of the events in the game world. 
  
  This really more a testament to how Valve has truly lived up to the hype of revolutionizing storytelling 
 in games. You really, truly feel a part of the action. Alyx FEELS like a companion rather than 
 a character to watch in cutscenes. This is in large part due to Valve's decision to remove cutscenes, 
 keeping dialogue in game and from first person perspective. It works.
  
  From a technical standpoint, the game is solid. It may've been great at one point, but years have 
 passed. That said, it is still very playable, and for an older game, you'll be astonished by just 
 how palatable the graphics still are. I sure was, as I was dreading those "last gen graphics." 
 Instead, the graphics looked like early this-gen, especially for the episodes.
  
  The gravity gun is also, to this day, a great mechanic. While many have tried physics related gameplay, 
 the gravity gun still plays the part to perfection. The physics based elements can be frustrating 
 and can divorce one from the game world, but Valve gets an A for effort. More impressive is the 
 freedom Valve gives you in the sheer amount of stuff in the game world that can be picked up and 
 tossed. 
  
  The Cons
  
  Valve tried far too hard, in some regard, to make this title a revolutionary one. In some respects, 
 i don't think the game would've been as much of a landmark had they not pushed themselves to make 
 something totally different in all ways, but this comes at the cost of failures in some areas.
 
  
  For starters, first person platforming here is rudimentary, awkward, imprecise, and generally crap. 
 Often times, where to jump is ambiguous (sliding down a rocky cliff) , something that is made all 
 the worse by being unable to see your own feet, making you unsure of what exactly Gordon will be 
 able to stand on/fit onto.
  
  This leads to the other big beef I have with the game. Not being able to see your hands or feet 
 is not at all immersive... it's just weird. Seeing wheels magically spin by themselves or cars drive 
 themselves is just utterly off. 
  
  Also, there are driving portions that are a tad too long in Half-Life 2 (the episodes are fine) . 
 This leads to much of that great storytelling falling to the wayside with the game becoming a chore. 
 You spend such long periods wandering/driving by yourself and facing obscure "what do i do now" 
 puzzle situations that the story becomes inconsquential. Thankfully, Valve seem to become better 
 storytellers as the game progresses. Once past the "Sandtraps" stage, these dry periods pretty 
 much stop and the story once more becomes central. The episodes do not have this problem at all.
 
  
  Team Fortress 2 (pros)
  
  The game has a GREAT look/atmosphere and the cartoony graphics are excellent. The way the various 
 character classes are differentiated and each given their own, well, character, is also truly inspired. 
 The ominous female voice that makes the announcements is also fantastic.
  
  On a gameplay level... as a class-oriented shooter, it works. However, this requires a substantial 
 amount of teamwork for it to play well.
  
  the Cons
  
  I find the maps to be totally boring, limited, and uninspired. I've also frequently had problems 
 with lag (keep in mind i play CoD 4 and Resistance, among other games, with no lag whatsoever) . 
 Several times, lag has rendered the game unplayable.
  
  Also, while i doubt this would be as much of a problem on the PC version... well, remember what 
 I said about how integral teamwork is to the game actually playing well? Teamwork on Xbox Live 
 is often impossible, usually due to many players not having or not using voice chat, turning the 
 game into a chaotic mess that is often impossible to perform well in.
  
  In the end, while TF2 certainly has its fanbase, I am not among them.
  
  Portal (The Pros)
 
  
  Truly the shining light of the Orange Box and a game that seemed to rise to become the face and 
 spokesperson of Valve in all its quirkiness. Aperture science and "the cake is a lie" superceding 
 Gordon Freeman? Yup
  
  The game is unique, arthouse, experimental, and utterly fresh and new. It takes a revolutionary 
 gameplay mechanic, fine tunes it to perfection, and then exploits it in every way and direction 
 possible, taxing the gamer in a manner that is challenging, addictive, but never unfair or overly 
 frustrating. In other words, it's not made by Itagaki. (couldn't help myself)
  
  While there isn't much game here due to its length and due to the game really just being an extended 
 muck-about with an exceptional and new mechanic, Portal seems self-aware of this, never over-reaching 
 and never aiming to be more than it is. For that, it's length and limited nature are forgiven. 
 It never goes for too much, and while short, the length ensures that the game never gets old and 
 that it never feels recycled or repeated. It keeps introducing new ideas to the mechanic, building 
 upon itself until reaching its necessary end.
  
  The Cons
  
  Not many, honestly. Some might sight the short length, but i feel that the length is perfect for 
 it. That said, the length also ensures that it doesn't feel like a full, 59.99 game. That said, 
 it isn't one and it neither tries nor purports to be.
  
  Portal set out to do something and it did everything it set out to do. 
  
  The Conclusion: 
 An epic watershed of a game that must be played due to what it brings to storytelling and fps that 
 goes from being tedious work to something truly engaging. A mediocre team based game that is for 
 some, but not all. A brilliant puzzle side-game. That's what you get in the Orange Box. Is it worth 
 picking up? Despite all I've said, you bet it is. If anything, you can't beat this value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alyxvance2731
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  With Xbox 360 Games ranging around $60 brand-new, it's hard to get a good one without having to 
 re-finance your house. Luckily, there are companies like Valve that understand the need for great 
 games at a decent price, with the Orange Box being one of them.
  When it comes to the Orange Box, people go to Wal-Mart, looking for a game and see this 5-in-1 
 deal thinking, "It's gotta be a dud it's cheap." It isn't really until you take it home and start 
 playing through all the realistic, phyisics-based puzzles and battle-scenes that you realize, "It's 
 not a dud it's a deal! no, it's a steal!?!" , and then you sit there trying to make a bunch more 
 rhymes until your Xbox 360 makes a beeping noise as your controller turns off and wakes you from 
 your poetic awe.
  
  
  Yep, the Orange Box is a 5-in-1 deal, released by the videogame company Valve. It packs good games 
 with a bit of variety to at least satisfy a bit of every gamer. This awesome quarerrquintet of 
 sweetness includes Half-Life 2, Half-Life 2 Episode 1, Half-Life 2 Episode 2, Portal, and Team 
 Fortress 2, but can pretty much be divided into Half-Life 2 and episodes, Portal, and Team Fortress 
 2. Each of these games varies greatly from the last, but in a great way, and one that can easily 
 be appreciated by just about any gamer.
  
  Half-Life 2 is a sequel to a game that came out in the 90's for PCs (yes, we've waited a long time 
 for it) . Luckily, for those of us who didn't play back then, Half-Life 2's storyline is still enjoyable 
 and easy to follow without any knowledge of the previous installments in the series. It's a FPS 
 that takes place in the shoes of a physicist named Gordon Freeman, and is all about his fight to 
 help save humans from an invading alien empire, the Combine ( no, they are not the same thing as 
 the big tractor-like combines that pick oats don't worry, I got confused too) . Luckily, not all 
 physics geeks are weak, which is what you strive to show the enemy as you run/boat/swim/drive through 
 a variety of fun, challenging environments and situations. And when you can't accomplish something 
 with your large arsenal of weapons, you've always got you Ph. D. in physics, cool geek glasses, and 
 a big, imaginative brain to get you through.
  
  Half-Life 2 Episode 1 and Half-Life 2 Episode 2 are both further continuations of the story. Instead 
 of making buyers wait a couple more years for Half-Life 3, Valve decided to break the next chunk 
 of the saga into three episodes tacked onto Half-Life 2, with the third episode not yet released. 
 Both games exercise a couple of new factors, new and original ideas, and a bit of a different feel 
 when compared to Half-Life 2.
  
  Portal, which Valve has commented on being somewhat connected to the Half-Life series, is one of 
 those games designed to get the old noggin working. You run through a bunch of different puzzles/mazes/arenas 
 like a lab-rat while trying to survive and escape the death trap of a lab your stuck in, all the 
 while at the mercy of a crazy A. I. Using a portal gun, you create portals in walls, ceilings, and 
 floors to get past the obstacles that are trying to stop you from reaching your freedom. 
  
  And finally, last but not least, you've got Team Fortress 2. TF2 is an online multiplayer in 
 which the player may pick from nine different classes of character, each with its own specific 
 abilities ranging from a nimble Scout, to Pyros with flamethrowers, to Medics with the power to 
 heal, to Spys who get behind enemy lines. Join up with a team and exercise your most brilliant 
 strategies to get to the top.
  
  With good sound, good graphics, great storylines, and brilliant games the Orange Box is definitely 
 one of the greatest deals in gaming, or at least it's a quality one who's price won't force you 
 into poverty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terrydandan
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Okay, okay, i'm not the best reviewer in the world, believe me, i know. But this game just bends 
 beliefs, for a game that i payed 20 for, it's just brilliant and immersive, the graphics are top 
 notch and the gameplay for all the games in the collection is brilliant. 
  
  Half-Life 2, Episode 1 and 2;
  These make up the crux of the package, brilliant story and all 
 that, but in my own opinion if felt like it was missing something, i just can't put my thumb on 
 it, it could have something to do with the story elements being so 'slap-dash' at points, but apart 
 from that, it's a rich emmersive game. 
  
  Team Fortress 2;
  The Multi-Player aspect of the package, good... That's it really, it would have been better if 
 Half-Life Counter Strike source was included instead but it's not all too bad, good graphics, but 
 i just couldn't get into it very much, it was just too placid after a few hours. 
  
  Portal;
  Now this is what many gamers consider the best of the package, but in my oppinion it's 
 the least emmersive of the bunch, it's just not my cup of tea, it's not a game i'd deam very replayable, 
 comical at points but not L-O-L as deemed by many gamers, one time play for me, but a clever game 
 none-the-less. 
  
  All in all the package is great, but if they were sold seperately on the XBOX 360 then i wouldn't 
 have bothered buying TF2 or Portal, i would have just stuck with the Half-life 2 series. And it 
 is a dissapointment there isn't Half-Life Counter Strike Source bundled instead of TF2...
  
  Ahh well, it's an imperfect world, right..? 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sylux117
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  Like I mentioned earlier, this game is a nice package because it has FIVE amazing games in ONE 
 box. You just can't go wrong with the orange box, unless you don't like first person games. The 
 game contains Half Life 2 (wich will take the average gamer 15 hours to complete) Half Life 2 Episode 
 1 and Episode 2 (wich will take the average gamer 4 hours a piece) , Then there is Portal (Took 
 me 6 hours or something) , an amazing puzzle game and last but not least : Team Fortress 2 a really 
 cool multiplayer shooter (near endless fun) . So that's a compelling package isn't it? Well lets 
 talk about the Half Life games first. The voice acting is simply amazing, the gunplay is solid, 
 animations are great and the enemy's are smart as well, but the graphics are starting to look dated 
 (especially the enemy models) . Now lets talk about Portal. Well the game centers around the portal 
 gun, when you fire the gun you will create an entrance portal and once you fire it again you will 
 create the exit. This formula of gameplay is incorparated in the levels in mind bending ways. And 
 the we have Team Fortress 2. It has a funny graphical style and extremely balanced gameplay. The 
 game lets you choose from 9 different classes and each requires a different play style. But there 
 are only 6 maps with only one playable game variant on each. So it doesnt have enough content. 
 But the gameplay is so balanced that it will still keep you playing for hours, days, weeks or even 
 months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MightyJordan
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  5 games in 1. How can you say no? Especially if you're into FPS games. There's a little something 
 for everyone in The Orange Box.
  
  Anyone who hasn't been able to play Half-Life 2 on their PC due to the performance it demands, 
 you can finally find out what it's like on the 360, and play the expansion packs as well.
  
  The mysterious side is found in Portal, which is an FPS game, where you don't kill anything. 
 In fact, you don't actually use any weapons, either. But it's a crazy game, and it also features 
 one of the best ending themes of any game.
  
  And there's also a bit of humour contained in the online side of The Orange Box, Team Fortress 
 2. This is one of the best online FPS games on the 360 without a shadow of a doubt. There's a class 
 for every type of player, and the graphics are pretty good, despite them being cel-shaded, like 
 XIII. But the graphics is part of what makes this game so good. You don't have to go over the top, 
 especially when you're playing online. When you're online, less is more.
  
  The Orange Box is definately one of the best games of 2007. It's also the bargain of 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stubsdazomby
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 12:08 am PT
Review:  If this brilliant collection of games went to the wayside among a slew of other games when it was 
 released, as it did with me, buy it now because it is an even greater value now ($30!) then when 
 it was hailed to be one of greatest values ever at 60 dollars at it's release.
  
  However, just becuase you get 5 games for 30 bucks isn't what makes it a great value. I mean, if 
 those 5 games were crappy then 30 dollars would be quite a rip-off. (Like those collections of 
 old arcade games redone for consoles) . But, that is most certainly not the case for The Orange 
 box.
  
  
  Half-Life 2 Collection
  Well, I am not a PC gamer so this is my first time experiencing the Half-Life series. So, if you 
 have already played those games on the PC then you might want to rethink getting The Orange Box 
 and just purchase portal for the PC if you haven't already.
  
  However, for us console gamers, it is our best chance to play one of the best single player shooter 
 series of all time. 
  
  Even though most of the Half-Life 2 series are last generation games, graphicly they can compete 
 with the likes of most current gen games. The source engine still looks amazing unless you really 
 want to scrutinize it. As far as the physics go, well, lets just say that you would be hard-pressed 
 to find any game, current or last gen, that can beat them.
  
  A good story is, for the most part, a personal opinion, and my personal opinion is that the story 
 is quite good. Not quite, say, bioshock material, but good enough to get you to connect with the 
 characters regardless whether you have played the first game or not.
  
  I guess the only criticism I can level at the series is that the design of a couple of the areas 
 have an unappealing linearity to them. But those areas are few and far between and are only noticeable 
 when compared some of the quite expansive areas that this game posseses. Also, I can't help but 
 think how fun it would be to have a Grav Gun only deathmatch with your buddies, but the Half-Life 
 series is only single player, and it does single player extremly well.
  
  
  Portal
  Have you ever read something on a forum about cake being a lie, and had no idea what that person 
 was talking about? Well, your answer lies in a masterpiece of a game called Portal.
  
  Portal is a hard game to describe, and its true brillance can only be understood through playing 
 it. However, the basic gist of this "First Person Puzzle" game is that you acquire a gun which 
 shoots portals. These portals can transport from one area to another depending on where you shoot 
 them. That is pretty much all there is to portal's gameplay, however it uses that simple mechanic 
 and applies to puzzles that utilize it to it's fullest potential. 
  
  The graphics have a simplistic beauty to them. The sterilized whites in the game (which are the 
 most prevalent colors considering the game takes place in a scientific research facility) are crisp 
 and clean.
  
  The story is where this game really shines though. You play a female test subject who has been 
 chosen to test this "portal gun" for a facility called Aperture Science. Guiding you through this 
 task is a malevolent AI by the name of GLaDOS. This AI entices you through each puzzle with the 
 promise of cake when test is finished. While that may sound somewhat silly, this game's amazing 
 writing and GLaDOS's dark humor make it anything but. 
  
  Portal isn't a long game by any means (three hours at most per playthrough) . However, this short 
 play time actually complements the story quite well, plus you will probably want to play through 
 it at least three times.
  
  Team Fortress 2
  This addictive frag fest is online only, so if don't have the means or just simply don't really 
 care for online play, leave this game alone because you will not find any use for it.
  
  If those two characteristics don't apply to you, you are going to really enjoy it's fast paced 
 action and interesting take on the team deathmatch. The game's cartoonish visuals and character 
 designs complement it's pace very well.
  
  There are 9 classes that you can choose from. The classes are all balanced very well so it just 
 comes down to which class you are best at. 
  
  There is also a fair amount of strategy that comes along with each class that can be very daunting 
 to someone just starting to play. Also, there aren't very many maps to play on either.
  
  If you can forgive the lack of features and steap learning curve, you will find an addictive expierience 
 that provides a unique multiplayer element to The Orange Box that the other 4 games don't possess.
 
  
  The Bottem Line
  Every single game in The Orange Box is a unique expierience. The enthralling sci-fi shooter that 
 is the Half-life 2 series, the hilarious masterpiece that is Portal, and the fast paced online 
 shooter that is Team Fortress 2. 
  
  All for 30 bucks.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoNu7
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Prior to The Orange Box's release, there was a ton of buzz from the media and fanboys about how 
 Orange Box was to be the best videogame package ever, that it will absolutely blow away the competition, 
 and there would be some kind of divine enlightening that will spread across the nation and catch 
 everyone in its thrall. As such, I decided to pick up the game on Christmas, not having played 
 any Half Life game before, and therefore not too terribly excited about the package, but still 
 intrigued to see what the Orange Box may hold.
  
  Having played through Half-Life 2, the two episodes, a good portion of Portal, and a tiny bit of 
 Team Fortress 2, all I can say that The Orange Box is the thinking gamer's game (or Box I guess) . 
 I know it may seem like oxymoron (how can shooters be for thinkers?) , so I'll try to explain it 
 as best as I can.
  
  Half Life 2 takes place in the dystopian future, in an alien-controlled city called City 17. You 
 play as the mute and faceless protagonist with awesome old-school glasses, Gordon Freeman, who 
 apparently was one of the elite scientists at some scientific testing facility called Black Mesa, 
 in which an experiment went horribly awry and armies of aliens came pouring into our world. Now, 
 you are on a mission in which you are to rendevous with survivors and try to push back the alien 
 armies. At least, that's what I got out of the story. Unless you've played Half-Life 1 before, 
 the plot won't be completely clear, and the alien's true intent other than trying to eradicate 
 humans isn't particularly apparent either.
  
  The setting is very well-crafted. City 17, and the outlying regions that you get to explore are 
 completely believable. I don't particularly prefer the yellowish and saturated hue of the environments 
 (I dunno why but it faintly reminds me of vomit) , but that's preference.
  
  As far as the graphics go, yeah they're not too great, but can you really expect that from a 3+ 
 year old game? There are some interesting technologies utilized, such as motion blurring and HDR, 
 but overall the textures aren't particularly great. On the bright side, the framerate is rock-solid. 
 Episodes 1 and 2 increase the detail slightly, and also dramatically improve the lighting, while 
 maintaining the same framerate quality and graphics technologies.
  
  For the majority of the populace, the most important aspect of a game is its fun factor. So how 
 does the game play? As I mentioned, it's the thinking gamer's shooter. You spend about 50% of the 
 time gunning, 30% of the time solving physics-based puzzles, and 20% of the time gunning AND solving 
 puzzles, and during the gunning sessions, you've gotta constantly strategize and plan your moves. 
 Taking advantage of the environment is extremely important. In fact, some weapons, in particular 
 the gravity gun, requires that you use environmental objects such as exploding barrels and propane 
 tanks.
  
  Strategizing is fine, solving puzzles is fine. What's not fine, is that the gunfights don't flow, 
 because there's no automatic regenerating health or shields. This essentially means that if your 
 strategy doesn't work, or you botch your attempt, you're effed, because you'll be sitting behind 
 a crate at 10 hp and 0 shields while 6 pissed-off bad guys are looking to take your head, and there's 
 no way to regenerate your hit points or shields and give it another try. Enemies do seem to drop 
 more health packs when you are low on health, but that just makes the entire experience somewhat 
 canned. "Hey, you look hurt. When I die, I'm going to give you a health pack so that you can continue 
 on and kill more of us!" Fortunately, you can save at will. I normally save the game about every 
 2 minutes, so if I mess up I don't have a whole lot to repeat. Regardless, if you've played any 
 shooter with regenerating health/shields, such as Call of Duty or Halo, you'll find this non-regenerating 
 aspect of Half-Life EXTREMELY aggravating. In fact, this one particular aspect of HL-2 killed the 
 game a bit for me. Another annoying aspect is that you can't melee. This wouldn't have been half 
 as bad if it weren't for the fact that all enemies can melee you, and don't tell me I can switch 
 to my crowbar at any time to engage in melee combat; the switching process takes too long, and 
 the crowbar does crap damage.
  
  That's not to say the gameplay is broken. The shooting mechanics work fine. Use of the environment 
 is utilized perfectly, and I have to say, this is the most glitch-free game I've ever played, and 
 that is high praise indeed considering that Half-Life 2 plus the expansions clock at over 20 hours 
 of single-player gameplay. Portal and Team Fortress 2 are just going to eat up more hours, and 
 while there are balance issues in TF2, both games are mostly bug-free.
  
  Audio-wise, Half-Life's sound effects are a real treat. The combat chatter is interesting, explosions 
 sound realistic, and I particularly love the weapon sound effects. Voice acting is also well done. 
 There could really have been more music however. There is a fine difference between too much music, 
 in which it becomes background noise, and too little music, in which there's just not enough of 
 it to drive you forward. Not to mention, the music isn't particularly memorable either. It sounds 
 like some weird metal/techno mix, and to me, it didn't fit at all into game.
  
  Overall, unless you're into Half-Life, or you're interested in some old-fashioned no-health regeneration 
 style gameplay, you'll find this package well worth it. Portal and Team Fortress 2 are good, but 
 they're not quite enough to warrant buying the entire package. If anything it's worth it to give 
 Orange Box a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwgamer119
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to talk about what Valve's The Orange Box offers without immediately falling into an 
 impression of some sort of late-night pitchman for fantasy knives and alternative cleaning products. 
 That's partially because the name "The Orange Box" sounds more like some kind of citrus-scented 
 bathroom cleanser than a video game, and partially because this five-games-in-one package is the 
 kind of crazy deal that almost forces you to shout "Now how much would you pay?" With three amazing 
 new games and two classics all in one package, it's impossible to go wrong with The Orange Box. 
 
  
  With your purchase of The Orange Box, you'll get Half-Life 2: Episode Two, Team Fortress 2, and 
 Portal. They're all based on the same graphics engine, but they're all incredibly different games, 
 which ensures that there's something for everyone. You'll also get 2004's Half-Life 2 and 2006's 
 Half-Life 2: Episode One, which is handy if you aren't up to speed with what Gordon Freeman's been 
 doing over the past few years. On the PC, you'll launch each game separately. On the Xbox 360, 
 the game boots up to a menu where you can easily select any of the five games, and quitting out 
 of a game brings you back to the selection menu. 
  
  Let's start with new stuff. Episode Two is the continuation of the Half-Life 2 story. It picks 
 up right where Episode One leaves off, with Alyx helping Gordon out of the rubble of a train crash. 
 You've escaped from City 17, which now looks more like a smoking crater in the ground with a huge, 
 swirling portal floating over it. But you aren't safe just yet. You've escaped with information 
 that the Combine very much wants to get back from you, so the chase is on again. Fortunately, you'll 
 do much more than just run in Episode Two. The biggest difference here is that Alyx doesn't directly 
 accompany you through the entire game. You'll split up much more frequently, so, for example, you'll 
 find yourself working your way through antlion nests and crushing antlion grubs all by your lonesome. 
 You'll also negotiate a mine with the help of a vortigaunt who happens to serve as a subtle form 
 of comic relief. It spouts dialogue that plays off of the serious, spiritual tone that most of 
 these aliens take, only applying it to things such as crates full of supplies that just flew down 
 a broken mineshaft and out of reach. These bits alone give Episode Two a much different tone than 
 the previous games, but there are also significant gameplay alterations. 
  
  Episode Two marks the return of the lengthy vehicle sequences seen in Half-Life 2. There's a large 
 block of action that takes place with you moving from spot to spot in what appears to be a stripped-down 
 Dodge Charger. There are also a couple of big set pieces, such as one sequence where you have to 
 defend the center of a mine from relentless antlion attacks. Likewise, the game's final sequence 
 takes place in a wide-open area and, without getting too specific, feels very different from anything 
 Half-Life 2 has done so far. Although you won't encounter any new weapons in Episode Two, the developers 
 have at least broken the flashlight power meter out from the same auxiliary power that you use 
 to sprint. This is a smart change that doesn't make much sense in terms of continuity between episodes, 
 but it's handy and the sort of thing you wish they'd roll back into the much darker, much more 
 flashlight-oriented action of Episode One. At about four or five hours, Episode Two is also longer 
 than Episode One. 
  
  With all that Half-Life, you'd think that the other two parts of this package would be minor additions 
 thrown in to make the deal sound more attractive. But Portal is probably the greatest thing about 
 The Orange Box. It's a clever mix that combines first-person action with very focused puzzle-solving. 
 It's also completely hilarious. The premise is simple. You're a woman who wakes up in a tiny box 
 inside some lab facility run by a mysterious company called Aperture Science. You're presented 
 with a portal that lets you walk out of the room and into another. From there, the game gradually 
 introduces you to portals and eventually gives you a gun that you can use to fire portals onto 
 walls, ceilings, and floors. Your primary and alternate fire buttons are used to create blue and 
 orange portals, respectively, and walking, jumping, or falling into one portal sends you out of 
 the other one. You can also pick up objects, such as large boxes, which often must be placed on 
 large buttons to open doors so you can proceed through a variety of test chambers. 
  
  Along the way, a computerized female voice guides you... and misguides you. The dialogue from the 
 computer supervising your test gets more and more overtly funny as you play and leads to a very 
 satisfying conclusion, including what might be the best end-credit song ever written. Later puzzles 
 force you to pull off some tricky portal maneuvers and require you to consider how much momentum 
 you have when you enter a portal, given that the same momentum is carried with you when you come 
 out the other side. So if you jump down into a floor portal and have the exit portal set on a side 
 wall, you'll rocket out of that portal with the velocity you had when falling into the hole on 
 the floor. 
  
  Upon finishing Portal, which may take you three hours or so if you're able to quickly grasp the 
 concepts that are presented, you'll unlock a series of advanced challenges. These include six harder 
 versions of puzzles from the main game, and challenges that ask you to finish levels under certain 
 limits, such as the time it takes you to complete the level, the number of portals you use, or 
 the number of steps you take. The advanced puzzles are tough, but not impossible. However, the 
 challenges are much rougher. There are bronze, silver, and gold medals awarded for each of the 
 three challenge types across six levels. Even after you've figured out the puzzles, Portal remains 
 fun and is worth coming back to again and again, just to listen to the dialogue and spend a few 
 fleeting moments with the weighted companion cube. It's a shame that it had to end this way. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TIE_Elite_Pilot
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  I bought the Orange Box later than most, I wanted it when it came out a year ago, but so many other 
 games came out it fell by the wayside. Man, that was a mistake. This game is a masterpiece.
  
  Graphics: I had played Counter Strike Source years ago on PC, so I wasn't sure how the source 
 engine would still look to me. Well, better than I remember it ever being. The textures look good 
 (until you are riiight on top of them, but the game keeps you so busy that it won't bother you) , 
 the maps/levels are all top notch. And the water . . . it's still some of the best looking water 
 I've ever seen. Same goes with the fire.
  
  Sound: Sound is fantastic, from the cracking sound of the Magnum's gunshot, to the eerie (and sometimes 
 panic inducing) chirping of a black (aka Venomous) Head-Crab. Set the zombies on fire in Ravenholm, 
 and be preparied to be either freaked out or rolling on the floor in laughter.
  
  Controls: The controls are a little different than say, CoD4's. That mostly spawns from multiple 
 weapons available instead of just 2. Needless to say, they work well.
  
  Fun Factor (for each game) :
  Half Life 2: Half Life 2 has a great story, you play as Gordon Freeman, 
 quantum scientist with a crow-bar. soon enough you get ahold of some firearms, but the real gem 
 in this game (aside from fun to fight enemies) is the Gravity Gun. If you've played the Forced 
 Unleashed demo and knocked over StormTroopers with barrells, this is just like that, only with 
 more control) .
  
  Episode 1: the Continuation of Half Life 2. Story wise I didn't find it as good, but gameplay wise 
 it's still excellent.
  
  Episode 2: more HL2 continuation. It' ironic this was called "Episode 2" because it really does 
 feel like a mini sequel. Gordon (you) go from City Fighting to the Woods, which present a whole 
 new slew of enemies to take on (as well as the usual headcrabs and combine) . Better than Ep1 for 
 sure.
  
  Portal: Portal is a irst person puzzle game, not a shooter. It's been debated (and claimed by many) 
 that this game IS the star of the Orange Box. I'm inclined to agree, it was the game I was most 
 excited about, and the first I finished. The puzzles are very well thought out, and require "out 
 of the box" thinking to complete. I guarntee that at some point you wll figure out one of the more 
 advanced puzzles, sit back and go "woah". Seriously, it's that good.
  
  Team Fortress 2: TF2 is a very good stylized class based shooter. The classes are fun to play (my 
 personal favorite being the Heavy, as I loves my MiniGun) . The cel shaded graphic I acually like 
 (were as I wasn't such a fn of them years ago when Legend of Zelda, WindWaker came out) . It may 
 not be the most popular XBL title, but people still play it, and it's worth the time to try out 
 a couple matches to see if you like it.
  
  All in all, there really isn't much bad things to say, matter of fact I don't know if I did say 
 anything bad about the Orange Box, I mean for $30 (the current price at Wal-Mart) , it really can't 
 be beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toxic8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  HL2 is arguably one of the best games to have come out in a while in the fps genre and the orange 
 box bundles whats best and gives you a small price tag.
  This is a deal for what you get espically for portal. I love to play portal and try and figure out 
 what how to get to the end of the level. I had got all the way to the last level when i sold my 
 360 and it was tough. And portal is the only game that gave me a touch of motion sickness, going 
 up and down and side to side through the portals. But even so what a fun and innovative game.
  Then you have fortress. Which is a fun multiplayer game and hl2... do i need to say more. The graphics 
 are still great to this day, espically if you were like me playing it on a HD setup. And the 360 
 version tends to be a tad bit better looking not suffering from some blurry textures. But in the 
 ps3's defense the arcitecture of the ps3 hasnt been made to its full potential yet.
  If you are a fan of the hl series or fps series and havent for some reason played it yet, or coming 
 over from the pc get the orange box and you wont be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkin_guy109
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  indeed you will, i bought the orange box primarily for tf2 and portal, i havent gotten around to 
 play half life yet, i will soon enough though, first thing, portal is perfect, you may not understand 
 it, but when you play portal, it really does have some of the best humour in a game, and it offers 
 replayability, it takes some challenge to get through the advanced chambers, some of them are just 
 fendish in design, moving on to team fortress 2, as many reviews have said before, the game is 
 extremely balanced, and that would be fantastic, if people played the game, it hasnt even been 
 out a year, and theres only one match that you can find at any given time, sadly, the game is loads 
 of fun when you get in to a game though, throw in 3 more games for 40 bucks now, and the orange 
 box is bar none the best deal out there right now, if you havent picked this one up yet, then after 
 you stop reading this, go and get it, seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nurok17
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2008 11:20 pm PT
Review:  Valve's Half-Life series is phenomenal. The gameplay and story is amazing. Half-Life 1 through 
 Episode 2 have been very innovative for their time. They physics and lighting especially in the 
 newer ones have been simply top notch. Plus the ORange Box gives you two more games ... Portal 
 (a great mini game) and Team Fortress 2 a very addicting online only shooter. 
  
  My personal favorite of the 5 games would have to be Half-Life 2. When it first came out on PC 
 I was amazed and when it was brought to XBOX 360 the gameplay and graphics stepped up a notch in 
 my world. The overall game was just great (though very linear, which it is supposed to be with 
 the type of game it is) . It gave me about 15-20 hours of game time and you have so many things 
 to do. They have a slew of vehicles for you to use and a ton of weapons and different environments. 
 The best thing the game has going for it though are the physics in the world. Valve really did 
 something amazing with that. I was very impressed. Overall the game was not too long and not too 
 short. It gives you some fun game time. 
  
  Portal is just a fun mini game. Took me like 3.5 hours to beat. Again very fun. This game is all 
 about the physics and once you can master the idea of the portal you can do so many things. Really 
 a genius concept. Because it's a mini game the graphics were not that great. The story of it was 
 very clever. Though the idea was light hearted there is a dark twist to it which was pretty cool.
 
  
  Team Fortress 2 I have not played extensively but from what I have seen it is very fun. Strictly 
 online objective based games. To me it really looked like a violent and bloody PIXAR movie. The 
 graphics are smooth and look good even though the characters look cartoony the overall setting 
 of the game and the smoothness of it all make it a fun game to play.
  
  Overall a very good set of games. The only thing that would make it better is if the individual 
 games were not strictly online only or just single player story only but to see some variety. Other 
 than that the whole set of games was truly a win in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi081
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  Well where to start with one of the greatest games in existence. The Orange box is one of the games 
 you think you'll want to play first before you buy, but it's not you should be on your list for 
 next game to buy. The Half-life 2 series on the orange box (Half-life 2, Half-life 2 episode 1 
 & 2) is a shoot em up mixed in with puzzles along the way. There are plenty of auto-save placed 
 well along the way. 
  Portal is a puzzle game which you could play over and over again and not get bored with because 
 it has more maps after you finished which are advanced. 
  Team Fortress 2 gives you hours of multiplayer action with team-deathmatches and capture the flag. 
 There are plenty of characters for you to choose from with a soldier, to spy, to engineer with 
 different abilities so there one to suit everyone's needs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lacedelli
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  The orange box is really one of the best deals i've bought in a very, very long while, the first 
 sight I got into it was team fortress 2, gotta say at the beginning it is really frustrating, since 
 you realize that the way you play is not really what you got to have for it, so you adjust your 
 way of playing, and I kept myself from buying it, after a couple months I got it, first played 
 portal, coudn't help to be intrigued by this voice saying the cruelest jokes I've heard in a while, 
 the puzzles were good, and really complex at a time, specially the advanced ones, after that I 
 jumped right off to half life, trying to avoid team fortress, I cannot describe Half life in other 
 way than award winning, the best game i've played in a while with good story and nice gaphics, 
 after I decided to give redemption to team fortress 2 only to find out that you can't avoid to 
 fall in love with it, there's always something you can improve on your technique, and the characters 
 have this certain charm, the online community is one of the best I've ever played with. Despite 
 a few glitches and people pulling off cheap tricks, one of the best games to the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Hector-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Excellent Graphics, Amazing Physics Engine, 5 games for the price of 1. Team Fortress will 
 make you want to get Xbox live, Portal is mind-bending!
  
  Cons: Not much... There is just some reason that I can't give this game a 10...
  
  Almost the 
 Best Game Ever... If you don't believe me, BUY IT!!! I've never played a Half Life game until now 
 and I'm hooked. Everything about it story, characters, settings are amazing. Portal, is in my opinion, 
 the best game on the disc. It is a puzzle game in which you use portals to reach an exit. The simple 
 yet fun mechanic of the game is "what goes in one portal, will come out the other." This game also 
 has an interesting sense of humor, which I greatly enjoyed (The Cake Is a Lie) . Now to Team Fortress 
 2 if you like online Team based gameplay then this is the game for you. Get with some buddies online 
 and have hours of fun blowing each other up with the many classes of character the game has to 
 offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbturner1438
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  
  The Orange Box is a deal. I'm serious It will give your wallet a boner. Yeah its that good. 5 games 
 from valve on 1 disc in 1 orange box ( 3 of which are "Half-Life 2" and it's successors) . The other 
 two being the one of a kind strategy/ puzzle game "Portal", and online multiplayer "Team Fortress". 
 I'll start with "Half Life 2" and the add-ons". Truthfully I've just played thru "Half-Life 2" 
 and I'm just starting episode 1 ( next would of-coarse be episode 2) . I hadn't played a "Half-Life" 
 game before orange box came into my life. and when I started to play I admit I wasn't very impressed. 
 the story seemed dull and the game-play was unoriginal. I however stuck with it. I am very happy 
 I did too. The game-play and story evolved into something deeper and more complex as the character 
 I directed Freeman made his way to victory. The arsenal includes the gravity gun which is one of 
 those factors that makes "Half-Life" more than a strategy shooter. It makes it a freakin awesome 
 strategy shooter. Portal has traits from its big brother "Half-Life". But instead of a gravity 
 Gun you wield a portal gun. You make your way through seemingly impassable rooms while a surprising 
 and surprisingly hilarious story unfolds before you with your portal gun at your aid. The game 
 is addicting and leaves you wanting more (mostly because of it's unfortunate shortness) . You can 
 return to levels to try and beat time trials after the credits roll. "Team Fortress" is a frantic 
 multiplayer. It unfortunately is only online and doesn't allow co-op or multiplayer. Each class 
 have unique weapons and abilities. Do you want a Flame thrower? Do you want to be invisible? Or 
 do you want to be that nice guy who takes care of the booboos? Your gonna put a lot of time into 
 this game and take just 30 bucks out of your wallet. I hope my review helped. Now I'm gonna eat 
 cake and wait for a second Portal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sickjoke5653
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Orange Box offers you not only a great single player expierence but an excellent online team expirience. 
 
  First off you have Half Life 2, a sequel to one of best fps to date. Then your give episode 1 and 
 2. Now let me say many have said episode 1 is the week point in the series but it serves an opener 
 to episode 2 and all its glorious goodness. Episode 2 on the other hand gives you fast and furious 
 gameplay with an ending that will blow your mind.
  
  A treat for all puzzle players out there is Portal a unique little game that makes use of well..... 
 portals. You a lonely clone make your way through many challenging puzzles faced with a crazy computer 
 that makes you love and also hate her. Its a short but sweet topping to the cake called orange 
 box.
  
  Last and not least is a beloved sequel to the long standing Team Fortress. While it offers everything 
 to a team playing player get ready for short matches, laggy connections on most servers and overbalanced 
 classes. The game also recieves no love from valve in the sense of new maps and uprade. The game 
 itself is still fun if you get past its short comings.
  
  That is the Orange Box in a whole and is a must buy for any fps fan and story lover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspeck_1
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Notice: Haven't jumped on the HL2 bandwagon yet? NOWS UR CHANCE.
  
  Lets start at the beginning- 
  
  Half Life 2. Coming in as an outsider, I came into the series 
 not knowing what to expect, but as the lengthly, fun and immersive story, innovative gameplay and 
 puzzle elements come to light the true greatness of the game shines too. Individual Score- 9.0
 
  
  Half Life 2: Episode One. Fresh after beating the first HL2 bit i jumped into the next, hungry 
 for more of what I had experienced and to find out the next developments in the story. What I came 
 out with was a good, but somewhat bland continuation. Though it delves straight where HL2 left 
 off, it feels disjointed, and before you can really get into the fun of the gameplay and story 
 you find it's over, only giving you a bite f what you feel it has to offer. Individual Score- 8.6
 
  
  Half Life 2: Episode 2. Hearing good things I only expected better of the next episode, and it turned 
 out to be true. Episode 2 brings out the best of HL2's gameplay, story and puzzle elements while 
 still managing to give the series a breath of fresh air with new level designs and concepts. Individual 
 Score- 9.0
  
  Portal. This is a gem. The gameplay is so new, so original it rivals Tetris, and its humor is enough 
 to shake your head and chuckle. Adds just enough new elements to the table to be able to wow you 
 after each and every level. Individual Score- 9.0
  
  TF2. The Reviewer is unable to review this game at this point tin time. Theoretical Score- 8.9
 
  
  
  In the end you, the consumer, whether a VALVE newcomer or veteran will find something you like 
 in this little package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghost223
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box contains Half Life 2, Half life 2: Episode One, Half Life 2: Episode Two, Portal, 
 and Team Fortress 2.
  
  Half Life 2
  ------------
  Story: Gordon Freeman, survivor of the "Black Mesa ====== Incident" is brought out of stasis by 
 the mysterious 'G-man' in a train leading into City 17. The 'G-man' explains to Gordon his time 
 has come to save the world from the Combine. As you progress throughout the game, Gordon meets 
 up with human resistance, old friends, explores new areas, and causes a little mayhem. The Combine 
 are an interdimentional race that cease planets and control them. Dr. Wallace Breen serves as administrator 
 to Earth. HL2 takes you through a plethora of different zones (such as the zombie ridden Ravenholm 
 and the combine stronghold of former high security prison Nova Prospekt) , all eventually leading 
 back to City 17 for a face off at the heart of the city, the Citadel.
  
  
  Gameplay: Very solid, fluid and a good selection of ======== weapons such as the conventional pistol, 
 MP7, a shotgun, and a rebar shooting crossbow. Sometimes can be confusing to navigate. Fun to launch 
 things with the gravity gun. Relatively smart AI, could have utilized better cover. The Havoc engine 
 is also really neat.
  
  
  
  Audio: Excellent voice work by all characters (except of ====== course Gordon Freeman [silent protagonist] ) . 
 Phenominal cast of characters who all contrast in different ways. Great loud gun noises and explosions.
 
  
  
  Graphics: Stunning lighting effects and shading. The ========= zones you pass such as Highway 17 
 give you a great atmospheric feel, and a kind of sense of ruin, as all places seem uninhabited. 
 As you progress you find many completely different areas, no place is the same as the last. The 
 fire effects look very nice and objects do a good job of 'catching' on fire. Strider laser effects 
 are really cool as well.
  
  Time: 10-20 hours
  Replay Value: C+
  Overall: 10/10
  
  
  Half Life 2: Episode One
  -------------------------
  
  Story: Gordon is on a mission 
 once again. This time he ===== is for the most part with his companion Alyx Vance. The story takes 
 place after the events of HL2 in a war torn City 17 with debris clouding the city. Realizing the 
 core meltdown of the Citadel is imminent, which would completely obliterate City 17 and everything 
 in its radius, Alyx concurs that her and Gordon will not be able to escape the city in time unless 
 they shut off the core. Needing some kind of 'Direct Intervention' as coined by Dr. Kleiner, Alyx 
 and Gordon venture into the crumbling Citadel. They are met with heavy resistance despite the circumstances. 
 
  
  
  Gameplay: A continuation of the storyline, many things ======== remain unchanged and relatively 
 the same. Some cool AI movements have been integrated espically on the part of Alyx Vance. Episode 
 one in some parts may be the most frustrating time you will have in a Half Life game, especially 
 the garage with 'zombines' and antlions. Alyx is smarter this time around and will man specific 
 points and reach places Gordon is not able to. It IS really short though, so done expect another 
 HL2, it is kind of disappointing in that respect.
  
  
  Audio: Throughout the game Alyx does majority of the ====== talking and joking around with the 
 seemingly unphased Freeman. Again, the sound remains solid and as intact as it was in HL2.
  
  
  Graphics: You get the sweet supercharged gravity gun ======== again which makes killing 
 enemies as easy as pull and launch. The ragdoll physics look cool with this gun. OVERALL GRAPHICALLY, 
 the coolest new integration was the core and the way it zoned out and fluctuated as if it were 
 pulsating and radiating energy.
  
  Time: 4-7 hours
  Replay Value: C
  Overall: 9.4/10
  
  
  Half Life 2: Episode Two
  ------------------------
  
  Story: After narrowly escaping 
 the surge of energy that ===== erupted from the Citadel, Gordon and Alyx continue their adventure. 
 This time they hope to reach White Forrest and meet up with Dr. Vance, Dr. Kleiner, and a few others. 
 They learn of impending destruction and forces advancing to White Forrest, it is only a matter 
 of time at this point, and Alyx and Gordon try to find a way to warn the survivors in White Forrest.
 
  
  
  Gameplay: This installation to the Half Life series ======== features more problem solving and 
 puzzles. The gun battles and fights are mainly the same run and gun tactic. A few new units are 
 introduced or at least seen up close by the player such as an Advisor and Hunter. There are plenty 
 of chances to earn achievements in this game, however they can be hard and weird as well, such 
 as destroying all 333 antlion grubs in a mineshaft, or carrying a lawn gnome across 5 chapters.
 
  
  
  Audio: Lots of really awesome sounds are brought forth, ===== such as squishing antlion grub, to 
 the call of Hunters.
  
  
  Graphics: Quality as you would expect. Awesome 
  ========= viewpoints and stunning lighting effects as seen in HL2. Cool places to visit such as 
 abandoned villages. The adivsors look really gross and the antlion grubs almost looked as if they 
 could be some real strange glowing bug, and when you squished them they splattered all over the 
 ground.
  
  Time: 10-17 hours
  Replay Value: C-
  Overall: 10/10
  
  
  Portal
  ------
  
  Story: You follow a test subject named Chell, who is ===== experimenting with an 
 experimental portal gun. You are guided by a malevolent computer named GLaDOS in a facility named 
 the Aperture Science Computer Aided Enrichment Center. As you continue throughout the game the 
 computer seems more corrupt than it previously was. The puzzles get harder and it seems as if you 
 are constantly outmatched. GLaDOS appears to deliberately place turrets to either test your mettle 
 or for a darker reason. As you go along it seems the base is uninhabited, as there is nobody watching 
 your progression throughout the game except for GLaDOS. Eventually GLaDOS decides to incinerate 
 you, however you escape, and now hunt for GLaDOS' core component.
  
  
  Gameplay: Ingenious, wonderful and tricky. This game ========= takes some skill at puzzle solving 
 and some quick thinking to be completed. It is fun to create a portal above and below you and reach 
 terminal velocity. The momentum concept is fun to toy around with as well.
  
  
  Audio: GLaDOS is marvelous, evil and quirky. She often ====== short circuits or loses control of 
 herself resulting in an evil mixture of malevolence and psychosis. Comedic elements are present 
 in this game, such as the Weighted Companion Cube and the talking turrets.
  
  
  Graphics: About as graphically good as Half Life, with ======== interesting elements such as a 
 darker internal mainframe of the facility that has messages of possibly test subjects that were 
 less fortunate. 'The cake is a lie' written on the walls developed into a meme in its own right, 
 there is no health bar, it regenerates automatically, and a nice clear HUD. The bland enviroment 
 does get a little boring after a while, but its nonetheless countered with a cool portal gun and 
 doing plenty of fun stuff.
  
  Time: 6-10 hours
  Replay Value: B-
  Overall: 9.9/10
  
  
  Team Fortress 2
  ---------------
  
  Story: The "Team" and the "Fortress" are stressed 
 but that does not always go as expected, hardly anyone really works as a team or communicates. 
 This game is basically a throw in to an already outstanding package. There really is no story except 
 for the background of the different characters as it is an online game only, without any solo campaign.
 
  
  
  Gameplay: Though fun it is sometimes hard to maneuver. ======== It is class based (and no you cant 
 create your own class) so you will have to choose one you are good at or be adventurous and choose 
 you that you least play.
  Weapons are seriously cool, especially the syringe gun (doesnt do much damage but the concept is 
 cool) . Really should integrate a blip map though.
  
  
  Audio: Great cartoony music and fun quirky different ====== taunts for each weapon of each class. 
 Cool gun noises explosions. Drastically different from other Valve games.
  
  
  Graphics: Has a great feel, paint chipped away from guns ======== and machines, some places feel 
 dirty and are lit appropriately. The melee could use some work as players tend to intersect.
  
  
  Time: 1 hour and up
  Replay Value: N/A
  Overall: 9.0/10
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Loofty1
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2008 10:27 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box Review: Possible spoiler alert!
  
  Half-Life 2 - The game was originally made in 2005 and is still just about considered a new game. 
 This game was so ahead of it's time. The first shooter that had a 
  truly amazing story, unique physics puzzles, and great voice acting made this game a fantastic 
 adventure. Just about three years later, the game finally made a perfect port to consoles. The 
 graphics are a lovely sight, and the action is just as riveting as it was all those years ago. 
 
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode 1 - The game talks place right after the events of Half-Life 2. Your job is 
 to shut down the reacter thing in the middle of City 17 before its too late. The action is just 
 as great as the first, just unfortunate that theres no new weapons. Graphics are very similar to 
 HL2's, which is not bad at all. This episode clocks in at about 6-8 hours, depending on difficulty, 
 making this one of the shortest games in the five, but still a must play.
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode 2 - Again, the game takes plays right after the events of episode one. The 
 episode retains its intresting physics puzzles and adds a lot of new features to the game like 
 new enemies, such as the Hunters, and new characters. Also new to the series, is a colorful outdoors 
 landscape. The draw distance is downright awe-inspiring. The game does not add new weapons, but 
 it does let you play around with the car a lot. One more thing about this episode, it definately 
 adds an intense need to find out what happens next. The ending of the game plays with your emotions 
 and makes you feel the need of revenge. another must play, and my favorite episode of the three.
 
  
  Portal - Wow, this is one shocker of a game. The puzzles are genius, and in later levels really 
 makes you think. Glados is one of the most memorible characters in the Half Life series with her 
 dark humor and wit. Equiped with only a portal gun and your imagination, the things you can do 
 in this are near limitless. One problem though, WAY TO SHORT!!!
  
  Team Fortress 2 - The multi-player only game is the icing on the cake for this package. With perfectly 
 tunes classes and very addictive gameplay, this could be the game to take you away from Call of 
 Duty and Halo 3 for a while. A few problems with this part of the game though. The game only features 
 a hand full of maps and game modes. And while the classes are inventive and fun to play, I would've 
 really liked to have some customization with the characters. Also for all the games, the loading 
 times are a little to long.
  
  All together the games combined make this by far the best video game deal in history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordChimera
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2008 3:29 am PT
Review:  The first thing to mention about this collection of games is the awsome value for money. Probably 
 the best deal in the video game industry- i'd love to see more boxes like this. The half life games 
 ROCK and portal is fantastic fun. Havn't played much of team fortress yet but what i have played 
 is also fantastic. If your concidering buying this game STOP it and just go buy it. they could 
 charge double price for this game and i still think it would be a decent deal. BUY IT. Portal is 
 innovative and fun. I have watched the previews for portal for a long time and I was so pleased 
 when they announced the console versions. fantastic simple as :) the half life games are enjoyable 
 throughout. especially half life 2... pc classic made better by consoles. team fortress is a very 
 popular online game so if your looking for a fun online shooter BUY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ethan111111
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  first i heard of the orange box i thought i would be fun.. i rented it.... best games ever.. portal 
 is the best puzzle game ever, the story is great and half life 2, oooooohhh half life it was mother 
 **** genius better then sex and oreo ice cream combined, times 3! it was a great story, fun shooting, 
 lots of guns, Zombies, soldiers, and every one praises you like the ****n president. you will love 
 every second of it. and you don't just shoot things you got to think about things, and you also 
 drive too, its great. I havent even played teamfortress and i know its fun. i only beat portal 
 and HL2 and started at HLTE1. it was more then an addiction it was love.. absolute masterpiece. 
 everything is perfect in the games. if you dont think its not worth your money?? rent it you'll 
 be like me. the price just dropped at gamestop and im so getting it! you should too.. bye... get 
 it! get it NOW!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bizzarrohead
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  When i first read about this game i was thrilled , having never had the pleasure of owning half-life 
 2 because of pc problems (and to the lack of a ps2 port)
  i jumped at the chance. i was surprised that even after 4 years half-life 2 is one of and may be 
 the best game (s) i have ever played and the episodes were possibly even better. Next my second 
 favorite portal one of the best games i have ever played through it might be WAY TOO SHORT but 
 the physics alone create one of the most deep gaming experiences ever. Now after playing Team- Fortress 
 2 i was BLOWN AWAY the look of the game alone could make it but the classes are what truly make 
 this game, now i am partial to the offensive classes mainly because of all of the kills you rack 
 up but the way all of the classes are needed to make up a seamless team makes the game seamless
 
  
  so in conclusion if you've never played half-life 2 you don't have a choice go and get this game 
 right now . and as a bonus you will get the greatest deal in gaming history and not just because 
 of all the games but because these games are truly breathtakingly awe inspringly.... GREAT?!?!?!?!
 
  
  (Achievement unlocked-Best deal in gaming history) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjlinder
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Honestly this is the best game I have ever played. It has everything a perfect game needs. Good 
 plot. Humor. Also most people's favorite, shooting things up. First of all there are 5 games in 
 TOB. First is Half Life 2. Its a great classic that has been modifyed to fit the 360's need. (originally 
 on the original xbox) . There are 3 Half Life games in TOB. The other two are masterpieces themselves 
 and are too fun to play! Aside from shooting thins to pieces there is a bit of problem solving 
 involved like how to open a door when the handel is broke. (just an example) My favorite part of 
 TOB is TF2 (Team Fortress 2) . Its a classic cartoon shooter with blood and violence for that everyday 
 gamer. It is the only online game in the 5 games. You choose from a variety of classes and then 
 fight to the death in bomb matches or kill count matches. Very fun. The final part to TOB is the 
 beautifully designed game, Portal. It is revolutionary in its artistic design and a magnitude of 
 awsomeness. Its a game where you instead of shooting bullets you shoot portal which you can place 
 in certain places to vortex yourself across a room (as an example) . Its beautiful and yet challenging. 
 It takes thought and time to beat the game but once you beat it, its all worth it. Its funny and 
 makes you scream CAKE IS A LIE when you beat it. (beat the game to understand the quote "cake is 
 a lie". All in all this game is in my opinion the best damn game of 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonutTrooper
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  orange box has 5 great games in one. its almost worth to buy one game for 60$ (execpt portal and 
 hl2: episode one)
  
  Half life2: this game is legendary and never gets old. every part is different with more action 
 an puzzles i would give this a 9 in the box
  
  HL2: E1: this game was...... well... not great. it was much too short and really didnt have a key point 
 to the game at all. the only part i enjoyed was blasting people away with the improved gravity 
 gun. ill give this game a 7.5 in the box.
  
  HL2: E2: Now in this general game is action packed! I think i enjoyed this game the most out of 
 all the half lifes. Many people might disagree but i thought this one was absoulty great. Im giving 
 this one a 9.5 in the box
  
  Portal: This game is easily one of the most creative games ive ever played. It was very fun for 
 the time playing but once i beat it the only thing i played was the last battle against gladous (who 
 is very funny btw) . Im giving this a 8.5 in the box
  
  TF2: Now the last game and i have to say that this is one of the best games i have ever played. 
 Many people complain "Not enough maps" but im my opinion this has the perfect amount of maps. 2fort 
 can get old dustbowl i can almost never stop playing. besides those 2 maps almost never get old. 
 with the different classes every game is different. im going to give this game a 10 in the box. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin_268
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2008 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Games are expensive, very expensive. If I plan on paying $60 for a video game, it'd better have 
 great replay value and a good story. The Orange Box has that and much more. 
  
  If you haven't played through the Half-Life series so far, you need to start. The Orange Box contains 
 Half-Life 2, Half-Life 2: Episode 1, and Half-Life 2: Episode 2. Let's just say you will be playing 
 as Gordon Freeman until you are sick, that's a good thing. For the most part the Half-Life games 
 are great, although sometimes it feels as if you are playing with physics more than anything else. 
 But in the grand scheme of things, it isn't a problem at all.
  
  But what really stands out in The Orange Box are Portal and Team Fortress 2. Portal in a way is 
 a social experiment, it tests your brain just like Brain Age except is has a much better story 
 (it has a story that is) and it sucks you in. Usually I don't like puzzle games, this is much different. 
 Team Fortress 2 is a tactical run n' online multiplayer extravaganza (that basically sums it up) . 
 Team Fortress 2 is the most online fun I've had in a long time, it even puts up an honest fight 
 against the Halo series in online multiplayer play.
  
  The Orange Box has 3 great games (Half-Life 2, Team Fortress 2, and Portal) and 2 decent games 
 (the Half-Life 2 episodes) , but in the end The Orange Box is what we all want. Games, games, and 
 games. It gives you the variety to play what you want when you want to. In a time when game prices 
 are rising and the economy is failing The Orange Box is one sweet treat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  The Orange box is valves latest release to extend the extremely intelligent, FPS game Half life 
 which started in 1999. 
  
  Half life revolutionized FPS', much like Deus Ex and System Shock 2 did for the RPG/FPS games... 
 but half life was much different. 
  
  You are the silent hero Gordon Freeman who was involved in an experiment which went wrong in the 
 Black Mesa testing facility. Basically in Half life 1 your goal is to escape black mesa and survive 
 all the tests in front of you.
  
  Not only that Half life provided one of the most memorable endings to a game.
  
  The orange 
 box contains five games... this one game package is now probably less than about 28. The games 
 it includes are - 
  
  Half life 2 - Half life 2 did come out for PC and Xbox, and is now revamped on the Orange box package, 
 slight visuals are improved but is still probably the best sequel to any game. 
  
  Half life 2 Episode 1 - Not the greatest additon to the Half life 2 series but did provide some 
 excellent gameplay... but for some reason didnt have the same feel as the other episodes did. 
 
  
  Half life 2 Episode 2 - The best additonal episode with a great ending and epic scenes... this 
 episode is only availiable via the orange box.
  
  Portal - An excellent mind bending puzzler and quite comical... "At the end of the test you will 
 be baked and then there will be cake."
  
  Team Fortress 2 - The second Team Fortress provides, timesplitters like graphics and combines it 
 with fast paced multiplayer gameplay... but personally this isnt great. I find this multiplayer 
 addictive... but hard... sometimes impossible. The whole look of the game is a lovely feel, but 
 it feels like your playing a beta version all the time... there are only 2 game modes which are 
 
  - Capture the Intelligence - Which is basically capture the flag, but with a suitcase full of enemy 
 plans which you must capture and take back to your base without the opposition doing the same to 
 you. 
  - Attack & Defend - A territorial based mode which is my personal favourite, it combines blasting 
 the opposition to pieces while capturing "Command Posts" simple. 
  The best thing about Team fortress is the different classes such and Sniper and engineer and it 
 provides a different yet incomplete multiplayer experience. 
  
  I enjoyed the entire orange box completely and love every game on there.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkness7089
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 21, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  The Orange box is great if you enjoy the half life genre, but not much else. WAY over rated.
  
  Team Fortress 2 has to be one of the worst multiplayer shooters I've ever played, for one good 
 reason, its full of cheaters. In almost every game you have enemies with Aimbots or Xray vision 
 modes (to see you through walls) . To make matters worse, the classes are poorly balanced. You can 
 also get mods to fire your pistol or any other non-automatic weapon, like a automatic one. Imagine 
 fighting people that fire shotguns or pistols like machine guns. Imagine fighting Snipers that 
 head shot effortlessly 100% of the time the second you enter their vision range from your spawn 
 zone. Imagine fighting enemies that see you through the walls and know where you are the second 
 you come around, and the second you are doing so. Its very retarded. Then theres the weapon imbalance, 
 smacking someone with a bat shouldn't hurt more then blowing their head open with a shotgun, but 
 yet it does. Finally you have class imbalances (As if those weren't bad enough already) , for example, 
 the spy class is utterly useless to a team, while others, (Cough Scout cough) are far more powerful 
 then they should be. The class balance is a pathetic joke in this shooter multiplayer. You are 
 suppose to disguise as an enemy, but this is rendered worthless by the fact that anyone can shoot 
 their allies without friendly fire to negate your efforts. If you take damage, you are obviously 
 an enemy. This is abused to no end in every single game. You get a cloaking device, but it too 
 is nearly worthless, it takes time to enter and leave its effect, in which you are still visible. 
 Also, you can't attack until it completely drops, you can't attack while under its effect. So it 
 takes way too long to attack from it, and to top it off, it takes too long to recharge and doesn't 
 last anywhere near as long as it should. The Scout on the other hand, runs at super human speed 
 with overpowered weapons and caps bases 2x as fast, wow. In the few games where you don't have 
 cheaters, you "might" get a fun experience, but I wouldn't count on it. Some classes are balanced, 
 but I still don't understand why 2 classes can create an explosion at their feet to jump high without 
 dying! Yes, it works, it doesn't do enough damage to kill you! Does that make sense to you, a Soldier 
 firing his Rocket Launcher at his feet to jump high? It kills an enemy in one hit yea, but you, 
 no. This is basically another immature-player loaded game with plenty of things for them to exploit 
 to destroy any sense of a real game. Kids love bad games where they can pwn poor fools that were 
 tricked into playing it, and then brag about how hardcore they are from cheating or exploiting. 
 Stay away.
  
  Half Life 2 is a single player, which takes place after the first one. But that was so bad I never 
 finished it. If this one wasn't short and unfinished, I'd not have finished it either. Its basically 
 just a "run here, run there", from start to finish. "Hey Gorden, glad to see ya, now go over there!" 
 There is next to no actual story elements, other then a few exchanged words or scripted audio you 
 will get from people as you pass them by on your endless quest for "the next area". Whats most 
 disappointing is that monsters play too little of a part as well, you are basically fighting enemy 
 Humans the whole game. Now why, in a monster game, would I want to fight Humans the entire game, 
 as a Human? What, exactly, is the point? The best parts of the game is when you get cornered against 
 monsters that jump out, or find interesting and creative ways to combat them, but it happens too 
 rarely to keep you happy. Very quickly into the game, it becomes a Human vs Human shootout for 
 the rest of the game, with the occasional monster group to interfere. Their here, but they don't 
 seem to mean much, other then interesting wildlife. The Vehicle parts of the game are the worst 
 in my opinion, with the rest being a repetitive treadmill. There are a few great moments during 
 the game, like when you have to hold an area with 2 Sentry Guns and 2 allies, from several tunnels 
 of bugs that all attack at once. You, your 2 guns, and your 2 allies, can't defend all 4 tunnels 
 at once. Its strategic. Theres also one part of the game that gives you Bug allies to command, 
 its great, but unfortunately, as soon as it ends, the game dies for you. There aren't enough of 
 these special sequences to entertain you.
  
  Portal is another single player, but this one is a puzzle game, based around using a portal device 
 which can teleport you into 1 hole and out of the other, regardless of which one you use. The goal 
 is to make it to the next room. Since you can create 2 holes anywhere you can shoot, and jump in 
 one to jump out the other, you will use it constantly to travel and get around puzzles. Keep in 
 mind that the portals work for anything, you will commonly drop things in the portals to move them 
 around as well to proceed. This is entertaining for a while, but you may get bored and quit before 
 finishing. The computer host is funny (Liked the talking Sentry Guns) , but it isn't enough to keep 
 you interested. It could have helped if you had actual enemies to avoid or teleport around to kill, 
 but you don't, other then sentry guns or hazardous environments. Fortunately its short enough not 
 to disappoint you.
  
  This is very over rated, since half life isn't a great genre anyway. I was very bored through the 
 single players, as they are basically just one huge game of "Run to the next area", and the multiplayer 
 of TF2 is very bad. If the game has anything decent to offer, its an interesting story in the HL2 
 single player if you enjoyed the first game. I also didn't have any disputes against any of the 
 graphics or sounds.
  
  I was disappointed to see this lackluster package rated 4th as highest 360 games. There are much 
 better games that are much farther down the list. 9.5? Whats wrong with you? None of these games 
 bundled in here are that good, and adding them together certainly doesn't or shouldn't increase 
 the rating.
  
  Single player: 
  (Experience) C (Needs improvement)
  Presentation: 
  (Video/Audio) A (Good)
  Performance: A (Good)
  Multiplayer: F (Fail) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattydude68
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  First off i shall review the games individually. Half life two is a long exciting story which has 
 you playing as gordon freeman once again. The game is fun to play and has some comedic areas in 
 it as well the difficulty is not too hard and not too easy so just right and it has also has a 
 range of physocs puzzles to complete in the game which can sometimes be a little annoying. It also 
 features the best weapon (in my opnion) of all games, The gravity gun a gun which can pick up objects 
 and fling them through the air. Id rate it 9.5/10.
  
  half life two episode one continues after half life 2's brilliant cliffhanger ending, unfortunately 
 the length of this story is not the same as half life 2 (as the episodes are supposed to equal 
 one game story length) but it is just as brilliant as its predecessor and it has the return of 
 the brilliant grav gun from the start of the game. The story of this short episode ends in as much 
 of a cliff hanger as the one before it. Id rate this 9/10.
  
  Half life 2 episode 2 continues straight after episode ones ending and has another brilliant story 
 (featuring the grav gun: D) . It is of a similar length to episode one and its gameplay mechanics 
 are brilliant just as its predecessors. It has a brilliant and engaging story and the last mission 
 of the game is the best (and hardest) of all three of the games with another brilliant cliffhanger. 
 Id rate this 10/10.
  
  Portal is a original brilliant game which has you playing as an anonymous prisoner partaking in 
 different challenges with the use of your portal gun. The portal gun fires two coloured portals ( 
 once you've got the upgraded version) one blue and one orange. You fire them at a wall or a surface 
 and if you walk through for example the blue you come out of the orange. As the game progresses 
 the challenges get harder as surfaces become portal resistant and you have to become more clever 
 and faster in how you use the gun. It has a good story and a brilliant tag line - "the cake is 
 a lie". Id rate this 11/10 :P
  
  And finally Team fortress 2 a game which hosts many modes of play. One mode is on a map called 
 2 fort which is basically capture the intelligence where your team has to steal an intelligence 
 briefcase and return it to base. It has other gametypes which mainly involve territoies. As i mainly 
 play on 2fort (but i have played on all of the maps) my review will not be as accurate as the last 
 one. On one map it has a version of territories if your defending you lose that possition forever 
 and then the attackers move onto the next point. Once the timer runs out or all of the points have 
 been captured the game ends. Another map has 3 points on it the defenders have to defend these 
 points the attackers attack these points the game ends when all 3 points are captured or time runs 
 out. Finally there is a territoies gametype which has both teams attacking trying to get all of 
 the points. The game ends when all points are captured by one team or time runs out. all in all 
 team fortress 2 is a brilliant game id rate it 10/10.
  
  Overall i rate the orange box 10/10 and id say 5 brilliant games for the price of one is a hell 
 of a good deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: otto1967
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  There's a very simple and obvious reason why so much was loaded in "The Box": the 2 new episodes 
 are so short they are over before they've even begun, and the developer needed to load a bunch 
 of filler (like the original game) or otherwise this would have been a flat rip off. Half-Life 
 2 was 1 of the best games ever made. 1 of the reasons for this was the immersive quality of the 
 game. Part of the immersion was the fact that the game was looong. The Box episodes are anything 
 but. The whole thing is over in a couple of days casual game time. I don't multi player, so Team 
 Fortress is useless to me. I don't have any interest in Portal. If all that was offered were the 
 2 new "episodes," I think most of us would be appalled. Which is a shame because the story and 
 gameplay of the franchise are still outstanding. But the 2 new episodes come across as no more 
 than a tease. My guess is this was rushed to market, hence all the filler of added games. Hopefully 
 if there is another installment, it will return to the kind of quantity and quality of Half-Life 
 2. If not, I'll be waiting for the price drop or the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halflife1995
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  At first, I wasn't sure about half life 2, but when I played I just couldn't stop. If your an fps 
 fan like me, then this box is for you. 5 games for the price of one? What a deal! Half life 2 is 
 one of the most critically acclaimed games in history, it comes with the expansions and guarantees 
 hours of fun. Portal is a new puzzle game that also mixes some fps. If you've played it, you would 
 know the very popular line,"the cake is a lie" and who could forget the Xbox Live game, team fortress 
 2. A very fun class based game. Every class with its own different skills. So, I would recommend 
 this to any game lover, unless they don't like fps' then in that case, don't get and don't give 
 it bad reviews! I mean common, there's a person who gave this box a crappy review all because of 
 one game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfLink5777777
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box is a compilation of 5 games from Valve. That means that each game is worth 12 dollars. 
 This is the best deal on the market and it shows. All these games are well worth the money and 
 there's bound to be something you'll enjoy in here.
  
  First, and Valve's most famous series, in this mega-packed disc are three games from the Half-Life 
 series. Previously released games Half-Life 2 and its episodic sequel, Half-Life 2: Episode One 
 are here, as well as the new Half-Life 2: Episode Two. Any fan of first person shooters with intense 
 action or of great sci-fi plots will enjoy these wonderful games. The only flaw with this section 
 is the length of some of the episodes, specifically Episode One. But the intelligent story and 
 great action more than makes up for it.
  
  The surprise hit of the game is Portal, a witty first person puzzle game with some dry, dark humor 
 that is bound to make this a wonderful experience for anyone. Your first playthrough might be frustrating 
 and you may not get the humor in this one, but by the end, you'll be ready to jump right back into 
 this one for the advanced puzzles, testchamber challenges and even going through the story just 
 to satisfy a quick gaming pleasure. The flaw with this one is also the length, 3 to 4 hours for 
 your first playthrough and 1 to 2 hours for any replays, but the game seems to become better that 
 more that you play it.
  
  And for those with a craving for multiplayer, the long awaited Team Fortress 2 should be right 
 up your alley. You can choose from 9 classes and play in 6 different maps in long and extremely 
 fun matches. Though the cartoony style and controls may seem like a negative point at first, give 
 the game some room to grow and it will become highly addictive soon enough.
  
  Overall, the game is a must have for anyone. Fans of every genre can appreciate this and if you 
 give the game some time to sink in, this will become one of your most played games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Indecipherable
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  This is a review for a compilation of games, most of which are FPS style games. However, the writer 
 of this review is by no means a fan of the FPS genre. On that ground, believe that I'm not the 
 slightest bit biased when I say that these games, simply put, ROCK!
  
  The Orange Box consists of 5 games: Half-Life 2, Half-Life 2: Episode 1, Half-Life 2: Episode 2, 
 Portal and Team Fortress 2. All of them, except for Team Fortress 2, are single player games, while 
 the latter is multiplayer only.
  
  Half-Life 2: These 3 games are simply awesome. You play as Gordon Freeman, a scientist who is somehow 
 involved in a resistance organization against aliens, who have mostly occupied the world. Very 
 good graphics, excellent sound and flawless gameplay nicely complement a very good and immersive 
 story, with believable characters brought to life by talented voice actors. The guns are just fun 
 to fire, each with its own distinctive sound and function. Since different enemies and situations 
 require you to use different weapons so as to emerge victorious, you'll never feel any of them 
 are obsolete. Though Episodes 1 and 2 are considerably shorter than the first game, the overall 
 experience will keep you occupied for quite some time. Interesting achievements and all the positive 
 aspects I previously stated add to the replay value.
  
  Portal: Portal is a puzzle game, in which you solve the challenges the game pits you against by 
 means of portals, which allow you to move to places instantly. The puzzles are innovative and are 
 cleverly based on laws of physics, such as gravitational force and momentum. The game also has 
 a
  great sense of humour, and will have you smiling or laughing throughout the whole experience. After 
 you complete it the first time, achievements, advanced versions of some puzzles and challenges 
 (such as number of portals used, steps taken or time needed) will have you coming back for more. 
 This game is definitely worth your time.
  
  Team Fortress 2: This is a class-based multiplayer only TPS game. Two teams battle it out on various 
 maps. The cartoony style of the characters is quite interesting and appealing and the battles are 
 quite interesting. Truth be told, I haven't really spent time on this game so I can't say much 
 more.
  
  To conclude, The Orange Box is a true opportunity. All these games weren't just thrown together 
 just for the heck of it. This is a rare occasion where quantity meets quality. Should you choose 
 to attend this meeting, you will be handsomely rewarded. Should you choose to miss it, it's your 
 loss and yours only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTA_MGS_1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 6:14 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 360
  ---
  Half-Life 2 when it was originally released on the PC was hailed almost universally as a hallmark 
 of gaming. The interesting, ongoing story was lengthened, the graphics engine lent itself to truly 
 expressive facial animations, the design was intuitive yet cinematic, and the physics of the environment 
 certainly conveyed a level of realism previously unseen in a computer game. Half-Life 2 has gone 
 on to influence almost every FPS that has since been released. 
  
  Of course, seeing as it is bundled in with the Orange Box, I feel I must provide a new examination 
 now that Gordon Freeman has made his first outing on Microsoft's home console.
  
  Going in, I must warn you, dear reader. If you've played Half-Life 2 already for the PC, then it's 
 rather identical in almost every term. The story is unchanged. Once again, you must step into the 
 role of Dr. Gordon Freeman, everyone's favorite, murderous Theoretical Physics PhD extraordinaire. 
 Transported years past the events of the original Half-Life by the mysterious G-Man, Gordon finds 
 himself in Earthly dystopia. Humanity utterly conquered by the forces of the oppressive Combine, 
 Gordon must now right this horrific future gone wrong with the aid of his former colleagues and 
 one very sexy woman.
  
  The level design is also disturbingly familiar. The entire game is practically one huge level, 
 each section separated by rather long loading times While most of the game involves the standard 
 FPS fare of navigating quarters and shooting baddies, the game also features some vehicle sections 
 and puzzles. The balance between these sections is well maintained so that a grind feeling never 
 sets in for long, keeping you engaged.
  
  The music and graphics are also pretty much unmodified as well. You can still feel the blood pump 
 when the game's techno beats kick in during extended fights, but the soundtrack never seems up 
 to taking the spotlight or grabbing your attention. The rest of your time will be spent listening 
 to utter, melodic silence, aside from any firearms retorts or squeals of headcrabs you encounter.
 
  
  Surprisingly, the look of the game hasn't changed much either. This isn't necessarily a bad thing, 
 however, because even after over three years, Half-Life 2 is still a good-looking game. Still, 
 this could have been a prime opportunity to update the graphics slightly, but it's a minor rant 
 at this point.
  
  
  What really needs to be addressed is how well Dr. Freeman handles with a console controller as 
 opposed to the keyboard and mouse approach. It handles like any good console shooter should. It's 
 nothing revolutionary, so even though it makes no obvious mistakes, it's not likely to convert 
 any PC enthusiasts.
  
  Half-Life 2 is still a relevant game title, even in 2008. It's overall package in terms of design 
 and production have yet to truly be replicated on any significant level of success, and hopefully 
 it will some of the Halo fanatics a taste of finer selections available in the market.
  ---
  Half-Life 2 Episode One
  ---
  It's rather redundant to review Half-Life 2. The game 
 is the epitome of the FPS genre, and that statement is written here without any exaggeration. Somehow, 
 Valve knows the ins and outs of game design. They know how to make easily despised villains, craft 
 beloved allies, weave intricate and involving plots without cutscenes and design an FPS that makes 
 you think about more than just "Press R to shoot."
  
  Of course, who wants to wait another four years for Half-Life 3? Valve knows that we gamers are 
 an impatient, and oft abused lot, in regards to release schedules and delays. This is why they've 
 decided to turn the Half-Life series into an episodic series, currently planned to arc three episodes. 
 Episode 1 was packed in along with its predecessor, successor, and two addendums, Portal and Team 
 Fortress 2, in the recently released Orange Box. I personally have not been able to play it until 
 now because my PC can barely run Half-Life 2, much less the apparently more weighty mini-sequels.
 
  
  The cliffhanger ending of Half-Life 2 pretty much opened up the way for Valve to open Episode One 
 anyway they pleased. Gordon Freeman wakes up outside the Citadel and reunites with Alyx Vance, 
 your super-hot, under-sexualized sidekick from the last installment, only to discover that you 
 have to go back into the Citadel. A fist was clenched, let me assure you of that. Apparently, your 
 antics have led to a huge portal storm opening over the Citadel and it's going to go Hiroshima 
 on City 17 shortly. It's up to Freeman and Vance to get in there and slow down the process long 
 enough to evacuate more people. The plot goes on from there a little, but the whole episode is 
 pretty much just escaping from City 17. 
  
  Episode One genuinely feels like a Half-Life game, rife with the interactive plot points and superb 
 characterization with nary a halting cutscene in sight. The design also the same, linear progression 
 we've experienced before, but that's not a bad thing at all. If I had to describe Episode One's 
 whole presentation breifly, I'd call it "interactive cinema." Unexpected things happen, epic events 
 occur, and through it all are you reinforced as playing the part of Freeman, not just controlling 
 him. It really feels great getting back in the HEV suit and popping caps in Combine ass again.
 
  
  I do, however, have some quandaries with the game. While I appreciate being given back the super 
 version of the Gravity Gun, I don't appreciate being made weapon-less for the first two hours of 
 the game. I understand Valve has their reasons for how they design, but couldn't I have at least 
 had my crowbar? You don't even get the damned thing back until about three quarters into the game.
 
  
  I also wasn't a big fan of the antlion sections, since the only way to stop their endless assaults 
 is to plug up their entry holes with cars with the gravity gun. They got very frustrating around 
 the time I was stuck in a giant, violent orgy of mutant bug on human action.
  
  I was also surprised by the lack of new visuals. The game features only environments from the first, 
 and while it reinforces the idea that these episodes are meant to continue Half-Life 2, not sequel 
 it, it seems a bit half-hearted, like the F. E. A. R. expansions. I cross my fingers for more interesting 
 locales in Episode Two.
  
  Episode One is great and I recommend it to anyone who wants to continue the adventures of Gordon 
 Freeman. Not that you needed my approval to do so anyways, assuming you have good taste.
  ---
  Half-Life 2 Episode Two
  ---
  Valve is infamous for their tendency to have long development 
 cycles, second only to 3D Realms. Aside from Duke Nukem Forever, no other game has had quite such 
 a relatively long development time as Half-Life 2 Episode Two, considering the main purpose of 
 episodic gaming is supposed to shorten development times. Thankfully, the wait finally ended for 
 fans of one of gaming's most famous mutes, Dr. Gordon Freeman.
  
  As expected, the plot continues on from Episode One's cliffhanger ending, with Alex and Gordon 
 barely escaping City 17 and the Citadel's explosion. Gordon and Alex decide to regroup with the 
 resistance in a hidden mountain base and extend their campaign against the inter-dimensional empire 
 of the Combine. Along their journey, Gordon and Alex encounter many happenings, countless clashes 
 with danger, and the loss of loved ones. 
  
  Things start to really heat up in this installment of the Half-Life saga. As per usual, the voice-acting, 
 characterization, and body language via the Source engine all help to convey an edgy and despair-ridden 
 world plagued by alien terrors. The scripted events and interactivity continue on Valve's new bar 
 for game plot immersion, keeping in line with the philosophy of not fixing what isn't broken.
 
  
  Unfortunately, several other things have remained unchanged as well. Aside from the plot, Half-Life 
 2 Episode Two feels pretty much the same as the past two iterations have felt. You'll once again 
 be forced to traverse deserted suburbs, mines, rivers, and forests with the occasional radioactive, 
 zombie-filled sludge pits. It is somewhat acceptable given the plot, but this only promotes expectations 
 that Half-Life Episode Three will have more interesting settings.
  
  Still, nothing is bad. It is simply that there's nothing really new here. The overall design conveys 
 a much larger world, thanks to lengthy driving sections, but you'd be hard-pressed to tell much 
 difference between this entry versus the others.
  
  Valve is also beginning to show the limits of their creativity. This title features yet another 
 see-saw puzzle. It was nice years ago when physics engines were rarer, but Valve really needs to 
 figure out other ways of manipulating the Source engine's physics capabilities.
  
  Weapons are also unchanged. You've got your pistol, magnum, gravity gun, crowbar, shotgun, rocket 
 launcher, etc. Aside from a temporary "semi-weapon" you receive near the end of the game, the weapons 
 have not been modified or replaced at all. On the bright side, it does mean there wasn't a bad 
 new gimmick thrown in, but on the other, it gets a little dull.
  
  The gameplay is also the exact same. All the controls from the last few iterations have stayed 
 for better or worse and it facilitates a familiar essence.
  
  Graphics and even the soundtrack are identical as well, infuriatingly so. The graphics are once 
 again crisp with unparalleled facial movements and expressions, but it's starting to age after 
 a few years. The music is also the same techno beat we've heard before, filling its role as a mood-setter, 
 but little else.
  
  Episode Two is only slightly disappointing that nothing drastically new was tried, but it still 
 manages to deliver an engaging narrative with fun FPS gameplay and interesting design, but little 
 else. Still, it is an essential experience if you're a Half-Life fan. What's another small wad 
 of cash to scarf down an epic story ten years in the making?
  ---
  Portal
  ---
  I'm going to go ahead and say this right now, so you can understand the bias with which I'm entering 
 this probing of sorts: I tend to avoid puzzle games like the plague, usually, and unfairly, judging 
 them as all being incredibly shallow and casual. As such, I've only made three exceptions in my 
 entire gaming career for this laidback genre:
  
  1) Tetris (But then, who doesn't enjoy multicolored block placement?)
  2) Puzzle Quest (See my 
 review on that as well)
  3) Portal
  
  Portal is one of the best games of 2007. Following its development, Portal started out as merely 
 a student project that was wisely absorbed by the Valve team. The game had lofty promises and one 
 of the most original concepts the industry has witnessed thus far. I'm here to say that Portal 
 is a triumph and to make a note here that it is a huge success.
  
  The story is somewhat short, allowing average players the ability to beat it after about two to 
 three hours. Despite this, it has some of the best characterization I've ever seen in a video game, 
 to the point where inanimate objects become a source of affection. The writing is razor sharp, 
 full of deliciously morbid humor, childish insults, and false promises of confectionary delicacies. 
 You play as Chell, a woman with hair so bad that it could duel Jack Nicholson's hair on even ground, 
 who is apparently a test subject for the Aperture Science facilities. An AI by the name of GLaDOS 
 is your guide throughout a series of goal-oriented tests designed to mark your ability to make 
 use of a "portal gun." Unfortunately, GLaDOS seems a few kilobytes short of a supercomputer hard 
 drive, and you must survive the mind-bending logic tests and escape.
  
  The portal gun itself is an absolute joy with which to tinker around. Portal plays like a shooter, 
 but it's actually a puzzle game. While the tests themselves are superbly designed and fun to figure 
 out, you'll often catch yourself messing around with your little toy/science experiment. Whether 
 it's making an infinite fall or just exploring the levels, you'll find no short supply of your 
 gun's applications. The game also makes excellent use of the Source engine and its physics capabilities. 
 Objects fall realistically, and the effects of momentum take prominent place in a good portion 
 of the puzzles.
  
  One thing that really caught me off guard was the game's overall aesthetic. The game looks pretty 
 decent, if not really good on the graphics level, but it's the direction that is intriguing. Everything 
 has a clean, polished feel to it like a new hospital, and the smooth white surfaces help reinforce 
 that. The contrast lies in hidden sections you discover where someone else apparently was hiding 
 and surviving, and it takes a rusty and dingy turn. Drawings on the walls in these sections assert 
 the subtle, horror theme to the presentation.
  
  The music must be mentioned, or I would be hard pressed to defend my position as a reviewer. The 
 general sound track is very similar to Half-Life 2's, full of edgy techno rock bits that help you 
 focus in the faster sections of the game. However, it will be timelessly remembered for the song 
 that plays during the credits that was written by Jonathon Coulton. The lyrics and vocal melody 
 have a merry jingle that makes you want to set the melody on loop after it ends.
  
  All in all, Portal is a wonderful achievement for FPS players. It takes the FPS control scheme, 
 and does something new and interesting with it. Gone is the stale design of "kill enemies here, 
 press button there, etc." It is a breath of fresh air in a world of dumb-downed FPS' that fail 
 to make the player think at all. If you want a challenge, and love wry dialogue that borders on 
 whimsically sadistic, you can't go wrong with Portal.
  ---
  Team Fortress 2
  ---
  Normally, I'm not inclined towards multiplayer frag fests. I'm usually more inclined towards single 
 player games with more depth and less twitch play, namely games like Unreal Tournament. However, 
 Team Fortress 2 is the first game to ever make me stray from my usual selection process. 
  
  Truth be told, the game play itself was not the initial hook for me, but the game is very much 
 fun to play, outdoing my expectations. The controls work almost perfectly and feel surprisingly 
 fluid, though I constantly keep forgetting that B is reload, not X. My only real complaint about 
 it, though, would be the slow detonation of most of the explosives, which made the Demoman class 
 unfit for my play style. Though, I suppose it's more an issue of my tastes versus the balancing 
 rather than an actual flaw.
  
  The game is also superbly designed, or at least what little of the game there is. There are precious 
 few maps, with only certain set game types for each of them. I'm not sure if that counts as a criticism, 
 however, because what the game loses in content, it more than makes up for in quality. Perhaps 
 simplicity is preferable to complexity.
  
  Overall I would of rated Half Life 2, just on its own, a 9/10 because its simply that great but 
 the other 4 games simply make it worth every penny.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shemrom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  I been watching this game for quite some time since it was first announce, and since last fall 
 i had play it throughy. Although it been a while since i played the game, it still always in the 
 back of my mind on how fun it was.
  
  The box come with 5 different games.
  
  Haft life 2, episode 1 and two.
  
  Portal, and side story to the haft life universe on the 
 rivals against the Black Mesa doing there own experimentation before the world was destroy.
  
  and Team fortress 2, which a remake of one of the first muiltplayers that had came and went 
 in video gaming history.
  
  Since Haftlife2 and Episode one had already been out but just added to the game, Episode two is 
 what i will be reviewing.
  
  So Episode two start off after the events of haft life two episode one. Gorden Freeman, your scientist 
 turn warrior dude to events unfolded at the Black Mesa experiments with transportation that gone 
 very wrong. woke up in the weak train you escape in from city 17 after it blew up. After getting 
 out and getting your trusty gravity gun back, you go on through the map, where you shortly fine 
 out that the combine ( Your alien foe who defeated humanity in seven hours, wish we had the power 
 to do that with Iraq don't you think?.) Are getting back on what you done to there base and there 
 heading to a human base at ( I forget what it was called.) White mountain or something like that. 
 Knowing that it was there last chance of getting there own main teleporter back online to there 
 home world for reinforcement, but the base your getting to so you can protect, it has a missile 
 that could stop that.
  
  The game has a right balance of getting all your weapons fast to you early in game, a good vehicle 
 sequence, game play and fighting that makes this very fun to do over and over again. Every part 
 of the map and area give something new and exciting to do and not hardly repaveatve even at the 
 last part of the game. and great shockers too, it definitely pave the way for Episode Three to 
 take place.
  
  Portal, which is actually part of haft life universe, take place in an unknown test area underground 
 fill with chambers with tests and such. you awake, not knowing who or where you are, with an AI 
 voice specking to you and watching every action from video cameras. 
  
  The AI doesn't even know what has happen as of late outside, so it following poratcall and commending 
 with the tests.
  
  You are quickly united with a knock off to the gravity gun, the Portal gun, which created wormholes 
 in wall as an entrance and exit point. This give a new great way for doing puzzles. tests that included 
 getting doors open, passing through object to get to where you need to go, even avoiding gun turrets, 
 plasma balls from Haft life, and toxic waste.
  
  Some test even force you to used the portal gun effects from jumping to move on like falling through 
 a portal on the ground and flying out from another to get past though walls. and doing a short 
 of stair jumping with portals.
  
  Although it very fun, after one run, it just way too easy after to do it again. the puzzles you 
 had done you will know how to do again without any difficulty with getting the right shots off 
 anymore ( except a few key areas.) 
  so a bit of disappointment but it still always fun to play.
  
  Team fortress Two is a cartoonist 
 militarily look ( Don't get me wrong, it still very fun and clever.) That make it unique to muiltplayer.
 
  It kinda hard to explain the game such a way, so i just copy the review from the main review from 
 game spot. Jeff got it spot on.
  
  "The thing that makes Team Fortress 2 so special is its graphical style. Rather than going with 
 the ultrarealistic military look that's still all the rage these days with the kids, TF2 has an 
 over-the-top, cartoonish design to it that starts with the great-looking characters. They're really 
 well animated, and each class just has a ton of personality. The level design holds up its end 
 of the bargain, with a visual style that occasionally reminds you of old Road Runner cartoons with 
 their rocky, Southwestern styles."
  
  By Jeff Gerstmann, GameSpot
  
  Hoply i don; t get ban from doing that, I love Gamespot :-)
  
  The only thing i didn't like 
 about TF2 was it lagged servers. i have great internet so it not me. very hard to get good server 
 with hardly any lag at all.
  
  Anyways, with 5 games that the Orange Box has to offer. it deffinarty got somthing for everyone 
 and will be with my collectemn for years to come.
  
  
  
  Kakiookami, 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyman455
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  First of all id like to say WOW. Now that we have gotten through that, lets hit the game.
  
  Lets take a look at the Value/Presentation. The menu is simple and thats good it anything you 
 would expect from a game. the Value however is way beyond what you could imagine for Sixty Bucks. 
 Okay so we got Half-Life 2 the value of which is around fifty bucks if it where to be sold alone 
 and each of the expansions and Team Fortress 2 would be also twenty, and portal being around ten. 
 Do the math you are getting about one-hundred and fifty dollars worth of gaming, for sixty bucks.
 
  
  Graphics. The graphics for Half-Life 2 and Episode One aren't anything new they aren't anything 
 that will amaze you, but Episode Two and Team Fortress Two's Graphics are Great.
  
  Lasting Appeal. This is phenomenal! it will last you a long time especially if you get all the 
 portal challenges and take a liking to Tear Fortress Two.
  
  The Problems. The first problem i would like to point out is the lack of multiplayer support from 
 Valve yes there is Multiplayer but they don not update very often if ever and as console players 
 we get the short end of the stick here as far as multiplayer in which case it does get old after 
 a while.
  Second is that the Graphics are a little old but that isn't a major issue it just doesn't look 
 as good as it could Half-Life 2.
  Third is Episode One is extremely short and not that good, the rest of the package makes up for 
 this but it is clearly not as good as the other Games in this package.
  
  My actual score would be a 9.7 but on the account that i cant give those scores on game-spot i 
 settled for 10
  
  I would recommend this game to Shooter fans action fans, and basically anyone who likes video games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simsfreak14
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Yes, that's true! In the orange box you getting 5.... not 4 but 5 great games in 1! Your getting 
 Half-life 2, and Half-life 2: episode 1 and 2! Plus your getting Portal and Team Fortress 2! This 
 game will have you gaming for months and months! Graphics are awesome, everything is awesome about 
 this game!
  
  
  ||||||PROS|||||
  
  1. Getting 5 games for 1 simple price of $40!
  2. Getting pretty much every type of game there is! Puzzle, action, adventure, and Multiplayer!
 
  3. TONS and TONS of Achievments to unlock!
  4. And the Half-life story's are amazing!
  
  This game will have you playing no other game than this!
  
  Now lets talk about the cons!
 
  
  
  
  ||||||||||||||||||| CONS||||||||||||||||
  
  1. At the menu when you select a game it take's a tiem to load up the game you choose!
  2. Achievements 
 could have been evened out between games, most achievments are in the Half-Life games.
  3. Team fortress gets a llittle laggy when playing at certain times.
  
  I woudl recommend this 
 game to any 360 owner looking for a new game! Thier is something for everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digiuser2
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  The games will be reviewed as listed in the game menu, after the body paragraph (s) a one or two 
 line summary of each game will be given. After all five games are reviewed the package in its entirety 
 will be reviewed.
  
  Half-life 2: 
  This game has been out for a long time so you've probably already played it. It's an instant classic, 
 it sets a new level for pacing and level design that most player ignore entirely. Episode one and 
 two have director commentaries that let you understand the brilliance of valve and I was more than 
 let down when I realized that they didn't do one for HL 2 but then again the game is monstrously 
 long and doing that much exposition would be murder.
  
  Good game plain and simple.
  
  HL 2 Episode One: 
  A lot like the old half life 2 except that the game-play and certain elements 
 have been improved on. Alyx Vance escorts you through most of it and her AI not to mention amiability 
 and usefulness is supremely improved, however you can't ride her coat-tails, you have to help her 
 help you. The game offers new variants on the old game although some of the old stuff comes back 
 and starts to wear thin.
  
  Not too groundbreaking but I feel a little retread of city 17 was necessary anyways.
  
  HL 
 2 Episode Two: 
  This one takes half life where it has never been before, outside. Yes much like a sweaty nerd who 
 just had a massive virus uploaded to his computer, Episode Two gives you the ability to explore 
 much more than hallways sewers and streets. The outdoor environments are more closed off than say 
 World of Warcraft but allowing much more exploration would take away from Valves amazing level 
 design that always tells you what to do and where to go. Given the choice between stumbling around 
 in a field for an hour or going straight to where I want to be I would choose the latter. 
  
  New mechanics are added and a few subtle changes are made to just about everything.
  - The 
 vortigaunts make sense and speak with actual English
  - Alyx becomes an even better character and companion
  - The flashlight now has its own power 
 source
  - A lot of characters and other things of the like have been reworked for better graphics
  - 
 Lighting is improved
  The list could go on. Possibly the most challenging part of the game is completely optional. Moments 
 after the game starts you enter a cabin, under a table you find a garden gnome. An achievement 
 is offered if you can take this garden gnome all the way to the end of the game. Unnecessary but 
 awesome. New enemies and more interesting environments ramp up the gameplay as well as a lot of 
 clever things they do that make you think while under fire. 
  The final finale is probably the most exhilarating experience you can have with an Xbox, the only 
 problem with this is it's exhilaration comes from you being so terrified you'll fail that every 
 muscle in your body does not relax until you hear the words "We won." To it's credit you're never 
 as close to failure as you think you are and the encounter is a lot more beatable than you're lead 
 on to believe, but your adrenaline rushes.
  
  Difficult in parts but awesome and emotionally packed.
  
  Portal: 
  If you hate Half Life 
 and can't stand any kind of multiplayer like team fortress than you still might find yourself buying 
 the package for portal. The game is perfect start to finish, there's action, beautiful puzzles, 
 hilarious dialog and gags and generally the air of a game made from pure perfection.
  
  This game bulges at the skin with value, worthiness, fun and humor. If you don't have this game 
 or have never played it; I pity you severely.
  
  Team Fortress 2: 
  Near perfect multiplayer fps. Any strategy is available for use. Camping, rushing, sneaking, tanking... 
 Any kind of gamer has a place here and the classes are better balanced than any other class based 
 game. The maps aren't as balanced, offence almost always wins on dustbowl and more than a few exploits 
 exist, but otherwise you're looking at good times with weapons. 
  
  Some of my favorite things to do are:
  - Strafing people as a scout and whacking them over the 
 head with a bat and hearing my dude yell "Bonk!"
  - Sappin' dude's sentries as a spy
  - Uber-rushin' as a medic, soldier or heavy
  - Stabbing backs as a spy
  - Blowin' brains out 
 as a sniper
  - Camping with a sentry as an engineer
  - Mowin' down as a heavy
  - Lighting people on fire as a pyro
  - Blowing up unsuspecting people as a demoman or soldier
 
  Once again the list can go on. While all these moves are powerful their balanced by liabilities.
 
  - Scouts are easy to kill
  - So are spies
  - Medics can't handle a full-frontal assault
  - Engineers can be destroyed completely by a spy.
  - Heavies are very vulnerable to snipers and 
 spies
  - Demomen have no guns, just grenades, so self-defense is difficult
  - Pyro's lack a lot of ranged damage
  - Snipers are very blind while sniping so sniping or backstabbing 
 a sniper is remarkably easy.
  
  If you're not too specialized then you'll probably choose the soldier, he's a well-balanced lad 
 but he has no saving graces. The lack of usable grenades makes the learning curve and necessary 
 level of skill low enough to allow new players to be able to join in and become regular players 
 without having to go through boot camp. (Much unlike Counter strike.)
  
  This is a very good multiplayer. If you like competitive action this is for you.
  
  The Whole 
 Package:
  This is the most fun you can buy if you have 40 bucks and an Xbox 360. Buying this package is possibly 
 the most sound investment you can make into gaming.
  
  PS:
  Developer commentaries are available for every game but half life 2 original. While playing with 
 the developer commentary on clicking on certain nodes will que a voice over track from the makers 
 or voice actors. This feature gives insight into the game and also allows you to appreciate how 
 much work and genius valve have gone into it. I hope more games start doing this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReviewKing
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Since this game has 5 games in 1, I'll go ahead and put this review in 5 sections.
  
  Half-Life 2: This game is a very good game, you start out with the the same mute we all know and 
 love from the first Half-Life, Gordon Freeman. You will first find self in a train station, next 
 thing you know, you're facing lots of zombies. Luckly, you meet this girl named Alyx who "sort 
 of" helps you on your adventure. This game you need to play in order to know the storyline for 
 episode 1 and 2.
  
  Half-Life 2 Episode 1: This game is not as good as the original Half-Life 2. Even though you get 
 a improved Gravity Gun for a little while, you start out with that and nothing else till like the 
 second half of the game which is really annoying. Also the city that we all hated is destroyed 
 (Yay) .
  
  Half-Life 2 Episode 2: This might be the best Half-Life yet to me. But sadly I watched my friend 
 play the whole game, it only took him 2-3 hours to beat. It may be a good game, but its short. 
 Also the acheivements are easier on this game on the Orange Box.
  
  Portal: If I had to describe this game in 4 words, I would say "Best on the box." This is the best 
 game on the Orange Box, if you don't like it, then you must be a idiot. Sure its another fast game, 
 but its fun and has extras.
  
  Team Fortress 2: Finally we have Team Fortress 2. I never played the first Team Fortress, i even 
 heard it took 10 years for this game, but its worth the wait cause its very awesome, but there 
 is no local play for this game which is stupid.
  
  Overall, the gameplay is the same thing, changing weapons are all D-Pad, jump are all A (Thats 
 normal) , and everything else is the same. The sound is great and the voice acting is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DorkaDorka
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box is the best video game deal in History. With 5 Games-in-one, does it matter how 
 good the game is? 
  
  Half-Life 2 + Episode 1&2 (10/10) : These three games are some of the best games on The Orange Box. 
 Half-Life 2 is an amazing game, and the Episodes each share a different part of the Half-Life Experience, 
 like Episode 1 for gameplay and physics and Episode 2 for the environments. For these games alone, 
 it is worth it.
  
  Portal (10/10) : EVERYONE has loved portal, and has over exaggerated it's fun. Don't get me wrong, 
 it's awesome, but by-God man! Don't make it a cultural icon! (yes, that was an exaggeration) . The 
 game is very fun and a great (but relatively simple) puzzle game (at least until you figure out 
 each level can be beaten VERY fast by manipulating physics) with wicked humor, but don't let people 
 tell you it's the best, because it isn't. It's amazing, but you can get tired of it eventually, 
 and the time trials are ridiculously hard, and were most likely made with a Computer player in 
 mind, to hit accurately and fast with the mouse.
  
  Team Fortress 2 (8.5) : Don't get me wrong: this game is fun and the graphics look great, but it's 
 only fun really if you have a friend online. Now that sucks. It's fun if you can find a friend, 
 but good luck. Plus: no LAN multiplayer. What's up? Why aren't the good games having LAN?!!? Oh 
 well. 
  
  Plus: if you love achievements like I do, this is a challenge. It's not that they are REALLY hard, 
 just that there are 99 of them (yes, 99) , but they all add up to 1000 points (WHY?) . In my opinion, 
 HL2=1000, HL2E1=250, HL2E2=250, Portal=500, and TF2=250. If only.
  Overall: 9.5 Amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Little_Socrates
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  This game is technically five games in one, so I really do have to write five reviews for it. I'll 
 say now that I received The Orange Box as a gift, and have never played Half-Life 1, or any of 
 its expansions (excluding Counter-Strike) .
  
  But before I go into the specific games, I'll talk about the general pros and cons of The Orange 
 Box itself.
  
  Pros:
  -It's five games on one $60 disc! That means each of these games costs $12. That's barely more 
 than an XBLA purchase, and these games are far more in depth than that.
  -The graphics in each game are fantastic; the only problems I ever saw with the Half-Life games 
 were the common layering issues (guns pointing through doors and the like) , but nothing more. The 
 same goes for Portal, and for Team Fortress 2.
  -The sound in each game is dead-on. No performance is done badly, and no weapon doesn't sound the 
 way it should.
  -Little cross-overs between the games make the biggest difference (every game features a teleporter 
 or a portal, the Demoman tosses Combine grenades if he's on Red Team, the turrets in Half-Life 
 2 and Portal are VERY similar, and the energy balls from Portal make appearances all over Half-Life 
 2. And that's excluding the major story crossovers!)
  Cons:
  -It may be five games in one, but that doesn't make them long games. The majority of the games 
 (Half Life Episodes 1 and 2, Portal) can each be beaten in a day. Half-Life 2 takes about two days. 
 Other than achievement hunting, there's limited to no replay value in these games. However, Team 
 Fortress 2 will extend the disc's longevity.
  -Few of the achievements are worth what they're supposed to be worth; Microsoft is big on keeping 
 games at 1000 Gamerscore points (even though Gears got to go over) , so milestones (like GAME COMPLETION) 
 are only worth about 20 points. It's hard to justify going back to light fifteen zombies on fire 
 with the flare (Zom-B-Que) for five or ten points.
  -Difficulty is always a little low on the Normal setting for every game with a single-player campaign.
 
  
  ~~~
  HALF-LIFE 2
  ~~~
  There's plenty that's good to say about Half-Life 2; some levels are plain awesome, the characters 
 are likable, the Combine is actually a worthy opponent, and then there's the Gravity Gun. The Gravity 
 Gun is probably the most fun gun to use up until Portal was released, and I truly recommend going 
 through the level "We Don't Go To Ravenholm" and try to get the achievement for only using the 
 GG. You'll have a blast doing it.
  
  That said, there's also plenty to say that's bad about Half-Life 2. I'd never played Half-Life 
 1, but I was interested as I entered the first level. It was mysterious, but I thought I'd get 
 an explanation to everything.
  
  Not really. Half-Life 2 just kind of throws you into the action. I honestly didn't completely comprehend 
 everything that was going on until very late in Half-Life 2. I didn't even know that the enemies 
 were aliens, and not mutants or a combination of the two, until I was at the Citadel. I didn't 
 know why Gordon Freeman was so important (in fact, they still keep it mysterious) , and I didn't 
 know why we were fighting the Combine. I know they're militaristic, and they looked like bad guys, 
 but until Nova Prospekt you don't get that they might actually be evil.
  
  Half-Life 2 doesn't explain itself in the same way Halo 2 bothered to (or Metal Gear Solid 2 bothered 
 to, or even Resident Evil 4 bothered to. It seems like The Orange Box was meant to get new gamers 
 into the Half-Life fold, but then why didn't they explain ANYTHING?
  
  Meanwhile, sometimes areas drag on a little too long. And when I say sometimes, I mean every area 
 but about three of them (the first time you're in City 17, the Antlion Beach, and The Citadel.) 
 Meanwhile, the airboat mission early on is atrocious until you get the mounted gun, and the highway 
 mission wasn't much better.
  
  Half-Life 2 drags on, especially if you haven't played Half-Life 1. However, it's conclusion was 
 perfect... that is, if Half-Life 2 Episode 1 hadn't come in and ruined it.
  
  Half-Life 2: 8/10
  ~~~
  HALF-LIFE 2: EPISODE ONE
  ~~~
  Half-Life 2: Episode 1 picks up 
 right where Half-Life 2 left off. Now, Half-Life 2 ended with a perfect cliffhanger; not the kind 
 that left its players screaming in anger like Halo 2's, but the kind that makes you really, really 
 want to play Half-Life 3. That ending almost demanded years of separation in time between Half-Life 
 2 and 3. But Half-Life 2: Episode 1 pulls you back in immediately. Needless to say, I was far less 
 interested in Half-Life 3 after I started playing Episode 1.
  
  However, this game has some of the best areas designed in the game. I recommend skipping "The One 
 Free Bullet" achievement unless you REALLY want to, because it's a major headache. This game doesn't 
 continue the plot much, just gets Gordon Freeman (you) and Alyx Vance (a girl friend, not a girlfriend) 
 out of City 17. It's pretty darn fun, though, and actually did make me happy throughout.
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode 1: 8.5/10
  
  ~~~
  HALF-LIFE 2: EPISODE 2
  ~~~
  Half-Life 2: Episode 
 2 continues Half-Life 2: Episode One right where it leaves off, and in this case, that's a good 
 thing. You'll be pumped to continue through Half-Life 2's saga, and want to get to White Forest 
 (the mission throughout most of the game.)
  
  However, that excitement will be taken away before an hour of Episode 2 is done. The "outdoor environments" 
 the developers praise are not reached until a long, dull mine sequence where you fight antlions 
 almost exclusively. This area takes far longer than it should have, and should have been a lot 
 more fun. However, as soon as the action does get good here, it gets snatched away from you.
  
  After this mine sequence, though, the game picks up. Outdoor environments are surprisingly 
 fun, even if they're less supportive of the GG. Meanwhile, the dreaded PLOT (don't worry, you'll 
 get what's going on by this point, and actually be interested) finally comes back, and this time 
 it's REALLY well done, and makes you interested in the entire series. Half-Life 2: Episode 2 is 
 easily the best of the Half-Life games, even if the opening part is kind of dull.
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode 2: 9/10
  ~~~
  PORTAL
  ~~~
  The only possible complaint about Portal 
 is that it's a little short, but I disagree. It's the perfect size. There's absolutely nothing 
 to complain about with Portal, and it's the most satisfying game experience I've had since Assassin's 
 Creed came out. Meanwhile, it's also got the only gun that's more fun to use than the Gravity Gun.
 
  
  Portal: 10/10
  ~~~
  TEAM FORTRESS 2
  ~~~
  Team Fortress 2 is easily the best team game on the Xbox 360. It's the first FPS I've played where 
 the first goal of the team is to actually accomplish their mission. In Halo, in Gears of War, and 
 in Call of Duty, the goal always seems to be just to kill the other guys. Even in Search and Destroy, 
 a Call of Duty 4 mode very similar to Counter-Strike, most matches are ended by a "Total Team Kill" 
 as opposed to an actual planting of the bomb (or defusing of it, for that matter.)
  
  The only problem with Team Fortress 2 is that there's no split-screen and no single-player campaign. 
 This game is useless to you without Xbox Live (or System Link cables) , so I feel bad for those 
 who miss out on this great experience because they don't have Xbox Live Gold. Normally, I would 
 say that achievements unlocked by playing online are a downside, but not only are these achievements 
 well-done (and totally do-able) , but the game is also only online; I'd rather have online achievements 
 than none.
  
  Team Fortress 2: 9.5/10
  
  Overall Score: 45/50=9.5/10.
  Overall Score (without XBL) : 35.5/40=8.875; still a 9.
  
  I'd recommend this purchase to anyone 
 buying an Xbox 360, especially if you have Xbox Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1vgfan
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 14, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  Never have we seen such a deal in gaming history.
  
  HL2/Episodes- The Half Life 2 experience we all grew to love a couple years ago is looking better 
 than ever in The Orange Box. The graphics and physics still shine. For the first time, we get to 
 see HL2: Ep2, which is the best Half Life experience to date. Any fans of shooter, adventure, or 
 puzzle games will love the Hal Life experience in The Orange Box.
  
  Portal- Portal is a revolutionary new puzzle game. The story and environment sucks you in. This 
 is a game that really makes you think, and you'll love doing it. Anyone who's interested into gaming 
 should check this out. This is one of the most complete games to date.
  
  Team Fortress 2- Team Fortress is back in The Orange Box with an explosive new sequel. The first 
 thing you'll notice is the art. Team Fortress 2's comic book style art is something of awe. With 
 all the different unique classes too, you'll be sure to play this game for a while.
  
  Buy this game. There will be something for you to enjoy no matter what your taste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x1w2c3e4fyzx
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 13, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  This is just my personal feeling about The Orange Box for xbox 360! I loved Half Life but never 
 got into HL2 and it's episodes. Is it just me or is the only enemy strategy to run into you in 
 great numbers. I keep finding myself hopelessly outnumbered and without any useful ammonition in 
 other words rediculously difficult. Maybe I am just not good at it, but I find it hard to believe 
 somebody played this through without cheats. I don't know I had a lot of emotions playing HL2 but 
 real enjoyment wasn't one of them. I think it's more of a chore than a game. I can't find any firefight 
 or setpieces that are really fun to play and I hate the vehicle sequences. The graphics are fine, 
 without much chopiness, however in my playthrough on my xbox360 I had plenty of grapical glitches. 
 For HL2 and it's episodes I give it 6 out of 10. Since I don't care about online multiplayer I 
 will omit any comment about Team Fortress 2 and write some words about Portal instead. Portal is 
 great and makes this whole package worthwile, even though it's short it will give you an experience 
 that I believe is among the best you'll ever have with a game. I'd say rent it play Portal and 
 that's all there is to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ensabehnur
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  Overall i have to say i was very very pleased with this game. First of all i have never played 
 the half life series so this being my first jump into this i think i am lucky to have stumbled 
 upon it. I got it for 45 dollars used at my local games top and was glad i did. 
  
  Team Fortress 2 was a game in itself and i wished there would have been a single player campaign 
 based on that visual style. The antics provided to you as a gamer in that game make the experience 
 a fun filled adventure.
  
  Portal has received Game of the year and most innovating conceptual game and after p [laying i have 
 seen why, even the online flash game that was spun off of it makes me still want more portal and 
 more puzzles to keep my vice going. I am addicted you can say it.
  
  Half Life 2 i have only begun playing the first one and i can not wait for the rest of the games 
 in that disc. The story has only started for me so i am in the minority but i will be going back 
 and playing half life 1
  
  I have to give this game a complete ten because it is so balanced over the whole disc. The achievements, 
 the difficulty, and the time spent in each. I only wish i knew about it sooner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NaturalXX
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box was my Christmas gift but I now write the review. Don't ask me why, just be glad 
 my review is here. The Orange Box for the 360 is five games on one disc. You have Half-Life 2, 
 Half-Life Episode One, Half-Life Episode 2, Team Fortress 2 and Portal. Now of course the Half-Life 
 series is about Gordon Freeman and the world is basically run my zombies and three legged machines 
 that shoot laser (who knew) . Just like the first installment and episode one you have to find a 
 way to stop the destruction of Earth. Your favorite weapons are back and Gordon is still a bad 
 ass now as he was before. Team Fortress 2 have been in production for 12 years (I believe) and 
 it gives you that cartoonish feel when you play the game. This game is all about multi-player. 
 You may choose from different classes that increases the power of your weapons or the amount of 
 health you have. There's only a couple of game plays in this installment (ex. you must capture 
 all three points to win the match) . I had a little problem playing online though. Sometimes it 
 would freeze on me or be a little lagging. Now the last game in The Orange Box is Portal. This 
 is the most fun I have ever had with a puzzle game. I seriously enjoyed myself. It has tricky but 
 stunning puzzles you must complete and Portal has done a very good job of me keeping my Orange 
 Box. So let's go over the GOOD and BAD:
  
  GOOD: Great games, new Half-Life episode, 5 games for $60. Pure addictive.
  
   
 don't know.
  
  The Orange Box is staying with my other 360 games and will be there until the new system comes 
 out. The Orange Box receives a 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tktomo01
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  My first reaction for this game is "wow". I actually did the math (which I only do on special occasions) , 
 and if my calculations are correct, this box of games is worth $100. And a bonus of every game 
 being perfect. And now its only $50. WOW.
  
  If your not convinced yet, you obviously don't understand me when I say its perfect and half the 
 price its worth, your either Jack Thompson (please don't sue me!) or a starving child in Africa 
 (which I feel sympothy for, so donate to charity to help the needy) . Best gaming deal ever. Yup, 
 yup. A perfect package. PERFECT. So buy it. Now!
  
  Why are you still reading? I said "Go buy it". Or if you already have it, go play it! What? You 
 want a review?! I just gave you a review! What else is there to say? Its PERFECT. You want me to 
 rant on about everything thats good in this game? That would be boring. Just buy it. 
  
  Your still reading? Christ, what are you, a demon? Okay, fine, I'll rant on about how great the 
 Orange Box is if thats what you want you sick monster.
  
  The Orange Box has five games in it, each of equal value. Half Life fans have probobly already 
 experienced Half Life 2's awesomness, but not Episode 2's. Half Life 2 and Episode One were perfect, 
 as is Episode 2. Its not a huge step forward for gameplay (like it needed one) , but a huge step 
 for storytelling. Lets just say Episode 3 is gonna be big.
  
  Portal... What is there to say of Portal? Well, for starters, Portal is very perfect. In fact, 
 its the most perfect of all these quite perfect games for a very perfect experience. Portal is 
 tops six hours long, plus another four for completing the advanced maps, and multiply that by how 
 much you enjoy things that are perfect in comparrison to how much you hate all things that are 
 too be hated, and thats how many times you will replay it. People could say Portal is only six 
 hours long and thats too short, yeah well, some of the greatest movies of all time are only two. 
 Plus, thats how many more hours of your life you could do with other things. Its six hours of great 
 storytelling, and six hours is how long it needed to be. Its the funniest game ever blended with 
 perfect puzzle solving with perfectly rendered portals. This game its self is worth infinity and 
 beyond dollars (which would not derive of it of its perfectness) , but Valve sells it for $20 seperatly, 
 so I'll just say that.
  
  Team Fortress Two is like the perfect multiplayer experience. No grendes make some mad, but I say 
 nay! More balancing FTW! The classes are each very unique (my favorite is the Scout) and very balanced. 
 Critics say its shallow because of the few gametypes or maps. Like Valve said, why waste your time 
 making maps and gametypes people won't play and just make ones that are equally fun to replay. 
 Duh. TF2 is a multiplayer fanatic's dream. So buy it.
  
  So yes, The Orange Box is perfect. 10/10. No matter who you are or what kind of game you like, 
 theres something in the Orange Box to enjoy. So buy it. Or play it. NOW!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robheisel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  orange box has alot of games like half-life 2 and half-life 2 episode one and two and even portal 
 team fortress 2 the story in this game has stories except for team fortress 2 in half-life 2 i 
 picks right off after the events from half-life one you know pc made its debut in 1998 now gordon 
 freeman famous scientist that escaped from black mesa and now he in this place called city 17 ah 
 prison yard full of combine guards and humans then there was half-life2: episode one it picks right 
 off after the very end in half-life so you need to escape city 17 before it explodes if they dont 
 KABOOM!!!!!
  then there was half-life2: episode 2 it takes place after the events in half-life2 episode one ok 
 ok then there was portal ah amazing game with soild voice-acting your ah test subject named chell 
 like metioned this time around you are that test subject theres alot of fantastic gameplay with 
 great puzzles and some of the funniest jokes in any game and also the best ending song of all im 
 still alive ok it looks good with grear graphics in team fortress 2 is ah multiplayer game its 
 awesome i dont have xbox live or anything but its ah great game well theres alot of good gameplay 
 but in portal theres puzzle solving like you get blue portal and orange portal but in half-life 
 you get the gravity gun wich you can pick up barrels and crates but however the main flaw in this 
 game is just interisting overall i give this game and everage.
  
  9.5 out of 10
  
  The Good: great gameplay and amazing graphics awesome voice-acting and humor great story in half 
 life 2 and episode one and two portal is the humorus puzzle with ah good sense of humor team fortress 
 2 is awesome multiplayer well-designed charcthers and art work and animation.
  
  The Bad: theres only 5 games.
  
  The Ugly: nothing.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dkozina
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  This was a very good package. I originally bought it to play Portal but the Half-Life games are 
 amazing on their own. The game features 5 AAA games including Portal, Team Fortress 2, Half-Life 
 2, Half-Life 2 ep. 1 and ep.2.
  
  The online game is pretty good, its addicting. The game play is all team focused/class based but 
 still manages to be intense. It also has a quirky sense of humor to it. 
  
  The Half life games are amazing. Great story, outstanding game play and top notch graphics. I'd 
 call it "the thinking mans shooter."
  
  I was really not expecting the game to be all that great, but its really surprising how fun the 
 game is. I would recommend this to any shooter fan. Ive played through Portal 10+ times and its 
 great. 
  
  Portal alone is worth buying this game. Believe me, this is the best gaming deal you can get!!!
 
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yojoe153
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Yes lets just get this out to start This game is the best valued game out there. That is if u like 
 Half life. I realy hate half life its boring for me but the orange box i think still does deserve 
 a 9. That Is Because portal is one of the shortest but most fun and funny single player games there 
 are. Also Team Fortress 2 Is An Amazing online shooter (one of my favorites) it has kept me playing 
 that game for so long. The classes are all good and diverse. My favorites are the pyro (cus i like 
 fire xD) and the sniper. Overall this is a great valued game and if u love half life or online 
 shooters its worth every penny
  
  
  
  
  
  
  PROS
  Portal is a great and funny game
  Team fortress 2 is an amazing online shooter
  
  CONS
 
  Half life is to old to put in a game and if u dont like it there goes 3 of those 5 games in the 
 package 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lnehme
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  The Orange box is a package that can entertain everyone of every age. Including 5 games: Half Life 
 2, HL2 Episode One, HL2 Episode Two, Portal and the multiplayer Team Fortress 2.
  
  - Half Life 2: One of the best FPS ever made. Its 4 year old but its still fun and entertaining. 
 A high variety of weapons (from a single shotgun to the awesome gravity gun) and a good-but-not-fleshed-out 
 story can compensate the poor graphics (i thought so) . Oh, by the way, the gameplay is excellent.
 
  
  - HL2 Episode One: a good continue to a great game. still the same variety of weapons and the same 
 poor graphics. Too short, only five chapters. 
  
  - HL2 Episode Two: if it were a little bit longer it could be the best half life game made. The 
 same weapons, the same graphics but with a more action and breathtaking storyline than the others. 
 Too many things happening, weird soundtrack.
  
  - Portal: Its simple, its fun and it turned out to be the best game in the box. who could thought 
 of that. A puzzle game is better than a FPS game. But thats my opinion. Its chalenging, and did 
 i say that is funny? 
  
  - Team Fortress 2: The multiplayer game of the box (all the others games above its only single player) . 
 Its good, fun and can keep you playing for hours. But its no Call of Duty, although it is great. 
 A high variety of classes and surely you will find one that you will relate with.
  
  So... buy this game! You will not regret yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KamikazeDonut
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  I have live in a rather large house with a large family so we can't spare money on a good computer 
 to run this so instead me and my bro got this for the 360 (along with Mass Effect and Mario Galaxies) . 
 This is the best game deal your ever going to get with 5 games that are only the price of one and 
 all the games are awesome. Half-Life 2 is just an incredibly fun FPS (and if you don't think so 
 then may god have mercy on you!) and Portal is great and fun puzzle game (with some adult dark 
 humor that my fly over the younger audiencies head ) . However TF2 is what brings down this game 
 to a lower score TF2 only has 8 maps and each of them has a mode assigned to them also not too 
 many people play TF2 on Xbox Live also the PC version is better because not only do you get TF2 
 but you can get mods and new maps and updates for the TF2 on the computer only. Im not going to 
 say anything about anything else except that the graphics are fantastic and the sounds are great, along 
 with the limited voicework in the game. This game you simply should buy but only for the PC unless 
 you really want this game and have a crappy PC like I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AK_the_Twilight
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box is a deal of five games for the price of one. From veteran gaming developer Valve, 
 creators of the critically-acclaimed Half-Life series, the Orange Box is the company's latest creation. 
 Well, not entirely. The Orange Box (besides having one of the oddest names in gaming history) is 
 a collection of five games, two of which are ports of the famed Half-Life 2 series. Along with 
 Half-Life 2 and Half-Life 2: Episode One, you get the brand-new Half-Life 2: Episode 2, the newest 
 installment in the Team Fortress series Team Fortress 2, and a quirky puzzle game Portal, originally 
 a Half-Life 2 mod. Does this quintuple team of gaming have what it takes?
  
  Half-Life 2 was widely regarded as one of the most creative first-person shooters for the PC and 
 Xbox, and the Orange Box delivers the legendary game to the Xbox 360 with extremely few hitches. 
 You play as Gordon Freeman, the quiet protagonist with high intellect and a knack for shooting 
 things. It's up to the scientist from Black Mesa to shut down the Combine soldiers' grip on the 
 planet and the haunting world of City 17. Along the way, Gordon meets up with some new friends 
 like Alyx Vance, along with some familiar faces and new enemies. The story is richly told through 
 in-game sequences, which is great when you can focus on different parts of the dialogue. All in 
 all, Gordon's battle extends past simple first-person shooter clichs, instead focuses on some 
 strong sci-fi storylines that will thrill fans and newcomers alike.
  
  A major part of Half-Life 2 is the physics engine, which is extensive to say the least. Gordon 
 can pick up objects and inventively alter the physics in game, which comes in handy when you need 
 to call on the physics to solve the puzzles. The puzzles aren't entirely complex, and some can 
 be pretty underwhelming, but when the game integrates the physics into the puzzles, Half-Life 2 
 definitely proves itself. Early on in the game, you get to experiment with the Gravity Gun, a weapon 
 that lets you fire off projectiles with a short bolt of energy or pick them up and carry them. 
 If you need to get over a fence, why not use some nearby boxes to make a staircase? It's these 
 moments that really show what the genre is capable of accomplishing. The shooting, however, can 
 be a bit too straightforward. There are a slew of weapons available to use, but you'll mostly be 
 simply shooting simple Combine soldiers, which can grow pretty tiresome. The whole thing can feel 
 dated by these standards, but every once in a while, while playing Half-Life 2, you see some incredible 
 moment that will encourage you to keep playing. Whether it be taking down giant insects in the 
 desert or solving a complex physics puzzle, Half-Life 2 is still a ton of fun since its original 
 release, and the Orange Box inclusion just seems to make that more apparent.
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode 1 is the first episode in the continuation of the Half-Life 2 epic, and it 
 generally plays the same as Half-Life 2. The story picks up immediately after the events of Half-Life 
 2; City 17 is still the Combine-packed burg it was and it's up to Gordon and Alyx to quell more 
 of the mass destruction of the Combine assault. Gordon still has the Gravity Gun and he earns his 
 respective arsenal of weapons throughout the course of the game. The game picks up quickly, though 
 if you played the original Half-Life 2 (which you really should've, considering it's on the Orange 
 Box) you will find many of the nuances to be easy to get a handle on.
  
  Episode 1 is full of some new and rather freaky occurrences, but it does have a nasty tendency 
 to simply feel like it should've been on the original Half-Life 2 game. It's plenty fun, though; 
 many of the battles take place in dark or challenging environments, and the story clears up many 
 of the loose ends of the story, but nothing in Episode 1 feels like something that the original 
 Half-Life 2 couldn't have handled. All of the battles are a blast to fight through and although 
 some of the puzzles feel rather simplistic, you still find many of the classic Valve tricks that 
 the Half-Life series has been known for. The biggest problem in Episode 1 is that it's so damn 
 short. It can be completed in a day if you're diligent. To mix up the gameplay, however, is a slew 
 of Xbox 360 Achievements, many of which are incredibly clever and incredibly challenging. These 
 are fun to accomplish, but it doesn't stop Episode 1 from being too slim and familiar to be the 
 star of the Orange Box. Fortunately, there's one new inclusion to satisfy the Half-Life 2 excitement.
 
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode 2 is a brand-new episode distributed on the Orange Box. It picks up immediately 
 after Episode 1, with Gordon and Alyx still a part of the conflicted universe of Half-Life 2. Upon 
 beginning Episode 2, you'll notice how much different the game's environments are. Say goodbye 
 to the claustrophobic corridors of Half-Life 2 and Episode 1, because Episode 2 takes place in 
 new areas never before seen through Gordon's eyes. The new White Forest world is lush and full 
 of evergreen foliage; Episode 2 nails a strict juxtaposition of the previous installment. Gordon 
 and Alyx explore naturalistic areas like abandoned mines and even the occasional Antlion tunnel. 
 That being told, Episode 2 also is slightly longer than Episode 1, but still isn't as comprehensive 
 and lengthy as the original Half-Life 2. The return of vehicles is definitely a thumbs-up, as is 
 the inclusion of more Xbox 360 Achievements. Episode 2 is great because it goes new places, following 
 Gordon and Alyx through a uniquely-crafted world, while still retaining the puzzles, action, and 
 inventiveness that the original Half-Life 2 presented. It could well surpass the excellent Episode 
 1, delivering a tremendous amount of new content, great storytelling, and high-intensity action 
 to levels that Half-Life 2 set back in 2004.
  
  But if there's one game in the Orange Box that will keep you coming back, it's Portal. Portal is 
 hands-down one of the most minimalist games in recent memory, but it's also one of the most inventive. 
 You start out locked inside some sort of test chamber and you are quickly introduced to GLaDOS, 
 a creepy computer voice who guides you through the laboratory of the Aperture Science. You early 
 on earn yourself the power of the Portal gun, a gun whose entire purpose is to deploy portals to 
 pass through. Early you get only one half of a portal system, but you quickly earn the ability 
 to deploy two portals using the two controller Triggers. How such a weird concept lasts as long 
 as Portal makes it out to be is a mystery, but it's full of tricky mind-bending puzzles that constantly 
 require clever applications of the Portal gun. How so? Some situations require you to lead an electric 
 bolt to a switch to power an elevator. Other challenges require you to boldly avoid being completely 
 killed. It's when the game mixes in some first-person sharpshooting that the game really shines. 
 The game's puzzles are consistent challenges that will put the concepts of mass, velocity, and 
 momentum into firm reserve. Fortunately, the game's difficulty is effective and consistent as well. 
 The skills you learn are easy to learn and fun to master and since they carry on through the game, 
 using the skills is a blast.
  
  But Portal has something that many games have attempted, but have (especially recently) fallen 
 flat on their face reaching. The fact is apparent: Portal is just so damn funny. Throughout the 
 course of the game you are constantly watched by GLaDOS, whose mechanically disoriented voice constantly 
 speaks to you. She sounds like your average electronic assistant at first (reminding you of every 
 possible situation that will kill you, for instance) but by the game's remarkably hilarious endingwellno 
 spoilers. The fact is that you're out for cake. Using the Portal gun offers some ingenious gameplay 
 mechanics, but Portal has a bottomless reserve of ridiculous humor that will give you more than 
 enough drive till the end, and it's even worth playing over again.
  
  The only serious problem with Portal is its length. You get around 19 rooms to explore and complete, 
 along with some hidden surprises at the end. The game can be completed in a weekend, but it's so 
 refreshingly creative and funny, you'll no doubt go back just to hear GLaDOS's robotic voice. Portal 
 is annoyingly short, but there are unlockable sequences and puzzles to complete, along with time 
 attack and similar challenges. Although it would be a bit of a stretch to say that Portal is worth 
 the price tag alone, it is amazing to play and could well be one of the most inventive games on 
 the Xbox 360.
  
  To round out the package, Valve gives players the multiplayer experience, Team Fortress 2, the 
 aptly-named sequel to the original Team Fortress. Unlike most multiplayer shooters, Team Fortress 
 2 is class based. Each player can select a specific type of character, such as the defensive Heavy, 
 in-your-face Pyro, among others supporting either Offense, Defense, or Support. This variety of 
 different abilities lets the player play how they want, without having to adjust too much for proficiency. 
 If you like action, the Pyro will most likely be your choice. Like long-distance shooting? Be a 
 sniper. There's plenty of room for invention, as each character has three weapons to use. Teamwork 
 is expectantly required for victory, making Team Fortress 2 a great game to play with or against 
 friends. The game has a good amount of team-based modes, specifically modes like Capture the Flag, 
 and while Team Fortress 2 may not surpass Xbox Live multiplayer shooters like Halo 3 or Gears of 
 War, it has an odd charisma to its gameplay. The graphics are cartoony and animated well and the 
 sound design can be quite entertaining. All in all, if you like multiplayer shooters and don't 
 mind trying something different, Team Fortress 2 is the right choice. Anyone else may find the 
 learning curve a bit steep (this is a multiplayer game, mind you) and the class style confusing, 
 but with perseverance, will find a solid shooter, perfect for a gaming party.
  
  Pros
  + Portal is undeniably funny, clever, and enjoyable
  + The Half-Life 2 series continues to be 
 a refreshingly distinctive gaming romp
  + Multiplayer courtesy of Team Fortress 2
  
  Cons
  - Half-Life 2 can feel dated at times
  - The episodic Half-Life 2 incarnations and Portal 
 are too short
  - Team Fortress 2 doesn't impress as much as the rest of the Orange Box
  
  When all of these games come together, you really won't find any game that gives you this much 
 bang for your buck. The original Half-Life 2 is incredible, following a strong storyline and top-notch 
 gameplay that any gamer needs to check out. The episodic installments follow daring new game and 
 level design; Episode 1, though incredibly short, manages to produce plenty of creative concepts 
 that future FPS game designers would be foolish not to take into account. Episode 2 is stunning 
 in its beautiful outdoor worlds, with plenty of fierce challenges and monstrous enemies. But once 
 you're done with the Half-Life 2 games, visit Portal. Its dark and sinister sense of humor is unlike 
 any other game seen before, and the inventive use of the Portal Gun is beyond any other puzzle 
 game released in the past generation. Team Fortress 2's multiplayer implementation isn't as strong 
 as the single-player inclusions in the Orange Box, but if you have a group of friends and don't 
 mind trying something a bit different, it's a satisfying shooter at the end of the day. With all 
 of these experiences combined, the Orange Box delivers a gaming package unlike any seen before. 
 At $60, this could be too good to be true, but the fact remains: it couldn't be truer. Pick up 
 this incredible package today.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8erwarlock
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  The orange box is The best deal in video game history so far. It complements you with Half-life 
 2, episode 1, episode 2, portale, and team fortress 2!
  
  Lets get started, half life two was released 4 years ago on the xbox. It one many game of the year 
 awards including best shooter of all time! And ya know what, it is!!!! The story is freakin sweet, 
 there is some real tense moments and is generally quite bloody! Then it includes episode 1 and 
 2 which are additions to the story line if you want moe of everything and episode 2 really stands 
 out as the best!
  
  Portal is a super funny puzzle game where you have this gun that shoots portals that you can go 
 through and reach obstacles and such. It is a really fun experience but is kinda short.
  
  Team fortress 2 is the multiplayer aspect of the game and is really good. There is a good variety 
 of classes but only has 6 maps at launch. Luckily there is Downloadable content so now you can 
 have more maps and items and for those portal lover more levels! TF2 is cartoonish but has alot 
 of blood and i mean you can literally blow up people into pieces which is awesome!!
  
  Pros+
  +5 games in 1
  +And all of them rock
  + Graphics rock
  +audio is incredible
  + 
 Crazy addicting
  + DLC keeps coming and coming
  +Gameplay is amazing
  
  Cons-
  -Wtf? There is no cons!!
  
  I hope this review helps. If you have any questions, message me 
 or contact me on xbox-live
  
  Gamertag=shweet117
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghost-inZeShell
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box has Everything you ever wanted out of a game, it has Half-Life 2, Half-Life 2: Episode 
 1, and Half-Life 2: Episode 2, for a Campaign that will keep you entertained for LONG time, with 
 it various environment puzzles, zombies, and cool lookin' aliens; PORTAL gives you a gameing experience 
 like none other, (not to mention the hilarious GLaD, the A. I. that talks to you through-out the 
 game, which if I may say "REALLY pulled it all together") ; And then you have your Team-Fortress 
 2, for online multi-player, it a very unique multi-player experience thats like a hybrid of Halo 
 and Star Wars: BattleFront, if you like playing with your friends you'll LOVE Team-Fortress 2  
 The GOOD: Great Campaigns, *Golden Value (you REALLY get the most for your money) , *HILARIOUS (or 
 at least PORTAL, it REALLY funny) , *Innovative (innovative environment puzzles that REALLY make 
 Half-Life and Portal so timeless) , *Great Original Sound Track, *Outstanding Visual Design (GREAT 
 Graphics) , *Smooth Frame Rate even with a LOT of things going on at the same time, with LOTS of 
 detail, *Undeniable Charm, * Great Online Multi-player, * Wonderful Replay Value that you simply 
 don't find in OTHER games  
 The Bad: no offline Multi-player (at all) , *no online campaign ( like in Halo 3, or Gears of War, 
 where you can have a friend or two, play with you through Campaign) , *Portal didn't last as long 
 as I'd like, * Half-Life 2: Episode 1 was kind of pointless 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vinnym26
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  (team fortress not played)
  
  Graphics - 9/10 even with the amount of time half life 2 has been out it still has excellent graphics 
 the new episode 2 has improved graphics aswell. 
  
  Gameplay - 10/10 half life 2 and portal both have excellent gameplay. You wont find a better first 
 person shooter about than half life 2, perfect controls even when driving in the various vehicles, 
 good weapons, intelligent enemies, not to hard or to easy. portal has some very original puzzle 
 gameplay.
  
  storyline - 7/10 good storyline set in the future which gives a good atmosphere , good characters.
 
  
  Sound - 9/10 sound effects are great along with voice acting.
  
  Longevity - 10/10 halflife 2, episode 1 and 2 will take about 20 hours to complete altogether, 
 add another 2 or 3 hours for portal and then the multiplayer team fortress (which i didnt play) 
 all add up to a lot gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentos_eater424
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 5:30 am PT
Review:  In this review I'm only going to review portal. Portal was introduced by Valve with the Orange 
 Box and is also for sale as a single game on the PC if I'm not mistaken. Portal is a first person 
 puzzle game where you will have to shoot portals for your self to reach certain places and solve 
 certain puzzles. 
  
  The graphics in Portal aren't anything special to look at, although your blood does look pretty 
 good when it hits the wall. It's pretty much just plain enviroments, but even with average graphics 
 Portal is still very eye catching.
  
  There are some interesting twists in the storyline of Portal but againl, the story is not what 
 will draw you into this game. There is a robotic voice telling you what to do and its supposed 
 to be funny. This voice is not as funny as it's portrayed but none the less you might chuckle a 
 couple times. Actually many parts of this game (including the voice) can seem slightly disturbing 
 and sick. I'm kind of making this out to be a bad game so I'll start with some good stuff.
  
  The puzzles are great. You could just sit there for 15 minutes trying to find out a puzzle 
 and the great thing is, once you figure out how to do it, its often difficult to complete it. There 
 is some fast action in Portal and it will definatly help if you are a FPS player. Even if your 
 not into puzzle games Portal is definatley worth a look. 
  
  Portal only takes around 5-7 hours to complete and there is not much replayability. In my opinion 
 this game would not be worth $60.00 but along with 3 Half Life games and Team Fortress, there is 
 no way you should even think of not buying Orange Box. Portal is a terrific addition and has a 
 right to be played. Also, I give it extra points for being creative and unique. Portal has a very 
 personal style and its worth a try.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  The Good: 5 amazing games for the price of one; Episode 2 is a solid entry in the series; Portal 
 is the most unique puzzle game that you'll ever come across; a solid number of manageable achievements; 
 characters that you really become attached to; Team Fortress 2 is one of the most addicting online 
 games to come around in a while.
  
  The Bad: Episode One is the weakest link in the package, though it is still an excellent game; 
 load times in the Half-Life games kill the pace at times; only a couple of maps with only one game 
 mode on each in Team Fortress 2; the original Half-Life isn't here. 
  
  Half-Life came out in 1998. It made waves across the US, going down as one of the best PC games 
 of all time. It was only a matter of time before they released the sequel, Half-Life 2. Utilizing 
 a special weapon known as the gravity gun, Half-Life 2 went down in history as a landmark shooter. 
 Valve, the creators of Half-Life, have, and are still making, tons of different shooters. Though 
 it's unorthodox to put five awesome games in one package instead of just selling all of them individually, 
 Valve has taken the chance, and they've created one of the greatest bargains in gaming history: 
 The Orange Box.
  
  Let's break these games down...
  
  Portal:
  
  Portal is quite possibly the greatest puzzle game ever created. At the beginning, you are basically 
 a test subject for a new gun called the Portal Gun. Using this gun, you are able to shoot two portals 
 once you've upgraded it. The right trigger fires the blue portal, and the left trigger fires the 
 orange portal. You can walk through one, and come out the other. Physics and momentum also come 
 into play, creating scenarios that will make you think in ways that you've never imagined. The 
 only problem with this game is that... it's short. Otherwise, the writing, scenarios and physics 
 engine coupled with the Portal Gun are in perfect harmony.
  
  Team Fortress 2:
  
  This is the class based, online multiplayer component of the Orange Box. Once you find a match, 
 you'll pick team, then you'll pick class. Each class is unique and has different abilities depending 
 on your situation. For example, the Scout is faster than the other classes. He can also double 
 jump and capture key points on the map faster than any other class. The Heavy Gunner is very slow, 
 but has a chain gun that causes a large amount of damage. There's also a medic who can heal others 
 with his medi-gun and can cause him and another person to become invulnerable for a short time 
 after he heals enough people.
  There are many different classes, like the Sniper, the Spy, and the Demoman, but I won't go into 
 to much detail. There aren't a lot of game modes. It's basically just capture the flag (or intelligence... my 
 bad) and capture the points (which involves you capturing points on the map to win) . Another flaw 
 game in the form of lag issues. If you don't have a strong connection, save yourself the frustration 
 or get a better connection. The game just cuts you out matches, or lags horribly to the point where 
 you'll just quit. These flaws aside, Team Fortress 2 is one of the finer online games for the 360, 
 and those with a good connection will be hooked on it for a while.
  
  Half-Life 2 Review
  http://www. gamespot. com/pc/action/halflife2/player_review. html? id=555702 
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode 
 One
  http://www. gamespot. com/pc/action/halflife2aftermath/player_review. html? id=560564
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode Two
  
  Episode 2 follows Alyx and Gordon trying to escape the combine 
 help get rid of a mysterious portal hovering over City 17. There aren't any new weapons, but this 
 is still probably one of the better Half-Life's... or Lives..... Anyway, there's a ton of new scenarios 
 and characters to meet, but what ultimately makes this different from other Half-Life's... or Lives... is 
 that you'll be driving an old, beat up car during a majority of the game. This car quickly becomes 
 a weapon that you have to master. Don't worry, everything from previous Half-Life games is still 
 here as well. Altogether, Episode 2's length is around the same as Episode 1's, so it isn't horribly 
 long, but it gets its point across. 
  
  Altogether, the Orange Box is an awesome collection of games that you simply have to try out. For 
 only $60, bargain has a new name: The Orange Box. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xFuryx
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box= The greatest deal in the history of gaming. 5 Kick Ass games on ONE disc. Half 
 Life 2, HL2: Episode 1 and 2, Portal AND Team Fortress 2. And I got it for $30 too... wooooow.
 
  
  Now, I've played HL2 on the PC about 2 or 3 times, as well as Episode 1, and if you've played them 
 just like me, you're going to WANT to get them again for the 360. Everything looks so much crisper 
 and cleaner then it did on the PC (my graphics card sucks so... yeah) , they even added motion blur 
 which is a definite plus. It looks great for a 4 year old game, not great, pretty damn good IMO, 
 especially in HD.
  
  Right so where do we get started, so we have Half Life 2, you can play the entire game, you also 
 have Half LIfe 2: Episode 1 as well (both were fantastic, again) , and then comes along HL2: Episode 
 2, which in my opinion is by far the best episode (well, it beats episode 1) . Then you have Portal, 
 I had my doubts about this game, but DAMN it's pretty fun and challenging, for real. In the later 
 puzzles it'll take you a while (maybe 10 mins max) figure out how to solve a puzzle, that's if 
 you've mastered everything you can do with Portals. Moving on to Team Fortress 2, I"ve had the 
 chance to play this a few times, gotta say it's pretty fun, yes it's only online or via system 
 link, but it's worth a try if you have the time.
  
  Now to break down each of the games with some detail:
  
  Half Life 2: Best FPS of all time, 
 yes, of all time. On the 360, I had my doubts, I didn't think it would play that well with a controller 
 instead of a mouse and keyboard but Valve did a fantastic job of mapping the buttons to the controller. 
 Every motion feels crisp and accurate. The graphics look great, they look polished (and even maybe 
 a hint of HDR?!?!? aka Bloom effect) . Half Life 2: Episode 1 : It builds on everything I said about 
 HL2, except the HDR, sometimes it can be a distraction, it can get in the way of being able to 
 see somethings, I mean, it looks cool, it's just that sometimes it gets way too bright and I can't 
 see stuff for about 3 secs. Not a problem though, just a personal complaint.
  
  Half LIfe 2: Episode 2: Once again this improves upon Half Life 2 even more, my biggest like about 
 this game is that the flashlight recharges faster and now it doesn't take away from the aux power!!!! 
 (you'll see what I mean when you play HL2 and Ep1) . Did I also mention a VERY good ending, it got 
 me pumped for Episode 3.
  
  Portal: Basically Half Life 2 with better/crisper looking graphics, except you play a lab rat (basically) 
 and you gain a portal gun to solve puzzles, the story is pretty good, it ties in with the HL2 universe 
 (play Episode 2 to find out how) . It's a great game, a little short though, took me about 3 hours 
 to beat the game. Team Fortress 2: Great Online FPS, good team work, nice selection of graphics 
 and some pretty nice looking graphics. Other stuffz:
  
  Voice overs are top notch, every character has their own personality filled with life and emotions, 
 sound is good, turn it all the way up when you hear zombies to get the **** scared out of you (this 
 game actually scared me in some parts, basically where F. E. A. R failed, this game delivers, and 
 it doesn't even try) .
  
  
  Overall, if you haven't tried this and ARE a fan of FPSs then you HAVE to get this, even if you've 
 played them before, the achievements make the game even MORE replayable after you've finished them 
 (99 achievements in all) .
  
  Excellent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: briantw
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box is a ridiculously good deal for gamers. I bought the 360 version even though I've 
 already played Half-Life 2 and Episode One on the PC and I still feel like I got a good deal. If 
 you haven't played Half-Life 2, though, then you absolutely owe it to yourself to pick this up 
 because it's truly one of the best shooters out there right now, and the rest of the pieces in 
 the box only add to the value.
  
  Half-Life 2
  
  So much has already been said about this game, but most of it is accurate even today, three years 
 after the game's original release.
  
  The atmosphere is one of the things that makes Half-Life 2 what it is. Few other games (BioShock 
 is one of those few that comes to mind) have created a world that feels so real. You enter it and 
 you are literally floored by how immersive it is. There are actually civilians wandering around 
 (which is a rare thing in a shooter) . Not everyone is trying to kill you (especially early in the 
 game) . Propaganda plays on gigantic monitors all around you. Litter lines the streets and sidewalks. 
 Military police line the streets and force you to obey them. Quite simply, it's stunning, from 
 the gigantic Combine citadel that looms over you throughout the game (that you just might get to 
 visit near the end of the game) to the overwhelming sense of despair the inhabits this bleak future.
 
  
  For those unfamiliar, Half-Life 2 follows the footsteps of Gordon Freeman, a former scientist who 
 accidentally helped to open a portal between our world and Xen, an alien world populated by all 
 manner of species (none of them are actually from Xen, as it is a hub world) that were let loose 
 into our world. Because of the event at Black Mesa (where the portal to Xen was originally opened) , 
 a race of aliens known as the Combine take an interest in our world and, during the events between 
 Half Life and Half-Life 2, proceed to take it over. Gordon Freeman, however, was not there to see 
 all of this happen. At the end of the first game, he was confronted by a man known only to gamers 
 as the G-Man, a mysterious man in a blue/grey suit who offers Gordon a choice between death and 
 working for him. If you choose the latter, Freeman is put into stasis until the G-Man requires 
 his services again.
  
  Half-Life 2 opens with Freeman waking up for the first time in some twenty odd years to a few cryptic 
 words from the G-Man. He then finds himself on a train bound for City 17, the capital city of the 
 Combine's empire on Earth, led by puppet figurehead Wallace Breen, the former administrator of 
 Black Mesa who facilitated the Combine's occupation and take over of Earth. It's a lot to take 
 in, really, but the story is slowly revealed to you through Breen's dialogue on massive screens 
 throughout the city, along with the dialogue of various NPCs during the course of the game.
  
  From there, Gordon proceeds to meet up with some old friends (and meet some new ones) , many 
 of whom worked with him at Black Mesa and are currently working with the City 17 resistance forces. 
 His goal starts out as survival, but ends up as liberator of the entire city. The game is nothing 
 short of epic, and how much it picks up during the last few hours is astonishing.
  
  The writing in Half-Life 2 is one of the things that sets it apart from many other shooters. The 
 writers here know a thing or two about subtlety. The game operates in shades of grey. The Combine 
 are certainly depicted as evil, but at the same time their goals don't seem ridiculously evil like 
 the Covenant's do in the Halo series. Rather than just destroying Earth, the Combine are altering 
 the planet to suit their needs. They are altering humans as well to serve and protect them. Their 
 overall plot is much more realistic (figuratively speaking) and natural, and that helps to sell 
 them as the powerful antagonists of the series.
  
  Additionally, the voice acting is stellar. It's not quite as good as a game like BioShock's, but 
 it's certainly miles above the acting in most first-person shooters these days. All of the characters 
 feel real, and the actors playing them lend a lot of credibility to them as well. This realism 
 is helped by the fact that Valve's models, even today, emote brilliantly. You'll be hard pressed 
 to find too many other games that have characters that look and sound as real as those in Half-Life 
 2, and that's a testament to the developers as it was released three years ago. The sound in general 
 in the game is fantastic. Good music pumps up at just the right moments to keep you satisfied. 
 The guns all sound very powerful, which is something that a lot of shooters fail to provide these 
 days.
  
  Which brings me to the graphics. This is the one area where the game is starting to show its age. 
 While they are certainly not bad, most games today look a bit better than Half-Life 2 does. However, 
 Half-Life 2 is aided by its stellar atmosphere and artistic design, which really helps to set it 
 apart from most other games despite the aging graphics. The character models still look fantastic, 
 though, and their faces are still done better than most games released today.
  
  Gameplay-wise, Half-Life 2 is as varied and fantastic as it ever was. It starts off relatively 
 simple, with the player simply given time to absorb the world they are in without having to worry 
 about fighting. Soon after, though, Breen gets wind of Freeman's arrival in the city and is quick 
 to send the Combine police after him. This leads to some fantastic chase sequences through City 
 17, made all the more hair-raising by the fact that you are severely underpowered during them.
 
  
  Gradually, though, the game builds in intensity, leading to some epic battles against gunships, 
 zombies, striders, and more. It all culminates in about four of the greatest levels that I have 
 ever played in any FPS game. The ending levels of the game are just so fantastic that you'll want 
 to play them over and over again. The ending of the game itself is also satisfying while still 
 leaving you wanting more, which is a great way to conclude a game.
  
  Half-Life 2 also gives users the gravity gun, an incredibly useful tool that allows the gamer to 
 use dozens of objects littered around the game world as weapons. It also comes in handy during 
 the puzzle sequences in the game, which generally revolve around the game's great physics system. 
 While these puzzles are great at first, they admittedly start to wear thin after a while. The see-saw 
 weight puzzle is repeated too many times, even if Valve does vary how the actual puzzle works from 
 time to time. All in all, they just seem a little too proud of their physics system, and go a bit 
 too far in trying to show it off.
  
  If there is one fault in Half-Life 2's gameplay, though, it's the vehicle sequences. While they 
 are by no means bad, they tend to drag on for a bit too long for comfort. Add to that controls 
 that didn't transfer terribly well to the console and you can quickly see why these segments are 
 the low parts of the game. Thankfully, though, even the worst parts of a game like Half-Life 2 
 are much better than most other games, so it's only a minor concern. It should also be taken into 
 consideration that, even when bunched together, the vehicle sequences probably amount to less than 
 fifteen percent of the game's total play time.
  
  On the subject of play time, the game clocks in at somewhere between twelve and twenty hours for 
 the average gamer (probably around fifteen the first play-through for most) , which is about twice 
 as long as the average shooter.
  
  Overall, Half-Life 2 is a game that any fan of the genre should play. The graphics were incredible 
 for their time, the character models are great even today, the physics are still some of the best 
 in gaming, and the story is well-told and immersive. Were it not for the dated graphics (now) and 
 the very linear nature of the game, this would be an easy ten.
  
  9/10
  
  Episodes One & Two
  
  If you loved Half-Life 2 and were left wanting more after the ending 
 sequence, you're in luck, because The Orange Box gives you about eight to ten more hours of Half-Life 
 2 fun in the forms of Episode One and Episode Two. These two expansions continue the story of Gordon 
 Freeman and Alyx Vance (among others) as they struggle to escape the city and rally against the 
 Combine.
  
  Graphically, Episode One looks a bit better than Half-Life 2, but is really not different enough 
 to warrant any special consideration. Episode Two, on the other hand, is leaps and bounds better 
 in the graphics department, and can easily contend with games released today on a visual level. 
 From the mines at the beginning to the lush forest and river environments throughout, the game 
 impresses time and time again.
  
  Episode One is the obvious weak link in The Orange Box, although it's by no means a bad title. 
 It's just very short, and doesn't really offer anything new (save for one new enemy that isn't 
 that unique) to anyone who already played Half-Life 2. It's fun and exciting, but you'll basically 
 be treading the same ground you did in the original game, so it fails to feel fresh.
  
  Episode Two, however, is another story. This expansion lets you journey out into the forests and 
 mountains around City 17, and it gives you a good look at what much of the world has become in 
 the wake of the alien infestation on Earth. It also introduces you to a new vehicle, a beat-up 
 old sports car that vaguely resembles a Charger. While this vehicle suffers from the same control 
 issues as mentioned above, the fact that Alyx gets to ride with you adds to the experience immensely, 
 as she is a definite beacon of light in the series. Episode Two also manages to tell a compelling 
 narrative, which is something Episode One didn't really do all that well. Unfortunately, the great 
 ending is a cliff-hanger, which just leaves you wanting more and knowing you won't be getting it 
 for far too long.
  
  9/10
  
  Portal
  
  Portal was a title that took me completely by surprise. I expected it to be a fun puzzle game, 
 but I didn't expect it to be an amazing one. Quite simply, it was one of the most unique and original 
 games I have ever played, and it had a wickedly sarcastic sense of humor to boot.
  
  Portal finds your nameless character waking up in a facility ran by Aperture Science. A portal 
 opens to let you out of your room/cell, and this gives you your first glimpse at Portal's ingenious 
 technology. It's a trip the first time you look through a portal and see your own back, and it 
 only gets more wicked when you get the portal gun and see what you can do with it.
  
  The game slowly (a bit too slowly) introduces you the mechanics of portal use, and after a few 
 trials you are given a portal gun. At first, the gun only lets you shoot one side of a portal, 
 with the other supplied by the game. Later, though, you are given the fully-powered portal gun 
 and the power to shoot both portals yourself.
  
  One of my only complaints with the game is that it's just too easy. I realize that a lot of people 
 might have trouble grasping the concept of using portals to solve puzzles, but I wasn't one of 
 them, and thus the game didn't really require more than a few moments of consideration until some 
 of the last few puzzles. Another complaint is that the game is too short, but what's there is of 
 such high quality that I can forgive it.
  
  Finally, this game can't be properly reviewed without bringing up the humor. This game is brilliantly 
 funny. Your guide throughout your testing experiences is named GlaDos, a computerized AI voice 
 who is nothing if not sarcastic. She gives you advice, sure, but often it's barely helpful or a 
 flat-out lie. A few examples of lines from earlier in the game include: "In the event that Aperture 
 Science does not provide a safe working environment, we are committed to providing helpful safety 
 advice. For instance, the floor here will kill you. Try not to touch it." "Cake and grief counseling 
 are available to subjects upon completion of the test." The malicious intent of GlaDos becomes 
 slowly apparent through the duration of the test, and the end of the game is just perfect. Oh, 
 and the song during the credits is easily the best in any game ever.
  
  Portal should be experienced by everyone. It's not often that a game comes along and actually does 
 something fresh.
  
  10/10
  
  Team Fortress 2
  
  Team Fortress 2 has been in development for something like nine years, and it certainly came out 
 a different game than it started. Whether that's good or bad is probably up to the individual, 
 but I for one am very happy with what Valve has produced.
  
  This is certainly not a game for everyone, especially everyone on Live. The Live crowd is, of course, 
 notorious for being rude, so a team game might not appeal to many of the service's inhabitants 
 who would sooner curse at someone than work with them. However, thus far my experience with TF2 
 has been far better than it has with any other Live game, so that may be proof that the good people 
 are out there, you just have to play the right games.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is a game that's all about depth. There are nine character classes to choose from, 
 and most of them play very differently from the others. Sure, Soldiers and Demomen may seem similar 
 on paper, but in practice the former is much better on offense whereas the latter can be a vital 
 component on defense. Most notably, though, is how well Valve has balanced the game. Every strategy 
 has a way to counteract it. Having trouble with Spies? Become a Pyro and smoke them out quickly 
 and efficiently. Is a sentry gun keeping your team from the flag room? Become a Spy, sap it, then 
 stab the Engineer guarding it. And what's so great about it all is that there is not just one strategy 
 for countering every other one. There are half a dozen ways to take down a sentry, but many of 
 them require you work together with your team.
  
  And that's where Team Fortress 2 really separates itself from the rest of the games on Live. If 
 your team doesn't work together but the other team does, you'll more than likely get pummeled. 
 Likewise, prepare for a few shutouts if your team has their act together. Some classes are even 
 built for teamwork, particularly the Medic. While weak in combat, the Medic is a vital component 
 of a successful offense, as they can heal their teammates during battle. Many small wars have been 
 won and lost because one team had a competent Medic.
  
  There are only six maps in TF2, but they are six very well-designed maps. Each one is very fun, 
 and each requires different classes to utilize different strategies to be successful, which adds 
 even more depth to an already deep game. Valve has promised additional downloadable maps in the 
 future as well, which will only serve to lengthen the game's life.
  
  Overall, Team Fortress 2 does many things that no other games on Live do. It has perfected the 
 class-based combat system, it is perfectly balanced, and more importantly, it's just frenetic fun. 
 You're unlikely to find a faster game on Live that still plays this incredibly well.
  
  10/10
  
  Overall
  
  The Orange Box is easily one of the best deals on the 360, particularly 
 if you're a fan of shooters. Half-Life 2 is proof that atmosphere in a game is just as important 
 as gameplay, Portal is proof that games can still be innovative, and Team Fortress 2 is proof that 
 the original class-based game is still the best. You owe it to yourself to add this game to your 
 collection.
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tutt3r
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 1:03 am PT
Review:  Orange box allows players to expierence 3 different influential games. Half life 2 along with episode 
 1 and 2 is a great experience filled with a lot of action and excitement. Portal allows for a very 
 unique twist on puzzle gaming, and its different difficulty levels will keep you coming back for 
 more. Team Fortress 2 is the long awaited sequel to the much enjoyed team fortress.
  Half life 2 along with episodes 1 and 2 offer much, and they themselves could carry this package 
 by themselves. A slight drawback would be for those who already experienced half life 2 when it 
 came out in 2004, and episode 1. Also for those new to the game will be a bit confused at the story, 
 and half life 2 answers very little questions unanswered from the first. Portal by all means is 
 a treasure, and a very pleasant surprise. Fans of puzzle games, even people who do not care much 
 for them will find something to like whether it be the dimension bending or the hilarious computer 
 glados. Team fortress 2 happened to be the weakest link. While definitely fun, newcomers will have 
 a incredibly hard time getting into very strong team based shooter. The strategy required may make 
 some people frustrated, but slowly you get a hang of it. The small map selection, and sometimes 
 lag filled matches make it a bit of a disappointment. Although no doubt veterans will be very pleased 
 with the game. Overall the orange box is a great game to get if looking for a bit of everything, 
 especially those who missed out on phenomenal game that is half life 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: memesmugy
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 12:24 am PT
Review:  first of all u get 5 games and they are 5 good games, so its worth teh money. ive beaten portal 
 whitch is just straight up fun, i cant get enough of TF2, and i havent even tried any of teh half 
 lifes . TF2 or team fortress 2 for those who dont know is one of the best games ive ever played, 
 so much fun, so much veriety and it will never get old. It is too good for words, you really have 
 to play this game, every body should at least try this game, leik i said its too good for words. 
 if u dont leik one of the games there are 4 other games that you can play, and if u dont leik the 
 whole orange box game i will truly belive your insaine. team fort is truly amazing, 9 diff char's 
 so there bound 1 that u'll leik. teh game pulls you in, eveytime i play as teh spy my heart is 
 pumping leik crazy bc im that much into it. all around a great game that everybody should have 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sallyherz
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  
  this game "the orange box" is a very good game, but obviously when you hear the game the orange 
 box you right away know the phrase five games one box. well first of all 3 of the 5 games are from 
 the half life series which are half life 2, half life 2 episode , and half life 2 episode 2 now 
 lets just get one thing straight all 3 of those games are sick and each one should cost about $40 
 a game, the half life series just got better it's just threw the 3 games you will see about the 
 same guns but there are lots of puzzels through the games which might not really look like a puzzel 
 you just have to use your common sence. also you will see a variety of places to go threw the game. 
 also there is a vast amount of creatures and monster humans that your going to face, over all the 
 3 games for the half life series is out standing in my perspective.
  next game PORTAL this game is a really mind bending game that really needs you to thing before 
 you each move, you will start off and end with a portal gun, its just in the start off the game 
 you will only be incontrol of the blue portal and later on the orange and the blue portal. the 
 story isn't all that great but for this game it dosent really matter, near the mid-end part of 
 the game you finally figure out that the robot who leads you ends up trying to kill you. and just 
 telling you at the end of the game listen to the song in the credits it's really fun.
  and for our last game it called team fortress 2 this game to me only counts as half if you don't 
 have xbox live because you really can't do anything in this game without xbox live, this game dosent 
 have a story line just mostly red vs blue now when your playing the game you have about 8-9 characters 
 to choose from from offence to suport all the way to defence which is a multiplayer game you will 
 like.
  now thats all 5 games in just one box and this is a game you should really buy if you want a game 
 that will really last for a long time!
  
  the AHMED MAN OUT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Jaminson
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  As Im sure everyone knows at this point, The Orange box is a compilation of five different incredible 
 games that just happens to be priced regularly. With 5 games, you are bound to find something that 
 you truly enjoy.
  
  Half-Life 2: Easily one of the best shooters of all time, half-life 2 once again follows Gordan 
 Freeman who this time is aiding the rebels in their battle against the Combine. The first thing 
 you will notice are the impressive visuals of this title, though if a bit dated. The game begins 
 on a high note, with you wanting to explore the trainstation and quickly moves on to an action 
 packed, perfectly paced adventure that will be extremely difficult to put down. This having been 
 the third time ive played through half-life two (2 times on pc) it was just as good as the first 
 two times. It did help having achievements to try and get, for example one of the fun ones had 
 you using no guns other than the gravity gun in Ravenholm (the place with all the zombies and infected 
 things and what not) . While the story is fantastic, it is not the main reason you will probably 
 want to play this game more than once.
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode 1: This game is much shorter ( only about 5-7 hours compared to something 
 like 15 hours) but that doesn't mean that it is any worse. The games pacing is a bit slower throughout 
 and the environments in general are just not as interesting and open. Its just where the story 
 takes us is the only reason besides the length why this part of the sequel is not quite as good. 
 It is a bit different as well because you are with Alyx the whole time, and you guys kind of have 
 to work together in some situations to make it through alive. For example when Gordon and Alyx 
 are in an underground highway of some sort, there are literally no lights, so you have to shine 
 your own light on the enemies so Alyx can see and take them down. This can actually be a challenge 
 if you are trying to get the one free bullet achievement, which allows you only to fire once in 
 the entire game ( the time you need to fire is to shoot of a lock early on) .
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode 2: The most visually impressive game so far in the half life series, the story 
 now brings you into the White forest after escaping the region surrounding the tower in the previous 
 expansion. This one in my opinion hints strongly at a possible relationship between Gordon and 
 Alyx. The sense of isolation throughout this game is really prominent and it truly adds to the 
 whole experience. There are a few new enemies here as well, including acid workers, which are acid-spitting 
 ant lions who can also take more bullets. Another new enemy is a sort of smaller version of the 
 spider things ( sorry memory isnt so good, played the game a while ago) . These things can fire things 
 that disintigrate certain gravity gun projectiles. If you really want a challenge in this game, 
 you can try bringing along the gnome with you that you can find in the first building under a floor 
 that you and Alyx first enter and put him in the little hatch on the ship close to the end of the 
 game.
  
  Portal: Quite possibly the most original thing you will play this decade portal is a wicked cool 
 puzzle game with a great physics engine. You just play another test subject, who is trying out 
 this new Portal gun. With this device you are able to shoot a portal on to a wall or floor for 
 example, then walk thru one and come out another. Sadly this game is short, because it was so awesome 
 while it lasted.
  
  Team Fortress 2: Now if I had to pick one game out of the five in this compilation this would be 
 the worst. I just didnt enjoy it because some of the classes were still difficult to use effectively, 
 there were not too many different levels to play on, and there is no deathmatch, no idea why they 
 wouldnt include a deathmatch/ team deathmatch mode. Besides this so, some of the classes are actually 
 fun to play with, you can decide which ones you like the most. And the cartoony animation style 
 is quite charming as well.
  
  Basically if you have a pc, ps3 or 360 you should go out and pick this fantastic compliation up. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_tails
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 11:48 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit something first. I have not played Team Fortress 2. I don't play games online, 
 so this pretty much makes TF2 useless to me. I will not factor Team Fortress 2 into my review of 
 The Orange Box.
  
  
  I bought this bundle of goodness for one reason, and one reason only, to re-experience Half-Life 
 2 again. I played this beast of a game a few years ago when it was first ported onto the original 
 Xbox. I enjoyed it then, and I enjoyed it now. The game sadly showed it's age, but then again, 
 I knew that going in. The only possibly negative thing I can say here is, the loading times slow 
 the pace of the game play down to a zombie crawl... which sadly dampened my re-experiencing of Half-Life 
 2
  
  Episode 1 and 2 is the same as Half-Life 2, only a little shinier, but a tad shorter. They do a 
 good job of extending the story of Half-Life 2, yet I feel slightly short changed. Even though 
 they both extend on the story, they also try to extend on what made Half-Life 2 so great. They 
 both try to recreate the same amazing set pieces, which after about half an hour into episode one, 
 made me very, very bored, actually forcing me to turn the system off. Now, I respect the story 
 of this game, as well as Valve as a developer, and can understand way they chose to go for a episodic 
 approach to a follow up of HL2, but, I feel as if they simply took Half-Life 2, but jammed a new 
 story into the old horse's mouth.
  
  Portal. Nothing else can be said about this game but, amazing. If Jesus was a video game, Portal 
 would be Jesus. For anyone who has played this relatively short game, they would know why. You 
 play an unnamed test subject, seemingly trapped in a science facility, which is run by a creepy, 
 yet amusing, A. I system. You go through a series of test chambers, all involving various puzzles 
 you must solve using a type of gun that rips time and space apart, allowing you to move freely 
 though portals. The game is enjoyable because of the sheer focus on game play. The look of the 
 game is so simple and plain, that all you think about is your objective, which, is to solve the 
 puzzle and move onto the next chamber. This is gaming at its very essence. 
  
  The Orange Box is doubtfully the best deal ever in video games, offering 5 games in one package, 
 for the price of one regular game. Half-Life 2 is still a solid game, despite it's age, and lets 
 a new generation of gamers who missed out on it years ago. Episode 1 and 2 add onto the HL2 formula, 
 letting us all know what actually happened after the explosion. Team Fortress 2, from what I know, 
 is a solid multiplayer game, focused on fast solid fun. And Portal, well, Portal is just perfect, 
 in every single way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLBLAKERS10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 11:00 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box includes 5 of the best FPS of all time..
  Half life 2, Episode 1 and number 2
  Portal
  and Team Fortress 2
  
  Half Life 2/ Ep. 1/ 
 Ep.2
  The Half Life 2 package is great.. The story tellin is good.. The prsentation is really good.. 
 The gun play is great and intense at times.. There are some puzles to, so its not a run and gun 
 game.. Graphics are good but not as great as they were in 04.. This game starts a little slow, 
 but if you can give it the time you wont be dissapointed...
  
  Portal
  All I can say this game is amazing.. one word WOW!!
  
  TF2
  Is the game I had the most fun 
 with.. I must have spent near 100 hours on this game alone.. It is addicting want you get a hold 
 of the fast paced controls, and you learn all the differnt classes and what not.. Its a very fun 
 multiplayer experience when the game is not cluttered with lag.. THe problem is with XBL when the 
 host has a bad connection and host a game with to many ppl the game becomes laggy..
  
  With all that said this is a must have for any 360 owner who loves FPS, Inovation, Storytelling, 
 Fastpaced Multiplayer, etc...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  Orange Box is released to let us (the consumer) know that not all companies are just here to sap 
 the life out of your wallet. This compilation consists of one of the greatest first person shooters 
 ever to grace the pc, Half-Life 2. This port looks very close to its counter part and plays just 
 as well. The loading screens match up much better than the Xbox port allowing for more smooth gameplay. 
 The sights and sounds match up with those of the pc and thats exactly what we are looking for. 
 Also included are the two new episodes which last about 3 hrs a piece and are a great addition 
 to the story of Gordon Freeman.
  
  Portal is a first person puzzle game designed around the same engine. In this you are given "trials" 
 that are centered around you solving puzzles with the portal gun. This gun is able to emit portals 
 that will allow to travel around the level and solve it. Watching you is a central computer that 
 will make witty remarks and jokes as you progress to more difficult levels.
  
  Team Fortress an online shooter filled with an in depth ranking system and a variety of character 
 types. Many of the characters are balanced, but the shotgun is oddly used by a lot of characters. 
 The games themselves are usually lag free and fast paced. The fact that you can't tell if you or 
 your enemy is getting shot unless you look at your own health is bothersome. There also seems to 
 be a very small player base considering it takes much longer to find a match than it would in Halo 
 or COD 4
  
  All in all this is a great package that any first person fan will enjoy. Containing excellent single 
 player, mind opening puzzles, and solid multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colostome-Boy
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  I had a birthday recently (hooray for me) and me and my friends had all of our Xbox's system linked. 
 After a while my friend asked me if I had the orange box. I had never heard of it till then. He 
 showed it to me, and the next day, I went to Gamestop and bought it. It is so amazing! Instead 
 of summing everything up, i will discuss each game separately
  
  Half Life 2 (HL2) : great story, one of the best that i have seen for a while know. I wont discuss 
 any plot points or give away any spoilers, but the depth of the story can be almost overwhelming 
 at times. HL2 can be beaten in about 8 hours (if you know what to do) but most likely 10 hours if 
 its your first time playing through. Episode 1 is very short and is just there to fill in the story 
 between HL2 and episode 2. Episode 1 can be beaten in 2 to 4 hours. Episode 2 is a little longer, 
 but not quite as long as HL2. It will take about 7 or 8 hours to beat.
  
  Portal: a puzzle game that can be challenging and fun at the same time. probably about 1 to 3 hours 
 to beat. This one also has a story line which is quite good and ties into the HL2 story line a 
 little. (Aperture science is most likely to be a major plot line of HL2 episode 3, I f you dont 
 know how send me a message and i will explain) the advanced challenges are very hard and i still 
 am trying to beat them. but over all a great game.
  
  Team Fortress 2 (TF2) :
  Very fun, fast paced multiplayer. the cartoon look to it makes it more enjoyable when you are blown 
 into several different pieces. the ability to taunt your enemies in hilarious ways is so much better 
 than talking trash about their mom. =) great classes, perfectly balanced.
  
  Overall this is the best game deal thai have ever seen in my life. If you are not sure if you would 
 enjoy this game, rent it, and get hooked.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wull1977
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  OK. This one is hard. Very hard.
  
  The FPS genre has moved on a bit since Half-Life 2's time. But then, elements of the game were 
 way ahead of their time... Hmm...
  
  Let's start with Half-Life 2 and mash in the Episodes for ease. First let's cover the fact that 
 Episode 1 feels fairly weak and lackluster in comparison. Not bad, by any stretch of the imagination, 
 but I felt there were perhaps one or two too many insta-kill situations in the first section - 
 most guilty a section on an elevator with falling debris. Other than that - it was more than passable. 
 Episode 2 feels slightly odd due to minor interface tweaks (which are actually a marked improvement) , 
 but has a superb pace. Had this been retroactively applied to the first two elements of the game 
 it would have been a welcome addition.
  
  Looking at the negative first - I don't really like the music in Half-Life 2, so it was turned 
 off. My only other mild complaint would be that on occasion, I felt slightly detached from the 
 combat. This isn't something I can explain, because I never felt this when first playing the game 
 in 2005, but I think it might be that I far prefer the visceral feel of aiming down your weapon 
 like in Call of Duty or STALKER. That being said, the pistol has a fantastic kinetic feel to it, 
 as does the pulse rifle. If I'm pushing it, I might add that the driving controls feel slightly 
 clumsy but are compensated for by a decent auto aim function on the vehicles.
  
  The positives are far greater. The rest of the sound design is superb, from the background noises 
 to the weapon sounds. Worth special mention are the enemy sounds - the flatline sound of downed 
 combine troops, the cry of the zombies and the excellent otherwordly noises of the Hunters and 
 Striders. This is not to mention the brilliant echo effects in open locations. Amazing. Voice acting 
 as well is superb, leading nicely onto...
  
  The story is very well written and acted. The overall tone of the game is one of absolute hopelessness 
 with a locked down city and abandoned industrial complexes lent a haunted and haunting atmosphere 
 that feels both sad and oppressive. Of special note is the coast section which feels all the more 
 special for the fact that you could essentially drive straight through most of it, but stopping 
 at the various houses tell their own little stories through the environment. The three parts of 
 Half-Life 2 are themselves split into their own individual chapters which keeps the story and player's 
 goals manageable, so essentially you tend to be more focussed on the fact that you need to deal 
 with the problem at hand before tending to the salvation of mankind. This keeps the epic quality 
 of the story truly epic - and on occassion, less important than the current task - while focussing 
 on the human details.
  
  Characters, despite being stereotyped to a degree (the absent-minded professor, the down-to-Earth 
 trustworthy security guard, the conflicted betrayer) the human characters are superb and genuinely 
 likeable. The facial animation lends a real edge to the relationships - especially between Eli 
 Vance and his daughter Alyx. This relationship is absolutely believable and lets just say that 
 very last scene in episode 2... Well, let's not spoil it, but if you are unable to share in the 
 experience, you are dead inside. Ironically the character of Gordon Freeman is (by design) the 
 least developed. The amount of hero worship you face puts your character into context, but to be 
 fair he doesn't really use his degree from MIT at any point, which is really the only information 
 given about him.
  
  It's all very well and good discussing all these elements, but what about the game. As you can 
 probably imagine from what I have already said, classifying Half-Life 2 as an FPS is misleading. 
 Personally, I would describe it as a First-Person Adventure. The environmental puzzles feel integrated 
 into the experience, not tacked onto a shooter. And these puzzles are superb putting the game's 
 fantastic physics to excellent use and always making sense. In addition, the Ravenholm section 
 of the game feels like a genuine survival horror and is genuinely unsettling. The driving sections 
 are well executed with superb pacing, but as already mentioned, slightly clumsy controls. Equally 
 clumsy is the squad management element toward the end of the main game, but not cripplingly bad.
 
  
  So on the whole, Half-Life 2 has aged very well indeed - the combat element slightly more than 
 the rest, to be fair, but not enough to dent its appeal.
  
  Scores - 
  
  Half-Life 2 - 9.0
  Episode 1 - 7.5
  Episode 2 - 8.5
  
  Team Fortress 2 is simply not my 
 cup of tea. I played 10 games online and feel no need to play it any more. I don't particularly 
 like the cartoony graphics and felt the weapons were pretty weedy and ineffectual.
  
  It may also have just been me, but I also felt like I had been thrown in the deep end a bit with 
 no real explanation of what was going on.
  
  So, much in the same way that I haven't taken my negativity towards multiplayer into consideration 
 with my other reviews, I will simply skip over Team Fortress 2, because it isn't an element I will 
 use. My only minor annoyance is that some of the achievements require that you play this game...
 
  
  Team Fortress 2 - N/A
  
  So all-in-all a superb collection.
  
  However...
  
  Half-Life 2 has been completely and utterly upstaged.
  
  Portal - for my money - is as close 
 to perfect as a game can come. Portal will be the first game in my entire life that I will give 
 a 10 rating to. This is a big step for me. I acknowledge that no game is perfect, so to that end 
 10 simply indicates the closest to perfect you can get, and I have never felt a game has climbed 
 beyond 9.5.
  
  Portal is excellently paced, immacculately designed, superbly written and tells a simple story 
 without reams of exposition. Each level introduces a new element to the gameplay, but makes you 
 work it out yourself - it really is wonderfully balanced and some parts that seem impassable, especially 
 in the final act seem shockingly simple when you work them out. Wrapping your head around the Portal 
 Gun's workings is simple enough when you think about it logically - go in blue portal, come orange, 
 go in orange, come out blue - but then working out how the physics work in relation to the Portals 
 is gently, but emphatically trained. You feel like you have LEARNED something.
  
  I must admit that I felt that I had actually achieved something while playing the game! 
  
 
  The clinical design of the early stages is superb and uncluttered, so when you first come across 
 the "behind-the-scenes" section, it feels very unsettling indeed. Up til this point the excellently 
 voiced GLaDOS computer has already made you feel slightly ill at ease, which turns into a true 
 feeling of forboding as the game continues. Yet this never feels disconnected from, or contrary 
 to, the humour in the game. Despite all the atmosphere, the writers have superbly balanced this 
 with genuine, properly funny dialogue. GLaDOS by turns encourages, threatens and cajoles you right 
 up to and through the final showdown with her, and despite this I felt a fair amount of guilt at 
 having to take her down. Which leads to the closing song...
  
  I finished the game in around 3 hours in one sitting, which I personally feel was worth the money. 
 It played out, it told it's story and was done. It didn't outstay its welcome and left me wanting 
 more, so the song "Still Alive" at the end of the game filled me with a strange sort of relief!
 
  
  On my sliding scale that I have mentioned in a previous review, I would happily have paid 19 for 
 Portal on its own and STILL have given it a 10 even after I have completed it six times now!
  
  Portal - 10
  
  So, a shining collection then... Far more relevant for those without PCs, 
 or people who haven't played the original. The game translates very well to controller, and even 
 allows you to completely redefine your buttons, which I find a MAJOR selling point. Also the developers 
 commentaries finish off the package nicely and I find them fascinating insights into game development.
 
  
  Congratulations, Valve, on making me break my word. I have given a game 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamingod2272
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2008 2:09 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying this is one of the greatest ideas for a release since the invention of 3d 
 graphics (maybe a little too far) , and I certainly had fun.
  
  Portal Review
  
  I'll start off with my favorite game in the bunch: Portal. It is quite possibly one of the most 
 innovative games to come out in a long time. For those who have been living under a rock, the game 
 involves you, a random woman, to traverse your way across teens of puzzles using a revolutionary 
 invention known as the portal gun. This portal gun allows you to make well, portals. For example, 
 you can blast one portal at a nearby wall and then you can blast another one at the end of the 
 room, you walk through one of the two portals, and you end up at either side of the room. Sounds 
 simple right? Well it gets increasingly difficult and at the same time, a hell of a lot of fun. 
 
  
  Unfortunately this game is short, real short. I finished it in just a couple of sittings (about 
 4 hours) which made me really upset, the game leaves you wanting more, so much more. The good thing 
 is that you don't feel completely ripped off because you have a total of 4 other games to choose 
 from. 
  
  The story was actually surprisingly impressive. It involves you, a woman, being led around by some 
 omnipotent, inhuman voice. Basically just think of Microsoft Sam (a little higher voice) and you 
 got it. As you continue through the game you come across turrets, companion boxes and other obstacles 
 that are in your way towards your primary goal. The end boss battle kind of feels like a gip, however, 
 considering how easy it is. 
  
  All in all portal was alot of fun and if you have half a brain you'll love just as much as I did.
 
  
  Half Life 2, Half Life 2: Episodes 1 & 2
  
  Now let's move on to the primary gift that is given to you when you purchase this product: the 
 entire trilogy of half life 2. The entire thing will take you many, many hours to complete with 
 complex puzzles and combat to solve along the way. 
  
  The best one of the three, in my opinion, is the original Half Life 2. This is chiefly due to the 
 fact that it's the longest and the most well thought out of the three. I was too young to ever 
 play the first one unfortunately, but according to my dad, all the original characters of the first 
 one return to this one. You obviously play as my main man Gordon Freeman (not to be confused with 
 Morgan Freeman.) I loved the story of City 17 and all the corruption, etc. But that's something 
 that you need to figure out for yourself. 
  
  My only complaint about that game really was the fact that Gordon is mute, he never talks throughout 
 the entire game, I don't even think he grunts when he falls. But that's a very small complaint. 
 The combat in this game almost never stops with the enemy being around almost every corner. You 
 fight against the combine, which are the authority figures of City 17, and all their technology, 
 and you also fight against zombie mutants from hell (made that up myself.) I loved the trilogy 
 because you actually got to carry more than two weapons! What is it with games today and the fact 
 that it only let's you carry two weapons at a time, I thought you were fighting for survival not 
 the amount of something you can carry in your fanny pack. In the game you carry, well I don't know 
 the exact number of weapons, but let's go with a hell of a lot. Grenades, pistols, shotguns, rocket 
 launchers, they're all here and waiting for your disposal. 
  
  I won't get into the story of the two episodes because, well I honestly didn't like the story as 
 much as I did the HL 2. I mean episode one is really just half a game, at least that's what it 
 feels like. You only escape City 17 and nothing else, but don't fret there's still one more episode 
 for you to play through, again this lovable box has a heck of alot to offer. 
  
  Team Fortress 2
  
  And there's a game called Team Fortress 2, but I really didn't see the point 
 in playing it, sorry Valve. If you must know TF 2 is kind of like Unreal Tournament as in it's 
 online only and involves first person shooting. I'm sure it's fun don't get me wrong, but it's 
 just not my cup of tea (I hate tea why did I say that?)
  
  Apparently there are multiple classes for you to choose from and you're bound to find the one that 
 suits you best. Blah blah blah alot of fun, you get your bang for your buck, uh already said that, 
 ok I'm done reviewing this box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkElf2112
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to a fun to dollar figure ratio there is really only one disk you need to own. The 
 Orange Box comes with 5 games (three if you merge all the Half-life 2 stuff) that are all very 
 entertaining in thier own way.
  
  Half-life2 + Episodes 1 & 2 - This is Valve's epic story featuring it's signature character, Gordon 
 Freeman. The story is very good and one that you are eager to see through to the end. Graphically 
 it holds up very respectably on the console. Gameplay is solid and it's not overly difficult unless 
 you're shooting for all the achievements. Three words: Hate that Gnome! This would have been a 
 very good value if it was released on it's own.
  
  Team Fortress 2 - This strictly online multi-player game is probably my favorite online game (even 
 over COD4) . Why? Simplicity. Simple characters, simple games, simple maps. Don't get me wrong, 
 everything is great! Graphics and gameplay are just easy and fun to drop into and play. The only 
 problem is that bad lag is fairly common. If you have a host with a poor connection you may as 
 well quit. But when TF2 is running good, it's a blast!
  
  Portal - Ah, Portal. What to say about one of the very best gaming experiences of any genre and 
 any platform... Well, it's utterly brilliant. It's challenging, hilarious, eerie, and bizarre. But 
 most of all it's great, great, fun. It's a short game but there are some EXTREMELY tough challenge 
 modes after you beat the main game. Still, if I paid $50 or $60 just for Portal, it would have 
 been worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-AM-THE-G-MAN
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2008 3:53 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box is a compilation of the greatest games known to man, the half-life 2 instalments 
 in the long running half-life game series, those being; half-life 2, half-life 2: episode one and 
 half-life 2: episode 2. The package also includes the single player puzzle game portal, which could 
 also be considered a part of the half-life series in the respect that the 'aperture' symbol that 
 is shown around the games numerous puzzles (19 in all) is also shown at the end of episode 2, printed 
 on a research station meant to mimic the great researching capabilities of black mesa and there 
 also many clues inside portal itself (in particular the 19th level) that lead to this conclusion. 
 And finally the great multiplayer team based game, team fortress 2. I'll start with the original 
 Half-Life 2: you arrive in city 17, (a city planned out and built for the sole purpose of keeping 
 the aliens spreading inside our world from the dimension of xen from killing the last inhabitants 
 of earth) a number of years after the resonance cascade in black mesa on a train, you are first 
 greeted the way you were left off, with the g-man lecturing you (in near encrypted language as 
 to point you into a direction with his speech but never affirm that point, as half-life does so 
 often) and then his head fading off screen. you come up to the station and are led out of the cities 
 safe confines to its dangerous borders where you are hunted down, much in the same way as in the 
 original; by an authoritative force that wants you dead for knowing too many of their true intentions, 
 except this time it isn't the army but a group called the 'combine'. You soon lead yourself out 
 of the city by a new addition to half-life games; a non-railed vehicle, that leads you well away 
 from the city but soon find yourself about as close to the centre of the city as possible (through 
 means of teleportation) and the game ends warranting episode 1's input into the storyline, to fill 
 in all of the gaps you might want to play the game. Anyway, the game all new weapons to play with 
 (except of course for the crowbar) but there is somewhat of a shortage of weapons, there being 
 only 10 or thereabouts, your left wanting maybe a few more, this fact is well overshadowed by the 
 fact that these weapons are designed perfectly, function perfectly, and in 1 case push the limits 
 of technology ever seen in videogames (that being the gravity gun) . While the first instalment 
 is starting to age, this is not as apparent as many would think, as gameplay is still fresh and 
 graphics are still holding strong 4  years after release. Although some shine is lacking when 
 compared to current gen games, the series has continued to be the cutting edge through the 2 sequels 
 to hl2, both having improved tech present in them, while still using the same great weapons (although 
 no new ones have been added, this could be seen as a positive aspect as they are all great) , and 
 same level design and character look and design (although this has been refurbished as well, as 
 is apparent in Alyx Vance) . The game still holds incredible atmosphere as the original half-life 
 did, but while "revolutionising" the genre quite a bit, it is comparable to a scratch when you 
 look at what the original did. perhaps unfortunately, the most revolutionary aspect of the game 
 is the awesome physics engine 'source', perhaps bettered by the sandbox 2 engine present in crytek's 
 'crysis', all valve games since its creation have been powered by it. Episodes one and two: The 
 sequels to half-life 2, in episode one you are forced to delay the citadel core from explosion 
 until you race out of the city in a train, features updated graphics but nothing much new in the 
 way of location, features or enemies and while being an exceptional shooter that pushes the boundaries 
 of gaming as half-life does, it only just nudges it with it being very short, and a bit of a weak 
 link if you were to play all episodes in succession. The episode mostly focuses on building your 
 relationship with alyx up. Episode two leads you outside city 17 and in its place looms a "super 
 portal" of some sort that will be visible whenever you are outside. It features yet again updated 
 graphics (the cave section in particular looking quite realistic) a new type of weapon (not being 
 an actual weapon you hold) and an new enemy that comes as a result of a lot more (in fact just 
 about all) of episode two being outdoors which is quite different for half-life the series being 
 mostly a corridor shooter until now. They're called hunters and have good AI, like to work in packs, 
 and are difficult to kill when your not in your car (not sure what model car exactly, 70's style 
 car nonetheless) that accompanies you through much of the game. Although incredible fun, both these 
 are but miniature sequels and both last an average of 5 hours each on the hardest difficulty setting, 
 which is disappointing and perhaps not the best choice on how to plan the series out, nonetheless 
 amazing games. Portal: the most revolutionary/unique instalment in the half-life series since the 
 original, portal surpasses what you think technology could achieve. Basically you have 1 gun that 
 fires portals onto practically any surface (other than those that the developers made unusable 
 for the purpose of making a test of some challenge, you'll note that these surfaces are shiny and 
 have a metallic look) of red and blue colour, what goes in the red portal comes out the blue one 
 and vice versa... basically that's it. But it's made a little more difficult by the laws of physics 
 that are present in the game, such as the force of momentum. And what I found to be quite scary 
 was the female computer voice that truly discouraged me when it meant to, and just plain freaked 
 me out, anyway, to fully grasp what I'm talking about and the overall concept you'll have to play 
 the game. Although there are a lot of positives to portal, it has one that only drags when the 
 credits roll (listen for the credits as they are the best I've ever heard) and that is the sheer 
 length of the game, if your good and grasp the concept quickly, you should complete it in 2  hours 
 if not less, I've personally completed it in 1 . Finally it's the awesomeness of team fortress 
 2, you can choose from 9 classes ranging from spies to turret building engineers. The graphics 
 are the main attraction here, as they seem innocent but once you fire this frag-fest up its apparent 
 they're just (totally unique) fun. Not much else to say on this particular game, just play it! 
 Of course I give The Orange Box 10/10 but the individual scores are: hl2: 10/10, hl2: ep one: 9.1/10, 
 hl2 ep two: 9.5/10, portal: 9.2/10, tf2: 9.0/10. thank you for reading
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whirlbat
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 3, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Before the fan-girls jump down my throat about giving Half-Life less than a 9.0, let me explain 
 my reasoning. I'm not being an instigator, I'm not trolling, and I'm not trying to take anything 
 away from a game that was truly great for its time. What I am doing is reviewing a 2004 game repackaged 
 for 2007. Three years might not seem like a long time, but in the realm of video games, the difference 
 really shows. If you want to make the argument that Half-Life was the best game-for-its-time, fine, 
 that argument can be made (though I personally believe the best game-for-its-time award goes to 
 GoldenEye 64) . But those who want to tote it as something amazing for the modern gamer had better 
 still be playing Donkey Kong and Pitfall too. The point of this long introductory rant? To justify 
 my reasons for thinking this game was just... okay.
  
  The Good: Half-Life has a very interesting story. The whole series has kept my interest, and while 
 story elements play a backseat roll to the FPS elements in the game, there still seems to be a 
 good deal of thought put into the story's development. Half-Life has a ton of great characters, 
 including some especially novel ones like G-Man and Dog. Half-Life also has a good atmosphere in 
 many places. Ravenholm, for example, is famous for the incredibly eerie feelings it evokes simply 
 by its dark, run-down look and the placement of a few creepy set-pieces.
  
  The Not-So-Good: I'm not going to mention the graphics because I realize that this is a re-release 
 of an old game and, to be quite honest, they did do a pretty good job of polishing and updating 
 the old graphics; it wasn't much of a deterrent for me. The guns were. There aren't many interesting 
 weapons to choose from, and what good guns there actually are have precious little ammo to be found. 
 It seems like the SMG and the shotgun are really your only viable options for most of the game, 
 because they are semi-powerful and abundant in ammo. Neither gun is particularly fun to use, though, 
 and the SMG has very shoddy sound-effects coupled with it. The enemies in Half-Life feel very half-baked. 
 I realize they fit with the story, but they're very bland to look at. Not much variety in them, 
 which is made worse by the fact that there are zounds of them everywhere. Perhaps my biggest issue 
 with Half-Life were the puzzles. Tactical games I enjoy. Logically-solvable problems I enjoy. Find-the-hidden-switch 
 is not so fun for me. I'm also not very big on the vehicles in the game. While I acknowledge that 
 they were a little better in Episode 2 than they were in HL2 (the original) , I still find them 
 a needless deterrent from the shooter aspect of the game, which is really what I'm looking for. 
 Others may enjoy mixing it up with this. Personally, I don't. I found driving a boring and tedious 
 chore.
  
  Team Fortress: Okay, TF2 is a funny game as it's kind of cutely violent. It's like an R-rated version 
 of The Incredibles, with guns. That being said, while I respect the attempt to bring multiplayer 
 to the package, TF2 just doesn't do it for me. Too few game modes. Too few maps. Some could argue 
 that it was a strategic game, but when you've been playing Ghost Recon and Rainbow Six for the 
 past year, it just doesn't measure up. It has too much of that arcade-y, Halo-y feel for me. Less 
 about planning and strategy; more about spinning, jumping, shooting and being lucky.
  
  Portal: Portal I felt was a very cute, entertaining game. This, unlike the qualm I had about puzzles 
 in Half-Life, was a good, logical puzzle game. Repetitive graphics and scenery suited the game, 
 so I won't downplay it in that respect. The character GLaDOS was a very cute and humorous foe. 
 This game, though simple, was quite memorable, and while it wasn't worth more than one or two play-throughs 
 (imo) , I think it was the best piece in the package.
  
  I have the utmost respect for Valve for really trying hard to put out something the gamers would 
 like and for packaging so much together on one disc, yet still keeping it down to a $60 price tag 
 (despite what EA thought they should do) . I have no lack of respect for what Half-Life was to the 
 FPS genre back in 2004. That said, I'm not going to laud it forever because it was good at one 
 time. The NES was good at one time. That doesn't mean that a refurbished NES is up to par with 
 the 360 or the PS3. Half-Life needs to do something new, in my eyes, to make it worth playing amidst 
 the plethora of modern FPS games. I got more enjoyment out of my 1-week rental of Turok than I 
 have gotten out of the months I've owned The Orange Box, and while I still say it was a good game, 
 I'm not sure it was worth buying. Props Valve, on what you have done... now lets see what else 
 you can do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eggs-Benedict
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  I've scored quite a few games on gamespot and I can honestly say that the orange box is the only 
 10 I've ever given. I think it's a little unfair to all the other games out on the market since 
 the orange box has 5 incredible games on one freakin disc. And every single one of those games 
 is close to perfect. Half-life 2 is a classic. Episode 1 is amazing. Episode 2 is absolutely breathtaking 
 and by far the best in the pack, i mean where else can you be totally immersed in a huge battle 
 with tons of striders and hunters. And as your driving along a strider pops around the corner and 
 shoots a two story cabin with a blue beam and every piece of wood and metal that was once that 
 humble shack either goes flying through the air or smashes into your car and actually damages you. 
 And that isn't a scripted scene! You can only get that in the orange box. Portal is hilarious and 
 the story is actually really good, it draws you in and really makes you want to see it through 
 to the end. Team Fortress 2 is a lot of fun and the art style is totally unique and really fits 
 the mood. Go get the orange box right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TaintedSaint666
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 29, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Basically this is the best gaming package in history. Within The Orange box, you get Half Life 
 2, Half Life 2: Episode One and Half Life 2: Episode Two, Portal and Team Fortress 2. 
  
  Half Life/Episode One/Episode Two.
  Half Life 2 is the sequel to Valve revolutionary and legendary 
 FPS, Half Life. Fear not, because the sequal follows up Half Life is every way you imagined. The 
 graphics are brilliant, sound is awesome and environments are stunning. You are put in the role 
 of Professor Gordon Freeman, he is taken away from from the crowd of City 17 to see Prof. Kleiner. 
 Before you know it, you are running for you life from the alien race known as the Combine. From 
 there you'll find yourself airboating across sewage lakes, fighting through a ruined town full 
 of zombies, speeding across a vast plain and breaking into a fortified prison. 
  Episode One is the mini-sequel to Half Life 2. There is few gameplay and graphic tweaks, it's more 
 just a few extra levels. It's great nonetheless.
  Episode Two is slighltly longer than Episode One. The biggest addition is the fact that it separates 
 your flashlight from your HEV Suit's Aux Power, not much.
  
  Portal:
  Possibly the most confusing confusing puzzle game since Tetris, Portal implements a dimension on 
 puzzling. Portal casts you as Chell, an Aperture Science test subject under the control of GLaDOS. 
 You are in possesion of the Aperture Science Handheld Portal Device, a gadget that lets you set 
 a two portals and go through either. It's similar to the portals from Prey, only you get to control 
 them and use them to solve various puzzles. It has the same visual style as Half Life 2 and is 
 semmingly set around the same time.
  
  Team Fortress 2.
  The most diverse multiplayer you'll ever play. TF2's main advantage is it's memorable classes. 
 Ranging from the identity changing spy, to the slow moving, room clearing Heavy to the speedy Scout. 
 The game modes are different. There's control, where teams battle for control over command points, 
 similar to those of SW: Battlefront. Then there's Attack/Defend, one team defends command points, 
 while the others attack it, simple.
  
  Overall, this is the deal you'll ever get in gaming. What's left to say? Buy it, perhaps? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azzurus
Rating: 10
Date: May 28, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box is perhaps the greatest value ever. You get 5 games -- and not just 5 bad games or 
 a mini game collection or anything -- that are all amazing. 
  
  Portal
  If you have not heard about Portal by now, then sir (or ma'am) , you might just be living under a 
 rock. Portal, while a short game, can bring out more emotions then a 60 hour RPG. The game is simple 
 to pick up and learn, but becomes a big challenge to finish to the full extent. But the thing that 
 makes this game better then all else is the narration. The plot, while keeping most of your purpose 
 a secret, still engages you with a witty computer and alot of suspense.
  
  Team Fortress 2
  A top-notch class based shooter. There can be a learning curve, but most can 
 jump into the action quickly. A great community and quirky visuals make this game a must-play.
 
  
  Half-life 2, Ep1, Ep2
  All I can say about Half-life is: PLAY IT. It is a work of art in my humble opinion.
  
  So, 
 for $50, you can't say no. Play it to believe it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benboz
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 28, 2008 1:15 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box is a new package which delievers Half Life 2, Half Life 2 Episode 1, Half Life Episode 
 2, Portal and Team Fortress 2. These games like Half Life and Team Fortress are great classic games 
 and this is the best deal in videogame history. The Half Life games on the 360 are very impressive 
 and the 2 new games Portal and Team Fortress 2. Portal is a FPS puzzle game. It is very well doned 
 and it is very puzzling. Team Fortress 2 is a online mutliplayer game and it is so good that you 
 get addicted to it. It is a very cool online game and a lot of people play it. It's like capturing 
 bases to get points and you get different classes of people like soldiers, scouts and spys and 
 a lot more. 
  The Orange Box is the best package you will find if you are a Half-Life fan and if your not a Half-Life 
 fan, you will still enjoy this game. This deal from Valve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JanTheMetal
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Where do i start?
  
  Half Life 2:
  Having played this before on regular XBox i was pleased to notice some of the attention to detail 
 on the 360 version. Eg the blurring on the edge of the screen when you turn. the epic opening and 
 closing scenes were even more entralling on the 360 aswell. the entire game looked alot better 
 thanks to the 360. Awesome experience.
  
  Episode 1:
  An excellent twist at the beginning made this game intriguing at first. However, the storyline 
 was a little weaker than in the first half life 2. The gameplay later on made up for it though. 
 an epic ending AGAIN. valve must work on these for years.
  
  Episode 2:
  OMG! from the first scene, i was in love. i have always pictured half life as a more inside game. 
 Half life 2 was incredible and i was impressed by the outside in that but this is something else. 
 Half life in a forest. what an idea! graphics: excellent. variety: excellent. story: excellent. 
 action: excellent. Half lifeness: even though it was outside, it could only have been half life.
 
  the first introduction to the hunters was amazing and the driving was excellent also. What a cliff 
 hanger at the end as well. valve all over.
  
  TF2:
  Fast paced and brutal. one problem. LAG! if people were more considerate then it would be fine. 
 but no. still a good game though.
  
  Portal:
  hurts my head, but excellent. Just trying to comprehend the planning that must have gone into that 
 game and the programming also hurts my head. those guys at valve are clever.
  
  Verdict:
  episode 2 is the best game i have ever played. full stop. episode 1 wasnt all bad. TF2 good. Portal: 
 very clever and enjoyable. Half life 2: classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liveforce24
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2008 10:00 pm PT
Review:  I am wondering where where to even start. How about half life 2, half life 2 episode 1 and episode2. 
 frist impressions where great and half life 2 stayed great. Half life eoisode 1 contiuned the greatness. 
 H L 2 episode2 was stil a tad to short though. the whole H L serises was the best thing i have seen 
 in a while. But i have to bring up some thing up. vallve has missed the point of episodic gameing 
 that is to 1 get the game hyped up 2 sell them at lower prices 3 realsed more frequntly. though 
 they have 1 and 2 they still strugle with 3 . anyway up next is portal well what cant i say about 
 it. Its charming and clever ad has the best ending in a game ever you cantdo much better than portal. 
 Last but not least is team fortess 2 ....... well actuly i dont have xbox live yet so i hae to wait 
 for it alltough from what ive seen it looks likeso much fun . The orange box is great fun and comes 
 ith a lot of fun extras. you cant do much beter than the orange box . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerdude599
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 26, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box is a compilation of Half life 2, Half life 2 Ep. 1, Half Life 2 Ep. 2, Portal, and 
 Team Fortress 2. Through the Half life series, you play as Gordon Freeman as he attempts to stop 
 the Combine from wiping out the human race. In portal you play as female test subject who must 
 complete puzzles using the portal gun. In Team Fortress 2 you have two teams, the red and blu, 
 who compete to finish the required tasks, such as capturing enemy intelligence, or securing control 
 points. You can also choose from nine classes, three defending which includes the demo man, the 
 engineer and heavy weapons guy, three attacking classes which includes, the scout, pryo, and soldier, 
 and three supporting classes which includes, the medic, the spy, and sniper.
  
  The good aspects about this game are that its highly addictive, great multiplayer, portal is also 
 a highly innovative game, and its just plain fun! The bad aspects about this game are the graphics 
 in Half life 2 are starting to look a bit dated. The graphics also look better on the PC version. 
 The Xbox 360 version of Team Fortress 2 only has a small amount of maps compared to the PC version 
 as of now.
  
  Overall, this compilation of games is probably the best you could get. From the action packed Half 
 Life 2 and Team Fortress 2, to the innovative and fun gameplay of Portal, this will keep you entertained 
 for a very long time.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwertyoip
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  The Orange box, as you know, is a combination of 5 games, by valve, for the 360, PS3, and PC. The 
 5 games are P0rtal, Half life 2, HL2: episodes 1+2 and Team Fortress 2. Each of the games I've 
 played, so far, are maybe by themselves worth the money. Half life 2 is decent, but Episode 1 seems 
 better to me. The graphics have improved for Half-life, however Team Fortress 2 is mostly a cartoonish 
 sort of graphic quality. P0rtal makes the game worth a whole 50$. Im serious. One of the most fun 
 puzzles out there, P0rtal is funny, challenging and amazing all at the same time.
  If there was something not very good about the Orange Box, it is that Valve is constantly shoving 
 its physics system in your face. Seriously, How many times must I do that stupid seesaw puzzle? 
 YOU MADE A PHYSICS SYSTEM. GOOD JOB. GET ON WITH IT!! Overall, this game is great and an awesome 
 deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valmar76
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box consists of five games, although two of the games are actually just add-ons to the 
 stunning Half-Life 2. The games are Portal, Half-Life 2, Half-Life 2 Episode 1, Half-Life 2 Episode 
 2, and Team Fortress Two. 
  
  Half-Life 2 and its Add-Ons: Amazing game, The controls, atmosphere, enemies, weapon choice, storyline, 
 it is all amazing. This is one of the few First Person Shooters that actually pull you in to the 
 gameplay. Every battle is an adrenaline-filled fight for survival. The graphics are some of the 
 best on the 360 and the weapons are some of the coolest around. The vehicle sequences are a bit 
 difficult to control, but with time they become easier. The storyline, although you are not always 
 aware of it, can be unraveled by looking at photos on walls and reading posters on bulletin boards. 
 This is very cool to me, because it means that you really do interact with the environment to discover 
 past events that you were not present for. Half-Life 2 is the second-best part of the Orange Box.
 
  
  Team Fortress 2: Truly the best multiplayer experience thus far. The characters, or classes, are 
 all very funny and look highly stylized and cartoonish. Each class gets their own sets of weapons 
 and have their own abilities. The truly awe-inspiring part of Team Fortress is that you must rely 
 on your team mates and planning in order to come out on top. You can not just run around, guns 
 a-blazing, and expect to win a match because each class has abilities that foil another class. 
 This causes you to plan with your team and work together to win the match. This creates a much 
 more satisfying experience that other First Person Shooters simply do not offer. This is my favorite 
 part of the Orange Box and I have already put over fifty hours into it. 
  
  Portal: Portal is fun for a while, but once you have done all of the advanced puzzles and gotten 
 all of the achievements you will probably return to Team Fortress 2. The puzzles are pretty difficult, 
 and you will feel satisfied when you solve them. The storyline is pretty funny, but it really does 
 not have much of an impact on the game. GlaDOS, the robot in the game, is rather funny and some 
 think she is the best part of Portal. 
  
  In Conclusion: The Orange Box is a great compilation and everyone that owns a 360 should have it. 
 I would give the game a 10, but then Valve would not have something to work towards. True score: 
 9.8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TabsTravels
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  This package deal is one of the best I've ever seen. With a puzzle game, multiplayer, and a gripping 
 story sci fi, this game as it a lot to offer.
  
  Portal is a puzzle game with some decent challenge, nothing overly challenging but it is innovative 
 and a fresh take on the classic puzzle genre.
  
  Half life 2 is the real meat of this package with episode 1 and 2. It will keep you engaged for 
 the majority of the time your playing with only a few times I felt like it was getting repetitive.
 
  
  Team fortress 2 is a great idea but falls way too short, this is on the 360, with not enough maps, 
 people playing the game, or quality players. As far as the game goes its one of the best multiplayers 
 I've ever played but they ruin all the with the terrible way of presenting it. Navigation in the 
 title screen is weird and doesn't feel natural, call me spoiled but after call of duty 4 and halo 
 3 I want games with the same simple and quick interfaces, that allow you to talk while loading 
 the game 
  
  Sound
  
  Sounds is awesome in all the games, in half life the guns sound very real and sounds effects make 
 you feel and think you really are there in the fight to save humanity.
  
  Music is there but not overpowering like in other games they found a great balance where I have 
 something to listen to while running around but it doesn't get in the way while trying to listen 
 to people or hear what enemies are saying. But it does manage to get you pumped up when it starts 
 playing.
  
  9.5/10
  
  Graphics
  
  Graphics are alright, not great as they are dated when the original pc game came out quite a while 
 ago, you will notice the difference between this game and say call of duty 4. That being said it 
 does have great graphics for how dated it is, and you can see the changes in the graphics from 
 episode 1 and 2.
  
  As far as team fortress's cartoon graphics go I think it works great, and adds to the fun factor 
 of the game and makes you remember this is just a game, who cares if your getting stomped by the 
 other team, thats no reason to start yelling at your teammates.
  
  8/10
  
  Gameplay
  
  This is really where this package deals shines, the game play in half life 2 is awesome, and 
 very involving that always keeps you on your toes. Portal just has a gameplay all to its own and 
 pays homage to half lifes mini puzzles you run into while playing the games. Teamfortress 2 has 
 the best gameplay for an online game ive played just the combinations alone of the different character 
 classes you can play as and your team mates can play as allows for an almost limitless combination 
 of gameplay and tactics you can employ all at your own will.
  
  10/10
  
  Story
  
  The story of half life 2 episode 1 and 2 are very gripping and intense. The relationships you develop 
 with the character are very strong and will make you want to make sure they are safe at all time 
 and gives you a feeling of connection to each. Almost all geeks will fall in love with Alyx and 
 be surprised at how enthralling and realistic she is. 
  
  Portal has an engaging story too, but I wasn't able to get into it as much as everyone else that 
 raves about this game so much. I found the story very predictable and a little too silly for me.
 
  
  Team fortress 2 has no story its just a mulitiplayer game, you make you're own story =P
  
  7.5/10
  
  Replay
  
  Replay of these games doesn't exist at all, I have no will what 
 so ever to play half life 2 episode 1 or 2 again or portal for that matter. The mass of achievements 
 was their idea of making you want to play the game a few more times through, but I found the whole 
 99 achievements list too big and too much work for me to even but forth an effort to get any of 
 them.
  
  Replay however is all there for team fortress just the squad based theme of the game will keep 
 you coming back. This goes up ten fold if you play with a clan or with some friends. Only draw 
 back is that there isnt many maps to play on and will after a while make it seem like you've been 
 playing the same map for hours on end.
  
  Overall
  
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJpenguin
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2008 1:23 am PT
Review:  Most games have a tendancy to focus on one thing, get it absolutely right, then slip on something 
 else. The classic games will not have this flaw. The orange box has a new take on this, taking 
 preexisting concepts, getting them absolutely right, then leaving them. As such, crammed withing 
 this little disk, you have 30 hours or so of the current half life 2 series (including episodes 
 1 & 2) for the single player experience. Team fortress 2, for multiplayer frag fests, and portal. 
 Let me just say here and now, portal is huge, if half life episode 3 has this gun, it will re-invent 
 the genre.
  
  So lets start on my least favourite, Half life 2. You play as Gordon Freeman, an emotionally oblivious 
 mute who everyone seems to worship. You appear on a train, a mysterious man talking to you, and 
 you find yourself in a mysterious dystopia, populated by guards supressing you at every turn. However, 
 your reputation preceedes you, and you end up being whisked away to a rebel facility, the story 
 is probbably this game's best point, so we'll leave it at that, suffice to say it's enjoyable, 
 compelling and interesting, though not without flaws.
  
  The game has inredible value here, with all three episodes clocking in at around 30 hours, in that 
 time, you'll have gunned down many a foe, and a nice touch is how neither you or the enemies ever 
 become any more or less powerful, you just get better arms and become better at the game, which 
 makes it feel like a natural progression rather than a linear path.
  
  Half life takes some getting used to, the game has a unique way of playing by which you shoot some 
 bad guys, then do a puzzle. Initially, these puzzles can seem overwhelming, as the average FPS 
 player, I had no idea how to solve these, and the game loses a degree of accessibility in this 
 regard. After a while though, you get the hang of the puzzles, learn to spot the signs, and the 
 game becomes much more fun, yet still intruiging.
  
  Half life suffers the most prom being a classic PC game ported onto a modern console. The xbox 
 360 has got to be the most shooter heavy console on the market. As such, players have grown to 
 expect higher standards. For one, the shooting aspect is clearly made for PC, the simplistic 'aim 
 and shoot' style of gunplay half life uses is incredibly backwards, you simply point the gun at 
 the enemy and pull the trigger, there is no recoil, no cover system, no iron sights, not even a 
 way to zoom in with a weapon. Granted, this is an older game, so it's excusable, but by the time 
 we reach episode 2, made in 2007, it just seems fairly bland. 
  
  Another glaring issue is that console gamers can never play Half life 1, the story throws you in 
 at the deep end, offering questions, but never answers, I have no idea if these are anwered in 
 HL1, but it can be confusing at times as to why certain events are happening. A short cinematic 
 would have been appriciated just to detail the events beofre HL2
  
  The graphics are great in HL2, good in HL2: E1, and ok in E2, once again, the FPS genre, renowned 
 for the quality of its graphics, is too much for half life, However, for a 2002 game, it looks 
 fantastic, HL1 looks much the same, still fairly amazing, as you can probbably tell, E2 impressed 
 me least, purely because by today's standards on console gaming, it doesn't live up to its tremendous 
 repuation.
  
  The sound is phenomenal across the whole of the orange box, special mention goes to the shotgun 
 and pulse rifle for sheer oomph value. Facial animations and terrific voice acting combing to produce 
 some of the most believeable characters ever in a video game. Alyx vance in particular can be greatly 
 empathised with due to a terrific script, dialouge, and animations.
  
  I think for all the 30 hours of gameplay, Half life does an excellent job of keeping you occupied, 
 towards the end, it seems the puzzles repeat theselves once too often, but other than that, there 
 is a great mix of set pieces, on the rail segments, vehicle sequences, firefights, these are all 
 wracked with the nail biting tension that so many shooters aim for. Special mention goes to a believeable 
 physics engine, and use of the gravity gun is a treat right the way through the game.
  
  Overall, Half life is a testament to the quality of PC gaming, but as a console shooter there is 
 room for improvement, however it does so much right, despite its age, that you just can't help 
 overlooking the issues, and seeing it for the quality shooter that it is.
  
  Team fortress had a phase of being my favourite multiplyer shooter, before Infinity ward came along. 
 This game has a sort of retro fresheness to it, it's new by being old. In this case, the combat 
 i bashed in HL2 seems compltely appropriate, rather than somewhat dated. Team fortress is totally 
 cla5s dependant, there are 9 different choices of warrior, each catering for one extreme of gameplay. 
 There is a rocket toting soldier, slow but reliable, a jack of all trades with his shotgun. A pyro, 
 gushing out retribution in the form of flames, but with little long range capabilities. The speedy 
 scout, with low health but high damage. All of these have inherent strengths and weaknesess, encouraging 
 teamplay and tactics. Particular mention goes to the spy, who can turn into a member of the other 
 team, this keeps players second guessing, and adds tremendously to the team experience
  .
  What is impressive is the balance of each cl4ss, like a rock paper scissors game, each one has 
 a counter, further requiring teamwork to succeed. The lack of a deathmatch mode hamper the game 
 somewhat, as those who simply want to kill fill the servers and lace teams who want to be tactical, 
 negatively impacting the team. This is not a bash at deathmatch players, moreso at valve who sould 
 have seen the need to incorporate a facility for these players.
  
  The graphics are tremendous, the game is done with a fairly comical attitude towards itself, and 
 this shows in the stylised, cartoony artistic direction, that's not to say the graphics are bad, 
 they look termendous, refined and clean. 
  
  The biggest fault of team fortress is that the lag issues can make the game unplayable, small amounts 
 of lag cripple games, and the host needs a godly connection to ensure a smooth game, this is a 
 shame, as i have yet to play in a 16 man game.
  
  Overall, there is no reason to not pick up team fortress 2, if you have a group of friends to play 
 it with, you will find hours of fun here, if you're young, you'll find a refresing new style of 
 gameplay, if you're older, you can let the nostalgia take you back, either way, this is a phenomenal 
 game.
  
  Portal...
  
  Reinventing the wheel is easy, reinventing the wheel so it works is hard. Portal succeds in not 
 only redifining the FPS genre, but gaming itself. 
  
  You have a portal gun, left rigger shoots a blue portal, right trigger shoots an orange one. you 
 go in the blue, come out the orange and vice versa. You have to get from elevator A - B, overcoming 
 the obstacles in your way. 
  
  The game requires you to think in a new way, use to portal to overcome each of the puzzles presented 
 to you, take your time, stop and think, use the portal gun. 
  
  The first time you use this, it dawns on you just what the implications of a device like this mean 
 for gaming. It's so impressive how the phisics react to the portals, and imagining what you could 
 do with that device in the real world is intriguing. I can't say much more about portal, as it's 
 one of those games you need to play to experience. 
  
  Unfortunately, it's short, and little more than a demo of what could be. This is overly compensated 
 by the hillarious GLADOS, the cynical computer, overseeing you, decieving you, promising cake and 
 providing a comic releif element the game beneifts hugely from. 
  
  Overall, the orange box has value, quality and charm. Each component is a great purchase, together 
 they combine to form a game which does somethin new at every turn, whether it's the puzzles of 
 HL2, the gameplay of TF2, or the sheer phenomenon that is portal, TOB has something refresing and 
 new in store, even with the flaws it has.
  
  9.6
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WeedMan929
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2008 10:04 pm PT
Review:  it was hard for me to stop playing team fortress. But half-life 2 and the other episodes and portal 
 this game i can play over and over again and never get bored. team fortress is the game that i 
 have spent most my time. Just because i use too play team fortress classic just about 24/7. So 
 u can imagine how it is for team fortress 2. I played Half-Life Two one the first xbox and i thought 
 it was a great game a with it on the 360 and it has the other episode for it. I personally think 
 this is the best game for the price and to me it is is easily worth 100$. portal is just hour of 
 fun if your the kind of person who is into puzzle games and this being a FPS it just ADDICTING. The 
 only problem i had with the orange box is that team fortress gets pretty laggy but other then that 
 i really dont have a problem with the orange box. I my self think that the best classes in TF2 
 is the Soldier, Spy, Sniper, Pyro and the medic is always fun when u got the uber charge and u charge 
 into battle with a heavy it can make for some pretty intense games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nahmean187
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box is a great value. its 5 games in one box i mean what more do u want? all the half 
 life episodes, portal, and team fortress2. it really is a complete package.
  
  what this game lacks in though is fun. i mean it is fun, but when you compare it w/ cod, halo, 
 bioshock it isnt that great. mainly bc the stuff is kinda old. team fortress is an amazing class 
 based multiplayer game, portal is fun but short, and the half life series is classic. the problem 
 though is that while the concepts are innovative the weapons are not, the gameplay is not and neither 
 are the atmospheres.
  
  while i did sorta rip on this game i would still highly recommend it. i said it wasnt the most 
 fun ive had in a shooter but i still got a lot of enjoyment out of all the games and this is def 
 a great value, prbly the best value ever in video game history. This isnt as good as games like 
 mass effect, cod4, gta4, or bioshock but its almost there. its a must buy if u like half life but 
 if uve already played some of the material, you might wanna pass on this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Auroni
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 10:34 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box was an impulsive buy for me. I got bored of Halo relatively quick and wasn't too 
 sure on whether or not Call of Duty 4 was going to be the great game it was when October 2007 arrived. 
 I quickly ignored the 3 Half Life games and started with Portal and Team Fortress. My 360 would 
 break for 2 months but in January, when I got it back, I had an urge to start Half Life 2. Slowly 
 I have completed not only HF2 but Portal and the two episodes that followed it.
  
  First off, Portal is a very entertaining game. However, I think it's heavily overrated by fanboys. 
 It works because the game is short and right when it starts to get epetitive its over. What also 
 makes the game pretty fun is the dialogue. It's witty, its fresh, and its different. The Portal 
 gun made wasy puzzles into hard challenges that tested a gamers mind. I played Portal way back 
 in October but I still remember the well known phrase, "The Cake is a lie." Portal was an excellent 
 addition to the Box and I loved the innovation of the Portal Gun.
  
  Team Fortress 2 was also a fun but disappointing in my eyes mainly because of the lag. The game 
 was fun and entertaining when it didn't lag but those times were too few that it takes away alot 
 from the game. But I enjoyed the classes. I thought the Heavy was the best for the longest time 
 but I realized each class has its own advantages and disadvantages. These advantages and disadvantages 
 put most of the classes on an equal playing field which is surprising. Theres no one class that 
 people play more than the other and most more experienced players are still great with the lesser 
 used classes. Team Fortress 2 would have been one of the must have online games on the 360 but 
 the lag takes too much away and makes it less appealing than Halo 3, Gears of War, and Call of 
 Duty 4.
  
  Now I bought the game for Portal and Team Fortress 2 but I had much more fun with Half Life 2. 
 I had never played a Half Life game and I really wished that Valve decided to put the original 
 Half Life in but you still got a lot of bang for your buck. Half Life 2's story was very well done. 
 I wouldn't put it on the same platform as my two favourite story focused games (Eternal Darkness 
 and Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater) but its up there. I love the shift between walking, shooting, 
 driving in a car and a boat, and the puzzles. All these different types of gameplay combined make 
 the experience very unique - especially for a game that came out almost 4 years ago. The Gravity 
 Gun was one of the most innovated and unique weapons I have ever used in a first person shooter. 
 Its easy to use and takes no time to master. The gun gets even sicker near the end of the game 
 where you can pick up actual people and bigger things. Overall, I was very satisfied with Half 
 Life 2.
  
  Episode 1 on the other hand was just boring. It's short but its basically the same game as Half 
 Life 2. Not much has changed and the story is just leaving the danger zone. However, the battle 
 at the end of the game is pretty cool but the whole experience left me wanting a lot more than 
 Episode 1 provided. If I was a diehard Half Life fan and had to wait two years for this... I would 
 have been very disappointed.
  
  Episode 2 makes up for it. Its a bit longer and has more action and it has actual story developments 
 and shows you where the next game is going. The plot twist at the end is lame but necessarily for 
 characters to evolve. Episode 2 (the last thing I played on the Orange Box) definitely ended the 
 Orange Box experience on a high note.
  
  Overall, the Orange Box is a great game for gamers who are fans of the Half Life series or just 
 want to play a great story and character driven game. I highly recommend the Box for newcomers. 
 Each game adds something different. Portal is a quirky story driven short game, Team Fortress is 
 an online team based game, and the Half Life series is a story driven first person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StuBHoney
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 14, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  This review is just the bare things I have done with orange box. 
  
  I enjoyed Half-life 2 again. Seriously I have no idea why I enjoy that air boat stuff so much, 
 but it is fun. Gravity gun is terriblely fun. Story is good. Now the game has aged a litle, but 
 stll fun.
  
  Now we get to portal. This one rocks. I mean ROCKS. GLaDOS is the best villian in half-life history. 
 Serious it is funny. The boss fight at the end is worth all the puzzle fighting to get to it. Watch 
 the credits "Still Alive" is worth playing through the game, and I think it is now a rock band 
 song. Portal is a simple concept with errrr.... well... portals. Really fun though.
  
  Team fortress 2 is fun as well. The classes really balance themselves out. It is a different game 
 than other multi player shooters. Worth playing. Make you forget about Halo 3 or Call of duty 4 
 .....?.... No. Still a wild shooter with alot of fun online. My biggest complaint is more maps are 
 really needed. 
  
  so should you buy it. Yes. There are a few flaws. Still as whole it rocks, and I would pay 30 dollars 
 for portal alone. The cake is a lie!
  The cake is a lie!
  
  god I love portal..
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ben399
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  the orange box is a compilation of five games -- Portal (new) , team fortress 2 (new) , half life two 
 episode 2 (new) , half life 2 episode 1 and half life 2. I, ve always liked the half life games but, 
 for your convenience (hard to believe that i'm actually going to do something for you people but 
 i will despite myself) i'm going to give you a list of the games, and rate them on a scale of one 
 t ten.
  
  Portal -- this is the best puzzle game on any of the next-gen consoles. with its addictive courses 
 plus the bonus levels for beating the game, it is a game that makes you think once you get to the 
 challenge maps (and if anyone tries to tell you it's stupid, they're just annoyed because they 
 can't figure out how yo solve the puzzles. 9.8/10
  
  Team fortress 2-- TF2 is a great class based multiplayer game. It has an impressive variation of 
 classes each of which is very well balanced. it does have a few minor problems including not enough 
 game types and the fact that the game occasionally forgets about physics and makes you do impossible 
 things. 9.5/10
  
  anything that uses half life as part of its title -- great. I've always thought that half life was 
 good, episode two was better, episode one was good, and so was episode 2. each of the half life 
 games has the distinct half life feel, and such an atmosphere is rare in video games, and always 
 makes the game worth paying 9.5-9.0/10
  
  The orange box is, well, an orange box with five incredible games. it is an outstanding value, 
 and will keep you entertained for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheZ3nMan
Rating: 9
Date: May 13, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  I bought the Orange Box having $60 dollars to spend and wanting a solid FPS. After a few minutes 
 of debate between this and Call Of Duty 4, I picked up Orange-ey (Ha! New word!) only because it 
 was a better value. That being said, it's amazing just how much game Valve packed onto one disc. 
 Along with the original Half-Life 2, HL2 Episodes 1 and 2 are included to round things out. As 
 always, the Half-Life games provide an amazing narrative and near flawless charectirazation. Not 
 once do I remember a line that made me sigh or want to bash that character in the face (unlike some 
 other games that come to mind  _ ) . All your favorite weapons make appearances (yes, the Gravity 
 Gun is still teh awesomenezz) but no new ones, unfortunately. Instead of new guns, there are new 
 items to play with. half height butane tanks, flares, and sticky mines make up for it.
  
  Next up is newcomer Portal. I was somewhat skeptic when I heard it was going to be a puzzle (first 
 person platforming is a big no-no) but a few minutes of play time dispelled all doubts. Essentially, 
 you must navigate your way through 19 test chambers using a gun that creates entry and exit portals. 
 It sounds simple, but Portal has some of the craziest, most mind bending game play I've ever seen. 
 From the sterile white walls to turrets that apoligize for shooting you, nothing is what it seems.
 
  
  Then there's Team Fortress 2. I don't have Xbox Live, so I've only been able to play a few matches 
 at a friend's. I liked the different classes and the humor, but I felt there wasn't enough substance 
 to get anything going. No ranks, strange movement (is the Scout on skates?!) and almost unbearable 
 lag drags the Orange Box from perfection. To me, it seems like HL: Deathmatch would have been a 
 smarter choice here. But, I haven't played many matches, so...
  
  In the end, The Orange Box is an incredible deal. 4 guaranteed great games (and one you might like 
 more than me) . 99 achievements (Episode 2: look under the bed in the cabin. You'll see it.) All in 
 all, this is a must haev for fans of First person shooters. You can't go wrong with the Orange 
 Box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamebills
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 12, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  
  First thing I want to put out there...
  
  The Orange Box is not a "Game" it is a "Bundle" meaning more than one game put together. This one 
 in particular being like the all stars or the source engine.
  
  The Box includes old releases such as
  
  Half Life 2
  Half Life 2: Episode 1
  
  And with 
 them releases
  
  Half Life 2: Episode 2
  Team Fortress 2
  Portal
  
  Im going to start with the Half Life games, which mostly came out a few years ago. Half Life 2 
 was a long awaited game in where you continue the adventures of Gordon Freeman against the Combine. 
 Your standard FPS is here with surprisingly dynamic scenes that play out different every time you 
 play. Physics are the reason for this, and half of the enemies you subdue may fall victim to them. 
 The machine gun, shotgun, rocket launcher are all here, but the real fun lies in the "gravity gun". 
 This little device is picked up at Eli's junkyard, a few hours into the game, and from there on 
 is greatly depended upon. Used for puzzles, making areas passable, or throwing saw blades at zombies, 
 the gravity gun is one fun tool.
  
  Half Life 2: Episode 1 is basically the same game as the last. No new enemies or guns, but the 
 story continues from where the last left off. Not overly too long, or as long as the previous title, 
 but Episode 1 is still worth checking out since it's included in the box.
  
  Now the three new games. You have an innovative game, (Portal) , the continuing game, (Half Life 
 2: Episode 2) , and the multiplayer game, (Team Fortress 2) .
  
  Portal is witty way to play an FPS with out shooting a single bullet. You are woken up in a test 
 chamber inside the Apeture Science Center, and put through a series of puzzles as a robot guides 
 you through them. Smart humor, and challenging tests accompany the great graphics put out by the 
 360. In all, Portal will take you about maybe 5 hours to complete everything there is in the game. 
 After beating the main run around, you are awarded to play advanced maps, which are test from before, 
 just harder. 
  
  Half Life 2: Episode 2 is another stunning example of what valve is cabable of doing. Huge battles, 
 great physics, and new enemies are all here, and it's more exciting the Episode 1. "Finishing" 
 the story of Gordon Freeman, (but most likely, not really) , the Episode ends with a satisfied gamer.
 
  
  Team Fortress 2 is my favorite part of the bundle. It's all multiplayer here, and I haven't seen 
 competition this good since Halo 2 or Counter Strike. The characters are incredibly balanced for 
 how diffrent they are, and are set up into diffrent types.
  
  You have Offensive
  
  Scouts
  Pyros
  Soldiers
  
  You have support
  
  Snipers
  Medics
  Spys
  
  And 
 you have Defense
  
  Heavy Weapon Guys
  Demomen
  Engineers
  
  
  They all have very different abilities, and although you might have your favorite, you'll enjoy 
 something about every character. It's red Vs. blue and the games can get very intense. Great graphics 
 here too. Cartoony style meets slick animation to make one of the best looking games this year.
 
  
  The box is definitely a steal so pick it up when you have the chance and you won't be disapointed.
 
  
  ~BillyD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maximise
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  This game features 5 games: Half-life 2, Half-life 2 episode 1, Half-life 2 episode 2, Portal and 
 Team fortress 2. Like you can see the most prominent part of the orange box is taken by Half-life 
 2. The game is one of the best First-person shooters of the last few years. This is not only because 
 of the sci-fi en sometimes funny storyline in the game's but also because of the nice action and 
 good physics. this especially comes out great in the last level of Half Life 2 with one of the 
 most innovative weapons ever designed: the gravity gun. This gun allows you to pick up any kind 
 of objects (not to big in size) en lets you move or throw them away right into the face of your 
 enemies. The story takes place after the events of Half-life 1. In Half-life 2 you return to a 
 earth torn by an alien race. You as Gorden Freeman play the man that will have to make some short 
 measures with these guys. you will travel trough city 17, beaches crawling with ant lions (huge 
 bugs , they look like the bugs in Starship Troopers) a prison with dark secrets, a dark village 
 with zombies and head crabs, the citadel, and in the expansion packs also in the wide White forest. 
 The next game to discuss is Portal. Portal is a nice puzzle game in which you are a testsubject. 
 This test subject has been give a nice device for a series of tests: The portal gun. with this 
 gun you have the ability to create portals in which you are able to instantaneous travel between 
 two points. with this portal gun you need to solve a lot of puzzles before getting to the end of 
 the main game. And when you finished it you got a lot more challenges awaiting you. this game also 
 has one of the best end credits seen in any video game released to date.
  The final game to discust is Team fortress 2. This game is only playable as a multiplayer game. 
 in this game you can choose between 9 totally different classes, each with their own strenghts 
 and weaknesses. There are only a few gametypes to play in Team fortress 2: attack/defend,, capture 
 the flag, checkpoint capture, and territorial control. All of these gametypes are funn to play, 
 and even more with friends through the xbox live connection. The game is always action packed and 
 also very funny with the cell-shaded look and the humiliations you can make by pushing the X-button. 
 it will also take a large chunk of your personal life because you just want to play on and on.
 
  
  So every game considering is the orange box a fine box full of mind puzzling, action packed, funny 
 games. This game is a classic to me and i really hope you are also willing to play this adventure. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Impossible
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box does deliver outstanding gameplay with games like Half - Life 2 that has a superb 
 storyline and excellent graphics. It can also be frustrating when the loading times come on the 
 screen while you're playing Half - Life 2. Hopefully the sequel will be as excellent as the saga 
 continues.
  
  I think that Portal and Team Fortress 2 are nothing spectacular because games like Portal are just 
 way too short and Team Fortress is only good if you have Xbox live otherwise it's just pointless 
 playing it.
  
  If your thinking about buying The Orange Box then fair enough but just to let you know if you haven't 
 got Xbox live don't bother playing Team Fortress and Portal it's just too short. Your best bet 
 is to get the games separately.
  
  Graphics - Half - Life 2 is almost photo realistic but not quite, but it's still superb.
  
 
  Gameplay - Half - Life 2 steals the show out of the three games but really you're better off getting 
 them separately.
  
  How long the games last? - This will last you up to 30 hours, unless you have got Xbox live.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: heylin_prince
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Holy science! this was one of the greatestideas the viideo game industyr has gad! three great games 
 with outstanding gameplay, graphics, and overall presentation gives this game one of the least 
 likely you'd fine at your local dollar store! 
  Half Life 2 Episdoe 2: One of the most genius first person shooters to be on sale for the xbox 
 360! with great design, graphics, gameplay, and camera, it will have you glued to your controlle. 
 It also has one of the greatest storylines in first-person shooting history. adding great weapons 
 and henchmen, that are not hard or easy.
  Portal: An puzzle video game thta's addictive as heck! What next, flying pigs! This is by far one 
 of the most complex yet astounding puzzle video games ever! Adding, good graphics to a first-person 
 shooter envirement, Portal is sure to please the last hardcore gamers!
  Team Fortress 2: Sadly, since it only comes in Xbox live it's well worth paying for it! It's outstanding 
 cooperative firendly gameplay will make beg for more and keep you up until early moring (out of 
 a wild guess; 5:00) . If you're the type that doesn't like playing, cooperative give Team Fortress 
 2 a try; you won't be dissapointed.
  Even, thoguh it may not be the best game realesed for Xbox last year, I higlhy reccomend you purchase 
 this game. Complete with outstanding graphics that make it seem like real life to a superb gameplay 
 that will keep you form turing your console off. The orange box is a crowd pleaser and one of the 
 greatest and innovstive gmaes realesaed for the 360. Hey! It may be 60 bucks but it's worth it. 
 Buy/rent a copy or judt play it in your friend's house. Don't be kept aweay from this awesome game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RababaWinner
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Before I get to TF2 I need to add a quick caveat. I'm a console commando. I've done my share of 
 PC gaming, I've upgraded video cards, added RAM, fussed with fuzzy Vent servers. Yes, I realize 
 that the mouse/keyboard setup is superior to the game pad for fine sniping, custom keyboard settings, 
 blah, blah, blah.
  
  I get it. PCs are great gaming platforms, but rather than picking up computer engineering as a 
 hobby, I prefer all that to be taken care of by actual engineers. I like to pick up my primitive 
 360-controller pop in a new game and know it will work. I don't want to update drivers, or post 
 in my angry ALL CAPS on tech support forums about misleading minimum system specs, or the legion 
 of other problems that go hand in hand with PC gaming. I just want to play.
  
  All this however is a little off topic, the title is after all, "Team Fortress 2: Great Game or 
 Greatest Game."
  
  Current Status: Great Game.
  
  I love TF2, love it. Just look at my profile picture it's a the "Splody" Black Scottish Cyclopes, 
 the character who is quickly becoming my favorite gaming avatar of all time. The Great thing about 
 TF2 is that the game is so perfectly balanced, and addictively competitive that I get the same 
 exhilarating adrenaline rush executing my favorite Dustbowl strategies in perfect concert with 
 my teammates that I used to get playing sports. 
  
  I find myself enjoying the thrill of competition in a way that no other game has really brought 
 out before. Sure Gears of War had competitive moments, but there were so many design flaws in the 
 game that the multiplayer (particularly when compared to TF2) seems terribly broken. For instance, 
 can you imagine Valve allowing something as broken as the host-shotgun advantage to remain in its 
 final product? Or what about the sickening preponderance of game breaking glitches in the game 
 toward the end of my Gears career virtually ever map I played was full of hunched over misfit characters 
 zipping around the screen in that absurd crouch, chain-sawing you with their shotgun from ten feet 
 away. Broken and terrible.
  
  TF2 does have a minor glitching problem. Skywalking is annoying, but nothing worse than that. I've 
 yet to meet a team yet that wins with Skywalking, if you're skywalking then you're basically making 
 your team play a man down. so if you're playing against competent players who are working like 
 a TEAM, it's literally the name of the game, then skywalking means you'll lose.
  
  The class-system and 8v8 capacity, also keeps particularly talented twitch players from completely 
 dominating a round. That's not to say that good players don't stand out, they do. But if you've 
 got some ridiculously good Spy whomping the begeezus out of you (I'm talking to you Digglu!) , you 
 can go Pyro and change the balance of the game. Got Arctodus the Dominating Pyro ruining your day? 
 Change to a Soldier and turn him into little bits. Basically, the class based dynamics give you 
 a means of combating your Nemesis who may actually wind up as a Nemesis in game. 
  
  The 8v8 capacity also helps keep one player from having too much sway in a room, no matter how 
 good they are 1v8 is never good odds. Unless of course you're a sneaky Demoman with good timing, 
 luck and big box of sticky mines in which case the odds are perfect for legend making.
  
  The successful players in TF2 are those who are willing to work as a team. Yeah, you may love to 
 play sniper, but you might need play an Engineer for your team to win. Time for the requisite sports 
 metaphor. 
  
  Think of it like the Larry Brown Pistons vs. the Shaq/Kobe Lakers. The Pistons were united in a 
 common purpose, willing to put aside their own egos in the pursuit of Victory. The Lakers skilled 
 individuals too consumed with their own stats and perception than winning.
  
  The Pistons are TF2 players. I'll Engineer in the basement of 2-Fort all day for my team. I'll 
 score no points for an entire round if necessary, in order to get the only point that matters. 
 The only point I want is the one that comes when we win the match.
  
  The Lakers are Halo players. They're more interested in tea-bagging each other and being Uber 1337 
 than Winning.
  
  I think the TF2 Community is also one of the things that makes the game Great. It attracts those 
 Piston style players that I love playing with. After months of playing with the notorious scum 
 that inhabits most of Xbox Live, the TF2 Community has been a reinvigorating and refreshing change. 
 Sportsmanship, good humor, competitiveness, and helpfulness on Xbox Live?!?! If you're on TF2 
 it's all there.
  
  These things make TF2 Great: Balance, Brilliant Design, Competitiveness, Cooperation, Community.
 
  
  What could be better? How could TF2 be the Greatest?
  
  Downloadable Content and More Detailed Statistics. If Valve/Microsoft can get those out to all 
 the Console Commandos like me, then Team Fortress 2 will be the greatest.
  
  Cheers mate!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: moriel73
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Everyone (old enough to play it) should own this game. For anyone who used to play Team Fortress 
 Classic on the PC - This game picks up right where it left off! It even has some familiar maps 
 like 2Fort. The gameplay is flawless and the animation is awesome. I was skeptical at first of 
 the new graphics, but after 10 seconds of gameplay, I was convinced that Valve knew what they were 
 doing all along. The sound effects are familiar as well as the fun factor we all remember!! I forgot 
 how much fun Team Fortress is!! 
  
  Anyone who didn't get to play Half-Life 2 on the PC that utilized an awesome graphics card will 
 finally get to see what the graphics are supposed to look like. I played Half-Life 2 on the xbox 
 and, while fun, it suffered in the graphics arena. I haven't even started playing Episode 1 or 
 2 yet, simply because I want to fully appreciate Half-Life 2 all over again even though I completed 
 it on xbox. 
  
  Portal looks amazing and will keep you coming back, it is super challenging and innovative as well. 
 I can already imagine the clones that will attempt to copy it. 
  
  If you love first person shooters, then you probably already have this one on your list, but if 
 you've never been into them, then this is the title for you. 
  
  For the money, this box set is a steal. Do yourself a favor and get this game! It is an instant 
 classic and people will be playing this one online for years to come!! Enjoy !!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil202mcr
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  The games that have been compiled into this bundle are the legendary Half Life 2, Half Life 2: 
 Episode 1, Half Life 2: Episode 2. The crazily insane multiplayer Team Fortress 2 and the very 
 weird and immersive puzzle based Portal.
  
  These five games create a wide variety of different gameplay that will excite you, impress you 
 and make you laugh.
  
  Lets start off with the 3 Half Life 2 games of the bundle, The player again picks up the crowbar 
 of research scientist Gordon Freeman, who finds himself on an alien-infested Earth being picked 
 to the bone, its resources depleted, its population dwindling. Freeman is thrust into the unenviable 
 role of rescuing the world from the wrong he unleashed back at Black Mesa. And a lot of people 
 he cares about are counting on him. Stepping into the hazard suit of Dr. Gordon Freeman in Half 
 Life 2 Episode 1, you face the immediate repercussions of your actions in City 17 and the Citadel. 
 Rejoin Alyx Vance and her robot, Dog, to once again aid the human resistance in their desperate 
 battle against the totalitarian alien menace of the Combine. As Dr. Gordon Freeman in Half Life 
 2 Episode 2, you were last seen exiting City 17 with Alyx Vance as the Citadel erupted amidst a 
 storm of unknown proportions. In Episode Two, you must battle and race against Combine forces as 
 you traverse the White Forest to deliver a crucial information packet stolen from the Citadel to 
 an enclave of fellow resistance scientists.
  
  The only down side to these 3 amazing gaming experiences that the graphics are not any as good 
 as you would see from other games like Gears Of War or Mass Effect. But overall HL2 , E1, E2 are 
 top notch games.
  
  Unlike other "class-based" games that offer a variety of combat classes only, Team Fortress 2 packs 
 a wild variety of classes which provide a broad range of tactical abilities and personalities, 
 and lend themselves to a variety of player skills. Play as the flame-throwing Pyro, the room clearing 
 Heavy, or the Spy, a master of disguises. Other classes include: Scout, Sniper, Medic, Engineer, 
 Demoman, or Soldier. The graphics are simple and of a cartoon quality which adds humour and great 
 gameplay value.
  
  Portal is a new single player game from Valve. Set in the mysterious Aperture Science Laboratories, 
 Portal has been called one of the most innovative new games on the horizon and will offer gamers 
 hours of unique gameplay. The game is designed to change the way players approach, manipulate, 
 and surmise the possibilities in a given environment; similar to how Half Life 2's Gravity Gun 
 innovated new ways to leverage an object in any given situation. Players must solve physical puzzles 
 and challenges by opening portals to maneuvering objects, and themselves, through space.
  
  In conclusion, The Orange Box is a weird and wonderful addition to the large catalogue of great 
 Xbox 360 games and it will be a classic without a doubt!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: amscheip1
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  To believe a game developing company would put out 5 incredibly games for the price of one. The 
 Orange Box is the perfect deal, and your saving some cash. Lets start with Half Life. Half Life 
 2 is as much fun as i remember, not to mention added achievements and improved graphics. Episodes 
 1 & 2 are so much fun, and they flow really well with each other.
  Portal is one of the most unique games I've played to date. The puzzles will keep you thinking, 
 and I also found myself laughing out loud to some of the quick jokes made. The only flaw found 
 here is the length. I wished it could keep going. Last, but definatly not least, is Team Fortress 
 2. TF2 is a class based FPS with several game types. There are 9 classes divided by attack, defense, 
 and support. The action is very fast paced and requires well balanced teams cooperating. The graphics 
 here really show what Valve can do. They use a more cartoony type graphic for the character models, 
 and it looks incredible. It could have some more maps, but lets hope marketplace releases some.
 
  Overall this is the deal of a lifetime. I would pay 60$ just for portal, and another 60$ for TF2. 
 Im laughing all the way to the bank. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Itriphus
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  Don't you hate how expensive games are nowadays? Especially when you're also shown special editions, 
 put through microtransactions, et cetera, et cetera. Well has Valve got a deal for you. The Orange 
 Box is basically the ultimate game, except it's actually 5 games in one. It's got something for 
 everybody, and some people, like me, love the whole set.
  
  Let's start with Half-Life 2, shall we? Not only is the full game here, it's got its two episodes 
 tagging along as well, so there's no shortage of fun there. If you've never experienced the Half-Life 
 series before, this is a great place to start. The only thing that may trouble players are the 
 vehicle sections, that feel either too long or too boring.
  
  Team Fortress 2, the multiplayer component, has been in development for nine years and has a cartoony 
 style too it, and doesn't get caught up in realism. Being class-based, there's a character for 
 every play style, from the massive Heavy, to the support-oriented Medic, to the nimble Scout, and 
 to the defensive Engineer.
  
  Portal is the icing on the cake here. It's an innovative puzzle game where you have a gun the makes 
 portals; you go in one, come out the other, and bypass obstacles, while being guided by a malicious 
 computer that watches your every move and promises you cake. If you like testing your knowledge, 
 or are looking for something new and different, try it out.
  
  All in all, The Orange Box isn't perfect, but it's probably as close as you can get. If you own 
 a 360, this is a must buy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franken_Berry
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box is a varied collection of excellent games that oozes character and appeal. Not a 
 single game included in this package feels like a throw-away or too similar with one another. 
 
  
  + Half-Life 2, Portal, and Team Fortress 2 all have an undeniably unique style and sense of character, 
 and all charming in their own respects.
  
  + Half-Life 2 holds up really well to the test of time, and the new episodes continue with the 
 same winning formula.
  
  + The stories tied into Half-Life 2 and Portal are engaging, personable, and fresh.
  
  + Team 
 Fortress 2 is impecably balanced, and is trully built on skill.
  
  + Portal is incredibly innovative and mind-bending, not to mention hilarious and entertaining.
 
  
  - Portal is too short.
  
  - Environments and maps in Team Fortress 2 can feel a bit too similar.
  
  Each game included 
 would warrent a worthy purchase alone, but including them all into one $59.99 game is incredible 
 deal that shouldn't be passed up by anyone. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 9
Date: May 1, 2008 1:47 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box, along with Halo 3 and Call of Duty 4, raises the bar for first person action games 
 to a new height. There's just no reason what so ever for you to miss this.
  
  This 1 disc contains 5 games and I will look each one in turn. First 3 are Half-Life games, 1 is 
 an interesting puzzle game and the last is strictly a multiplayer business.
  
  Half-Life 2 is just as great as it has always been, but of course visually way better than the 
 Xbox version from 2005. The amount of moving particles is also greater than it was on Xbox, but 
 unfortunately the frame rate still takes a hit a couple of times in the course of 10 to 15 hour 
 experience.
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode 1 starts where the original game ended. Graphically it's pretty much the same 
 deal as Half-Life 2 was and just like before the frame rate takes a hit occasionally. For some 
 reason there's a lot less bullets at your disposal, which forces you to use Gravity Gun almost 
 all the time. Darkness didn't really work in Doom 3 and it does not work in Episode 1 either. Luckily 
 that phase of the experience is rather short. The biggest problem is that Episode 1 is pretty boring: 
 it takes about 3 hours to play through and almost nothing happens.
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode 2 is audio-visually the best one of the 3 Half-Life 2 games included. First 
 part of the game is a boring corridor crawl, but mostly it's what you've used to expect from a 
 Half-Life game: environments are large and open for the most part consisting of delightfully many 
 details and a bright color palette. Unfortunately this causes the loading times to be quite frequent. 
 Story is way better than in Episode 1, because this time some real progress happens. Gameplay is 
 more challenging than ever, but luckily not unfair in any way: it's just difficult at times and 
 it takes a little under 5 hours to play through. 
  
  Portal is a puzzle game, which requires more thinking than an itchy trigger finger. You play as 
 a woman, who is a test subject of some sort and she has to manage from room to room while solving 
 sometimes lethal puzzles. The catch here is that you have a device that looks pretty much like 
 a Gravity Gun, but shoots 2 different portals. Puzzles are mostly short and you just need to get 
 a hang of how to think with those portals. Music and atmosphere reminds me of a movie called Cube. 
 Portal is a short experience and it's over in about 3 hours.
  
  Save system is excellent, because you can save anywhere anytime and still there are frequent checkpoints. 
 Options are also as they should be: you can freely change the buttons you wish to use, choose the 
 level of volume both in music and sound effects. In my opinion the biggest plus is the ability 
 to choose different types of subtitles. Only bad thing is that you need to make the same changes 
 in every game, but that's a small prize pay.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is a really fast-paced, class-based multiplayer shooter, which has a very distinctive 
 cartoonish look in it. You choose a class to play as and your behavior on the battlefield depends 
 dramatically on that choice. Team Fortress 2 is at its best when playing with friends, because 
 successful playing requires teamwork. Unfortunately there are way too little maps and game modes 
 to choose from. Also you can't play with your Friends in Xbox Live in split-screen as you can in 
 Halo 3 for example.
  
  The Orange Box is a full package offering at least 20 to 25 hours of single player gameplay and 
 on top of that a multiplayer component in the form of Team Fortress 2. If you have ever been interested 
 in first person action games there's no reason for you to miss this one. Buy this game now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: destinhpark
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  We all know and love the classic Half-Life games, but now they're all brought back, as well as 
 the newest installment Half Life 2: Episode 2. Not only are we getting all three chapters of the 
 Half Life 2 saga, but we're also (finally) introduced to Team Fortress 2, which is an amazingly 
 balanced and fun multiplayer game.
  
  Overall though, I think the main prize of the package is Portal. It's a short game, won't take 
 you any more than 3-5 hours, but it's quite simply one of the most fun experiences I've had in 
 a video game in quite some time. The dialogue is sharply and cleverly written, and the first person 
 shooter - esque puzzle gameplay is top notch. Portal is something nobody should miss.
  
  But let's not ramble. The Orange Box contians many of gaming's finest treasures, and even though 
 Portal probably beats the hell out of any of them, they're all classics and must be played if you 
 like first person shooters. Period.
  
  Let's get technical. The graphics for The Orange Box actually vary quite vastly. The Half Life 
 graphics haven't really been revamped that much, but then again, it looked amazing when it came 
 out, so there isn't much too complain about in that department. You will find different visual 
 styles in Team Fortress 2, mainly. TF2 contains some of the most wacky animated visuals I've ever 
 seen, and it looks just about as good as a pixar flick. The visuals are quite charming and the 
 game is almost as fun to watch as it is to play. On the other hand, there isn't much to Portal's 
 visuals, but that's just because there doesn't need to be. You'll see when you play. Overall, the 
 graphics you'll look at in The Orange Box are all fairly impressive, some better than others. They're 
 all good in their own ways.
  
  The sound effects are what you'd expect. In TF2, you'll hear very cartoonish booms and bangs when 
 explosions occur, and the voices for the characters sound like they came straight from a bugs bunny 
 show, in a very good way. Half Life 2's fantastic sound effects and voice acting are definitely 
 existent, so no worries there. Portal's sound effects are pleasantly odd and humorous. But I won't 
 give too much away.
  
  In closing, The Orange Box is a game that every FPS fan must purchase. It's got 5 full games inside, 
 and it's all for 60 dollars. And Valve obviously wasn't just thinking of quantity, but quality 
 even more. Play this game for your own first person shooting - good.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1upMushroomX6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  well the simple answer is Yes.
  
  i have to say that the orange box gives you the most content for your dollar. with three full games 
 and two expansions that last a good 5- 10 hours a piece is well worth it.
  
  Half-LIfe 2:
  
  unbelievable game! but a little dated. i say this because it came out for the 
 PC in 2004 so this game is a solid three years old, but im not complaining.
  you continue the story of half-life 1 where few of us know (as myself) , and G-man gives you a creeping 
 opening statement which could give some night mares. so then you arrive on a train into "City 17" 
 where the combine have colonized the City. Your main goal is to stop the combine, but a few missions 
 involve, driving an airboat, driving a go cart (with a gun) , killing massive amounts of antlions, 
 throwing objects at zombies with the gravity gun etc. but over all your out to get this guy named 
 Dr. Breen. he seems to be the master plan of the cathedral that is devouring City 17.
  
  HL2 Episode 1: *SPOILERS* (massive)
  
  a simple expansion leaving you with more questions to 
 be answered following the last event of HL2. (i'll try not to spoil it too much) you blow up the 
 cathedral and the vortigaunts save you, they lock up g-man until the next time they are needed, 
 you make your way through the nuclear cathedral that is bound to explode at anytime. you encounter 
 a new foe called "stalkers" they are what the combine does to you if your captured, or at the wrong 
 place and the wrong time... you make it out the the cathedral on your way to escape, you rescue 
 some rebels on the way and escape on a train barely making it out of there... sorry for ruining 
 it... but thats about what happens... leaving you what happens to the rest of the combine ? well 
 on your way through the catheral you took the portal code for the combine... so now they are out 
 to get you. Episode 1 should take you 5 hours on average to beat.
  
  HL2 Episode 2: 
  
  Better than episode one that could leave you in head aches until Half-life 3.
  ok you start off 
 in a train wreck because of the explosion derailed your train. right off the bat you get the gravity 
 gun and make your way to a communication building fighting off some zombies on the way. you discover 
 that a satellite can destroy the combine portal. so you make your way to the missle silo to launch 
 the rocket into the portal. but you have to go through one of the toughest battles in gaming history... 
 (im not gonna give it away)
  how it ends is sad and leaves you with a bunch of questions unanswered. but im leaving it up to 
 you to play to the end.
  
  Portal:
  
  i was surprisingly good and took some time to get through some challenges. i took me about 2 hours 
 to beat my first time. with some crude humor it just made me want to play it more. overall there 
 should be a sequal because it had a heart break ending and a divious song by GLaDOS herself which 
 was funny if you knew the story of HL2.
  
  Team Fortress 2:
  
  One of the most addicting multi-players i've ever played! me and my friend used to stay up late 
 and just play the crap out of this game. you have approximently Nine classes that even each classes 
 abilities out if you know how to use the guy your playing as. Ex: if your and engineer and you 
 build a sentry gun the spy can zap it and the pyro can kill the spy because when the spy turns 
 invisible when he is lit up you can see a floating flame ball so he is not so stealthly anymore 
 and the spy doesn't have the best amount of health either so they fry fairly quick.
  
  overall i'd say that is a great game to buy. high recommended IMO, but if your not just a fan of 
 these kinda games, don't push it away give it a shot and rent it sometime i know you won't be missing 
 that $5.00 USD you spent at blockbuster 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheProdigy333
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box is a GREAT gaming experience for those that see games not only like entertainment 
 but also like a history, like art. I had the chance to play Half-LifeEp.2 and Portal, but i think 
 that Steam Fortress is just as good as those two games are. Portal is a great and very clever game 
 which makes the gamers immerse in it's unique enviroment and solve amazing puzzles. It combines 
 a puzzle with an action game. It has a lot of fun and of course a lot of surprises. As for Half-Life 
 2: Ep.2 it is just as great as the previous half-life games. Many say it is a linear experience, 
 but for me first place has the story of the game and then the gameplay an the other stuff.
  The ending of hl ep2 was shocking and i can't wait for the ep3. This Valve guys are making wonders 
 and i think that ep3 will justify my expectations. I can't speak for Team Fortess coz i don't have 
 Internet connection and i haven't tried it out but i think that the other reviews speak for themselves. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kombatmaster12
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2008 1:31 am PT
Review:  Ah yes. My newest completion to my 360 stash. This review is long but not to bad. I bought it about 
 3 weeks ago and have finished it all. 85-99 done. 
  Thats right. The Orange Box does NOT contain 5,000 Gscore. It only contains a straight k. That 
 means that there are 200 Gscore for each game in it and lots of achievements. Well 99 to be exact. 
 Since most of the time people will just think that it is 5 games in a box their right but only 
 on one disc so you don't need to worry about that. This review is going to be in order of the games 
 in it and yes I have beaten all 6 advanced maps on Portal so don't ask me any fake questions. 
 
  
  Half Life 2
  (Episodes 1 and 2)
  
  Half Life 2 and the 2 episodes it includes in the Orange Box are mainly the meat of the game. They 
 are sadly only single player only. But still. You won't pry finish these all in a day but still 
 the Episodes are short sweet and to the point. The HL trilogy is (not giving away most of the plot) 
 going to be the best games you will ever play. You don't even need to play the first one really. 
 
  
  Plot: All 3 Half Life games are about you. The silent never speaking, crowbar wielding, gonna break 
 down the door, scientist, Gordon Freeman. Now does that name ring a bell. Well Gordon hear is a 
 scientists and who said scientists can't deal out a good ass whooping! Anyways, Gordon Freeman 
 was part an Experiment in an event known by The Black Mesa incident. Now those of you with Jam 
 pack Summer for PS2 can live this experience through the demo. So Gordon is sent to Black Mesa 
 (in 1 so you know) and is sent into a test chamber with his Hazard suit. The scientists tell you 
 about a possibility of a fictional "Resonance Cascade" that could happen with the Experiment (no 
 worries Gordon lives for this stuff) and it does. All of a sudden a rift shatters our world into 
 the planet called Xen. Soon after Gordon wakes up after seeing some of the Habitants of Xen in 
 a flash sequence and a group of Vortigaunts (alien slaves now) sees the carnage done and fights 
 his way through Black Mesa as more creatures from Xen pour through along with a Black Ops gang. 
 After countless fights Gordon gets into Xen and fights of many of it's creatures and kills the 
 thing in control over the rifts. The Nihinilath. After the fight Gordon is stopped in time by a 
 being known as by the fans only as "Gman". If you accept his offer for working the game will end. 
 If not you die. Well Gordon does accept Gman's offer and is awakened by the Gman. In a very creepy 
 intro Gman talks about Gordon. Then Gordon is on board a train to City 17. An odd last city being 
 controlled by a group known only as The Combine and Doctor Breen. Gordon (you) must fight through 
 the city and beyond. After that it is INTENSE! I won't give away the plots to episode 1 and 2 since 
 it would spoil 2. 
  
  Game play: Half Life 2 is a very solid game overall and presents that in ways you would not even 
 think you could put into a game. You are obliviously in a FPS atmosphere with a dark and sad depressing 
 atmosphere as well. There are no cut scenes what so ever accept the begging to the games. Other 
 than that the rest is through you. You will be in open combat most of the time but really most 
 of the game involves strategy and puzzle solving most of the time. Some of these puzzles can be 
 easy and some aren't. Most of the combat as well is ranged or up close. There are quiet a few weapons 
 to get and each is good in it's own way. You are also guaranteed to jump more than 7 times throughout 
 the series. Some people who are faint of heart should NOT play Half Life 2. Though the game is 
 serious and sad and depressingly (actually the ending to Episode 2 made me feel pretty sad) the 
 series does have some good humor every now and then from jokes about the Combine Fields (play it 
 to get it) to simple odd gamers like me when you set a zombie on fire and listen to it scream. 
 Really it is quiet funny in a bad way. Plus the constant feel of danger and jumping keeps it good. 
 Like the Fast Zombie in Episode 2 made me freak out and shoot it. lol. I nearly screamed. Still 
 Half Life will give you a new direction of really good and amazing game play for those who never 
 played a truly good game.
  
  Graphics: All of the series looks REALLY good. The graphics are stunning along with the excellent 
 facial expressions as well. I mean everything has a detail like scruffs and bullet marks. Along 
 with a REALLY good Particle Engine with a Havoc Engine and Source Engine and Rag doll I mean just 
 the sheer detail of things are great. Like when you club a Combine Solider in the face with the 
 Crowbar. When something breaks it doesn't disappear magically into the ground it stays that way 
 you made it. This also applies to the puzzle solving skills you have to get some of the Lambda 
 Caches in Half Life 2 since you get a wicked gravity gun and near the end and beginning can pick 
 up dudes with it makes the game a great fun thing.
  
  Music: Half Life from 1 has had one of the best musical scores since God Of War and Halo. Some 
 of the music is downright awesome and creepy. 
  They really put the music good for the air boat\Hunter Chopper chase good.
  It was so good you 
 can buy a CD of the Orange Box's soundtrack!
  
  Audio: Guns and things breaking to pains and groans and just good down to the bone no matter what. 
 The Shotgun really sounds good to me though. 
  
  Conclusion: The Half Life 2 part is really good and you really need to play it first in my opinion. 
 Play Ravenholm using only the G gun. lol. 20Gscore
  cha ching!
  
  Portal:
  
  Aw yes Portal. A good 3 hours of the campaign will have you ready for the advanced maps. Portal 
 is the puzzle part of the Orange Box and is very good and I have finished it 4-5 times now and 
 now every line GLaDOS says. Believe me let your friends try and play it. It's a scream.
  
  Plot: You are a test subject named Chell (yeah like shell) who not much is known about but I can't 
 give it all away. Like Gordon she never says a single word through the whole game. So you wake 
 up in a "Relaxation Vault" in (those of you who beat Episode 2) the Aperture Science Enrichment 
 Center. You are in a plain chamber as computer voice comes in. GLaDOS. Not going to get into the 
 whole story. GLaDOS is a computer made my Aperture Science a long time ago. You are broken out 
 of your cell by a portal. You then must listen to GLaDOS for test info and hints on your quest 
 to get the Aperture Science Hand held Portal Device. "No way!" rotflol!!!!!
  
  Game Play: Portal is a puzzle game which uses some of the most complex physics in any game you 
 will ever play. You will be completing 19 tests (more after the game) while completing the puzzles 
 and avoiding the traps set in each test "chamber". These test start simple like putting a cube 
 on a button and opening a door and going through to the elevator to bouncing a electric ball of 
 structures to it's hub. You get a gun that shoots, well, Portals. You upgrade it later on to shoot 
 2 portals. One Blue and one Orange (Orange Box) portal. These portals will help you accomplish 
 tasks that are physically impossible such as grabbing a cube of and elevator in the middle of the 
 room from the ceiling, throwing it to the ground and then shooting a portal in the ground and one 
 on the ceiling to hit a button. It's worth mentioning that the game is very mind bending at some 
 points and looks that way such as the mirror effect. Ya know then you place a mirror in front of 
 a mirror and then you see a million of yourself behind you in a mirror inside a mirror. Also the 
 game uses velocity and speed to such as jumping into a portal at the bottom of a shaft, and going 
 through another one on a slant in the roof and onto another platform. So also worth noting your 
 wearing heel springs so you don't hurt yourself from extreme drops. Also even though it is only 
 a puzzle game there still is first person shooting involved even though you never drop your portal 
 gun. This involves little cute turrets the need to be thrown or have a block fall on them. So you 
 can die but it's kinda COD4 style health system. Still, Portal is by far the funniest game you 
 can ever play and is just awesome to play trough a few more times before tackling the advanced 
 maps. 
  
  Graphics: The main game takes place in a clean laboratory so you won't see the vast White Forest 
 really. But still the game looks really good even though Chell's model could do a little better 
 tuning.
  
  Music: While Portal really only has a few snippets of music hear and there it's mostly just classic 
 jazz like music and the radio! And Portal also has the BEST CREDIT SONG EVER MADE!!!!!!!! by GLaDOS. 
 
  
  Audio: There really isn't to many sound effects but they are still good all the time. 
  
  Conclusion: 
 Portal is pry my favorite thing in the Orange Box since it is freaking hillarius and worth playing 
 over and over still to get all the hard achievements. IT will only take you roughly 3-4 hours to 
 get trough the campaign itself and 3-4 more for the challenges and advanced maps. 
  
  Team Fortress 2
  
  I just played it myself for about 4 hours today finally since I got my Gold 
 today. Tfort2 is the multi player ONLY piece of the Orange Box. That right
  ONLY MULTI PLAYER NO AI OR BOTS!!!!!!!!! But you can get some achievements by System Linking a 
 match yourself and training.
  
  Plot: lol. There is none. It's Red vs Blue in war.
  
  Game play: Tfort2 is controlled the same as Half Life 2 but is VERY addicting to play with a few 
 modes but mainly the best map is T fort since it is the only Capture the Flag match. You will love 
 it if you are gold. But you pick your class of choice this can be good or bad and you will easily 
 learn which class bests suits you the most. Mine is the Scout, Demo man, and Heavy. Each class 
 is different so be sure to find out which you like. 
  
  Graphics: Strangely the graphics in Tfort2 are cartoon like and are really good still. You will 
 enjoy the laid back killing sprees of Tfort2 all the way.
  
  Music: Other than the victory song and the selection song there is no real music.
  
  Audio: 
 Each weapon sounds really good and really sounds like you would expect like a baseball bat over 
 a dudes head and then you see a dude T bagging you on the respawn wait. Oh good times. 
  
  Conclusion: You are gonna love Tfort2 and I hope I see somebody try to take me down as a demo man 
 one day. 9 kills in a row. Bonk!
  
  You are just gonna love the Orange Box and I can guarantee it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BulletsandBlood
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 26, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  I could babble on and on about how amazing this package of games are, but that would waste both 
 my time and your time, pick up this one. I am going to narrow this down to a few points.
  
  Good
  - 3 games plus 2 episodes for the price of 1 game
  - Half-Life 2 even if you have played 
 it is a reason by itself to own this game.
  - 2 Episodes continuing Half Life 2 that are just phenomenal
  - Portal alone is revoloutionary, 
 Amazing... a FPS Puzzler, you haven't played anything quite like this, humorous as well.
  -Team Fortress, great online FPS, great cartoony visuals and just all around fun.
  
  Bad
 
  -I can't think of any downers, get this sucker
  
  Final Word
  
  I have blown entire weekends with this disc in my 360 just playing the variety of games to choose 
 from, If you aren; t caught up on Half Life you have no excuse now. You can't go wrong with this 
 title, I can; t say this enough. If you don't happen to have the money, rent it, but be prepared 
 for the rental store to be calling about late fee's, you won't want to give this back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Howt_Showt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  It's been a while since I've sat down and just enjoyed a game. Sure, Halo or COD4 are fun, but 
 there's always that pressure of being the best, or getting a higher rank. The thing that separates 
 the Orange Box from these is its focus: Fun. Sure. any game is going to have a competitive edge, 
 but in the Orange Box this is almost inexistent. I'm going to break this up into three parts: Half-Life 
 2 (the original and episodes one and two) , Portal, and Team Fortress 2.
  
  Half-Life 2 is once again back with its second additional episode. For all of you who know the 
 Half-Life series, you know what a great FPS it is. If you are new to the series, the original and 
 episode 1 are conveniently packed in for you to enjoy. For those of you who have loved it from 
 the start, the second episode is no disappointment. While I admit that I haven't spent much time 
 on it compared to the other two games, I do know that you'll be more than satisfied with what valve 
 packed in.
  
  Portal is a completely new and innovative idea for a FPS. No, you do not fight aliens. No, you 
 do not jump out of helicopters or save the earth. You are simply testing the new portal technology 
 at Aperture Science Laboratories. Right away, the fresh new gameplay will feel amazing. As the 
 strange, robotic guide directs you through the different tests you'll notice great ways of using 
 the portal which I could personally never think up (remember, speedy thing go in, speedy thing 
 come out) . You may notice a somewhat sinister sounding quality to the assorted tests, but don't 
 worry about those for now... just keep going and get that cake.
  
  Now on to the third (and in my opinion, the best) of the three: Team Fortress 2. Before this game 
 I was a Halo 3 junkie, getting headshot after headshot on my friends. We were always in competition, 
 always gloating over who was the best at this or that, but now I have this game. Team Fortress 
 2 is a completely new FPS experience. Many people might be critical of the cartoonish graphics 
 or the class based combat, but trust me when I see you WILL get used to it. It does have a distinctly 
 different feel than other FPSs. It'll feel a bit fast and twitchy, but soon enough you'll pick 
 a few of your favorite classes and start racking up the points. The battles themselves can be epic, 
 lasting over an hour until one team makes the last push. Based on the map it will either be capture 
 the flag (winner is first to three) or attack and defend, and both are extremely fun. A good team 
 requires both a good offence and defence, so communication is a must for any succesful team.
  
  Unfortunately, I also have to look at the downsides of the Orange Box. While it is extremely 
 fun, Valve seems to neglect it a bit on the consoles compared to the PC (it is yet to receive some 
 of the patches of the PC version) . You can't tag like you can in the PC version, and there are 
 quite a few exploits to be taken advantage of in TF2. However, these are minimal and I myself rarely 
 encounter them when they are really detrimental to fair gameplay.
  
  Overall, it's hard not to fall in love with this game. It has unique gameplay, some hilarious moments, 
 and new experiences that you don't seem to come around often.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bczican015
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 12:42 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box is one of the most unique games to hit the market this year, and will remain one 
 of the most unique games on the market. Period. The box itself includes, Half Life:2, Half Life 
 2: Episode 1, Half Life 2: Episode 2, Portal, and Team Fortress 2. All are amazing games, and are 
 fun, witty, and entertaining until the moment they end.
  
  Half Life 2
  This game offers a great storyline, whether for new, or returning Half Life players. The game itself, 
 takes a very many twists and turns. Also, the game of compelation of ALL of HL2 is VERY VERY VERY 
 LONG.
  So long in fact, that this reviewer could not finish all of it; oops.
  
  Portal
  Wow, Not much can be said about this game. Other then: WHAT THE F^%?
  Anyways, Play it. Believe. 
 The cake is not a lie.
  
  Team Fortress 2
  Amazing game, great concept and application of many different classes and abilities into a great 
 multiplayer experiance. I believe that this game is one of the best multiplayer games ever made, 
 Hands down.
  
  In summary, its hard to not find something you like in The Orange Box. Everything is worth trying 
 once, so i think that this game deserves to be played by all gamers. Enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DigitalPh33r101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box includes Half Life 2, Half Life 2: Episode 1, Half Life 2: Episode 2, Portal, and 
 Team Fortress 2 all for the price of just 1 game! When I bought it, I had no idea what it was but 
 just bought it because of its great ratings, and now I am really really amazed.
  
  Graphics: 9.5 -- Episode 2's graphics and physics (especially physics) are amazing. Even Half Life 
 2 has awsome graphics and that came out a few years ago for the PC. 
  
  Gameplay: 8.9 -- The gameplay is very good, but the only reason I give it an 8.9 is because it is 
 hard to switch weapons. Maybe that is because you carry like 50 weapons at a time by the end, but 
 using the d-pad just doesn't fit it with me.
  
  Sound: 9.5 -- The explosions are very good and each gun has a cool noise. Also the sound of crowbar 
 hitting metal is different from crowbar hitting wood and crowbar hitting concrete. It just has 
 amazing sound.
  
  Value: 10.0 -- I think 5 amazing games for the price of 1 decent game sounds like the best deal 
 in my life.
  
  Awsomeness: 10.0 -- These are the most awsome games you will evar playyyy!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phxsns1
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games of 2007 and probably one of the best first person shooters ever. 
 First, you get Half Life 2, one of the best PC games ever, along with episodes 1 and 2. That seems 
 like reason enough to buy this game. But wait, there's more! You also get Portal, which is probably 
 my favorite out of the five. Now this seems like just a really great deal. BUT WAIT, THERE"S MORE!!!!! 
 You also get Team Fortress 2! Now this seems like the greatest deal in video game history. 5 games 
 for $12 each?!?!?!!!???!!? It's just awesome. The graphics are gorgeous, the sound is excellent, 
 everything about the game is just perfect. Except the loading times. They can get kinda long, but 
 even that is just a minor problem. If you have any interest in first person shooters, this is the 
 game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volcomstoner180
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  Orange box is amazing... every single part of it. First the half life games, HL 2, episode 1 and 
 2 all great.... already had hl2 for the xbox, and loved every minute of it. Episode 1 was was good, 
 but the real masterpiece was episode 2. So fun, great story and graphics... but the best part by 
 far is the gameplay, I fell in love the physics with the gravity gun again. The end of the game 
 was one of the most epic molments in any game I have played, I feel it was a proper ending to one 
 of the greatest game series I have played. Hopefully they is more to follow. As for the other parts 
 of the game, portal was awesome, a great mix of puzzles, jokes, and dizzying jumps . I only wished 
 it lasted longer. And last but definetely not least TF2, the class based multiplayer. Probably 
 one of my current favorites on the disc, great multiplayer and its all done in really styled out 
 cell shading. The game is just plain fun, nothing too realistic and each class is so fun to play 
 with, my current favorites being the heavy, sniper and engineer. I also like it because I find 
 that the people playing online arent total d o u c h e bags, as you may find in some games and 
 can be quite annoying. 
  Defintely recommend it, one of my favorites on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadlyPlatypus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  First of all you get five games for the price of one. The best bargain in gaming yet. These games 
 are:
  
  Half-Life 2: Sequel to Half-Life, this game blends first-person action, dialogue, and problem solving. 
 It is a great start to an intriguing group of episodes. It is slow at first, but its grip on you 
 grows tighter and tighter as you go along. By the end, you are left wanting more.
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode One: Lucky, the story continues. It picks you up where Half-Life 2 left you 
 off. This episode is pretty much the same as the Half-Life 2, except it is much shorter and keeps 
 you in one area that whole game. It does, however, add some new animations for the AI and one or 
 two new enemies.
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode Two: This is probably the greatest episode yet in the Half-Life 2 series. 
 Again, it looks the same and plays the same but it introduces you to open expanses and epic battles, 
 and a few plot twists. All in all, I would say this is the best of Half-Life 2. It is slightly 
 shorter than Half-Life 2 yet longer than Episode One.
  
  Portal: A clever mixture of a puzzle game and a shooter game. It stands out as the most graphically 
 glamourous part of the package, and is really fun too. You are given a portal-gun that shoots an 
 orange portal and a blue portal onto flat surfaces. Walking through one will transport you to the 
 other. With this device you must navigate through a number of puzzles, under the influence of a 
 mysterious and ominous voice.
  
  Team Fortress 2: I do not have Xbox Live so I have not played this game, but I have heard it is 
 fun, and the other parts of the package are reason enough alone to get the Orange Box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoshuaM55
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  For weeks I was undecided about whether or not to get this game, I managed to see it for a good 
 price, so I decided why not. My only regret was, "why did I not buy it earlier!" In a compilation 
 set such as this, you would expect there to be a couple of bad games, and a couple of bad ones, 
 well not here...
  
  Let's start with everyone's favourite, Half-Life 2. Being new to half life I was unsure of the 
 storyline at first, but once passed this initial first glitch, I started to enjoy the game for 
 what it was, a really good fps. The graphics or mediocre to good, but that is not really a concern, 
 the enemies you face are a challenging A. I. that put other games to shame. There are hidden extras 
 in Half-Life 2, Half-Life 2 Episode 1 and Half-Life 2 Episode 2, with hard and rewarding achievements 
 to accompany them. (Although some are too hard for you actually to be bothered with, as it is only 
 5g!)
  Some examples are having to find all the lambdas in Half life 2, which is great when you go through 
 the game, but if you miss one at all, it is a pain to try and find the one you missed, as it says 
 how many you have got, but not which ones.
  
  All three Half-Life 2s will altogether have you going for about 30 hours, with a couple more hours 
 added on trying to find all those secrets you may have missed, with probably a few more hours added 
 on as you will want to do some of the more fun levels again. If you are a previous Half-Life owner 
 however, Episode 2 may be the reason you buy this, but you will still enjoy playing Half-Life 2 
 again because of the achievements, something the PS3 version does not offer as well as X-box. Being 
 on the 360 too, this enables old PC users to play this game using a controller instead of the more 
 commonly used keyboard. When you compare these half life games to the Pc versions, there is really 
 no difference, so if you already have Half life 2 and Episode 1, you can buy Episode 2 on its own 
 now, so make sure you are willing to pay for both again, or simply to enjoy the masterpiece of 
 a game they truly are again. 
  
  The makers, Valve, have obviously spent a lot of time into making the physics of the game work 
 realistically and easily. This is shown in your gravity gun, one of the weapons that although it 
 has no rounds, you will use the most. The reason, it allows you to pick up objects and throw them 
 at your leisure. This works especially well on level with lots of enemies bunched together, as 
 one saw or sharp object can go through multiple enemies.
  The combat can at times be basic, but others will test your ability to use your surroundings in 
 order to conserve precious ammo, and cause maximum destruction at the same time.
  These Half life games are but together well, and show of the companies hard work. There are both 
 challenging areas to test your mental skills, and fighting sections that due to your lack of ammo 
 at times can be annoying and enjoyable. Most people will enjoy all 3, but it does have its little 
 errors despite all the 100%s this game achieved, but Half life is easily one of the best shooters 
 to grace the gaming world, and it is a must own for FPS lovers
  
  
  Next is Portal, the shortest game in this set, but one that I thoroughly enjoyed, from every last 
 portal I created, to that annoying over voice you actually begin to like at the end of the challenges. 
 This game is something that is properly mind boggling at times, unlike those brain training games 
 The idea is to complete challenges with your Portal gun that shoots holes in the space time continuum 
 to get to different parts of the room or to move objects with.
  It uses the same physics engine, again, as Half Life 2, and therefore objects based challenges 
 are realistic in terms of throwing the objects and placing them on uneven surfaces.
  Although it may sound simple, the challenges will test your accuracy while under pressure, and 
 test your brain so much it will begin to hurt! Portal is short, but sweet!
  
  Finally Team Fortress, the Xbox live only multiplayer game, with a cartoon humorous feeling to 
 it. You have nine classes to choose from in which to beat your opponent with, each totally unique, 
 and you are bound to find your favourite. There are 6 maps to play on, all with unique styles to 
 play it with, ranging from capture the flag and capture the area style objectives. The only thing 
 lacking is a death-match style game, which is easily forgotten about once playing the game for 
 a long period of time. This is the shocker in this compilation for me, and well worth playing with 
 mates for a laugh.
  However, there is a big down side to Team Fortress ", and this is on both the 360 versions and 
 PS3 versions, and that is the lag. Normally I don't complain about things like this, but it is 
 in nearly every game you enter, and can totally ruin a game you having fun in. The lag occurs at 
 any time, no matter how good your connection is. This is such a shame, because this game is truly 
 brilliant in its uniqueness with its cartoon style, and the variety of ways you can play it, but 
 the lag is something you can not escape. Team Fortress 2 is almost a classic, but you will still 
 enjoy the game when you manage to get around this flaw.
  
  Overall, five brilliant games that will have you playing your 360 well into the night, without 
 you even realising. The value for money here is amazing, and the range in FPSs it offers you is 
 great. The best ever compilation game, and a game that although it has its flaws, they far from 
 out weight the good. A must buy for absolutely anyone!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: N8terz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box has got to be the number one game I own on the 360 (as far as shooters are concerned) 
 so far because of its large array of games to select from and immense game play it has to offer. 
 All the games offered in The Orange Box run seamlessly on the popular Source engine. The Source 
 engine is know for its other titles such as Counter Strike Source, Day of Defeat Source, and the 
 acclaimed Dark Messiah of Might and Magic. Personally I consider the Source engine one of the most 
 advanced engines to date. It can handle alot considering what your doing in most of these games. 
 One of the most noticeable would be the physics. Using the environment to kill various beings would 
 have to be one of the most satisfying aspects of the source engine.
  
  All of the games packaged in The Orange box are pretty unique. Even the Half Life 2 series are 
 fairly different as you dive deeper into the adventure of Gordon Freeman. The other titles are 
 Half Life 2 episode one, Episode 2, Portal, and an online multiplayer game called Team Fortress. 
 If your looking for a challenging shooter then you're looking at it. The Half life 2 series are 
 very challenging on the medium to harder difficulties. All in all, The Orange Box offers more than 
 your moneys worth and I'd suggest picking up a copy... right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkinvasion25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  I played half-life 2 on the pc in the past but never never got into it way too much, and was busy 
 with other pc games, but now on the xbox 360, i beat it! and it's about a guy named FREE-MAN and 
 in the beginning of the game there is this guy starts talking to you wake up mr.... FREE-MAN, WAKE 
 UP AND SMELL THE Ashes... and then next thing you know your on a train and there's some guys on 
 it that's getting off the train and then you also can get off with them and there's like a tv on 
 the top of some part on the wall and a then a guy starts speaking named gman and later on people 
 start trying to pick on freeman, sooo, the classic expansion sequel to it episode 1 was just amazing, 
 it continues very well where half-life 2 ended, and i beat it and epsiode two is even better! and 
 also beat it and portal is just amazing and team fortress 2 is a thrilling multiplayer experience! 
 you can pick one of 9 classes like a engineer, a soldier, a pyro, a demoman, a medic, a scout, 
 a heavy, a sniper, and a spy on both teams and it's like enemy territory quake wars, like if you're 
 a medic, you can heal people but it's not a medkit which you just throw on the ground for people 
 to pick up but he has spray like healing gun and there's something called ubercharge and you use 
 when you have 100% of it by healing team mates, and engineer you can build a sentry, it's a turret 
 that can destroy people that get by it and you build a teleporters like a entrance and a exit like 
 for a person to get on the entrance teleporter but when the teleporter entrance charge is at 100% 
 and then get off it with the exit teleporter! and then there's a demoman which he can plant stickys 
 places and there like mines, and he also has a grenade launcher, and then there's a soldier where 
 he can shoot rockets with his rocket launcher and he also has a shot gun for close range and then 
 there's a heavy with a big machine gun and he can go rambo with it, and there's a scout and he 
 can move really fast to get to places and he has a gun called the scatter gun and he has a bat 
 and he can also double-jump and then there's a sniper person which he can use a sniper rifle and 
 so yeah, orange box rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pinguin14
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  My personal favorite game in "The Orange Box" was definately portal. I actually thought that game 
 alone was worth the $60 I payed for the whole package. I never played Half-Life 1 though, so i 
 didn't follow along very well with the Half-Life games; but Team Fortress 2 was fun, even though 
 I thought it got old quick. But this is just my opinion, and I'm sure that anyone who likes video 
 games would find a game to their liking in this package.
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  
  Pinguin 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minghui94
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2008 3:24 am PT
Review:  The good - 5 good games in one in a very cheap price ; portal is a fun unique game ; good graphics 
 and sound 
  
  The bad - you will sometime get stuck in half life 2 ( cause by some glitches ) .
  
  
  The 
 orange box is a 5 in 1 game , consist of 3 port over half life 2 collection , portal and team fortress 
 2 .
  
  
  
  The game is quite cheap , you can buy it at $69.90 , although it is a port over , it is nice . 
 it support nice graphics . the sound is very nice and realistic . 
  
  
  Portal is very unique , totally new way of gaming , but sometime can be fustrating coz you do not 
 know where to go or what to do .
  
  
  The bad thing is , in half life 2 , you can sometime get stuck during mission where you must drive 
 . there was a time i stuck in between some obstacles and can't move , causing me to restart from 
 the last checkpoint . during the part where you drive the buggy , at the part where you must use 
 the crane to move your buggy to a certain area , when i put down , my buggy fly away , this will 
 happen everytime until i load the game .
  
  
  But overall , it is still a nice game ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvilShing
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 6:02 am PT
Review:  The games you get in this box are absolutely great. Its not often youll pay 40 quid for Half Life 
 2 Ep: 1 and 2, Portal AND Team Fortress 2.
  
  As i havent spent long on Half Life, you could get a more expert opinion elsewhere but for what 
 i have played i have seen it is awesome. My favourite thing is the physics engine combines with 
 the grav gun. It gives a realistic touch to the scifi game.
  
  Portal is a very fun game. Im not a fan of puzzle games but the portal gun is just so entertaining 
 i could sit there for hours playing with it. It Could be better if it was a bit longer but i liek 
 it.
  
  Team Fortress two is a multiplayer capture the flag type game. Not meant to be a hardcore realistic 
 game but meant to be a fun game with a comic element. Characters like the spy are so fun, you just 
 disguise as the enemy and laugh as you destroy their sentry guns or stab the enemy in the back. 
 One annoying thing though, is when you take time building a sentry gun and a spy, what you think 
 is a teammate destroys all your hard work.
  
  Altogether a massively long play time for Half Life alone. Imagine how long you would last with 
 the others too...
  
  
  I suggest you buy this game if you like Scifi Shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master-of-Power
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 22, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Five in one. Sounds like the latest anti-bacterial cleaner but just happens to be the greatest 
 gaming deal in known history. Predominately the 'pack' has been praised for the quantity of games 
 on offer, emphasising the incredible value for money to be found here. But no. The value for money 
 truly doesn't come from the quantity as it does the quality. 
  Don't deceive yourself. You're not simply purchasing a package of cheap knock-offs that have been 
 compiled into a set for the mere purpose of consolidating their customers for sheer quantity; I'm 
 afraid if you believe that you're blissfully mistaken. You're staring at three of the most exceptional, 
 solid, addictive and quite frankly mesmerising pieces of gaming products of all time and two remarkable 
 expansion packs for Valve's ever successful franchise, Half Life 2. There are no weak ends, no 
 lingering factors, no crippling issues or features, just pure gaming bliss with no strings attached.
 
  
  Now, of the three games it's almost disconcerting how difficult it is to ascertain a preferred 
 favrioute. You have Half Life 2 and its successors leading the way for the FPS genre, Team Fortress 
 2 for its lush art style, squad based action and unique humour and finally the little gem. There's 
 nothing quite like it, the one the only, pure gold, Portal.
  
  Portal is the very definition of apt and originality. It takes one notion, applies it flawlessly 
 into one of the most memorable, atmospheric game experiences yet delivered and simultaneously manages 
 to clutch your inhibitions spin them upside down and lead you to a gripping finale. Fundamentally 
 Portal is an exceptionally brief but simultaneously incredibly satisfying puzzle game entailing 
 a run through a series of test chambers in the Aperture science enrichment centre facility, totalling 
 19 stages, with a plot running alongside that of the Half Life universe. The aforementioned notion 
 of which confides within the title; if you can't see it I won't antagonise you! Nevertheless, it's 
 applied effectively for a new development and its subsequent mechanics work well as well with the 
 game implementing a perfectly-suited learning curve to teach players efficiently the use of necessary 
 progression techniques such as the fling manoeuvre through the manipulation of momentum. All in 
 all Portal is not a 'simple' game by any means; despite its brief nature. For newcomers, the learning 
 curve will hold repercussions in terms of time taking four to six hours maximum, and for more experienced 
 players a lighter note of three to four. 
  
  Although that is it as far as the single player goes, the replayablity factor is quite solid. The 
 game holds advanced versions of later stages for those eager for more of a challenge, then more 
 difficult still are the challenge modes which stress the player with constrictions on various factors, 
 such as the amount of portals that can be used, the number of steps that can be taken or a time 
 limit being implemented. Even if these don't strike you as significant enough I can guarantee you 
 will go back for another playthrough anyway a minimum of at least two more times, for quite simply 
 Portal's accessibility makes it too appealing to ever merely dismiss. But is it Portal's game mechanic 
 which truly captured the imaginations of widespread gamers and accumulated an unforeseen fan-base? 
 No. So how was it done? Portal's actual genius lies more between the lines or perhaps to be precise, 
 THE LINES. As in the dialogue voiced by the game's antagonist A. I. GLaDOS, that consequentially 
 gives the game its delightful twist of dark humour that never fails to invoke a smile of guilty 
 pleasure on your face; delivering lines you'll always recall and frequently chuckle to in your 
 head; this is truly top-notch voice acting at its peak. In summary, what you have here is an albeit 
 short but accessible puzzle adventurer that accomplishes an astounding feat, it manages to establish 
 itself as being a serious puzzler with the innovative, even revolutionary feature of portals and 
 simultaneously be unbelievably humorous to the point of hilarity. Even despite being isolated and 
 solely alone for the duration of the game characters happen to be oh so prevalent, from the cutesy 
 turrets to the emotion-strewn GLaDOS, the cake and the companion cube (despite obviously being 
 mutes) even establish themselves as very recognisable figures to be associated with the game in 
 the end to play a big part. So I've devoted a lot of review space to Portal, but I don't care because 
 I want you to purchase this game and cherish the little escapade like the cake it is, ever so sweet 
 and ever so moist
  
  Difficulty: Hard (for newcomers at least) .
  Learning curve: Two hours at the most.
  Gameplay: 10/10 Innovation leaves not much fault.
  
 Visuals: 8/10 Clean and solid but leaves a bit to be desired.
  Audio: 10/10 Top-notch voice-acting. 
  Length: 7/10 Brief but doesn't hinder the experience as 
 much as add to it.
  Value: 7/10 On its own it's a little on the short side but that can be forgiven.
  Innovation: 
 10/10 What this was made for.
  
  Overall: 9/10 The pinnacle of gaming achievement; if only there was more.
  
  Next I shall touch 
 on Valve's critically acclaimed shooter Half Life 2 and its expansions Episodes 1 and 2 that make 
 up 60% of the package. I presume I need not touch on the plot seeing as it's the successful franchise 
 it is, but for the sake of those not knowledgeable I'll merely say it's good. In fact it's better 
 than good, it's dazzling! A prime example of how storylines should be told, the pacing remains 
 excellent and the absence of cutscenes really helps render the game atmospheric consistently throughout 
 all three instalments. Characters will instinctively react to your presence and although you're 
 essentially a mute it only adds to the aforementioned atmosphere. The character models themselves 
 are some of the best I've ever seen, faultlessly expressing themselves not only verbally but visually 
 with faces that react with genuine realism; the range of emotions solely expressed through visual 
 indications through body language and the face is truly staggering and will ensure you always acknowledge 
 exactly how everyone is feeling even if they're not expressing it aurally. Saying that this never 
 reaches the point of where there is a lack of realism, characters are only expressive as they need 
 to be, relative to your current scenario; it aids you in actually feeling empathy for all the characters 
 and on that note your enemies. In terms of a PC to console iteration the Half Life series couldn't 
 look much better especially with regards to episode 2 which takes the Half Life franchise to a 
 whole new level not only in terms of visuals but also in its innovation, pacing and overall presentation. 
 It's refreshing to say the least. As previously mentioned, there are no cutscenes, instead the 
 story is progressed by a series of predetermined, scripted sequences but in which your control 
 isn't lost whatsoever (for the most part) and you're free to move around freely with surrounding 
 characters acknowledging where you're standing if they need refer to you. These are all a joy to 
 experience, the calm before the storm, the build-up of tension and the emotional reunions; you'll 
 never mind seeing them one more time. 
  
  In-between these moments there is the Half Life unique brand of gun-play made ever so more exhilarating 
 by the use of Half Life 2's signature, defining weapon, the gravity gun, which quite simply manipulates 
 objects to either place them down in areas to complete puzzles critical to your success or to be 
 used in hurling at your enemies with inflictive force. This is made a joy to do through the wondrous 
 physics engine Valve have utilised, making an objects impact on an enemy contingent on its size, 
 weight and material, its weight by its material and size and so on, being integral to many a puzzle 
 during the games' progress. Unfortunately the weapon gradually becomes ever so more less impotent 
 as the series progresses into the expansions but I only really highlight this because the gravity 
 gun is such a joy to use and as I see it, if its importance wanes it's because other matters are 
 more critical in the course of the later stages. The other weapons in your arsenal are only the 
 more familiar and predictable lot. You have conventional crowbar from the previous instalments, 
 your grenades, SMG, shotgun, pulse rifle, crossbow, pistol, etc, which is expansive in its own 
 right. The crowbar acts as your primary source of melee combat and is rightfully predominately 
 ineffectual. You'll also (on occasion) have access to unique, specified weapons, although these 
 aren't frequent affairs. Vehicle sections are prominent in both Half Life 2 and Episode 2 with 
 the exception of Episode 1. These include water-based bikes, but predominately various cars. In 
 Episode 2 your car will be critical to your success. It's a frantic ride through the countryside 
 that is so refreshing for a FPS you would have thought you were in a free-range RPG. You'll be 
 given indications to stop at various points although you'll feel inclined to explore anyway and 
 never will these indications for scripted sequences be too intrusive. Something else that should 
 be noted is the excellent use of cliff-hangers in the progression from each game. In total there 
 are three, one incorporated into the end of each instalment. Each is done exceptionally well with 
 a real build-up of tension and act as a strong incentive for the player to move on to the next 
 episode. Ultimately, this is quite simply THE FPS. It manages to tell a strong often emotional 
 story while providing gun feisty FPS fans with some juicy meat to chew on. Episodic content may 
 not exactly be the most appropriate form of which to tell the Half Life story, but you can't argue 
 that it contains some of the finest gaming works in gaming history that you should most certainly 
 (if you already haven't ) experience for yourself - even if only for the Episode 2 expansion, you 
 should purchase this today.
  
  Difficulty: Medium (even on 'hard' difficulty FPS newcomers won't be reduced to tears) .
  Learning 
 curve: An hour should provide enough time to get a grip of the fundamentals.
  Gameplay: 9/10 A nie on perfect experience gets repetitive in the expansions.
  Visuals: 10/10 
 Difficult to fault, especially in Episode 2.
  Length: 9/10 Thirty to thirty five hours to be expected from all three, triple the average.
  
 Value: 10/10 Can't go wrong with this much FPS goodness up for grabs.
  Innovation: 7/10 Sure the gravity gun is great but the expansions don't bring much new.
  
  
 Overall: 9/10 If only all FPS's were THIS good
  
  Which brings us to the multiplayer component of the package, Team Fortress 2. Now I'm afraid I'm 
 too young to actually pass judgement on its predecessor but if it was only a fraction of this game's 
 quality it would still be decent. What you're looking at is primarily an online-restricted multiplayer 
 class - squad based shooter with the graphical polish of a Lamborghini (Ed: What?) . Cell-shaded 
 graphics have never really appealed to me. In my (former) opinion, they were merely an excuse to 
 make less work appear 'cool.' Quite obviously my opinions are now pretty much unfounded. Slick 
 and effective, Team Fortress 2 will literally stun you with its visuals; uniquely formulated, I 
 never would have thought it was possible to cram THAT much detail into a cell-shaded game. But 
 enough about the visuals. Being a multiplayer based game, how effective is it? Surprisingly, very. 
 The game offers nine different classes each with their own unique weapons and abilities that can 
 be co-ordinated in-game according to either the player's preference or the situation in game, allowing 
 the player to alternate classes during game for tactical play. These classes include some of the 
 more standard ones such as the sniper and the soldier while the more inventive ones such as the 
 medic, engineer and spy stand tall. Although admittedly there is no outright preferred class, it's 
 all down to how you want to play your match leading to much more emphasis being held on tactical 
 play and replayablity; something that's not especially common with other FPS's on the console market. 
 
  
  According to your gametype you're assigned a map which is specifically tagged to that gametype. 
 And when I say 'tagged' I mean it is the ONLY map for that gametype. That in total leaves us a 
 mere six maps for the time being. You know, throughout this whole review this has got to be the 
 only case where I actually highlight a negative point without any real substantial positive effect 
 also to add in the game's favour. I could possibly say in Team Fortress's defence that same map 
 gametypes lead to more co-ordinated play and an all-round better understanding in terms of what 
 each map and/or gametype will entail making it more accessible to those inexperienced; then again 
 that doesn't really cut it unfortunately. Overall though, I've found my experience to be vastly 
 positive one. The community is exceptionally positive when compared to one such as Halo's and lag 
 is infrequent at most. Quitting hosts can be a problem of sorts, but I've yet to find it a real 
 issue. Humour is something multiplayer games don't have a tendency to incorporate, so I was glad 
 to find out that this game doesn't take itself too seriously. Class specific taunts can accessed 
 via the X button, not that they'll benefit you in any way, (in fact if you used them during combat 
 you would inevitably die in a matter of seconds - which in its essence is what makes them so hilarious) . 
 Something that is implemented extremely well is the 'support point system.' It basically acts as 
 a necessary incentive for use of support classes (engineers, medics, etc) , giving engineers their 
 kills from their sentry turrets and medics from the combat success of the ally they are healing; 
 it makes for a game that is well-rounded, very replayable, very accessible albeit not very varied. 
 
  
  Difficulty: All-rounder (accommodates for experts and newcomers alike) .
  Learning curve: An hour's play should give a strong indication of a class's abilities.
  Gameplay: 
 7/10 You can't fault it that much but it needs to be a little more varied.
  Visuals: 10/10 Cell-shaded bliss.
  Audio: 9/10 Solid with a memorable tune to boot.
  Length: 
 8/10 Should last you a reasonable amount of time as you try out the classes.
  Value: 6/10 A solid component but not one that would rival Halo3 or COD4.
  Innovation: 8/10 Hilarious 
 and aesthetically beautiful, nothing quite like it.
  
  Overall: 8/10 A solid multiplayer component that wouldn't have thrived outside the pack.
  
 
  The game overall doesn't make the absolute most of the achievement initiative with the vast majority 
 remaining to be nothing more than progression-based. Nevertheless, inventive use is made (especially 
 in the Half Life region) of a minority and for once a game does make at least an adequate attempt 
 at achieving their goals in the first place; to act as an incentive for players to approach a game, 
 tackle it in a variety of ways and accomplish and discover more than they would have done otherwise. 
 The achievements total ninety nine spanning all five games, satisfactorily offering enough replayablilty 
 while each have their pinch of novelty crammed in for those willing enough to endure the extra 
 tasks. 
  
  What you're getting for you're money here has left me dumbstruck. Moreover you're getting some 
 of the best gaming moments ever conceived and more innovation than you could ever possibly want. 
 Admittedly, if you're not a fan of the FPS genre I would steer clear of this compilation for ALL 
 the games harbour FPS elements (to an extent) . Nonetheless, perhaps you would still be able to 
 appreciate the more thought-provoking, compelling and captivating gameplay of which there really 
 is nothing to compare. Hilarious, clever, tough and practically in your hand for its price tag; 
 you (subject name here) are a very lucky (species name here) .
  
  MOP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tsunami_pt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I just spent 15 min writting a good review and IE crashed b4 I could post it, so here's the 
 short version:
  
  Portal is great, amazing, revolutionary and funny. Loved to play it. It's concept is fantastic 
 and it's developer's should be rewarded greatly for it. It's only problem is the old engine all 
 of OB is built upon. I'd give it a 9.5/10, for this game alone.
  
  TF2 has a nice art direction, but that's it. Compared to Halo 3 and COD 4, it's gameplay is dull 
 and the game itself brings nothing really new to the genre.
  
  HL2 is a bit old. It was great almost 4 years ago, but now the game has some issues (30 fps, constant 
 loading pauses, not so great graphics) . For instance, if you play it right after you played COD 
 4, it looks like both games are on diferent console generations... And the story, which is suposed 
 to be one of the best in recent videogames, and a reason that made me buy TOB, is not entertaining 
 me so far (I'm on the mid game. Haven't played the expansion yet) . The game also suports a very 
 big part (imo) of it's gameplay in the gravity gun, to show off it's phisics. Though it was nice 
 in the past, it's nothing new now, as other games also give us great phisics.
  
  So here's my short review. Imo, The Orange Box is a great package, considering you get 3 games 
 and 2 expansions for the price of 1 game. But, they are games that look old. Portal is the masterpiece 
 here. The rest is not that fun... 
  
  Imo, if you don't wanna buy this because of Portal, go play Halo 3, Call of Duty 4 or Bioshock. 
 Way better story, gameplay and multiplayer (not in Bioshock, ofc) .
  
  And that's all, folks... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _EXCON_
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box may just be the pinnacle of achievement in console gaming. Actually 5 games in one, 
 it includes Half-Life 2, it's subsequent Episodes One and Two, Portal, and Team Fortress 2. 
  
  Half-Life 2 is one of the most immersion, involving, innovative games I have ever played. With 
 a clever mix of run-and-gun, puzzle solving, and movie-like immersion, I found myself completely 
 drawn into the world of Gordon Freeman, and his mission to save the residents of City 17.
  
  Team Fortress 2, TOB's online component is a quirky, fun-filled shooter with a surprising amount 
 of depth. It's often difficult in team-based online games to get people to work towards a common 
 goal, but TF2 manages to make it work beautifully.
  
  But Portal is where the Orange Box truly shines. Easily the most innovative game to come along 
 in years, Portal is a First Person Puzzle game that absolutely delivers. Though shorter than everyone 
 would like, it provides a challenge unlike anything that we've seen in a long time. Portal alone 
 is worth the price of admission. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lester776
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 5:17 am PT
Review:  its almost perfect for the xbox360 half life series are just so goddam perfect the
  story line is so deep it will just make you think about the next game
  of the half life series 
 (and portal too) 
  
  Portal is just fun too play its fun to play a puzzle game and its so funny 
  the dialog and 
 the Still alive song. The best song ever to be written for a computer game ; )
  
  Team fortress 2 we waited for it and this is what we got
  its just so fun to play on xbox live 
 but lacks map need more map.
  and the classes its just fun to play a class based Online video game 
  
  Half life i love 
 this game much better then Halo series would ever be 
  the story is deep like i said before it just make you think the game play is perfect
  its like 
 this puzzle FPS we just cant wait for Episode 3 ; ) the replay 
  value is not much for me i can finish this game 3-5 times (including the episodes) 
  
  Story 
 9.0
  Sound 9.5
  Graphics 9.5
  Ending 9.5
  Overall 9.6
  
  It lacks a console for cheats like in the pc version 
  And it would be fun if HL2: dm came with 
 the game or would be able to download through Xbox marketplace (for free to any one who owns the 
 orange box) A map pack for TF2 and more down loadable stuff on xbox live marketplace 
  
  This is what i think of the orange box A. K. A the best video game deal ever
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WackoJacko29
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2008 3:47 am PT
Review:  The Half-life 2 games make Call of Duty 4 and Halo 3 look average. The Half-life 2 games seem to 
 go on forever, not that you'd ever want them to end and there are loads of different weapons and 
 enemies, the gravity gun's my favourite weapon by a mile. There's nothing quite as satisfying as 
 sucking up a razor and blasting it into the torso of a zombie, seeing it's body split in two and 
 it's halves flopping onto the floor. At the moment, I have just finished Half-life 2 and started 
 Episode 1, so I don't know much about the episodes. But, in Half-life 2, you are alone for most 
 of the game so fighting zombies in the dark can be quite freaky. The few allied civilians that 
 accompany you for small sections of the game can't fight to save their lives but meeting up with 
 Alyx and having here as your partner makes up for everything. Alyx is Gordon's extremely hot friend, 
 no more, just a friend, which sucks! Not only is Half-life 2 an amazinlgy good FPS, it is also 
 full of tough puzzles which you have to work out to progress through the game. Also, I love the 
 achievement system on the Orange Box, which tells you your progress for each achievement e. g. 5/20 
 headshots.
  Team Fortress 2 is my favourite online multiplayer, now that's saying something seeming as I have 
 Halo 3 and Call of Duty 4. It is an extremely fun and addictive game and I love the cartoony style. 
 There are a range of very different classes to choose from and the maps each have there own game 
 type e. g. 2Fort has caputure the flag.
  Last, but definately not least, is Portal. This is one seruiously smart and mind-boggling game. 
 The physics of it are just legendary. Also, once you; ve finished Portal you can go back to all 
 levels and redo some of them on advanced or try and get awards on them e. g. least portals used 
 to complete the level. Doing these are worthwhile as they give you precious achievements and gamescore. 
 By the way, the cake is not a lie.
  In conclusion, the Orange Box has everything anyone could possibly want from a game. It has taking 
 gaming to a whole new level and is an absolute must buy for any 360 owner with half a brain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasalion422
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2008 1:39 am PT
Review:  The Half Life collection is a great addition to any FPS player's library who hasn't played them 
 yet. It has aged well since it came out on PC and is a blast to play. The story is engrossing and 
 keeps the player wanting more. 
  
  Portal is an awesome puzzle/action game that has some humorous elements. It's mind bending game 
 play will keep you addicted for hours. The story element is a little bland but the challenging 
 puzzles more than make up for that. 
  
  Team Fortress is an online festival of frags. It is stylistic and like nothing else out there. 
 There are different classes to choose from and mastering each takes skill. It plays fast and furious. 
 
  
  All of these games are easy to pick up and play. They have decent graphics and interesting game 
 play elements. 
  
  For many of us money is tight and we can't afford to buy whatever comes along. The Orange Box offers 
 different tastes to satisfy different cravings. None of the games on the disk feel cheap or rushed. 
 If you are like me and enjoy mixing up your genres once in a while, then TOB will be a great value.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrcong
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  Simply, you need to experience the Half-Life series. If you've played games like COD4 and R6V2, 
 and though they were excellent, play HL2. I guarantee you will be awestruck by the cohesiveness 
 of it all. You will find that every character is very believable, you will find you care some characters 
 and really despise others. The world is completely organic (due in part to the amazing physics engine) , 
 each locale makes you feel like you're actually there, and not playing a video game. Furthermore, 
 you cover some serious distance in HL2-Ep.2. Unlike most games, where you travel to different areas 
 via cutscenes, in HL2 you actually DRIVE across huge expanses of land in action-packed vehicle 
 sequences. Also, there are NO cutscenes at all, and you never lose complete control of Gordon or 
 the 1st person perspective. Since Gordon never talks, you always feel like you're actually this 
 epic hero in this dystopian world, fighting for liberation. Really, HL2 is one of the more immersive 
 games ever crafted. The organic environments in conjunction with the superb writing and production 
 values really make the world believable.
  
  As for Portal, it has some of the most wittiest dialogue a video game has ever seen. You will constantly 
 find yourself chuckling at GlaDOS's dry, sadistic lines. The portal gun makes for some brain-twisting (for 
 lack of a better word) puzzles, and, surprisingly, the game has a very intriguing storyline that 
 will pique many questions about the protagonist's role in Aperture Science.
  
  Finally, Team Fortress 2, as the multiplayer portion of The Orange Box, will be a completely fresh 
 experience for COD4/Halo/R6V veterans. You will find the 9 classes as distinct in both their visual 
 design and gameplay aspects. Each classes cancels out other classes, making for an extremely balanced 
 game. This means there will be always be a great mixture of classes represented in each game, and 
 that most matches will be virtual tug-o-wars. TF2, perhaps better than any other game, encourage 
 teamwork for success. If you're looking for a team-oriented, unique multiplayer experience, you 
 will find it in TF2.
  
  Here is the final verdict
  Graphics-10/10
  Gameplay-10/10
  Production Value-10/10
  Sound-10/10
  Value-10/10
  Fun Factor-10/10
  
  Final score:10/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JosemlopesBFly
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  I just don't give a 10 because there isn't a perfect game but this one is really close. But in 
 my opinion or you hate it or you love it so if you buy the game and think that he is bad dont start 
 crying because there is even a demo in the Xbox LIVE of Half Life 2: Episode something.
  
  .-:-; Half-Life Series ;-:-. .-:-; 9.8 ;-:-.
  
  Well, I know that if you are reading this review 
 is because you never played Half Life 1 or 2, because if you did you should know what the game 
 is all about. The story of this game is strong, with a lot of twists and mystery. The only bad 
 part is that you are always running away, I like it but in sometimes it would be good to attack 
 a big combine base just to kill them like in other games. You can see that when you attack there 
 will be always a strong reason to, its not just an attack, its some one's life that's at stake. 
 (I am not English, sorry for bad English)
  The other bad and good part is the scenery, it has a lot of variety but some of them may make you 
 quit the game because they are not the type you like, you can be running away in the city, killing 
 stuff in caves or take a trip to the forest.
  In my case I hated the caves.
  
  .-:-; Team Fortress 2 ;-:-. .-:-; 8.7 ;-:-.
  
  Its finally here and I dont know why I am saying 
 this if I never played the first one, the true about this is that the first trailer was just AWS0M3!
 
  Cartoon players running around doing stupid stuff and killing the other team is just great. There 
 are bad things of course but that's the reason why its a 9.5, its not perfect.
  The selectable classes are great because each one of them is unique, the only more common guy from 
 the teams is the "soldier", its just the "rifleman" in all the other games that you play. It isn't 
 good or bad, its regular.
  And the sad part, there are only 5 (if I remember right) maps and in each one of them there is 
 only one game type for him. The map was especialy made for his game type so you will have a great 
 match in every map.
  Another bad part, ONLY WITH XBOX LIVE!!! Yep, no bots in it, its sad that almost no game has bots 
 included in it. Come on, they are important!!!
  
  
  .-:-; Portal ;-:-. .-:-; 8.9 ;-:-.
  
  Last but not less, PORTAL, another great game that deserves a medal for the inovation and for 
 comedy. I first thought that this game was just a puzzle game with no story, I was MASSIVELY WRONG. 
 The most important thing in this game is the fact tha it has a great and funny story and dialogue. 
 Although the only person that talks is GL4D0S (I think thatn this is "her" name) 
  The difficulty of this game is Just Right because its good for a puzzle game and when you end it 
 you can do it all over but with diferents situations that makes him harder.
  The game is small but you still have the others to complete like the Half Life Series
  
  
 
  .-:-; Counter Strike Source ;-:-. .-:-; 0.1 ;-:-.
  
  You would liked it wouldnt you? I know I would
  
  
  
  Writen by : josemlopes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isaiah247
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  This game packs a huge punch in many many ways. Half-life is a great game and makes you want the 
 story to keep going (which it will) . The whole game seems to be a strategy shooter. Instead of 
 just running from point A to point B with only the bad guys to get in the way, Half-Life offers 
 a lot of strategy and finding your way, exploring different options with some great enemies to 
 mow through with a variety of weapons including your trusty crow bar. It also introduces a cool 
 gadget called the gravity gun which gives you the ability to pick up pretty much anything to move 
 it or throw it at an enemy. The graphics are amazing, the characters are great (one's pretty hot 
 for a video game chick) , and the story is really solid.
  
  Portal is also awesome. You are basically a lab rat going through a maze undergoing problem solving 
 tests to find your way to the next puzzle and eventually try to win your freedom. The one telling 
 you how to do each test and keep you entertained is a computer's voice over the intercom. Definitely 
 a different kind of game, you are armed only with a portal gun, you have to make your own portals 
 to cross impossible obstacles and solve puzzles. I couldn't put it down until I beat it.
  
  Team Fortress is also different but extremely entertaining. You have a selection of 8 or 9 people 
 with different skills and abilities. It was made to look like a cartoon/Toy Story kind of game 
 except when you blow up there are bloody chunks everywhere. This is probably the most team based 
 game ive ever played. If you want to win, everyone has to choose the needed role at the time that 
 they are best suited for like a sniper, engineer, spy (you can disguise yourself as the enemy... AWESOME) ... etc. 
 Defense and offense is huge but so addicting.
  
  These games are amazing and I'm surprised they all fit on one disc. Buy this and you will be entertained 
 for more time than you have to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legend_T
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 was one of the best FPS games created when it came out all those years ago on the original 
 Xbox. And with two PC sequels released it become a phenomena. The games physics, and the very fact 
 of the gravity gun, brought the game to life in a way that was never thought possible before. Everything 
 is real, and most can be controlled by the simple pull on the gravity gun, which is really the 
 big feature of the game.
  
  But the other thing that is so addicting about this game is the story, and how it rolls out through 
 the game, and so you don't feel drowned by plot, or two your not confused as to what is actually 
 going on. With these three amazing games all together for the first time, and as such a cheap price, 
 you would be stupid to say no.
  
  The graphics are still amazing, even after almost 4 years, though in contrast to Assassins Creed 
 and games like that, they are looking a bit dated, but don't let that out you down, as the AI moves 
 the enemies in such a realistic way that you will be in awe as they act life like.
  
  The fourth game in this series is Portal, a small game that stars a gun which can create an entrance 
 portal and an exit portal. It is basically a similar idea to the gravity gun, except with portals. 
 This game takes gaming to a different level, and with a fresh idea that will keep you puzzled for 
 hours this game will do more good than Brain Training on the DS.
  
  I believe that these four games are indeed the future of gaming, with the use of physics the next 
 step after graphics, will game designers soon catch on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snowboarder99
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  I'll have to admit, my first impression of this game when I bought it wasn't very good. I had to 
 push myself into playing further into Half-LIfe 2 and didn't find Team Fortress 2 very entertaining. 
 On the other hand I loved Portal. Now, I consider myself an idiot that I ever once doubted the 
 Orange Box.
  
  Let's start with Half-Life 2. I didn't find this game very fun when I first started playing it. 
 However once I got to a specific point in the game (Will not say due to spoilers) , I simply loved 
 it and could not put my controller down. The story and gameplay is simply amazing and G-man is 
 certainly the best video game character I have seen. Now for the two episodes. The first one is 
 not as good as the other two games, but it is still great. Alyx is the best sidekick in a video 
 game and is very sexy without dressing/acting like a slut. The second episode was the most fun 
 IMO. It was difficult, it was fun, and I was so sad when it was over because I wanted more!
  
  Now to Portal. I don't really know what to say here. It is the perfect puzzle game and this 
 game alone is a reason to buy the Orange Box even if you don't like everything else (Which I doubt 
 is possible) . It's funny, it's clever, and some of the later puzzles prove to be quite a challenge.
 
  
  Ah Team Fortress 2. If you are an Xbox 360 owner who just bought this game and never played a Team 
 Fortress game before or any PC shooter, hear me out. When I first played this game, I almost hated 
 it, it wasn't fun for me, it was hard to aim, and I had no idea what the hell was going on. But 
 I stuck to it, and in no time I got the hang of it. Simply put, this is the best multiplayer shooter 
 I have ever played. All the classes are unique and fun to play and are very well balanced. It is 
 even able to throw some humor in it. The only thing I have to say against this game is, release 
 more maps! 
  
  All in all, you owe it to yourself to buy this game. It has so many great things all in one package: 
 Awesome story, humor, fantastic gameplay, and great characters. Please, go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clone7294
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box is a unique game because it has Half Life 2, Half Life 2 episode one and two, Portal, 
 and Team Fortress 2. The half life games i thought were cool but i got stuck because it is kind 
 of confusing on where to go. I like shooter games so it is still lots of fun. Portal was my favorite 
 of the games on The Orange Box. The puzzles were challenging but it didn't take me long to figure 
 them out but i loved them. I also liked the twist at the ending. I didn't see that coming at all. 
 The only bad thing about Portal is that it is not that fun to play over and over because you have 
 already figured out the puzzles and all. Team Fortress 2 was ok i think. It's a fun multiplayer 
 online game but i thought its kinda hard. I didn't like some of the controls but it was still fun 
 to play every once in awhile. I gave The Orange Box a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diiscubecolorbo
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  the Orange box a collection of 5 full games on one disk is truly amazing. the OB contains half 
 life 2 half life 2 episode 1, half life 2 episode 2 ,portal ,and teamfortress 2.
  
  
  all the half life games on the OB are great very complicated and tough in my opinion yet has a 
 very interactive word of guns and crow bars. the game is preatty good no multiplay preaty goodstill 
 though. some of the game was just kind of shootting guys that got in your path with no missions 
 like in Halo3 and COD4. overall the game is okay. I havent played alot of the half life games they 
 seem fairy good. the vvoice acting is great too. I give all of the half life games a 8.5
  
  Portal, one of the bestpuzzle games ever with its dark humor and weird voice acting this is a game 
 like no other. Portal is a game were as you make portals to solve various puzzles that are very 
 fun. as you go on later in various testchambers in the game there are obsticuls like cute turrets 
 and acid floors. Gladis the computer that speaks to you as you play is very humors in her own dark 
 way. she will say things about you cubes threating to stab you and what not. I give this game a 
 9.0.
  
  Team fortress 2, personlay this is my favorite game on the OB box even though its live only the 
 game packs a bucket full of fun. you go intorandom maches and face people on teams in CTF and A/D. 
 you choose between differnt classes who have speciltys and weaknesses. like there are enginers 
 who build turrets and are fairly weak and theres a demoman that shoots greaneds so on and so on 
 the game consists of alot of team work and never ever gets old. I give this game a 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff917
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Warning: The opinions expressed in the following review are NOT endorsed by anyone at Gamespot 
 or any professional reviewer. I'm not paid for my reviews and I do them for fun. They may contain: 
 Foul Language, Violence, references to farts, A lot of references to the word "Poo" totally bodily 
 function loss, or possibly the total collapse of civilization as we know. Oh also reading these 
 reviews you may feel the need to toss a Midget or start a Midget fight. There is a longer list 
 of things that could happen but I don't feel like posting them here. You have been Warned.
  
  Name: The Orange Box
  
  Difficulty: Just Right
  
  Learning Curve: 15 Minutes
  
 
  Score: 10 out of 10
  
  What can you buy for $60 dollars? Let's see you can: 1 current gen video game, 1 tire for your 
 car, a half tank of gas, 3 spindles of CD-R disk's, 1 hour with your favorite corner girl or you 
 can buy the orange box that has 5 count them 5 video games. That's right true believer you heard 
 right 5 video games on one disk. I introduce you to (Epic fanfare please) The Orange Box, The Orange 
 Box contains Half Life 2, Episode 1, Episode 2 one of the most thought provoking puzzle games known 
 as Portal and one of the most addictive online multi player games known as Team Fortress 2. That's 
 5 games on 1 disk for 60 dollars. And oh my god I can't find a thing wrong with this at all. And 
 the fact that they placed 5 games on one disk, shows that Bungie could have done a lot more than 
 they did with Halo 3. The Half life Episode games basically extend Half Life 2 universe and Portal 
 is basically a test of your mind to see how far you can get. Team Fortress 2 is a interesting take 
 on Multi player. Not a bad take at all for 60 bucks. This game gets a 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reign_six6six
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  If you are like me and you played Half Life 2 when it came out for the original xbox it probably 
 blew your mind as it did mine. And this one isn't any different not only can you enjoy all of the 
 great things half life 2 had to offer but you also get to play episode one and two. A new game 
 called portal (that is pretty wicked) and there is an online multiplayer game also. So for the 
 price of one game you get a whole bunch of goodies. Although the game came out a few years ago 
 the graphics and game play are still better than allot of games that are just coming out. The new 
 episodes are just as fun there aren't allot of new things but there isn't much they can add when 
 everything is pretty much perfect from the beginning. But it is pretty cool after all that time 
 to finally see what happened after Half Life 2 ended. I could go on and on about this game but 
 you need to play it for yourself to understand just how great it really is. So yeah BUY THIS GAME!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rulo_rezn0r
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I know Half life 2 was a great game 2 or 3 years ago, but when I play it right now (2008, games 
 use Unreal Engine 3 etc.) i can feel how old this game is, is not a bad game but after playing 
 Bioshock you can feel the difference, graphically and in the control scheme. In the other hand 
 Portal is a fresh game, with great graphics, controls and fun factor, but its too short.
  Also, you can go online with your friends in Team Fortress, to be honest i was specting much more, 
 like mod support and creation of your own maps, this game is very lacking comapred to all the things 
 you can make on a PC.
  If you can get this game on the PC, i think thats the best choice, but in my personal opinnion 
 i think this package is over-hyped. Old games, lacking multiplayer and a innovative FP puzzle game. 
 Is this worth $60 for you? then go for it, it all depends on your gaming taste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davi16mcmu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  The last shooter that I played before The Orange Box was Far Cry Instincts for the Xbox and that 
 was over a year and a half ago, so I was really itching for a good shooter. Then I finally got 
 my Xbox 360 and my friend told me I had to get the Orange Box. I hadn't been following games for 
 a few months, so I had no idea what The Orange Box was and he said it had five games, including 
 the Half Life 2 series. I stopped listening at Half Life 2. I had always wanted to play that game, 
 but I never had a PC powerful enough to run it. Well, I finally got my chance and it certainly 
 didn't disappoint. 
  
  First off I gotta say that Half Life 2, Episode 1, and Episode 2 are all great. Basically, from 
 the moment you enter City 17 you are on the run and the game never lets up. There's always something 
 after you, whether it be the creepy-looking combine soldiers, zombies, hordes of ant lions, or 
 helicopters. The action is ridiculously intense and on the occasional breaks in action there are 
 some cool puzzles that you have to solve to get to new areas. My favorite weapon in the game by 
 far is the gravity gun. It lets you pick up various objects and hurl them at your enemies. It also 
 has a variety of other uses as well. At first it feels like just a fun novelty item, but as the 
 game progresses you'll find it to be one of your go-to weapons if you get into a jam or have a 
 tough puzzle to solve. 
  
  Another great thing about Half Life 2 is the driving sequences. I usually hate driving sequences 
 in shooters as I find the controls a bit awkward, and I tend to just get bored. The driving in 
 Half Life 2, however does a great job of creating numerous stopping points for you to get out and 
 shoot it out with some bad guys before jumping back in to drive to the next area. So, I found that 
 I didn't get burned out on driving so much. The only thing that bothers me a little is that you 
 can't see your hands on the steering wheel. I know that's really nit-picky, but it looks kind of 
 weird when I am driving and I see the steering wheel or handle bars just moving on their own. Again, 
 such a tiny thing. 
  
  As far as Episode 1 and 2 go, I think they are also sweet. The gravity gun of course gets more 
 action and the story continues. I love Episode 1, because there a lot of tight corridors, so you 
 can definitely get a lot of shotgun action in there. Episode 2 feels a little more open in a lot 
 of sequences and it has some of the most intense action, as there are some great new enemies introduced, 
 called hunters. Episode 2 also has some shocking moments as well involving the various characters 
 that you have come to know over the course of Half Life 2. My favorite part of any of these three 
 games is making my way through the tight corridors and hollowed out buildings of City 17, taking 
 out the Combine soldiers. Also, the last two chapters of Half Life 2 are quite different from the 
 rest of the game and they are a blast to play through.
  
  Then once your done with all the Half-Life 2 games, you get Portal. Portal is a sweet puzzle game, 
 that's kind of hard to describe. Basically you are equipped with a gun and instead of firing bullets 
 it fires portals, which you use to clear the different maps and take out gun turrets. It's a blast 
 and pretty damn funny, but it's pretty short. However, once you beat it there are some cool Portal 
 challenges that you can try including advanced versions of six of the maps. 
  
  Then once you finish all those games there is still Team Fortress 2, which sadly, I have not had 
 the chance to play as my internet connection isn't compatible with Xbox Live. From what I hear, 
 though it's really fun and it will definitely take up hours of your time. 
  
  I'd say that The Orange Box is definitely one of the best values I have ever seen. Even if you 
 can't play Team Fortress 2 there is still about 25 hours of great shooter action and puzzle solving. 
 Plus there are those damn Xbox 360 Achievements, which keep me coming back for more. If you like 
 shooters, then this one is definitely a no-brainer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stupid_Alien
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box is an outstanding collection of five games, put into one disc. Everyone was looking 
 forward for Half-Life 2 and its episodes, but what really was the cream of the crop was Portal, 
 the highly addictive puzzle game. Team Fortress is a lot like most shooters, but here you must 
 be smart about who you be and how you go about completeing your goal. First, lets talk about Half-Life 
 2. Here, you play as Gordon Freeman as he fights the Combine. This game is just as addictive as 
 it was when it came out. The game's most amusing and best weapon is the Gravity Gun, where you 
 pick up anything and use at as a weapon. The other two episodes follow Half-Life 2's story line 
 up until Episode 2. One of the best and most original games was Portal. Here, you play as a lab-rat 
 named Chell armed with a weapon called the Portal Gun and you must get through puzzles devised 
 by the computer GLaDOS. This is where the (creepy) humor of the Orange Box kicks in, and where 
 you need to use your brains to figure how to get to the end of the puzzle. The only downside to 
 Portal is that it is indeed short. Once you beat the game, you then need even more brain power 
 to beat it's even harder puzzles. Last but most certainly not least is Team Fortress 2, the multiplayer 
 shooter. Some people might be turned down by the graphics (which look oddly like the Incredibles) , 
 but everyone knows that graphics most certainly don't make the game. In this game you pick a class 
 out of nine people: Scout, Soldier, Pyro, Demoman, Heavy, Engineer, Sniper, Medic, or Spy. Your 
 objective is based on where you are going to play on, so objectives are a little laid back. Here, 
 you must think smartly about how you are going to complete your objective, such as you being on 
 offense or defense. Are you going to be a Spy and backstab an unknowing Sniper, or are you going 
 to be an Engineer and put a Sentry right above the intelligents? That's all up to you and how you 
 see things unfold. The Orange Box has a variety of games for you to choice from; go play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwntskater
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the greatest games I have ever played, if not THE greatest. I love the Half-life 
 2 trilogy, and Portal is outstanding. I play Team Fortress 2 the most. This is the best online 
 first person shooter I have ever played by far. The different classes encourage teamwork for victory, 
 which is a nice change of pace, compared to the old "more grenades=win" tactic. There are a few 
 minor bugs in Team Fortress 2 however. In some spots on the maps you can go through the walls by 
 jump-crouching, which I hope they fix. The graphics for Team Fortress 2 are awesome. They have 
 a unique artistic flare to them, that no other game has. Instead of trying to make things look 
 as realistic as possible, they made it look sort of like the graphics of Disney movies. Tf2 is 
 also quite funny. For example, if you get shot by a rocket, you will blow up, and the screen will 
 zoom in on the person that killed you from about two yards away. If one of your body parts, let's 
 say your arm is in that screenshot, it will have a sign that says "Your arm" and an arrow pointing 
 to this disgusting bloody thing laying there. I would highly recommend the Orange Box as your next 
 game that you want to buy, no matter what platform you buy it for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G-Ivanski
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 10:18 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box is indeed, without a doubt, one of the best deals in gaming history... usually game 
 packs are just expansions and they can be pretty boring, but that's not the case with The Orange 
 Box... you get FIVE games and they're all great. These games would be: Half-Life 2, HL2: Ep. 1, 
 HL2: Ep. 2, Portal, and Team Fortress 2. You get two expansions pretty much then two new games 
 that arent Half-Life 2. The graphics for all games look pretty neat and this is just a deal not 
 to miss on.
  
  Now I will review each game. (not including Ep. 1 and Ep. 2, just keeping the Half-Life 2 expansion 
 as one game)
  
  Half-Life 2: Perhaps one of the best FPS games of all time. The physics are just SICK and you will 
 just be playing this game for hours and hours to see what happens next. The story can be confusing 
 a little bit at first but if you start to pay attention more, you will get it... then again, I havent 
 played Half-Life 1 so I still dont understand the story fully. But the game's physics are something 
 that make the game really special, especially the gravity gun, which allows you to pick up objects 
 from the ground and throw them at combine soldiers.
  
  Portal: Very fun thought provoking game... some of these puzzles will be having you stuck and frustrating 
 but once you get through them, you will be proud of yourself and reward yourself and solve another. 
 Definitely one of the best puzzle games of all time.
  
  Team Fortress 2: Really good team-based multiplayer FPS. The difficulty is a lot more harder than 
 the likes of Call of Duty 4 or Halo 3 since it's mostly all about teamwork and also there are many 
 different classes and you gotta find which one is for you. Teamwork is definitely key on this game 
 because when you got a good team and you plot a great strategy, you would sure to be on the road 
 to victory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rudy25
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  For sixty bucks you cannot find a better deal on the 360. 3 Very highly addictive games in one 
 package sounds nice right? One of these games has got to be a push over just for filler right? 
 Wrong all 3 of these games are purely outstanding. 
  
  Portal was a suprise for me. I'm not really into puzzle games, but I cannot wait for a sequel to 
 this title (prays) . If you're looking for a great Multi player TF is just top notch action. Not 
 only that but looks like a cartoon while playing it. Limited types of game modes but fun nonetheless. 
 In all honesty I really didn't get into HALF Life but the parts I did play seemed to be very well 
 put together. I just cannot pry my hands off the Multi.
  
  If you have 60 bucks to burn and looking for a game that will hold y your attention for some time, 
 this is one title you will not regret buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halosniper52
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  The orange box is 5 games in 1 for only 60$ ya its the best deal. Most of you have already played 
 the half-life games. But if you have not you in for some great fps's. You got half-life 2, half-life 
 2 episode one, and half-life 2 episode two. The half-life series can be called one of the best 
 fps's and is just so much fun all the half-life's will take you about only 10-15 hours to beat 
 but you will be back to play them more than once. 
  
  Next up is "Portal" this game you play pretty much a lab rat. As you go through lvl by lvl you 
 learn more about why you are here and what is going on. The point of the game is you get a portal 
 gun and you have to port yourself through each puzzle. And there is a final boss battle which is 
 pretty cool. You have to make your way through all kinds of objects. This game is so much fun I 
 have already played through it like 7 times. The game will only take you about 5 hours to beat 
 tho but you will play through this allot.
  
  And last up is team fortress 2 the online part of the orange box. In this game you play as many 
 different classes. There are D classes and O classes there is only a couple of game modes and my 
 favorite mode is ctf like mode where you have to cap the other teams intelligence. This is harder 
 than it sounds tho thanks to the D classes you can be a engineer and set up sentry guns. But this 
 all works out well as there are healers you can play as and make it a little easier to kill there 
 sentry's. The point of the game is really to use team work so thats really cool you have to plan 
 stuff out with your team. The only problem with this game on the xbox 360 is there is a lag problem 
 but they have patched it 2 times and the 2nd time pretty much fixed it but from time to time you 
 will lag out of a game. So hands down this is the best deal in gaming history for only 60$ get 
 it, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xSkrammasx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box, what a deal. 5 games, for $50-60. There are 3 "Half-Life 2" games which help continue 
 the great story and fun game play. There's Portal which probably has the most simplest concept, 
 but Valve still finally finally introduced it to the world. Finally, my favorite, Team Fortress 
 2, or what I call TF2 for short. It is the most addictive game I've ever played online.
  
  First to start are the 3 "Half-Life 2" which have some of the most intriguing story I've seen in 
 a game, but it is still very complicated. There is the G-man who is your employer for missions, 
 but it seems only you can see him. In Half-Life you were in Black Mesa and you let loose aliens 
 known as Xen by mistake. In Half-Life 2 after everything was regained Dr. Breen takes control with 
 his friend the Combine, some alien soldiers I assume. You must help take back City 17 from him 
 with the help of all the rebels. This story continues in Half-Life 2 and HL2: Episode One and Two, 
 three separate games with the original HL2 being the longest. This game is great if you don't have 
 Xbox Live for multiplayer games. These together take almost 30 or more hours if your fast, and 
 even longer if you go for achievements. That is unbelievable since it's only part of the great 
 deal.
  
  Next would be the hard, but addictive game play of Portal. It is very simple, walking through a 
 portal and coming out the other end, yet combine that with objects, buttons, turrets that will 
 kill you, and a fascinating and funny story to boot and you get a great and lovable game. You play 
 as a woman unknown to you, but she somehow ties into the HL2 game. She is a test subject for Apeture 
 Science, competitor to Black Mesa. You have the handheld portal device with which you make a blue 
 or orange portal. You use momentum and speed to your advantage for trickier situations. This combined 
 with the funniest dialogue from your robot observer, GlaDOs, and you have funniest time of your 
 life. This is not to say it is easy though, I turned on cheats because it was too confusing sometimes 
 that I gave up. I only spent a minute though while anyone else could spend more time than me. The 
 story, sadly, is short, only combined with the extras and some patience from you can it be longer 
 than the normal game.
  
  The final and the best game I have to say is Team Fortress 2, or TF2. It has some of the most addictive 
 multiplayer game play I've seen and played. I play this more than Halo 3! It doesn't have a story 
 mode or background to it which is ok because if it did, it would probably be improper and a lame 
 add-on. It is only multiplayer, sorry for those without Xbox Live: (. Only 6 maps which is kind 
 of a hold back rather than he PC version with player created maps. Although once you find your 
 favorite map you'll be hooked, mine is Dustbowl and then 2 Fort. I've spent over 20 hours on just 
 one class. There are 9 classes all with their own special abilities. You could play Engineer and 
 build a sentry to protect your base, or you could be the spy who disguises as a enemy and gos over 
 to the enemy base to kill people or destroy sentries with their damage over time dealer called 
 a sapper which can greatly help your team. This game just simply is awesome, only held back by 
 lack of maps, graphic issues, and glitches which are mostly used against you, such as skywalking 
 or putting things in random areas for extra help to guard places. I still look past this and look 
 to it as the greatest game on the Orange Box.
  
  What else to say? 5 games, $50-$60. A great deal that no one should pass up. This can only not 
 be a perfect 10 due to little knit pickings. If I could a 9.7 or 9.8. I just hope they decide to 
 do this again when Episode 3 comes out but with more additional games such as the original Half-Life. 
 I say this is the end, but I look forward to the future for Valve's next sequels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vivalabuck92
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  Alright. The Orange Box, as many people should know by know, is a collection of Half Life relation 
 games. It contains 5 games: Half-Life 2, Half-Life 2: Episode 1, the new puzzler Portal, sequal 
 Half-Life 2: Episode 2, and the long awaited sequal to one of the funnest multiplayer team shooters, 
 Team Fortress 2. Now of course you know how Half Life 2 and Episode One are by know, but what about 
 the others. Just one word needed: Awesome. Episode Two is probably the best episode in the Half 
 Life 2 saga. Portal, would have to be one of the greatest puzzle games I have ever played. And 
 also one of the funniest with its "Still Alive" song. And of course, Team Fortress 2 does not fail 
 and makes huge updates with new class modes and multiplayer modes. Overall, The Orange Box will 
 last you while regardless you have Xbox Live or not. Its one of the best game collections to date. 
 I give it
  
  10
  __
  
  10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DISCOSTEW360
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  This game is awsome, & I mean awsome!!! It has 5 games for the price of one, my favorite FPS ever, 
 Half Life, & the most innovative and fun puzzle game for me to play, Portal, which has awsome graphis 
 and gameplay.
  Half life 2, ep 1, & ep 2 have huge environments, good lighting & graphics, great story telling, 
 good AI, awsome gunplay, amazingly deep & interesting characters you'll grow to love, & Half life 
 2, ep 1, & ep 2 put together will take you at least 20-25 hours to beat. Hands down, It's just 
 an amazingly addictive fun game.
  
  
  Portal is probably just as good. Wonderful graphics, brilliant puzzles, an interesting story, Glados, 
 the funniest, most intereting character in the game. The only problem I'm sure everyone hates is 
 that it's to short!!!!
  
  TF2 I'm not sure about, because I don't have XBL, but I can only say the cartoony animation is 
 pretty cool.
  
  Final verdict: GET IT NOW!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aifo
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  Let alone this package is a lot more valuable than its price tag. And I have a felling the Director 
 of Half life wants to spread his artistic view of future and video games through these kind of 
 packages, his aim is not just the profit (although they gain that in the process) but to look at 
 these games in an artistic view.
  The real amount of money you would usually spend for a game like this one is 200$
  and I would 
 feel it to be justified.
  The experience you get from playing portal alone is worth 60$ and I would not hesitate to call 
 it an independent game by itself worth that amount of money.
  Even if you are not into games (but I guess you are considering your in a video game website) This 
 package will change your view toward video games.
  You will know how the future hides a new generation of immersive experiences farther than any movie 
 can take you.
  Some of the main differences between movies and games is you get 60 frames per settings at the 
 screen witch gives you an astonishing realism you can never find in any movie (at least for now)
 
  and of course you being the player makes the impact heavier.
  Valve have focused on these two major essentials for making a video game and created a game like 
 no other.
  
  Half life 2 is pure art, and its not a game just for gamers
  it's for any intelligent human being. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jakeoula
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  When I opened The Orange Box (yes the box is orange) I was confused to see that there was only 
 one disc on the inside. I said to myself "Hmm that's odd they must have forgotten the second disc". 
 I popped the disc in my xbox 360 and got the menu. Like it said on the back of the box it included 
 5 Valve games (I didn't think one disc could fit that) . Well I didn't know what game to choose, 
 Team Fortress 2, Half-life 2 (episode 1 and 2) or a game called portal. I have actually never played 
 any Half-Life before so I was excited to check it out. I chose Half life 2. I started playing and 
 realized that this game was more of a action movie then a game, the voice acting is amazing, the 
 shootout sequences are intense but one thing that is also like action movies is that it was over 
 fairly quickly. As the credits rolled up I was amazed and was instantly converted into a Half-Life 
 fan. I wanted to play more and luckily thats what the orange box helps with. Before I move on I 
 have to tell you all that the only problem with Half-Life 2 is the textures are rough around the 
 edges at times but it doesn't really affect the full aspect of the game. Well ... Half-Life 2 Episode 
 2 is just as epic as the first, and now they got the textures right! The game play is also much 
 better and smoother then the previous game. The character design is sharper and I found the story 
 line much more suspenseful.
  I have not completed Episode 2 yet but as far as I am it takes the game to a new level with more 
 challenging puzzles with the gravity gun and better combat. Next on is a little gem of this game 
 ... Portal. The game is is I think the first FPS puzzle game, and boy does it do it well. Like 
 Gamespot says the game is very humorous in a odd way. Gladius the AI who guides you the entire 
 way hints that she will murder you in the end of everything in a very hilarious way. The portal 
 gun is very intresting and will grab puzzle game fanatics attention. With it you shoot portals 
 at walls and use them to get to the ending door, this is very smooth to use but can get annoying 
 trying to get it to work at times. The graphics for Portal are pretty nice, almost exactly like 
 Half-Lifes except the colors do get dull with all the gray (yes I know it's supposed to be like 
 that)
  Well I am moving onto the last game on the list and it is the only Xbox live compatible game. I 
 am a die hard Xbox live fan so I was pretty excited to play this. I started playing and was pretty 
 impressed to see a nice amount of classes which all have their own unique set of abilities. It 
 all went downhill from there. I soon figured out that the game only contained 6 maps, the maps 
 were okay but not enough to fill in the lack of places to play. Also the maps have the all the 
 same kinda feel for me. I could tell they rushed the game. An upside with the game is the graphics. 
 I liked the feel of Pixar film with decapitations. 
  
  
  Overall this game is vast & contains something for almost everyone!
  
  PS. The only reason 
 this game received a 9.0 instead of a 10 is because of my disapproval on Team Fortress 2 (remember 
 this is my opinion) . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodlust007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box contains four single player games mainly Half-Life 2, HL2 ep.1, HL2 ep.2 and Portal, 
 To go for your multiplayer needs their is Team Fortress 2. First thing I want to say is Valve did 
 a splendid job on this one. All the five games runs smoothly and perfectly, nothing more you can 
 ask.
  
  Now let's start with HL2, I happen to be one of the few who still haven't played it (surprising 
 I know) but being a game released on 2004 it looks and plays amazingly by far the best of all the 
 three HL2 released, but it's not my favorite . HL2 ep.1 was weakest and shortest out of the three 
 but was still worth playing, and not just for the achievements. HL2 ep.2 was my fave out of the 
 three. I don't know, but it contained the most amazing moments combined with the best action and 
 encounters ever seen on half-life. Portal also kicked ass, it will make you think (especially the 
 challenge levels) , challenge your reflexes, and also give you the laughs. You'll understand the 
 story which is kind of creepy and weird once you advance on the later levels and GLADOS was the 
 best, especially on the credits. On Team Fortress 2 you really need live because this is an online 
 game. It's fun to play, wasted long hours playing this one and it's not hard to get used to the 
 gameplay and the choice to pick your class like heavy gunner, sniper, engineer, spy and etc. is 
 perfect, is class is balanced.
  
  Orange box will give you quality and quantity the best way possible. You will surely find your 
 favorite game here or quite possibly you'll like them all. Now if your thinking you have already 
 played half-life 2, you'll want to play them all over again, that's for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason320
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games you'll find on the 360 and any other platform. You might think that 
 this game isn't really graphicly amazing since it has older games like Half-Life , but games like 
 those still look, sound and play amazing. The new games out of the five are Half-Life 2: Episode 
 2, Portal, and Team Fortress Two.
  
  I was really happy when i saw how much variety there was in this game. You have three amazing sci-fi 
 first person shooters, a first person puzzle game (portal, which is funny and innovative) and Team 
 Fortress Two an amazing multiplayer mayham capture the flag type game. You also get alot of bang 
 for your buck.
  
  This game has a few if no problems that many other games suffer from. It's artisticly and graphicly 
 stunning, it sounds real and great, and has an undiniably super fun gameplay. The Orange Box is 
 a must have for any fps fan or someone looking for a great game that owns a 360, pc or ps3. Go 
 out and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zm33
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  the storyline is interesting and big enough to keep u entertained for quite some time there are 
 also a good deal of weapons and the Ai is good, the puzzles are confusing but fun to do , sometimes 
 its also confusing where to go, but thats what makes the game interesting and weapons also look 
 realistic, the difficulty is normal as some enemies klike the guardians are hard to kill (in the 
 xbox version) , but in the pc it s easy to play anfd I think it is only meant for pc and hl2 has 
 won my heart as I always vhaving fun palying it  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeonNinja
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 11:47 pm PT
Review:  Gamers know Valve and they know them for a few reasons. One of these reasons is Half-Life, the 
 other are all the delays that follow their games. Now gamers will forever remember Valve as the 
 studio that gave them the greatest deal in gaming history. There should be no doubt in anyone's 
 mind as to what The Orange Box represents, but if there is then let me end it here: The Orange 
 Box is the single greatest quantity of the highest, quality gaming ever released. There is no exception.
 
  
  The first thing you will notice when booting up The Orange Box is that you aren't given a list 
 of options to select from, but rather, a list of games and from their you enter the normal options. 
 It's insane, knowing that no matter which game you choose or prefer that there will always be something 
 in The Orange Box to please almost anyone, whether it's a deep single-player experience, a deep 
 puzzle experience or a deep team-based multiplayer experience The Orange Box is just deep.
  
  The first game on the list is also the oldest, but also one of the greatest games of all time, 
 Half-Life 2. Originally released in November of 2004 Half-Life 2 was a revelation in how stories 
 in games should be experienced, providing a grand, sci-fi tale with a slick physics system and 
 the best facial features in any game at the time. In fact, the majority of games today still can't 
 match Half-Life 2's facial expressions; even the likes of BioShock and Halo 3 fall short. However, 
 Half-Life 2 is over three years old and it's age shows. For one, the graphics and storytelling, 
 both of which were two of its strongest assets feel dated already. While Half-Life 2's facial features 
 still rock, the graphics as a whole aren't as amazing as they were back in the day. They're good 
 enough for gamers to still believe the game can contend, but it's no Gears of War. Of course, the 
 storytelling may have been great in 2004, but if you've played BioShock before Half-Life 2's story 
 will feel like just another story.
  
  One other point of contention is that Half-Life 2 lacks any major set-piece firefights. While other 
 shooters have had them scattered throughout, like F. E. A. R., and Gears of War and Halo 3 manages 
 to be one huge firefight followed by an even crazier firefight, Half-Life 2 just manages to give 
 the gamer small encounters.
  
  Admittedly, none of these are actually flaws of Half-Life 2, and anyone who has played the game 
 before on the PC, or even the Xbox port, will tell you that it is an amazing shooter. If you've 
 played it before then you know how amazing it is and it is worth going back and playing it again 
 for either a story refresher or the achievement points. But if you've never played Half-Life 2 
 before it might be a little too late to think of it as such a grand revelation due to its own age. 
 But as a whole, Half-Life 2 is still better than many of the shooters on today's market and saying 
 that about a 3+-year-old game is more than just a compliment.
  
  The second game on the list is one that is still relatively new. Half-Life 2: Episode 1 was originally 
 released in 2006 so from a gameplay standpoint it most definitely feels more fun than Half-Life 
 2 did, simply because it's newer so the level-design feels better, the enemies smarter and the 
 action more fun. Of course, the game is only about three hours long and serves an introduction 
 for the Half-Life 2 episodes. However, it is extremely strong in its character development. While 
 Half-Life 2 didn't do as much to make me personally care for the characters in it, Episode 1 will 
 have you believing that Alyx Vance is the coolest chick, ever. You begin to feel for the scientists, 
 for the humans and the Vortiguants. In that regard, Episode 1 succeeds in making a strong build-up 
 to the true meat of the package.
  
  The third game on the list is easily the greatest game in the entire package and it as a standalone 
 game would have been worth a full price of admission. This game is The Orange Box and everything 
 else is merely a bonus. That very game is Half-Life 2: Episode 2, one of the best FPS games ever 
 released. The game is short, being part two of three, but easily twice the length of Episode 1. 
 It is a true, contemporary masterpiece. Episode 2 constantly provides thrill after thrill with 
 some of the most intense and memorable firefights the series has ever seen. If Half-Life 2 lacked 
 any major set-piece firefights, Episode 2 more than makes up for it with a constant stream of them 
 that will always make you stop to just breathe. It is an intensely dramatic game, finally allowing 
 the story of the three episodes to climax as you reach the action-packed finale. If Episode 2 serves 
 one purpose it's that it proves that not all games need to be 20 hour long retreads through repetition, 
 but rather, six hours of insanely fun, never dull, absolutely intense, white-knuckle, shooting 
 action.
  
  Upon completion of Half-Life 2 and its two expansions, the bulk of the game will be completed, 
 with around 20+ hours invested in some of the best single-player FPS action around. But the fourth 
 game on the list, clocking in at around three to six or seven hours depending on the player will 
 serve as a nice break from shooting. Portal is the newest game of The Orange Box and the only game 
 that isn't a sequel. Many have fallen for its wit, charm and simple gameplay idea that completely 
 change the way puzzle games are played.
  
  Suddenly you're the lab rat, and it's your job to complete every test there is to, wait for it, 
 get a nice, moist piece of cake. It's absolutely absurd, but that's far from the point: Portal 
 is not only the deepest and best puzzle game released since the original Tetris, but it's also 
 the funniest game released since, well, it's been a long time since a game has been this funny.
 
  
  The idea behind Portal is that you have a gun and it shoots. Of course, you don't shoot bullets, 
 but rather portals, one to enter through and the other to exit through. It's your job to use those 
 portals to solve the various puzzles that GLADoS, the game's hilarious female AI that constantly 
 eggs you on to your sweet, sweet piece of cake, has in tow for you.
  
  Puzzle gamers will be in heaven with Portal, it's truly a great addition that helps add to the 
 variety found throughout The Orange Box. Of course, with the Half-Life 2 games and Portal many 
 gamers will be content as they are, especially those who don't play online. All four games are 
 amazing and good fun to play, but there's also a different crowd out there, one that wants to play 
 with others.
  
  This leads us to the fifth and final game in The Orange Box, Team Fortress 2. The game is quite 
 literally the deepest multiplayer experience found on the market right now. Team Fortress 2 has 
 been years in the making, but what makes it pop out for many gamers isn't that it's a team-based 
 multiplayer game, but rather its Disney/Pixar visuals. That still doesn't stop the game from being 
 great fun for those who play the game.
  
  Personally speaking, I don't exactly enjoy team-based games, but even just the shooting in Team 
 Fortress 2 is fun. However, those willing to commit to the game should have a blast discovering 
 the nuances of each and every class, even if the game only shipped with six maps. Despite those 
 six, the game will still feel new depending on how you play, which proves the game's depth.
  
  However, all of the games were clearly designed with the PC in mind. Now that isn't a bad thing 
 per se, but it does make for some awkward weapon switching. You'll have to hold down the d-pad 
 and then start tapping in various directions to select your weapon. It isn't smooth and it doesn't 
 flow very well either. It's a minor complaint, but it is more than noticeable. But aside from that, 
 there are few complaints worth bringing up with a package as amazing as this.
  
  As a whole, the visuals in The Orange Box manage to impress. While Half-Life 2 feels a bit dated 
 by now, it still manages to look better than it did before due to the slight improvements and touches 
 that Valve put toward it. And of course, Episode 1 and 2 manage to look rather stunning, creating 
 a crumbling cityscape, crawling through antlion caves and driving through uninhabited forests. 
 On the other hand, Portal, which uses the same graphics engine, manages to create bleak and dull 
 test chambers that all have the same color-scheme. However, due to the game's very premise, it 
 manages to feel vibrant and alive. Of course, no game feels as vibrant as Team Fortress 2, with 
 its lovely art direction. It isn't even that the game is cel-shaded, but rather that the characters 
 themselves feel completely unique.
  
  The music is also awesome. Whether it's Portal's hilarious ending theme "Still Alive" or the sweet 
 tunes of the Half-Life games that just manage to get you more and more pumped to shoot enemies 
 in the head. The sound effects are and always have been in the case of Half-Life 2, spectacular. 
 I've never used a gravity gun, nor have I launched a giant saw at zombie, but I do believe that 
 the sound it makes when cut in half is just good enough.
  
  If you don't own The Orange Box then you're making a statement: you like to be ripped off. Let's 
 face facts, Gabe Newell must have been insane to come up with the idea of throwing in the 2004 
 PC game of the year, it's two expansions, an innovative and unique puzzler and the deepest team-based 
 game released in recent memory and to go and sell them for the price of just one game. But above 
 all else, The Orange Box itself is a testament to Valve as a studio, showing that these guys and 
 gals are some of the most creative and talented bunch in the industry. Just about anyone should 
 find something that they enjoy in this package; it's simply the greatest deal in gaming. Without 
 a doubt, Valve have made Orange the new Gold standard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nehine
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 10:32 pm PT
Review:  only reason why you wouldn't buy this game is because you've played them and beaten them already. 
 or you have it for PC. if you own an xbox 360 and you haven't played half life 2 yet... or portal... 
 buy this. portal is the icing on the cake, and the fact that these games are all on one disc... 
 is the cherry on the top. this isn't an in dept review because i don't have time to list all the 
 great things about this game. if you have looked at the game and thought to yourself "hmm that 
 looks cool" then you should buy it. you won't regret it. the difficulty varies, and you can spend 
 countless hours playing this game. actually countless hours playing all the games... portal is 
 one of the coolest games ever made. and the elusive computer voice that taunts to about 'cake' 
 is an instant classic. this game has the best 'end credits' song ever. all the half life 2 games 
 are single player, as well as portal. but team fortress adds the multiplayer into the package. 
 only reason why it doesn't get a 10 is because there is no deathmatch... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jg4xchamp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  A distrubing trend with next gen games has been the value of these games. Many of them are just 
 short and any of there additional content is usually pointless or mediocre at best. So it is nice 
 that Valve put in the effort to create one of gamings best deals The Orange Box. 
  
  The Orange Box consists of 5 games. 3 of them new, and 2 of them old. The older games are Half 
 Life 2 and Half Life 2 Episode 1. The 3 new games would be The new episode of Half Life, Episode 
 2, the sequal to one of the best class based multiplayer games Team Fortress 2, and what is arguably 
 the most creative and fun game this past year Portal. 
  
  We'll start with the old stuff first. THe entire game runs of the source engine from Half Life 
 2. SO visually this game does look good, but not as impressive as some of the more newer games. 
 However visuals aside Half Life 2 is still a brilliant and immersive first person shooter. If you 
 have yet to play this game, now you have a great reason to give this game another shot. Half Life 
 Episode 1 is more of the same but more of the focus is on Alex. 
  
  A few negatives i feel like putting in has to do with the gameplay of these 2 games on the gamepad. 
 Half Life 2 controls well on PCs, it controls good on 360/PS3 but sometimes it felt a bit clunky. 
 The shooting sequences were rather meh when compared to some of the newer stuff out there. Also 
 the vehicle segments could have used some more work as the vehicles have some awkward controls 
 on the gamepad. However Half Life 2 is entirly saved by the gravity gun, some really good AI, some 
 great action/puzzle blends, and one of the most immersive experiences ever put onto a disc. 
  
  So going forward with Half Life 2 Episode 2. Its Half Life 2 refined. The gameplay is as good 
 as ever, the immersive story is there, and the vehicle sequences are back from the main game that 
 were missing in Episode 1. THe game picks up where Episode 1 left off. Gordon and ALex have escaped 
 city 17, however they are still being chased by the combine. THrough out the game you will mostly 
 end up being alone as Gordon and Alex split up frequently. One of the best additions in this game 
 is probably the new vehicle. Its extremely fun, fast, and an overall blast. THe controls on a gamepad 
 could once again been better when compared to how smooth the warthog runs in Halo, but no complaints 
 when the controls are good enough. THe final sequence is done in a huge open area that honestly 
 is Half Life 2's finest moments right now. By the end of episode 2, you cant wait for what Valve 
 has instore for us with Episdoe 3. 
  
  This game alone could live off THe 3 Half Life 2 games. But THe other 2 games are no slouches. 
 
  
  Negatives first. 
  
  Team Fortress 2 might be the weakest game here on the console version. Its limited and doesnt have 
 the community the PC is bound to have. That aside the gameplay is fast and frantic. ITs quirky 
 visual design is really cool. It controls extremely well. The only complaint here is that there 
 are only 6 maps. Which either consiste of CTF (although you actually get a briefcase) and a territories 
 type gameplay. WIth no deathmatch which is a shame. Hopefully the game gets more content as the 
 MP game mechanics are very good. The different classes all feel awesome. From the heavy, to the 
 pyro, the engineer. This game offers enough variety that you can play to your style, or even switch 
 your style up. For PC fans id say rejoice. THe modding community and the Team Fortress fans will 
 keep this game going for years, or atleast until a proper sequal is released. 
  
  FInall Portal. This is a rather simple game. Its a First Person Puzzle game. You are given a portal 
 gun and are basically meant to go through each chamber and complete the puzzle until you get to 
 the end. It seems easy and simple. But the game gets really challangin around the advanced levels, 
 and the different situations presented will force you to think up some different ways to get things 
 done .Such as the angle you put the portal in and the amount of speed you carry going into the 
 portal. What really puts this addictive game over the top is Gladious. THis game is probably the 
 funniest game out there. If there is one reason you will finish this game, its to see what this 
 voice will say next. SImply put its some of the funniest writing and dialogue in gaming. On top 
 of that the credit song at the end is one of the best. 
  
  IF there is one thing that describes the Orange Box it would honestly be what gameinformer used. 
 A Thanksgiving Feast. Half Life 2, Episode 1 and 2 would be the turkey. They are the bulk of the 
 meal. They represent the majority of the meal and in this case the majority of the Orange Box. 
 Team Fortress 2 would probably be the stuffing or the mash potatoes or whatever else you have on 
 the side. Its more of a nice addition than it is its own amazing game. And Portal would be the 
 desert. The best part of the meal, the thing you look forward to most. ITs the quickest thing done, 
 but its the most satisfying. 
  
  Final Rundown
  
  Graphics- 8- Game looks really good, but compared to other games on the 360 and PC the source engine 
 seems a bit dated. Although with animations this good, team fortress artstyle this impressive there 
 isnt much to complain about
  
  Gameplay-9- The shooting sequences in Half Life 2 arent the best, but are great. THe gravity gun 
 is just awesome, the puzzle/action blend is brilliant, the vehicle sequences can be a blast but 
 clunky. Team Fortress 2 lacking a deathmatch is far outweighed by the fact that the class system 
 is done very well, there is a ton of variety, the game is pretty fast paced and its just a load 
 of fun. Portal is extremely addicting and creative. Making this one of the best gameplay experiences 
 on the Xbox 360/PS3 and the PC. 
  
  Sound-10 the voice acting in Half Life 2 and Portal are phenominal. THe sound effects are top notch 
 as well. The score isnt to shabby either. 
  
  ConceptIntangibles- 10- Few First Person Shooters have the immersiive great storytelling of Half 
 Life 2 and its episodes, and few games are as funny as portal. Throw in the overall creativity 
 of the game like portal, the fact that this is 5 games in 1 nice package, and nice changes to the 
 environments to the Half Life 2 formula and you can see Valve really out did themselves here. 
 
  
  Value-10- Find a better deal than this, I dare you. 
  
  Tilt- 10- Few games can be this fun, offer this much content, and have the gaming pedigree as good 
 as Half LIfe 2. If you need this to be more simple. Just go out and buy this game. You wont be 
 mad. 
  
  Overall 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamcool4life
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 10:36 pm PT
Review:  So as a Half Life player for about 2 years now I would say that this game is very good.
  
  Half Life 2 - This game basically just sticks with the computer version with some spiffied up graphics. 
 The game play and story are the same. Brings back memories.
  
  Episode One- I never got to finish this on the PC but i did manage to finish this on my friends 
 360 in about two days. Good game play, storyline, graphics, and just about everything else.
  
  Episode 2 - This is just like all the other Half Life's but it still has that need that makes 
 you want to play it even more. The story lines good, but then again all of them are good. I enjoyed 
 this game a lot.
  
  Portal - Challenges the mind with a brief but funny storyline at times. Short and sweet. I did 
 get stumped on the puzzles but i figured them out eventually.
  
  Team Fortress - I don't know what to say about this game. It's very addicting and once you figure 
 out what characters your best with then it gets to the real fun. Not many modes to choose from 
 but for some reason it dosen't get repetitive at all. Or at least i didn't think so. The graphics 
 are a change of style I don't know how to explain them but they are good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDuskwalker
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box is a collection of 5 games: Half-Life 2, Half-Life 2 Episode 1, Half-Life 2 Episode 
 2, Portal, and Team Fortress 2. It's being considered one of the best deals in gaming history, 
 but is it really? Find out in this review.
  
  Unless you have been under a rock for the last few years then you should know what Half-Life 2 
 is. It was 2004 game of the year and is considered to be the best first person shooters of all 
 time. It was ported a year later to the XBOX which was still good but was bogged down by a slightly 
 poor framerate and downgraded graphics. Now it returns along with both it's expansions and 2 more 
 games in this collection. 
  
  Gameplay:
  Half-Life 2 + Episodes: Half-Life 2's gameplay still holds up great by today standards, and is 
 arguably the best single player FPS experience to date. Playing around with physics with a gravity 
 gun, to smashing someone in the face with a crowbar, to fighting massive striders with a rocket 
 launcher, to picking up saw blades and cutting a zombie in half with the gravity gun, to running 
 over enemies in a buggy or hovercraft, the variety of gameplay is truly amazing. Episode 1 is the 
 weakest link of the Half-Life 2 games since it starts slow with mostly platforming, puzzles, and 
 gravity gun stuff, so it takes awhile for things to get started. Then when things finally get started, 
 and you finally get a gun, then it's running around in dark and small areas for awhile doing sometimes 
 tedious puzzles like the super fun "find then flip the switch" to "use the gravity gun to put a 
 car over the hole to stop enemies from re-spawning" stuff. The later portions of it when you finally 
 get outside in urban environments is pretty fun, but Episode 1 is over so fast you won't really 
 care. What it did do interesting though was that threw most of the game you are with Alyx working 
 together and she has such good AI that it never turns into a escort mission or you having to babysit 
 her, just continue on as normal and she will be alright. Episode 2 is truly the fine point of the 
 package. It's challenging, intense, and a whole lot of fun. It expands on having a AI partner of 
 Episode 1 and improves on the vehicle sequences of Half-Life 2 by adding some large outdoor areas. 
 To top it all off it has one of the best, if not the best, final shootouts ever in a FPS or in 
 any game in general and a ending that will leave you nearly in tears making you wish Episode 3 
 would be out sooner. Only real complaint about the Half-life 2 games is the default button layout 
 (thankfully you can fully customize it to your liking) is a little weird and aiming on takes a 
 little to get used to, but when you do, you will be pulling off headshots easier than ever.
  
  Portal: A simple and short but really addicting and funny little FPS puzzle game. As the name 
 says you are using Portals to solve puzzles and 1 boss fight (want spoil anything on that) . Aiming 
 is really smooth and responsive and controls are just all around solid. The only thing wrong is 
 that it's so freaking short and only half of the levels can be replayed after beating the game 
 with special conditions for medals and so on, but you will have a blast for what lasts. It's a 
 truly innovative title and a highlight of the package.
  
  Team Fortress 2: The multiplayer portion of the Orange Box. Online can get pretty laggy and there 
 is only 6 maps with each of the 4 game types map specific so you will only have 1 map for certain 
 gametypes and 2 maps for the others. On the plus side it's controls and aiming are very responsive 
 and intuitive and the character classes will make you focus a lot on team work. It's not the best 
 multiplayer game ever, but it's still very fun.
  
  Audio:
  If you know anything about Half-Life you will know audio is top notch with great voice work and 
 sound effects. Portal is really limited on audio obviously, but GLaDOS is funny and insane and 
 will leave you wanting cake after the massive amounts of laughter. Team Fortress 2 is also simple 
 and over the top to match it's style and crazy characters. Overall some of the best audio in the 
 business is in this game.
  
  Graphics:
  Source Engine may be 3 years old but it still produces some great visual treat for the eyes. May 
 not be the best anymore but it still looks amazing and it won't take you long to realize why Half-life 
 2 was considered the best looking game of all time at it's release by a lot of people. Episode 
 1 improves on the engine some but not very much and it just looks marginally better than Half-Life 
 2. Episode 2 on the other hand takes the Source Engine and really pulls a lot out of it with massive 
 outdoor areas, a beautiful wilderness with tons of trees and a beautiful draw distance, and it's 
 just easily the best looking title of The Orange Box and one of the best looking FPS titles out 
 there. Portal is very simple graphically since almost all of it takes place in a facility with 
 very little going on but everything is very high res and lots of detail and the framerate never 
 stutters. Team Fortress 2 is also a very good looking title with a very interesting and colorful 
 art style, but since it is a MP game they did hold back on special effects which are a little dull 
 but you can blow enemies to pieces and that makes up for it, to bad it lags. Even the presentation 
 from the menus to the game select screen is extremely well done. Overall Orange Box looks very 
 nice even if Half-life 2 and Episode 1 are a little old and there is a few minor framerate hiccups 
 here and there when autosaving and after a load screen.
  
  Closing Comments:
  Even after 3 years Half-life 2 is still one of the closest things to a perfect shooter, and just 
 a game in general, and with the inclusion of both it's expansion packs, Portal, and Team Fortress 
 2 there is little to no reason not to own this. With 5 games you are almost guaranteed to like 
 something in this package so it's a must own for any gamer out there that's remotely interested 
 in FPS titles. So don't read this any longer, go pick up a crowbar and beat someone over the head 
 to get this is you have to.
  
  Overall: 10/10
  
  Pros:
  Amazing Value
  Half-Life 2 is still one of the best shooters out there
  Portal is surprisingly funny, innovative, 
 and has a great credits song
  Amazing presentation and audio
  G-Man still as creepy as ever
  
  Cons:
  Team Fortress 2 could have been a little more but 
 it's still good
  Portal and Episode 1 are a little too short
  Doesn't have that darn kitchen sink 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teletran0n3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2, is one of two games ever, out of hundreds I have played, that I beat twice. I bought 
 the original Half Life 2 on the first Xbox, and the orange box on my 360. Having never played Episode 
 1or 2, I wanted to go back and redo the original Half Life 2 to refresh my memory on the game. 
 It was still a fantastic game after all these years and holds up to today's games. These three 
 games alone make the purchase worth while, much less the other two games in the orange box. Half 
 Life 2 is great because the game evolves as it goes. It's a puzzle game, it's a run and gun, and 
 it has two great vehicle sections. It has flaws, such as a couple of spots requiring the "perfect 
 jumps", but all in all it is fantastic. It is an excellent way to get some great gaming for the 
 price of one game. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  I'm going to write this review as if I were writing a review for 5 different games. After that 
 (here at the top) will be a summary of all 5.
  
  The Good: All 5 games are solid and stand on their own, Portal is one of the most clever games 
 ever made, HL2: EP2 evolves the story wonderfully, TF2 is a blast, HL2 and EP1 live up to their 
 age, cleverly planned achievements, not having to deal with Steam
  
  The Bad: Not enough puzzles for Portal, not enough maps for TF2, HL2 isn't complete yet, the HL 
 games are very short
  
  Overall TOB is one of the best deals in video game history. With Valve's ingenious talent backing 
 this package there's no stopping it. Everyone has to pick this masterpiece up because there is 
 something in here you'll love. 
  
  Half-Life 2=9.0/10
  
  The Good: One of the greatest stories and worlds ever created, great graphics and voice acting, 
 memorable everything
  
  The Bad: Graphics are showing it's age, no online play, too few weapons and enemies, not for the 
 traditional FPS fan
  
  I bought this on my PC about 2 years ago and played it to death (including ALL the mods) . Even 
 if you've played it on your PC you'll love it even more on your 360 (or PS3) due to the achievements, 
 and for people who can't run the game very well, can experience the game in all it's glory. You 
 are Gordon Freeman who has mysteriously wound up in City 17 between a civil war against Dr. Breen 
 and the Combine thanks to Gman. You and your sexy companion, Alyx Vance, have to reach the Citadel 
 and take down the Combine. Instead of explaining what you already know I'll explain what's new. 
 Nothing really. Just the achievements involved (and they are cleverly thought out) . You have all 
 the same weapons, levels, and monsters. Just sit back and enjoy the first part of the HL2 saga 
 and you'll have the best 8-10 hours of your life. Back when the game was released I gave this game 
 a 9.5, but due to it's age it drops half a point.
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode 1=8.5/10
  
  The Good: Evolves the story even more, great new scenarios to play through
  
  The Bad: Cliff 
 hanger ending (that left us hanging for more than a year) , recycled stuff from HL2, nothing new 
 at all
  
  The story takes off after the Citadel blew up and you now have to escape and stop the reactor before 
 all hell breaks loose. With Alyx once again by your side, you have to push back the Combine once 
 more. While EP1 uses the same engine as HL2 with no enhancements (literally every thing's recycled 
 to death) you still get a great experience. Well, there is one new thing ZOMBINES FTW!!! While 
 the game is a bit more on-the-rails-cinematic than HL2 you get more clever puzzles this time around 
 along with some memorable fire fights. In the end if you've played EP1 on the PC there's nothing 
 new here either, but for first timers it's a blast.
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode Two=8.5/10
  
  The Good: Some solid new content, great evolution of the story, more cinematic than ever before
 
  
  The Bad: Still the same aging HL2 engine, another cliff hanger ending
  
  While this is the best HL2 entry yet with more cinematic game play, and some NEW content you'll 
 love this one the most. After escaping the Citadel and City 17, you and Alyx must head through 
 White Forest to her dad to stop the Citadel portal from letting loose monstrosities beyond our 
 imagining. In EP2 we finally get new content such as acid ant lions, ant lion larvae, Combine Hunters, 
 a new vehicle, and an evolved story. EP2's story is more touching then ever before and we finally 
 get some background on Gman. EP2 is a couple of hours longer than EP1 and you'll want to play through 
 it more than once.
  
  Portal=9.5/10
  
  The Good: The most clever idea since gaming itself, great next-gen graphics, cleverly thought out 
 level design, great story
  
  The Bad: Short, very short, very very short, no downloadable puzzles (still) , advanced challenges 
 can be kind of impossible to solve, the cake is a lie
  
  This is a whole new creature. Portal is the introduction of brand new technology. You are an unknown 
 tester for Aperature Science and you are given a Portal gun which you use to solve puzzles. This 
 is probably THE most clever puzzle game ever made... ever. You use velocity to launch yourself over 
 obstacles, use portals to navigate through rooms, and to even move objects. The game is just so 
 clever it really works your mind, but in such a way to where you won't get frustrated. The game 
 has a next-gen engine and looks fantastic as well. After you beat the 3-4 hour game you can go 
 back and beat the advanced maps and challenges for more achievements. There's nothing more that 
 I can say than to pick TOB for just this game... it's worth the $60. The game even sports an awesome, 
 and memorable, story that you'll joke about for years to come... THE CAKE IS A LIE!!!!
  
  Team Fortress 2=8.5/10
  
  The Good: Unique graphical style, perfectly balanced characters, 
 and maps, can be really funny at times
  
  The Bad: Not nearly enough maps (still) , no new characters either (still) , no offline bot fragging 
 (sorry Silver guys)
  
  I remember playing TFC back when I bought HL1 Anthology and it was a blast. TF2 sports a unique 
 graphical style and wonderfully balanced characters to use. You all know what the characters are 
 unless you've been hiding under a rock this whole time. You have a heavy weapons guy who is as 
 slow as malasses in January but packs a serious punch, a spy who can disguise as the enemy, and 
 sneak into the other side, a sniper who also sports a machete and a machine gun. This is why I 
 love TF2 so much. Everything is perfectly balanced. Instead of being a vulnerable sniper with just 
 a pistol you get a moderate machine gun. Instead of being a slow heavy weapons guy you get a shotgun. 
 Instead of being a weak Pyro with a flamethrower you get a shotgun as well. If you love online 
 gaming TF2 will keep you hooked for hours. This is just the 5th reason to buy TOB and you're bound 
 to be happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360pwnge
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Portal alone could give this game a ten but thats not all every HL2 expansion and the multi player 
 team fortress 2 make this a great game and for only 60$
  
  
  Portal: The funniest game this year a puzzle with unique charters and one of the most interesting 
 game mechanics the portal gun make this game a awesome deal
  
  HL2 (plus Episode 1&2) Doy I even need to say anything even need to say anything the best PC shooter 
 with expansions comes too all the next gen consoles valve is a genius only if they added counter 
 strike 
  
  TF2: A great multi player experience with greatly animated cartoonish charters 
  take it like 
 this Tom and Jerry + Halo = a awesome multi player experiance 
  
  Like i said before portal alone could give it a ten but with all the other games it deserves a 
 20 (only if i could give it a 20) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hschaf
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 1:39 am PT
Review:  Pro's:
  - great value, 5 good games on one disc
  - combines great story line gaming (half life) with great innovative gameplay (portal) and pretty 
 good multiplayer (team fortress)
  - narration on portal is very comedic and a good changeup from the dramatic tale of half life
 
  - great/challenging acheivements that will make replay more likely
  
  Con's:
  - graphics are ok but not great when compared to some recently released games (such as bioshock 
 and COD 4)
  - half life 2: episode one and portal are very short 
  - team fortress two gets old fast and doesnt have a very big population 
  
  
  Overall this 
 game is a must have for first person shooter fans. All three half life games compose a great ongoing 
 story. Portal is a great innovative game that is like no other on the market. And team fortress 
 is a decent multiplayer game that gives you yet another option to gameplay. Aside from Half Life 
 2, any of these games by themselves wouldnt warrant such a good score, but when all thrown into 
 one disc and sold for the same price as any other game makes The Orange Box a must have. The graphics 
 arent amazing but its easily overlooked when considering the value, gameplay, and story that encompases 
 The Orange Box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_ofoblivion
Rating: 9
Date: May 10, 2008 1:45 am PT
Review:  This game is truly revolutionary 5 games on 1 disk, and it's not just about getting more for your 
 money, the games all rock!
  Half life 2, Half life 2 episode 1 and Half life 2 episode 2: All these games are very very good, I 
 knew what Half life 2 was like but it'd never played the other two I'm sure the graphics are more 
 radiant on Half life 2 and they are just as great on the other two games. The freaky enemies scare 
 the life out of you and then, you blow them to hell!
  Portal: This game may just be a load of puzzles but it gets your mind going and if you mess about 
 with portal shooter for too long you will be hypnotised by the greatness. every test-chamber you 
 experience makes your wisdom expand.
  Every time I played a shooter afterwards and I got stuck I felt like using the portal gun, that 
 means I'm officially a sado! 
  I've not actually played team fortress 2 but if I get Xbox live I'll give it a go, it's meant to 
 be great!
  Lordo Out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visnovsky17
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  Putting five games into one was possibly the best idea valve ever had. not only did it get me playing 
 half-life 2 again, it even got me to go back and finish half-life (which i hadn't beaten) . The 
 great value of the orange box and the overall quality of each game earned it a 10 as a whole, but 
 now i'll talk about each game individually.
  
  Half-Life 2
  I knew this game was good. Played it on PC and loved it. The graphics are amazing, the physics 
 engine astounds, and the storyline always gives as little info as possible to keep you waiting 
 for the next one.
  However, i had a few issues with the console version of the game, mostly having to do with the 
 vehicle portions of the game. Not only were they difficult to drive on the Xbox, but the guns had 
 a weird autolock that i couldn't get rid of that screwed me over a few times.
  All these issues aside i give HL2 for 360 a 9.5
  
  Half-Life 2 Episode 1
  I was excited to 
 learn about what would happen next to Alyx and Gordon, but episode 1 was kind of a let down. Not 
 much of anything contributed to the storyline, and it was HL so it was pretty fun. It just didn't 
 feel as epic as all the other half-life games. and it was crazy short, but we had to have ep1 to 
 get to ep2.
  Overall i give HL2 ep 2 a 8.5
  
  Half-Life 2 Episode 2
  This game was fantastic! Not as long as HL2, but it had storyline, it had action, it felt epic 
 again. Ep 2 contained some of the most intense action sequences i have ever played through. Without 
 spoiling anything it ties into a game i wasn't expecting, gives us more info on the Gman, and almost 
 answers a lot of questions (if you've played you'll know what i mean) . And the ending was ridiculous 
 and i never saw it coming. Can't wait for the next HL game great job Valve.
  Driving issues were not resolved, but i had gotten used to it and there wasn't a gun on the car 
 so it didn't bother me too much.
  Half-Life 2 ep 2 for 360 gets a 10 from me.
  
  Portal
  WOW. by no means did i think it was game of the year (just too short) , but valve did 
 a great thing with this game. and if you play through all the orange box play this first, its that 
 good, and you'll be glad later on. the advanced maps were great and provided a new challenge. however, 
 i am not intelligent enough to do the challenges, but that's the nature of the game so i won't 
 lower the score for that. One of the best puzzle games ever with a crazy awesome ending and a great 
 sense of humor (hilarious song during credits) .
  Portal = 10
  
  Team Fortress 2
  This is the game i was never even planning to play. Played it for 10 minutes didn't really like 
 it, whatever. Then i was bored last weekend and i played it for 5 hours without even noticing it. 
 This game is a great multiplayer add on (it would have been disappointing to get no multi on orange 
 box) . Now i am completely in love with this game. 
  My only complaint is that not enough people have it for Xbox 360, or play it on 360. If you have 
 360 orange box play this game, we need more people on there, it's hard for me to get in matches 
 sometimes cause i can't find anyone.
  Team Fortress 2 receives 10 points
  
  I know it doesn't average to 10 probably, but close enough. Whether for PC or Xbox you must get 
 this game whether or not you have played HL1 or any valve games before. This is a must have and 
 even 5 games for $60 is a good deal. One of the best gaming experiences i have ever had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrashMacKenzie
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 29, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  I'm a pretty big fan of the 'Half-Life' series (see avatar) , so I was eagerly anticipating the 
 continuation of the struggle against the Combine.
  
  When I found out that it would come packaged with 'Team Fortress 2' and 'Portal' and it would still 
 be $60, I thought it was the greatest deal in gaming history.
  
  'Half-Life 2: Episode Two' was as short as Episode One, but was much, much better.
  
  A cool 
 new enemy and weapon were introduced, the battles are intense (especially the last one) and it 
 all ends with a pretty shocking moment.
  
  Not too shabby from the boys at Valve.
  
  'Team Fortress 2' is a really fun multi-player game which is entirely team-based. The different 
 character classes are unique and add to the strategy of the game. The cartoonish art design is 
 cool, but the maps aren't particularly well designed.
  
  Also, I prefer everyman-for-himself deathmatches which are absent from this game.
  
  The real 
 gem in this pack is 'Portal'. This game is a real technical accomplishment!
  
  The puzzles are tremendous and GLaDOS is freaking hilarious. The game also has the greatest 'end 
 credit' music ever.
  
  Check it out: http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=KjGfgV7rJHI
  
  With five games for one price, it's nearly impossible to be disappointed with 'The Orange Box'.
 
  
  Get it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drec0nis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 11:15 pm PT
Review:  First I want to say I have only ever played the three great versions of the original Half-Life 
 game and Half-Life 2 before renting this game. So everything The Orange Box had to offer was new 
 for me except of course the stand alone jewel that we all know so well. This made the whole package 
 seem like a monster of content to tackle. The first thing I had to try was TF2! 
  
  Team Fortress 2:
  I had fun with this one for about 3 hours before I realized that,
  A. No 
 one played the game on the 360
  B. The lag was so bad I couldnt stay in a game no matter how many I tried.
  This of course killed 
 my experience but the classes were fun to play and the maps were not bad. I pretty much have to 
 eliminate TF2 from the list of good games in this package because I just couldnt play it. I cant 
 even give this game a score, simply gonna pretend it doesnt exist.
  
  Half-Life 2:
  Almost worth the $60 the whole package costs for new players and when combined with Episodes 1, 
 2, and portal, well you get the idea. You cant go wrong with this game. Its exciting and plenty 
 long enough to satisfy. I gotta give this one a 9.0.
  
  Half Life 2 Episodes 1 and 2:
  I can combine these 2 little games into one because they are identical in every way, the only difference 
 was the ever changing environment as you make your way along. Thats not to say that the gameplay 
 was not action packed and fulfilling. However throughout both episodes its pretty much more of 
 the same with new monsters not yet seen appearing now and then to break up the feeling of taking 
 on a horde of brainless zombies. There is a very interesting relationship that grows while you 
 play through both episodes and I must say by the time it was over I was quite attached to "The 
 Alex Vance". The only problem is both episodes are short. Overall I would give them a 8.5. Oh and 
 the end to Episode 2 is crazy and totally not expected so that was nice.
  
  Portal:
  Wow, what a game. I cant wait to see how far Valve runs with this one. Great idea, fun gameplay 
 that keeps you interested through most of it. The twist at the end is great too and I was very 
 tickled by it. You have to play this one! Its short but fun. 8.5
  
  One thing I jumped at when I finally saw it was the audio commentary. I liked the commentary through 
 Episodes 1, 2, Portal and TF2 but was dissapointed that they didnt add commentary for Half-Life 
 2 itself. That would have been something. Overall the lifeless TF2 keeps me from considering actually 
 buying this great collection of games. But this was on the 360 keep in mind, I cant speak for the 
 PC version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MyMonkey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  I can easily say that The Orange Box was the only game last year that really had me excited. I 
 spent quite a bit of time reading the previews and watching the jaw-dropping reviews that left 
 me sitting there like a mindless idiot. But what I didn't expect was the shiny little puzzle game 
 that is Portal, but I'll get to that after. Now, on to the review. I'll review each of the 5 games 
 in order, and review each one of them to the limits of my ADD ridden brain. 
  
  Half-Life 2:
  
  2004 was a relatively quiet year for gamers, if I recall. It was only when 
 the release of Half-Life 2 that I spent hour after hour on my reliable little PC. I was instantly 
 engrossed, I was expecting a whole lot of hype, and in a way this feeling of disappointment could 
 help but lower my excitement for this game. I was very happy, almost eccentric to learn that Half-Life 
 2 was not in anyway over hyped. It was gorgeous. It was a great length, riveting storyline, amazing 
 voice acting with even more impressive animations. The weaponry was basic yet oh so satisfying. 
 From your good 'ol crowbar to the greatness that is the Gravity Gun. From the pistol to the AR2. 
 Crossbow to RPG. I could go on, but that would be a little hard being there's very little weapon 
 selection for this game, but with the little selection I had felt like an arsenal in its own way.
 
  
  The enemy A. I. was far beyond excellent. Enemies hid, they ducked from nearby explosions, and even 
 eerily had encoded radio conversations that I do believe mentioned your arrival more than once. 
 The levels were eyecandy. Every level had a very impressive amount of detail, and actually didn't 
 require a high-end computer to run it! I played Half-Life 2 with probably only one or two instances 
 of low frame rate. In which I mean my FPS fell a little below 35, SO very tragic, only to have 
 it skyrocket back to +70 a few seconds later! 
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode One:
  
  After a good while of waiting, the release of Episode One had me VERY excited. Classes at school 
 felt like they were intentionally going much slower than they should. (Remember: Do your schoolwork, 
 not only does it pass time but you get good grades and good grades usually equal happy parents. 
 And everyone loves having their parents happy, right? Right.) So anyway, Episode One only disappointed 
 me in the manner that it was very, very short. I easily completed the game in a few hours. The 
 strong points of Ep. 1 was mainly the HDR, which sadly required a more powerful machine to run 
 the game with good frame rate, which I don't have. I was able to run Ep. One on an NVIDIA 7800 
 GS graphics card, which wasn't too bad, but my CPU and video cards were a little low, so to play 
 it I couldn't play the game without HDR, which is a bummer.
  
  Although short, Episode One left you with one of the most aggravating cliffhangers in the history 
 on gaming. (Get it? Cliffhangers? Remember that trailer for Episode Two? Har har.) But for some 
 unknown reason, the cliffhanger wasn't too disappointing, it was almost exciting.
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode Two:
  
  Well, unfortunately, my system wasn't upgraded in any way since 
 Episode One. Luckily, Episode Two was released in The Orange Box, which meant I could play it on 
 my 360. Although I don't really like playing major releases on a console, I knew that I wouldn't 
 be able to play the game on my two or so year old computer. 
  
  Episode Two didn't stray too far from the main plot, it had some pretty impressive loopholes, I 
 won't mention any of these, you'll have to experience them yourself. Anyway, Ep. 2 didn't stray 
 far from the storyline, it was exciting, short (Yes, short.) but still very satisfying, with the 
 promise of a more than amazing trilogy finale. Can't wait.
  
  Portal:
  
  Like a couple of my friends, I only bought the Orange Box for Episode Two, and maybe a little bit 
 of Team Fortress. What I didn't expect was one of the most hilarious, suspenseful, eerie, addicting, 
 and not to mention unique puzzle game that has ever graced me with it's... existence. I was engrossed 
 with Portal that I had to replay the two hour campaign at least five times before I was convinced 
 to get something to eat, only to go through the campaign another dozen times. Imagine your favorite 
 game of all time, unless it's Portal, in which case that doesn't count. Anyway, imagine your most 
 favorite game of all time, now imagine a game twice as amazing as that. The result would be so 
 epic that it would only round up to about .0001 as good as Portal. That's how good it is.
  
  All my geeky friends at school were easily impressed by it's magnificent amount of awesome. 
 We were even nerdy enough to start saying "The cake is a lie." to each other. Portal is easily 
 the greatest game I've played for a long time.
  
  Team Fortess 2:
  
  I wasn't really anticipating much with this game, especially since I lack the necessary skills 
 required to play multiplayer'ed games on a console. I can't really say that TF2 is the most impressive 
 multiplayer game I've ever experienced. I would have much rathered play Command and Conquer or 
 Unreal Tournament for a while instead of playing TF2. 
  
  I'm not saying it's bad, it's not in any way. It's probably not really a good idea to even play 
 it on your console, it will be a bit hard to find matches, and your game will lag easily if you 
 choose to be the amazing, "I ignore the bandwidth limit even though it states that it will limit 
 amount of players I can support without lag." then good luck. 
  
  Overall:
  
  Overall what? The Orange Box is one of the best, if not THE best gaming values you'll ever find. 
 You get five games, including the classic Half-Life 2 and the "Crap, MyMonkey can't play this game 
 on his computer because it bites his ass for more CPU and disk space" game that is Episode Two. 
 Portal is probably the most honorable mention in the pack, it's easily the greatest game I've ever 
 played. If you want to prove me wrong, then go ahead. I'll turn you down faster that a Halo fanboy 
 when you say that Halo 3 sucked ass. (No offense, Halo fanboy's. It's a simple joke.)
  
  So if you never got around to buying Half-Life 2 or it's predecessor's. Then you will be glad to 
 know that you can own these two games plus three more equally great games included in the package 
 for a simple budget price of $60.00. You should definitely consider buying this game. In fact, 
 go get it now, you're missing out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xdude85
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box was again one of those games I heard constantly but it just didn't grab my attention. 
 When I looked into the details, the game started to interest me and I decided to check it out. 
 All I can say is that this game is amazing.
  
  The Orange Box contains five games. Half-Life 2, Half-Life 2: Episode 1, Half-Life 2: Episode 2, 
 Portal, and Team Fortress 2.
  
  I'll start with Half-Life 2.
  
  Plot: Years have passed since the incident that occurred at the Black Mesa Research Facility. An 
 experiment went horribly wrong, and a portal was accidentally opened between Earth and an alien 
 world called Xen. One of the scientists that was there at the incident named Gordon Freeman braved 
 the unknown world of Xen and its inhabitants and successfully closed the portal. However Gordon 
 Freeman mysteriously disappeared after his heroic deeds and was presumed dead. Now, Gordon Freeman 
 wakes up on a train that takes him to a place called City 17. Gordon Freeman is shocked to see 
 that since his absence, the entire planet has been taken over by aliens known as the Combine, and 
 that City 17 acts as a giant prison for humans. Gordon Freeman soon meets Alyx Vance, a member 
 of the human resistance, along with Black Mesa survivors Barney Calhoun, and Dr. Isaac Kleiner. 
 All three ask for Gordon's help to help them fight. With his help, Earth can be free of it's alien 
 oppressors. It's once again up to Gordon Freeman to rid the planet of alien invaders.
  
  Game Play: The controls are very simple and smooth making Half-Life 2 a very enjoyable shooter. 
 Move with the left thumb stick and aim your weapon with the right thumb stick. If you click down 
 on the left thumb stick, you'll make Gordon Freeman crouch. To use your weapon press the RT button, 
 to reload your weapon press the B button. To jump press the A button, to pick up or open doors 
 press the X button, to turn on your flashlight press the Y button.
  
  Graphics: Half-Life 2 has some of the best visuals I've ever seen in a game, the level designs 
 are very detailed and great looking.
  
  Sound: Half-Life 2 has some good music most of the time, sound effects are great, and the voice 
 acting is ok too.
  
  Overall, Half-Life 2 is one of the best shooters I've ever played. Amazing levels, great graphics, 
 and good sound makes this one of the most memorable games I've ever played. If you like shooters, 
 you'll definitely like this.
  
  Now for Portal.
  
  Plot: You play as a test subject that's part of a corporation called the Aperture Science Laboratories. 
 You are given a special gun that opens portals, use it to find a way out of 19 rooms in order to 
 complete the experiment. If you successfully complete the experiment, you will be rewarded with 
 cake.
  
  Game Play: Portal has very simple controls too, making just as enjoyable. Move around with the 
 left thumb stick, and aim your gun with the right thumb stick. To jump press either the A or LB 
 button, to crouch press the B button or click down on the right thumb stick, to pick up objects 
 press the X button. To open a blue portal press the LT button, to open an orange portal press the 
 RT button.
  
  Graphics: Brilliant, outstanding visuals in every room you go through.
  
  Sound: Sound effects are good, and the music is decent too.
  
  Overall, Portal is a very innovative 
 puzzle game that will leave you playing for hours. A great game for anyone who likes a challenge, 
 or puzzles in general.
  
  I can't say anything about Team Fortress 2, since I don't have Xbox Live I can't play the game.
 
  
  Overall, The Orange Box is one of the best deals you'll ever get in a game. All five games are 
 great in their own ways, and some of them might end up being some of the best games you'll ever 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zetona
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Let me say it straight up: The 5 games in The Orange Box are some of the best games I've ever played. 
 
  Having never played Half-Life 2 before, I was dazzled by everything about the game: The spectacular 
 graphics, memorable level design, and explosive firefights by themselves are reason enough to buy 
 The Orange Box if you've never played HL2 before. This game is just so smooth, so polished, and 
 so well ported to the 360 that you'd think it was made for the system. To add to the memorable 
 experience are the achievements, which range from the obvious to the overly difficult and are a 
 great excuse to play the game over and over again. 
  Episode One improves on HL2 in almost every way: The gameplay is better, the graphics are nicer, 
 and the zombie-infested chapters 3 and 4 are among the most memorable in any of the games. Its 
 biggest weakness is the story, which is pretty bare-bones (though DOG has a great role) , but it 
 works well when you play all three HL2 games in succession, as a sort of exposition for Episode 
 Two. 
  Speaking of Episode Two. It's the best game in the package. The graphics are a major step up from 
 Episode One, with great lighting, a beautiful color palette, much-improved texture work, great 
 new particle effects, and the neat new "cinematic physics", which are talked about at length in 
 the commentary. While there are still no new weapons to fight all the new enemies with, all the 
 existing weapons are better-looking and the Gravity Gun has been made even more versatile with 
 yet more objects to pick up and throw around, such as rocks, tree trunks, and the Magnussen Device, 
 which is one of the most satisfying things that you can blow up. The in Episode Two is much more 
 central to the game than in HL2 or Episode One, and has many twists, turns, and setbacks before 
 the shocking conclusion, which will make you want to play Episode Three right now. The environments 
 in Episode Two are also great, and a major departure from City 17. Among other things, you'll be 
 fighting through antlion nests, zombie-filled warehouse complexes, an abandoned railroad, and even 
 a picturesque inn. All in all, this makes Episode Two the best game in the package.
  Portal is also good, but I felt it didn't quite stand up against the likes of Half-Life 2. The 
 main problem with the game is that it's too short. It doesn't take full advantage of the unique 
 portal gun mechanic or the nifty physics that result, and you don't spend enough time with the 
 Weighted Companion Cube. Still, the game script is great, full of hilarious lines by GLaDOS, who 
 fully deserves to be the Best New Character of 2007. Portal shouldn't be missed-until you've completed 
 it. 
  Edit: Having played TF2 for several hours now, I can honestly say that it lives up to the rest 
 of The Orange Box. The game's few maps are great fun; the classes are balanced and you're bound 
 to find at least one class that suits your style. The nine classes each have distinct and funny 
 personalities, and the art style makes it all the more comical. The biggest problem with TF2 is 
 that if your teammates are not good, or alternately if the opposing side is not as good as yours, 
 matches end far too quickly without enough time for strategies and tactics to evolve and change. 
 But when you get into a good, balanced match, it's terrific fun. 
  
  There is still no reason not to play The Orange Box. Each game in it is superb in its own right, 
 and together they form a collection that deserves nothing less than a 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Review: Half Life 2: the Orange Box (360)
  
  The PC sensation finally comes to the console, but can it live up to the multitude of fan's expectations? 
 Or will it be as poor as Half Life 2 was on the original Xbox?
  
  Story:
  The G-man drops Gordon Freeman into City 17, a city run by the former administrator of Black Mesa, 
 Dr. Breen who rules this city with an iron fist as a police state. Now with the help of some of 
 your former friends from Black Mesa and their families, start a revolt to free humanity from the 
 tyrannies levied on them by Dr. Breen and his cohorts
  
  Graphics:
  for a game that is essentially 3 years old now the game still looks great, at least in the sections 
 that are still using the original engine, those being Half Life 2, HL2 Episode 1, and HL2 Episode 
 2. In the 2 games that are new, Portal looks great as well, but the graphics featured in the game 
 Team Fortress 2 are a direct contrast, in that they are fun and light hearted like the sort of 
 fare that one would find in a Pixar made movie. So over all, each game looks great and does not 
 disappoint at all in anyway.
  
  Music:
  Those expecting a good soundtrack will not be disappointed for when there is music is really good, 
 and it does a good job of reflecting the moment it appears in, but what makes the entire series 
 of games is the top notch voice acting by all of the supporting cast, which will completely immerse 
 the player in the game word and do a wonderful job of making you care about each and every character, 
 even the villains.
  
  Control:
  Once again, as I have stated in previous reviews if you have played a FPS on the 360 than you know 
 what to expect, but what made Half Life 2 stand out to begin with, still remains the strength of 
 the series, which is the top notch, spot on physics engine that lends it's self to new and inventive 
 ways to play the game. If you have played Half Life 2 than you know what I am talking about, with 
 the gravity gun, and it's increasingly fun ways to use the gun in not only the original Half life 
 2 but as well as in Episode1 & 2 , but the physics engine starts to really shine in the game Portal, 
 which is essentially a 3d puzzle game, and extremely addictive one as well, where you use a gun 
 that can open a portal from one spot in a room to reach another spot, it is your only weapon, and 
 playing with it to achieve goals is not only fun but always proves to be an interesting challenge. 
 While Team Fortress 2 it is straight up classic team based multiplayer fun that is always fun to 
 play.
  
  Design:
  To be perfectly honest Half life 2 has aged wonderfully, and is still every bit the classic it 
 was when it was released 3 years ago, something which can not be said for every game that is thought 
 to be a masterpiece. The continuing episodes 1 and 2 are perfect follow ups to the original game, 
 and although it is kind of short, the work put on Portal is amazing even from just looking at the 
 game at a level design standpoint alone. Teem Fortress 2 is great, and plays seamless, while retaining 
 all of the classic game play intact.
  
  This package is quite literally the complete package all 360 owners owe it to themselves to at 
 least see when the PC owners have been enjoying for some time now, you will not regret it!
  
  Graphics
  9/10
  
  Game play
  10/10
  
  Sound
  9/10
  
  Fun factor
  10/10
 
  
  Tilt
  10/10
  
  Average score
  9.6
  
  
  Half Life 2: The Orange Box (360) :
  Pros:
  Everything
  
  Cons:
  None I can find 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MavThePreacher
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  Portal is worth the price of this collection alone. Although small in size, Portal truly delivers 
 in unique, fun gameplay. Add "the most complete collection of Half Life 2 to date" and this collection 
 is one of the best "games" available right now.
  Half Life 2 begins several years after the end of the original game, but the story is fairly independent 
 of its predecesser with the exception of the mysterious G-man. Episode One and Episode Two continue 
 the story and help expand on the Half Life universe. Where these games really shine is in the use 
 of the physics engine that powers the game and is the contributing force behind solving the few 
 puzzles the player comes across. 
  Graphically this game is a port from PC and the backgrounds are not as vivd as modern shooters 
 (ala Bioshock) but it still looks clean. There are also some annoying load times and lags (after 
 the initial load time) that are uncharacteristic of console games, but second nature for PC games. 
 As a whole the pros far outweigh the cons and these games make the transition from PC to console 
 well.
  I haven't spent too much time on TF2 yet, but I enjoyed the original back in my PC gaming days, 
 so I am expecting TF 2 to be engaging as well. The achievements are nickel and time and don't require 
 too much skill for the most part. There are a few (Keep of the Sand, One free bullet) that require 
 a little more ingenuity but not much skill. If you like FPS, you will like these games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tedizsuck
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 4:59 am PT
Review:  The orange box is the best package you are evr gonna get. Thats the first point, 5 games foe 40 
 quid is a bargain full stop, but these arnt any normal games. The main game half life 2, makes 
 its 360 debut athird consolnd is the it has been shifted to, it has handled the transition excellently, 
 alot better then the sometimes laggy xbox port. The huge scale and excellence of the legendary 
 game is superb on the 360 and is alot more comprhensive on the 360 then the ps3. But we all knew 
 half life 2 was great as is episode one, you also get episode two making its debut, its superb 
 and the graphics are astonishing the ending of episode 2 really sets up for the eventual episode 
 3 and gives us all something to look forward to. Team fortress 2 is the sequal to theGrandaddy 
 of team deathmates" And is a hugely fun, unique live game that has to go up their in the top 5 
 for xbox live team deathmatches, its fun looks cool and never gets old, the big news though is 
 portal. What was probablly chucked in for fun, the unique puzzle game has become the showstooper, 
 with mindbending puzzles, a zany plot and a whole lot of character makes this game extremely memorable, 
 you should play through it first time from 3-4 hours but theres plent of bonuses to keep you happy 
 so go and buy the orange box then "We can have cake" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SPAWNandVENOM_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  The menus are slick and there's developer commentary for four of the five games. Only the hideous 
 box art and some annoying load times keep this from perfection. Half-Life 2 was given a resolution 
 bump, but little else for 360, but Ep. 2 is absolutely stunning. Best facial animations ever. The 
 art style of Portal and Team Fortress 2 are unique. Excellent voice acting, good music, and stellar 
 sound effects combine for an audio feast for the ears. Half-Life 2 and its subsequent episodes feature 
 excellent level design and fun gameplay. Portal is inventive and TF2 is one of the most fun multiplayer 
 experiences around. Playing through all three pieces of Half-Life 2 and Portal is at least 20 hours. 
 Then add in the extra Portal challenges and TF2 and it's likely you will have The Orange Box in 
 your 360 for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathofaninja
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 21, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  First of all you can disagree all you want. But this is my opinion of the game. AND I think Orange 
 Box is a package that's worth 60$. But none of the games are outstanding.
  
  Portal seems to be the most popular of the bunch, and whatever. I think its a drag, a bore and totaly 
 lifeless. And the games just not funny to me. I think the environments are lame, with no color at 
 all and there are also some bad textures in some areas of the game. The humor is just revolting. I 
 tried to laugh but it's just not funny. San Andreas was funny. But of course that game had superb 
 voice acting. Portal, you hear a monotone robot the entire game. It's enough to make you want to rip 
 your own heart out.
  
  Team Fortress is the best part of the deal. But the game lags like no other. Connection error after 
 connection error. The maps are to basic for me for the most part. And there not that cool.... But 
 wow are the cel shaded graphics something special. It's got some cool special effects with the blood. And 
 the classes are kinda neat, and they are balanced and special in there own way.
  
  And as far as the Half Life games go.. Boring, grainy, repetitive and lifeless.
  
  That's all 
 I have to say for those!
  
  The overall value is good. But only it's fans will get the most out of what the package offers.
 
  
  Jeff (the reviewer) said that if your a gamer you would find something to like. And I think he's full 
 of it. I like RPGs, fighters and shooters. But shooters that are fun. I don't care about gravity guns.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drgoth2006
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box Review
  
  If you've purchased this bundle I'm sure you will agree that it is outstanding value for money. 
 If you haven't purchased it (for one reason or another) then hopefully I can sway you either way. 
 The Orange Box certainly doesn't bring anything new to the table, but what it does do is bring 
 together some fantastic games into a bundle that's value far exceeds that of which it actually 
 costs. 
  
  Starting with the Half Life 2 games (including episodes 1 and 2) , these alone are worth the 30 
 - 40 the bundle costs. Half Life 2, in it's time, was one of the greatest games to date, but how 
 does it hold up in today's gaming market? The graphics, needless to say, are somewhat dated; but 
 they still look clean and crisp when running them through some decent hardware. The visuals in 
 this game achieve what they set out to and they are flawless. There are a few frame rate dips but 
 this is probably because the game is some 3 years old now. Despite this age the graphics hold up 
 well against a large portion of today's games (except some obvious exceptions i. e. Crysis!) . When 
 I say this, what I really mean is "This game has as good a graphics as could be expected from a 
 3 year old game; which, to be honest, is fairly decent."
  
  As for the games sound; it's not bad. That doesn't mean it's good though. The audio in The Orange 
 Box is generally rather good, but some of the games can get repetitive. Personally I would like 
 to see a few more tracks in Portal as the few tracks it does have do get rather repetitive! The 
 rest of the package is generally good as far as sound goes, and the voice acting in the Half Life 
 2 games really does make the game feel complete and, at the end of the day, more realistic. The 
 weapons sound effects really do make it feel as though the guns you are firing are really tearing 
 through the enemies and causing some serious damage (much like the chainsaw tearing through the 
 locust hoard in Gears of War) . The musical score that accompanies these games really does do it's 
 best to create a fantastic atmosphere. The music from this game really is best experienced when 
 you are locked gun first in the game from which it came as it is less a musical score, more a development 
 of the ever changing mood from within the game itself. What the sound track does, is take you from 
 your chair and plunge you head first in to an emotional torrent of puzzles and action, completing 
 what can only be described (in the case of Half Life 2) as an amazing game. The songs within the 
 Half Life games total up to little over an hour altogether; as each individual snippet of music 
 is around 2 minutes long. 
  
  Now for what most players but games for: the single player story mode. Within The Orange Box the 
 gamer has 4 games to choose from: 
  
  1. Half Life 2
  2. Half Life 2 : Episode 1
  3. Half Life 2 : Episode 2
  4. Portal
  
  I'll start with Portal. As I'm sure most gamers 
 would agree, most FPS games have enemies and the like, and most straight up puzzlers don't involve 
 shooting a gun. Well if you take a puzzler and an FPS game and combine them; you get Portal. On 
 the surface, this game is just solving puzzles by shooting portals in walls to either let yourself 
 travel through them, or let something else travel through them; but Portal is so much more than 
 that. Portal is a game that takes elements of first person shooters, puzzlers and combines them 
 with unique humour and some very interesting game mechanics. An example of these mechanics is the 
 way they have implemented gravity into the games, using a manoeuvre called the fling. This move 
 works by placing a portal up high, and one on the floor, walking into the floor portal, and gaining 
 speed as you descend from the higher portal, re-entering the floor portal. This action results 
 in being flung out of the portal at speed, taking the gravitational speed and translating it into 
 forward momentum; thus creating a new game play mechanic that is used to full effect in some of 
 the puzzle chambers. This move is often used to enter new parts of the chamber that cannot be reached 
 by placing a portal at that specific point. This brings a new dimension to the game play and keeps 
 things new and interesting. This game really doesn't require the newest hardware to perform well, 
 which makes this package enticing to the average computer user. 
  
  The Half Life 2 games are all very much the same, and that's one of the good things about it. You 
 would expect a series of games under the same name to continue the story in much the same way as 
 the previous game and this is exactly what these games do. The newest instalment to the Half Life 
 2 series is Episode 2. This game takes the game play of the previous games, doubles it in quality, 
 and dumps it out into a PC friendly game. Gordon Freeman's mysterious persona is continued in Episode 
 2, as he still does not speak; will we see him speak in Episode 3? I for one hope so!! The newly 
 modified vehicle in Episode 2 is used to full effect as you take a ride with Alyx, enjoying brilliant 
 surroundings and quality enemies. The game itself is much the same as its 2 predecessors, solving 
 various small puzzles to continue through the fairly standard FPS game type. 
  
  The AI in the half life games is one of the quality elements within the game, especially when set 
 to a high level of difficulty. The enemies will actually find and use cover in their (some what 
 feeble!) attempt to kill you where you stand. If you're familiar with the first person shooter 
 archetype then you really should have no problems with taking down these enemies, even on the hardest 
 settings. Despite this, they still provide a small challenge in an other wise fantastic game.
 
  
  They multiplayer portion of The Orange Box is delivered in the form of Team Fortress 2. This game 
 is in many ways a (what appears to be) cell shaded successor to Counter Strike; except that it's 
 not. The game itself has an almost cartoon appearance, but it is not cell shaded in the way of 
 Zelda: the Windwaker. This cartoon appearance gives the game a more relaxed feel, while taking 
 away nothing from the game play itself. As the game is exclusively online, you may wish to find 
 one or two servers that you like a lot, add them to your favourites, and then play with those players 
 more often. This is a useful thing to do as the game is very tactical and team based, every player 
 class has its own job to do; if you try to play as a rogue hero... you will lose, no two ways about 
 it. On both the consoles and the PC version, there is the option to use team speak. Connecting 
 a microphone up and discussing tactics is a great way to win a game in Team Fortress 2, and will 
 certainly improve your skills when playing with better gamers than yourself. 
  
  This package is really good for those who don't have a mammoth tower of gaming power, and it requires 
 very little to make it run smoothly (although obviously it will run better with better hardware) . 
 When run on a nice system, this package will take your breathe away with some of the graphics and 
 sound that are included for such a phenomenal price (5 games for the price of 1!!!!!)
  
  This package is something that you will rarely find in gaming. Essentially what it does is give 
 you some games, and then stacks more on top. To be honest, this is one of the best games of 2007, 
 if only for its sheer value and quality of a few of the games. I highly recommend this game for 
 anyone that doesn't have the ultimate gaming machine.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PHO3NIX-04
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2008 10:41 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box contains a great selection of games including Portal, Team Fortress 2, Half Life 
 2 and Half Life 2 Episodes 1 and 2. I highly recommend purchasing The Orange Box, it's great value, 
 you get three games and two expansions all of which are brilliant first person games and should 
 belong in every and I mean EVERY gamers collection.
  
  Half Life 2 is a first person shooter where you control Gordon Freeman, who is a theoretical physicist 
 (and a mute as it would seem) . In Half Life 2 you must fight your way through zombie infested areas 
 and Combine armies to help save the resistance and defeat Dr Breen, a man who stopped the destruction 
 of the human race but enslaved it at the same time. Dr Breen was appointed ruler of the Earth but 
 was made into a Combine puppet, killing all who would try and stop the evil Combine.
  
  In Half Life 2: Episode 1 you retake control of Gordon Freeman in the continuing struggle against 
 the Combine. In Episode 1 you must fight your way once again through enemies galore in order to 
 escape City 17 before the Combine dark reactor core explodes and destroys the city and all its 
 inhabitants. This expansion only offers a few hours of entertainment, although those few hours 
 are good ones.
  
  In Half Life 2: Episode 2 you must gradually make your way through the numerous obstacles in order 
 to reach White Forest Base and deliver to Dr Arne Magnusson, a transmission packet that could destroy 
 the massive portal created as a result of the dark reactor core explosion in Episode 1.
  
  Portal is a revolutionary game; it mixes great puzzles with some hilarious comedy and some mild 
 violence. Portal is an awesome addition to The Orange Box and the Half Life series. Yes that's 
 right, you may notice some clues that link Portal to Half Life. Once Portal is clocked you gain 
 access to challenges and advanced versions of some of the levels, further increasing the Portal 
 experience.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is a first person multiplayer shooter and a fun one at that. Choose your class 
 and enter the online battle, with the unique graphics and humorous deaths, the entertainment is 
 endless. You can be a fast scout, a sneaky spy, a fanatic pyro and many more. Play with your friends 
 and create a team to battle other teams online.
  
  With five brilliant games shoved on one disc, this game easily scores 10/10 and a permanent position 
 in my collection of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inevitable8
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  first i played portal , that was great, yet i believe that it was too short. Next all play all 
 the Half-life series. The game really puts you into the character of Gordan Freeman. The visuals 
 are great. it is a fantastic mix of a FPS and an action and adventure game. If you don't have it 
 buy it immediatlly. it comes with half life 2, half life 2 episode 1 & 2, portal, and team fortress 
 2. It is one of the best game i have ever played. 
  
  hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hih ih ih ihi hhi hi hi hi 
 hi hi hi hi hi hi hi h ih ih ihii ii ii iiiiii iiii iiiii ii i iiiiiii iii iiiiiii iiii iiii iiiii 
 iiii iiiiii iiiiiiii iiiiiiii iiiiii iiii iii iii iiii iiii iiiii iiiii iiiiiiii iiii i iiiiii 
 iiiii iii ii iiiiiii iiiiii i iii iii iiiiiii iiiii iii iiiiii iiiii iiiiiii iii iiiii iii iiiiii 
 i iiii iii iiiiii iiiii iiii iii iiiiii iiiiiiii ii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bringmemybow
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2008 11:10 pm PT
Review:  This is without doubt the best deal ever. regardless of price. they could double the cost and it 
 would still be worth it.
  
  Half life 2 i did on the pc, so i wasn't really buying the game for that, although i wanted to 
 do episode 2 on 360. Half life 2 is a classic game, there is no doubt, for story and substance, 
 few games to date have come close. The only fps i would say that beats half life 2 is CoD4. but 
 overall this is a better game.
  
  humour is a real important part of Valve, and they have not let themselves down in this installment. 
 Team Fortress is a great multiplayer game, and although not as tense as games like "vegas" it offers 
 endless hours of fun easy to jump in and out entertainment,
  
  But most important of all to me is Portal. the thing that makes this box worth more than it will 
 ever sell for. I have honestly never enjoyed a single player campaign as much, not Halo, not CoD4, 
 not even the epic Half life stories. 
  It has me rolling in laughter, and full of brilliant little qualities which make it a true delight.
 
  
  Worth it just for the song! (and cake!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ulimatepower
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  nice, almost addictive, and some strategy shooter. this game can be addictive to other players as 
 well. this is about a 10-20 hour game. so what do you think is the best rating for the game. I'am 
 just staring to play this game anyway. don't get to bored of the game i ain't either. I think this 
 game is like a shooter game beside the strategies. awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrIMm23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Half life2 was already a great game and so was Half life2 episode 1 but now they added Half life2 
 episode two which was even better. But Half life2 and the rest of them are not the only good games 
 in this package Portal and Team fortress 2 are also good. Portal is better then you think. Alot 
 of people say Portal is bad but they are 100% wrong. Although it gets challenging at times at least 
 it keeps you busy. And last but not least Team fortress2. You could call it one of the best online 
 multiplayer games of 07. Well I recommend this game to anyone because theres a game in there for 
 everyone. So go for it because alot of better games are coming out soon so get it! ok just buy 
 it  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denawayne
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  This game (or should I say collection of games) is probably the greatest value out there for the 
 360. Any one of the games in this package could be released as a stand alone game. Valve was nice 
 enough to put all of them together for one price. Go and get this game now if you do not yet own 
 it. With the 4 games that come in this package, you get a great single player game, along with 
 an expansion, a great puzzle type game that is arguably the best, freshest game to come along in 
 while, and you also get a decent multiplayer game which is the weakest part of the whole package 
 but still fun if you like over the top fragfests. Overall, I would say that this collection of 
 games was one of the best releases of 2007. And that is saying a lot because 2007 was one of the 
 best years in gaming history. If you could only buy one game right now, I would definitely say 
 buy this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yogizilla
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2008 9:21 pm PT
Review:  While most XBox 360 owners were busy foaming at the mouth for Halo 3, I was enjoying Half-Life 
 and it's many flavors. When I heard it was coming to the console, I simply had to get up on the 
 action and spread the word.
  
  Since the release of The Orange Box, we've had many games come and go stealing the spotlight so 
 Valve's wonderful collection of games that are awesome on their own sadly has not received the 
 attention I feel it merits. This collection of five solid games, all taking place in the Half-Life 
 universe (well, TF2 is probably the exception) has so much to offer that even people that once 
 said "HL is not my kind of game" are now taking back their words. Heck, in the past few months, 
 I've converted at least ten friends that were die-hard Halo players or just didn't have TOB on 
 their radars. It took a while but the games grew on them and they thank me now.
  
  
  
  Going into the story behind Half-Life will only spoil the game for you and I'd like to keep this 
 spoiler-free but I will say this: if you consider yourself an FPS fan and you are not hooked on 
 HL2 or HL2: Episode 2 ( HL2: Episode 1, not so much) after playing it for a half hour or so, then 
 you probably don't really like shooters. In my mind, Half-Life is one of those games that revolutionized 
 the genre, along with Unreal, GoldenEye, and DOOM.
  
  All fanboy dribble aside, virtually everyone that tries The Orange Box will find something to love 
 and lots of replay value thereof. You have Half-Life 2, HL2: Episode One, HL2: Episode Two, Portal, 
 and Team Fortress 2. Us PC gamers waited for some of these games for years. TF2, for example, is 
 the long-awaited sequel to TFC (Team Fortress Classic) and I can say that, in a marketplace filled 
 with countless FPS games, this one truly stands out. 
  
  Presentation is not the only thing that makes TF2 stand out, though people have surely commented 
 that it looks like a cartoon (The Incredibles, anyone?) and that has created lots of buzz on it's 
 own. Valve approaches the class-based shooter with some fresh new concepts, borrowing from other 
 games but offering enough of a unique twist to make it all come together in a cohesive, enjoyable 
 experience.
  
  In TF2, you get to play as a Pyro, Demo [litions] Man, and Scout, amongst others. Of course, you 
 have your typical classes but forget everything you know about the FPS - TF2 really changes A LOT! 
 Your medic, for example, has the ability to fend off enemy with a chain gun that fires off syringes 
 rapidly. His main weapon is a sort of ray gun that literally shoots a stream of health into nearby 
 allies. Shoot enough health into someone and they go into UBER MODE. It's a mechanic that makes 
 for some very interesting strategies and forces teams to be aggressive and employ all classes as 
 effective as possible.
  
  Engineers are in the game as well. If you play Battlefield, Crysis, Rainbow Six: Lockdown, and 
 other class-based FPS games, there's alway some sort of engy character. Here, the Engineer does 
 lots of cool stuff, including deploying upgradeable turrets and teleporters/portals to help your 
 teammates push forward faster and harder.
  
  The achievements in TF2 and all of the other TOB offerings are fun to get and many can be obtained 
 through normal gameplay, rather than unrealistic feats, like other games tend to do. There are 
 tons of achievements too so, if you want replay value and you like to beef up your GamerScore, 
 The Orange Box is definitely a worthwhile investment.
  
  One of the surprising elements in The Orange Box is the little game known as Portal. This game 
 looks like an FPS but it is better-categorized as a Puzzle/Adventure game and, in some aspects, 
 a Platformer (though I'd consider that a dirty word, in most cases, due to the way platforming 
 tends to break up the action and frustrate you sometimes) . I won't spoil the story but Portal is 
 basically the story of a lab rat that encounters a robot with a very, very twisted sense of humor. 
 The voice acting in this game alone is worth playing it through and, if you beat the game, there 
 are advanced maps and added challenges that make Portal worth revisiting again and again.
  
  The interesting thing to note is that, originally, The Orange Box was going to be The Black 
 Box. It was supposed to be three games for the price of one but Valve, in all their genius, decided 
 to juice things up to give TOB much more mass appeal. I think people are finally seeing what all 
 the fuss is about and, slowly but surely, we'll see more buzz about something other than Halo 3 
 (WOOHOO) .
  
  As a newcomer, the prospect of having five games to beat in a universe yo uare unfamiliar with 
 may seem intimidating. I'll tell you that HL2 does a good job of catching you up with what went 
 on in the previous game and making you experience a real sense of urgency. You are the resistance's 
 final hope in a world where a corrupt government has people in military camps, facing the constant 
 threat of alien annihilation. Cliche, yes, but what isn't? Valve finds a way of making you fall 
 in love with the character and constantly sit at the edge of your seat, wondering what happens 
 next.
  
  What you'll find in Half-Life is a reality that doesn't exist in many games. While you have many 
 puzzles and tons of exploration to do, you won't find yourself frustrated or needlessly stuck. 
 The challenge level can jump from easy to super hard at times but each area has a strategy that 
 makes things much easier than just running-and-gunning. HL is all about being quick-witted and 
 resourceful.
  
  Half-Life has always had some elements that I wish I'd see in more FPS games. For example, you 
 can use any object around you as a weapon or step ladder, as appropriate. You are able to sprint 
 and hit jumps that would be impossible in many FPS games. Your hazard suit itself provides many 
 neat features. In fact, it is your suit that allows you to sprint faster, using specialized pneumatics 
 to boost your speed and jumping ability. The energy core in your suit recharges, allowing you to 
 sprint often, use a flashlight, and take advantage of other electrical functions.
  
  One of my favorite things about the hazard suit is that, if you are poisoned, a slow-releasing 
 antidote is administered, helping you regain most of your lost health but, if you're not careful, 
 you can get cornered by venomous enemies and die before that happens. This is one of the many things 
 that makes the challenge reasonable while preserving a sense of impending doom and a need for strategy 
 over strong-arm tactics. This is definitely a thinking person's shooter, which stands in large 
 contrast when compared to many popular FPS titles today.
  
  I love the fact that cinematics are all in-game rather than using cutscenes. This makes you feel 
 more connected to everything that is going on and is one of the little touches that make the Half-Life 
 series so immersive and endearing to those that give it a real shot. There are so many memorable 
 characters and moments that, once you become part of the HL community, you'll surely be filled 
 with nostalgia whenever HL references are made. The Orange Box just has a way of bringing out the 
 fanboy in even the most jaded gamers and, believe me, that's a tall order to fill for me but here 
 I am, spreading the word about Half-Life once again!
  
  The graphics in Half-Life 2 aren't as good as they can be so, if eye candy matters a lot to you, 
 that may turn you off. I find that the textures in HL have always been some of the best around. 
 Character models can look a little funky at times but the natural movement and environmental interaction 
 more than makes up for it. The voice acting in all the games is great but, as I mentioned before, 
 Portal will stick out on this end, simply because it is a dark comedy and a very unique entry in 
 TOB.
  
  I don't give out 10's like candies, like some reviewers do. I can't think of anything bad to say 
 about this package. This is the best thing Valve has done since Half-Life Anthology. Valve is one 
 of few mainstream developers I can think of right now that is committed to driving more value through 
 their offerings. Some of the haters say that The Orange Box doesn't deserve to be even be considered 
 for GOTY because it is not just a single game. They seem to fail that it's all about how you tie 
 applications together.
  
  Though the PC version has arguably better graphics, customization options, and performance (on 
 the right computer) , I like how TOB plays on the 360 overall. The way you get a single menu to 
 access all the games on one disc is brilliant. Loading times are short and minimal so it really 
 works. Everything is tied together in a way that makes you sometimes want to play the various TOB 
 games back-to-back. It can be bad sometimes because you find yourself ignoring phone calls and 
 not answering the door...
  
  I can go on forever about the story, the characters, the weapons, and the myriad of features packed 
 into this deceptively simple little retail box but, really, it's something you need to check out 
 for yourself. At the very least, rent it out and play every game a good bit. Right now, I'm playing 
 HL2 the hard way, which means I am playing through Ravenholm with my trusty gravity gun and nothing 
 else. I don't care so much about the GamerScore and Achievements.. I just want to see if I can 
 do it without going absolutely batty. So far, I'm about 3/4 of the way through but my clanmates 
 keep sucking me into other games. d'oh.
  
  I'll see you all on TF2 when you get the game! =o] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peaches1347
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box is a single disk that holds 5 games: Half-Life 2, Half-Life 2 Episode1, Half-Life 
 2 Episode 2, Portal, and Team Fortress 2.
  I'll Start with Half-Life 2.
  Half-Life 2, ep.1, ep.2
  This is a very good game although if you are like me and are not in to 
 computer gaming chances are you've never heard of this game or maybe you have but you never played 
 it.
  If that is your case then you WILL be completely lost in the story line. And sadly for you this 
 is a very story driven FPS. But you don't need to know the whole story to understand the imediate 
 story through the Half-Life 2's.
  The controls for the Half-Lifes are basically the controls for ever FPS known to man.
  But Half-Life 
 has a couple of things that set it apart from the other FPSs. It has a puzzle compent but its hardy 
 existence but it'll jump out at you here and there. It has this really interesting gun called the 
 Gravity Gun some people in the game will call its by its full name (Zero Point Feild Manipulator) 
 you can pick up objects and shoot them places or at people. it is required through the entire game.
 
  The story for the Half-Lifes is to long twisted and complicated to type here without losing your 
 interest.
  Half-Life 2 Ep. 1 and 2 are the same controls, graphics, and characters as the first one but it 
 drives the story line leaving you wanting episode 3!
  
  TEAM FORTRESS 2
  is a STRICTLY multi-player game i haven't played the first one so i can't compair is to that but 
 this multi-player game is a class base FPS where you choose different class' (heavy, spy, engineer 
 etc..) and they have each of their own abilities but there is always something to counter you which 
 this game interesting you will not find a SINGLE rigged character. This is not a game where you 
 can pop it in and start liking it you have to spend a little time with each character then choose 
 your favorites for the situation at hand. The only thing i hate about TF:2 is the levels there 
 is 6 total.
  
  Portal
  I have saved the best for last. This game is the most orignal and unigue game i have EVER played. 
 theres no killing so you blood thrsty beast won't want to come here but it is a puzzle game that 
 is so intersesting. everyone should try this game. And it is one of the funniest games you will 
 find.
  Its hard to right a review for this game i can't judge you play and you be the judge.
  
  All 
 in all the Orange Box is prefect for people that can't afford to buy games all the time, likes 
 challenging achievments, likes lengthy games, and needs a good online game.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: magor1988
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  When this game is discussed by other reviewers the phrase "greatest deal in gaming history" comes 
 up. Well let me tell you it's 100% true. If you haven't played Half-Life 2 or any of the Half-Life 
 series this is your excuse. Go out and buy it right now. If you have played all the way through 
 Episode 1 then you know how good the Half-Life series is and you won't be disappointed by Episode 
 2 or the free mission The Lost Coast. 
  
  As far as the other two games bundled in the package go. Portal is amazing, challenging, innovative, 
 and down right entertaining. Unfortunately, Portal is over all too quickly, by the time you reach 
 the truly challenging levels the game the game is mostly over. One feature that will bring you 
 back however, is the Challenge feature. You can play the game with limits to the number of Portals 
 you can make, with a time limit, etc. This really ramps the difficulty on levels you may have beaten 
 easily before and will bring you back for at least a few more hours. The other thing with Portal 
 is that the AI voice guiding you through is absolutely creepy, unique, and incredibly well done. 
 
  
  And now to Team Fortress 2, this is a hilarious online twitch shooter that goes against the typical 
 shooter style. Instead of the realism and cutting edge graphics of games like CoD4 or Crysis, Team 
 Fortress 2 has a great cartoony art style that actually works... The game looks great despite not 
 looking like something ripped right out of the headlines. TF2 is simple to get into and a challenge 
 to truly master. I'd recommend having a mic for voice chat as it is really helpful and a lot easier 
 than trying to mash "SPY IN THE BASE" while taking out a Pyro or Sniper. 
  
  Overall, The Orange Box is incredible. It is truly one of the best game packages ever and if Valve 
 decides to stick to this strategy in the future it could really change the gaming industry. If 
 your a fan of puzzle games, shooters, sci-fi, or just some good old PC fun then grab the Orange 
 Box... you have no excuse and it'll take you at least a month to get over all of the games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tking1293
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box is one of the greatest deals in video game history. Five great games for the price 
 of one. Not only that, but each one offers you a different experience. Take Half-Life 2, as well 
 as episodes 1 & 2. HL2 won GOY in 2004, and its episodes only expand the story of Gordon Freeman. 
 The controls are spot one, and the pysics engine offers lots of fun, especially when you get to 
 throw saw blades at people. Portal is an all new type of puzzle game, one that makes you think 
 about how to get something somwhere or you somewhere else by strategiacally laying out different 
 portals. Team Fortress 2 offers the only Multiplasyer aspect of the game, and it really delivers. 
 Offering nine different classes to choose from, you and a team of others must use your classes 
 strengths to work against the other team. Overall, Orange Box is a must-buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skatatay
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box is one of those games that preety much anybody who likes shooters should own. As 
 you should all know, The Orange Box consists of Half Life 2 (And Episodes 1 and 2) , Portal, And 
 Team Fortress 2. Im going to break down each of these games and tell you what there about.
  
  Half Life 2 is probably one of the greatest shooters ever made, and im not exaggerating when 
 I say this. It combines a perfect mix of intense combat, and puzzle solving. It also has a really 
 gripping story line that will make you want to keep playing, (I never played the first Half Life, 
 but i seem to follow the story just fine) . Another great thing about this game is the amazing physics 
 and graphics, this game is nearly 4 years old and the physics and graphics are just as good as 
 some of the new titles coming out today. Although Half Life 2: Episodes 1 and 2 are great, i still 
 think that the original Half-Life 2 is the best. 
  
  And now we come to the ever popular Portal! If you enjoy puzzle games, then Portal is the game 
 for you. Dont think this game is just another one of those impossible puzzle games, portal is just 
 about the perfect difficulty and i think most people should be able to complete it. Even though 
 you could finish it in just about 6 hours. (Well at least it took me that long) . What I also love 
 about Portal is its sense of humor. Throughout the game you are guiding by a robot voice that says 
 some preety off the wall stuff. While Portal isnt the strongest component in The Orange Box, it 
 is still an amazing experience. 
  
  And now we come to my personal favorite, Team Fortress 2! Team Fortess 2 is an online, class based 
 shooter in which you choose your class that best fits for the situation. For example, if you want 
 to be a tank, then choose the mini gun equipped, "Heavy" class. Or if you want to fool the other 
 team in to thinking your are there ally, then go with the "Spy" class which lets you disguise yourself 
 as the opposing team. The only downfall to this game is that the only gametypes you can play are 
 capturing the objective type modes. I would really like to see some deathmatch type modes. But 
 Team Fortress 2 is a great game and it is my favorite componet in The Orange Box.
  
  All in all i think The Orange Box is a great game and that anyone who likes games should go pick 
 this up now!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drgrady
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box is a great bargain for anyone who does not already own Half-Life 2 and Half-Life 
 2 Episode One. Most people are already familiar with the Half-Life franchise and Half-Life 2, so 
 I won't spend much time talking about those.
  
  The single player campaign is pretty long when compared to other FPS games that have been released 
 recently. While I'm certainly not the fastest player, I will say that Half-Life 2 took me around 
 13 hours to beat. Episodes One and Two are much shorter, but the three combined will probably take 
 at least 20 hours to complete, and a lot more if you plan on getting all the achievements. The 
 graphics are certainly outdated, but they are not bad. Certain parts of the game can get repetitive, 
 but in all, it is a good game with a decent storyline that never gets very deep. The usual FPS 
 mode is occasionally broken up by driving sequences that can be pretty fun, especially once the 
 boat gets a gun mounted on it. The games seem to be popular partially because much of the game 
 revolves around problem solving while simultaneously fighting off aliens or humans fighting for 
 the aliens. The problem solving is usually simple, but can sometimes be annoying simply because 
 it turns into nothing more than trial and error when there are too many enemies to actually explore 
 the area. Also, the shear number of achievements means that all the easy achievements are worth 
 very few points. The achievements that are actually worth a decent number of points are harder 
 than most. All in all, though, this is a good game that is longer than most.
  
  I can not say much about Team Fortress because I've only played it a few times. The character and 
 map designs are enjoyable while the level of textures is kept to a minimum. Graphics are not great, 
 but certainly not a problem for the game. It is just such a different style than any other game 
 that it should be pleasing to most. As for actually playing the game, I found it to be very frustrating. 
 Each character has a set arrangement of weapons and special abilities, but it can be difficult 
 to know how the special abilities work, and the characters are so unique to perform their specific 
 tasks that fights are always unbalanced. I know that that is all part of the strategy in the game, 
 but in every single match I played, in the majority of my fights, I was at a severe disadvantage 
 for one reason or another. While I think that level of specialization can be really good in a game 
 that you'll play for extensively, especially if you play on the same team every time and have good 
 communication, it can be very frustrating for new players and especially players who do not have 
 set of friends to play with on a regular basis. Another aspect of Team Fortress that did not ruin 
 the game but made it less appealing to me was the matchmaking system. Basically, there's not one. 
 You select a random game from the list that you want to join, and then it will try to connect you. 
 If a game had very few people, I generally avoided those because I don't want to be running around 
 a map for ten minutes just trying to find somebody to shoot. If a game had close to the maximum 
 number, someone else might have connected between the time when the list was created on your Xbox 
 and the time that you tried joining. If that was the case, then you are sent back out to the menu 
 screen instead of being sent back to the list to select a different game. Would it be that hard 
 to just have it refresh the list to let you pick again? I don't know, but it would have been a 
 very welcome addition to Team Fortress. Because of that, I really have no interest in playing Team 
 Fortress.
  
  Portal is the shining gem of The Orange Box. This is the game I was waiting for before it was ever 
 announced. The puzzles range from very easy to fairly difficult, and there is a surprisingly good 
 story to go with it even though the game was advertised as just a series of puzzles. To make the 
 story even more unexpected is the fact that the only two characters in the game are the player 
 (whose character never talks) and an AI. It is an ingenious game that I highly recommend to anyone 
 and everyone even if you do not purchase The Orange Box. Portal, even without the other games, 
 is good enough to warrant a rental at least. The biggest downside to Portal is how short the game 
 is. But once you beat the game, there are Advanced Puzzles and Challenges that are unlocked for 
 some of the puzzles, and those will keep you busy for quite a while. Portal also has the absolute 
 best ending credits song of any game I've ever played. It is the first credits song to which I've 
 actually listened to the words, and I have completed the last part of the game multiple times just 
 to hear the song again (even though it is online) . My biggest complaint with the game is the difficulty 
 of getting Gold on all the challenges. The challenges are much easier to complete on the PC version 
 of the game because PCs have much faster and more precise control of portal placement, and the 
 PC version allows you to be in certain areas for short periods of time whereas the Xbox 360 version 
 kills you immediately in those same areas. Portal is a game that everyone should play at least 
 once regardless of what types of games you generally like.
  
  So if you have already played Half-Life 2, you probably already know whether or not you want The 
 Orange Box. If you haven't played Half-Life 2, The Orange Box is a very nice set of games that 
 will give you plenty to do. Just don't expect cutting edge graphics. And if you really don't think 
 you'd like The Orange Box, I highly recommend renting it to play Portal, and as soon as you beat 
 Portal, you can check out the rest to see how you like it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: a55a55inx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 3:42 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 9.5/10 
  There are 5 games in this great package, and they all play similarly when you consider the controls, 
 if you've played any console fps before, then you should be right at home with these games. Each 
 of the three types of games offer something different and are all great to experience. Half life 
 2 and episodes 1-2 are all excellent games and worth the $60 price tag alone. What sets Half life 
 2 from the rest is the excellent grav-gun, which is used mainly for puzzle purposes throughout 
 the games, and is great fun to grab objects and toss them at enemies if you don't want to use up 
 ammunition. There's a great story to be told in these games and it's very interactive. The only 
 downside is that there is more loading than I'm used to.
  Portal is one of the most innovative ideas in years. You will eventually get your hands on 2 portal 
 "gates" and you have to strategically place them in various situations in order to complete a level. 
 Level designs are incredibly well crafted and thought out. This is more of a first-person-puzzle 
 game since you don't fire at enemies, instead, you have to use your wits. The story behind this 
 great puzzler is surprisingly good, I was thinking that this was just a simple mini-game, however, 
 I was wrong. There is actually an interesting story to unfold.
  Team fortress is strictly a multiplayer game, system link or online. The game has a decent number 
 of maps, however, the maps are created strictly for a certain gametype. So if you want to play 
 CTF on a different map, then you're out of luck, because each map has it's own game assigned to 
 it and it's unchangeable. This is the downside. However, the maps are well developed and the game 
 itself is fun and original. I feel as if the multiplayer isn't deep enough for people to keep on 
 coming back to it, unfortunately. 
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  It would be unfair to compare half life 2 to the current gen games on the 360, so I won't subtract 
 any points for it looking a bit out-dated. The facial animations are still incredible and rivals 
 that of current gen games, animations are well done also, and each level is interesting. Portal 
 looks to be on par with the half life games. My favorite art style out of the 3 games (or many 
 other games) is definitely Team fortress2. The cartoony art style is very charming and creative. 
 It looks as if the team behind Pixar had something to do with it. The character models and environments 
 are creatively detailed and charming. It causes me to laugh in joy when I see some of the environment 
 and weapon models. Simply excellent. 
  
  Story - 9.5/10
  Half life2 - Episode2 and Portal all have an excellent and gripping story that shouldn't be missed. 
 There's not much I can say except that you should definitely be expecting compelling stories when 
 you pop this disc in. 
  
  Sound - 8.5/10 
  Great acting and ambient sounds throughout all of the games, however, the explosions or weapon 
 sounds don't really excite me as much. There's also a lack of music in many places and quiet moments 
 in the Half life games which would sometimes cause me to fall asleep. It's not that the game is 
 boring, it's just that I'm not used to playing video games with a lack of noises or music.
  
  Buy or Rent?
  This is a definite buy. There is a lot packaged in this little "orange box" 
 that you will spend countless hours to finish it. I'm certain that if you try to complete this 
 package as a rental, you would be spending enough money to have just purchased it in the first 
 place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrfidget
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  As you most likely already know, The Orange Box, by the geniuses at Valve, consists of five games. 
 I will review each one of them briefly and separately.
  HALF LIFE 2
  HL2 continues the story that starting at Black Mesa twenty years ago (not in real life, in the 
 game) . The mysterious G-Man drops you off in a train bound for City 17. After the Black Mesa incident, 
 the Combine took control over earth and have been stealing its resources and shaving it's population.
 
  In comparison to the XBox version of Half Life 2...
  The graphics, character models, other graphical stuff have all been improved.
  The annoying framerate 
 has been taken care of.
  It's far more of a joy to play.
  HL2 has fun firefights, vehicle sequences, and puzzles to solve.
  In my opinion, it's gotta be 
 one of the best shooters out there.
  9.0 out of 10
  HL2: EPISODE ONE
  Ep. 1 continues the story where Gordon and Alyx fight to escape City 17.
  It only takes about 
 4 hours to pass, but it is even better to play than Half Life 2.
  It is pretty much the same style as HL2.
  It has no vehicle sequences, which sort of disappointed 
 me.
  Much of it requires you to shoot everything in pitch black except for your flashlight. It is pretty 
 creepy, and makes for strategy with your dwindling flashlight power.
  8.8 out of 10.
  HL2: EPISODE TWO
  It continues the story again, with Alyx and Gordon going outside of City 17.
 
  It has a long vehicle sequence, which helped, and it was longer than Ep. 1 at around 5 hours.
 
  It finally makes the change in which your flashlight doesnt come from the same power source as 
 your sprint and oxygen does.
  The ending is an awesome, large-scale battle and ends with a big event that leaves the doors wide-open 
 to Episode 3.
  8.9 out of 10
  PORTAL
  Portal is, by far, the most unique puzzle game I've ever seen. It involves using the portal gun 
 to shoot portals through time and space (okay, not time) to solve various puzzles.
  Its extremely fun, but it does have its downsides.
  Well, only one, actually.
  It's too short!!
 
  They should have thrown in a few more puzzles to make it better. And, as you may have never thought, 
 it has a good story and a thrilling conclusion.
  There were hints that the storyline in Portal would somehow link into the one from Half Life. Portal 
 has an exceptional replay value, though. Like six versions of levels from the game that are turned 
 into Advanced levels. This usually means an entire floor may switch to deadly toxic water, or certain 
 important walls will be made black (which means you can't place portals on them) .
  8.0 out of 10.
  TEAM FORTRESS 2
  Another very unique game, TF2 is a multiplayer-only shooter 
 in which you can choose from 9 different classes to play as. They are:
  Scout-can run really fast and double jump.
  Soldier-Has a rocket Launcher.
  Pyro-Has a flamethrower
 
  Mechanic- can set up turrets, ammo and health dispensers, and teleporters.
  Demoman- Has a grenade launcher and can set up mines
  Heavy-moves slower, and even slower when 
 his (big huge, the one with the rotating barrels and lots of ammo) MACHINE GUN is spinning.
  Sniper-Has a sniper, obviously.
  Spy- Can disguise as other teammates or people on the other 
 team, go invisible, and sap enemy turrets (which disables them until the mechanic who made the turret 
 takes them off)
  Medic-Can heal fellow teammates
  Every player has their own unnique strategy for each map, but there aren't enough maps, and there 
 is only one Capture the Intelligence map, and it's 2Fort. But 2Fort is more fun than ANY other 
 map, or even any map on Halo 3, which has superb online play.
  8.0 out of 10
  All in all, all of these great (at the least) games stuck together make each other game seem better. 
 This is why I'm including The Orange Box into the list of my favorite games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hunter47
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box by Valve is a great example of value in this world of $60 games. Containing Half 
 Life 2 with it's next installments Episodes 1 & 2. Half Life 2 is the game that changed thinking 
 on how in-game physics should be done and those physics help you solve various puzzles. The faces 
 of every single character and location are works of art from Alyx Vance's face to Ravenholm. Episode 
 1 starts after you destroy the Citidel core and have to escape from City 17 before the whole place 
 goes ka-boom. This episode has more dark and enclosed areas such as the tunnels full of Zombies, 
 Zombines, and Ant-Lions. Episode 2 is more open with large areas to explore and the return of driving 
 with an old muscle car. Portal, the most mind-bending and head-scratching puzzler to come from 
 Valve or any other developer. The fact that there is a very robotic voice that says really odd 
 things puts a smile on my face and ties the whole package together. Finally, we get to one of the 
 best and most addicting multiplayer experience I've ever had, Team Fortress 2. Team Fortress 2 
 is the long awaited sequel to, you guessed it, Team Fortress. This game is a class and objective-based 
 multiplayer with CTF, Capture Points, and Defend Territory. Even with the skimpy multiplayer levels 
 and scenarios, it delivers on the fun and comedy with the taunts, expressions, and skills specific 
 to every class. Overall I would suggest any Xbox 360 owner to get this game knowing you will get 
 every pennies-worth out of this game warranting this game a 9.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wezleee
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box is a must buy game the game has five games Half Life 2, Half Life 2 E1, Half Life 
 2 E2, Portal, and Team Fortress 2. Half Life 2 is a first person shooter with cool weapons  
 gravity gun. The charecters have some really good AI. The game has a lot of level and feels like 
 your poping someone in the face with shotgun. There are also cars, boats, and more cars that you 
 can drive. The graphics look real. There are alot of things you can interact with. Ok next Half 
 Life 2 E1. This game takes place were the last game left off. The game is the same but with more 
 action and more adventure. This game has the same weapons of the last game but this is still a 
 great game. Plus there are more things to interact with. Half Life 2 E2 takes place were HL2 E1 
 left off. Half Life 2 E2 is really cool because get a new car and this one doesnt look like a gocart. portal 
 is a game were you have to find out puzzles, and complete ever test chamber which are somtimes 
 hard and chalenging. The game is pretty big and fun. The game has some very great gameplay. Ok 
 here is the final game of The Orange Box Team Fortress 2 this game is an online first person shooter. 
 It is like the best game to play Xbox Live. It is so fun and so cool. You can pick classes like 
  and pyro. The game is full of gameplay and 
 full of action. Each character has a different weapon and plus the maps are so cool. So go check 
 out The Orange Box. The best place to find this product go to gamestop if you have one near you. 
 Well for now this is wezlee thanx for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: needs-a-life
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  the orange box consist of five games total the complete half life 2 series, portal, and tf2 (thats 
 short for team fortress 2) . the Half life 2 games always were fun but they always started at a 
 bit a slow pace the exception to that would be episode 2. great gameplay and awsome story line 
 with superb voice acting make the half life 2 collection a must have. portal an inovative first 
 person puzzel game with the idea of moving from one are to another using portals this game is great 
 with some witty humor and a intresting story line that ties into the half life realm. tf2 is the 
 multiplayer aspect of the orange box. with a touch of messed up humor and cartoony graphics make 
 this game a great addition to the orange box. while there are only about six maps you may feel 
 as though there is no end to the same thing over and over but alas there is the gameplay of tf2 
 it allows for very intresting mixes if you are a spy looking for the perfect aportunity to back 
 stap an enemy medic or if your the gun happy heavy you will never get bored with tf2 unless your 
 internet sucks then you might get bored. there are very few problems with these games except for 
 the fact that portal is way to short you can easily beat it in one sit down. the challenges are 
 fun and diffucult you never know what interesting ways to solve a puzzel you might come up with. 
 the half life games have a huge learning curve that expects you to have played the previous part 
 of the trilogy the story always picks up right were it left off and it is always satisfing to chop 
 a zombie in half using the gravity gun. this has been my review for the orange box and i hope you 
 will find it to be the truth and agree with my point of view on this i give the orange box a 10 
 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake6phw
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  If you are looking for a great game then you have a multitude of options to choose from. But if 
 you are looking for a great game with AMAZING value, well then you are talking about the Orange 
 Box. The Orange Box is essentially five games in one, compliing 5 of Valve's greatest games ever. 
 You get the award winning first person shooter Half-life 2, along with its 2 sequels Episodes 1 
 and 2, Team Fortress 2 the sequel to the game that defined class based multiplayer, and a new game 
 created only for the Orange Box; Portal. On their own you still have 5 very good games and when 
 you put them together in a package costing only 60 dollars, well then you have a package that anyone 
 who calls themself a gamer just simply can't ignore.
  
  -Half-life 2, Ep 1 and 2-
  What can you say about the Half-life series? Well, since 1998 Half-life games have been known world-wide 
 as some of the best shooters available and that still stands true today. The Half-life games follow 
 the story of Gordon Freeman, a scientist who worked in the anamolous materials section of the Black 
 Mesa science facility. However, in the typical experiment gone wrong scenario the experiment opened 
 up a portal to an alien world called "Xen" from which poured a multitude of different alien species 
 hell-bent on global domination. After saving the world Gordon is put into a two-decade stasis by 
 the mysterious "G-Man" (Who has yet to have been given an official name in the games) untill the 
 world needs him again. When Half-life 2 was released it brought with it the source engine, a new 
 physics engine with gameplay mechanics and graphics that were years ahead of its time. The Half-life 
 games bring with them an incredible moving story with excellent voice acting and dialouge not just 
 from your allies but also from your enemies. 
  
  -Portal-
  Ah yes, everyone's favorite; Portal. Portal is by far and wide the dullest part of the Orange Box, 
 and that's not saying much. Portal is still an interesting new experience with gameplay mechanics 
 unlike any seen before. I won't go into too much detail on how the portals work, but its pretty 
 much put portal here, put portal there, step in here, come out there. However, they tried to make 
 Portal more mysterious than it had to be, and in the end it comes out not even being very enjoyable. 
 I HATE the Glados song at the end, and when you play you'll know what I mean. I expected a real 
 actual ending that expalined what the hell was going on and why but no, instead I get to hear a 
 lame song that pretty much lets me know I've wasted my time. Thank you.
  
  -Team Fortress 2-
  An excellent multiplayer game, what else can I say? TF2 does actually contain 
 the most diverse and fun class-based multiplayer you will probablly ever experience. It's not like 
 most games where each class is basically the same with small varying differences; each class is 
 actually TOTALLY different and require completely different meathods of play. It isn't exaclty 
 my cup of tea, but anyone who doesn't allready have an addiction to another online shooter (Call 
 of Duty 4 or Halo) will enjoy Team Fortress 2.
  
  Pros:
  -Great Value
  -Provides many many hours of gaming
  -Half-life.
  -Has great single player qualities and great 
 multiplayer, something you don't see too often these days.
  -Portal is great on the way through it
  
  Cons:
  -Portal pisses you off at the end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharpie125
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Well, what can I say about a collection of games that are a little worn (save for TF2 and Portal) ? 
 It's one damn bargain, that's for sure. You can probably find a dozen and a half reviews that praise 
 Portal and TF2 so I won't talk about how good they are. This means you should play them. Now.
 
  
  That being said, if you're here reading this review, that means you: either want to know my opinion 
 of the game (unlikely) , have randomly clicked on the first thing you see (did you?) or just want 
 to see who agrees with your opinion (it's probable) . Now, the bulk of The Orange Box is undoubtedly 
 the Half Life 2 games, so that would be the selling point for me.
  
  I spent the better part of this weekend trying to complete Half Life 2 and its episodic content. 
 My thoughts? HL2 is a fine game, that's for sure. You've probably heard all sorts of praise, which 
 all I need to say is: games need the voice acting and facial expressions of Alyx Vance and friends 
 if they want to be successful. Yada yada, it rocks. Just because a lot of this review is the downsides, 
 it doesn't mean I didn't like what I played. It was awesome. Okay? 
  
  The next bit is a rant, so if you wanna stick around, be my guest.
  
  The negatives I'd say 
 (and please don't burn me at the stake, loyal Half Life fans) are pretty slim, but there are some 
 parts I'd like to see changed. These are all my opinions, so you'd probably meet others who loved 
 what I didn't. 
  
  First, HL2 makes me appreciate a little linearity in shooters. When I come across a wall half the 
 height of Doctor Gordon Freeman or a locked wooden door, I don't want to have to trek around half 
 the level to find a way around an obstacle that I should be able to climb over/smash through. Yeah, 
 I know HL isn't about brute force, but it feels like unnecessary work, really. It's tedious for 
 the sake of... being tedious. I dunno. 
  
  An objective screen/more helpful direction during the game would help as well. I'm not *entirely* 
 stupid (I managed to get through the puzzles and all) but it's easy to get lost in a section of 
 a city because you ran ahead of your squad members and missed a direction. For instance, during 
 the strider defense level, a citizen told me that the rockets were dropped in the plaza. Well, 
 I don't actually know what he means by "plaza" when the whole place is torn up to hell. A nav marker 
 doesn't detract from the player's intellect at all. It's still a challenge to dodge fire from three 
 striders while trying to get from one point to another, if you really enjoy that kind of thing.
 
  
  While I'm ranting, I might as well throw that in the constant "looking-for-important-item" tasks, 
 while understandable, are more frustrating than I care for. Coupled with the lack of direction, 
 you spend more time backtracking than actually fighting the Combine. And people complain about 
 backtracking in Halo! I understand HL 2 is all about using logic, but come on. I know I don't feel 
 better about myself when I progress in a level.
  
  Lastly, these are minor annoyances that fit with these complains. Combine gunships, vehicle sections, 
 and jumping/balance sections (I'll pick up a platformer when I'm in the mood for the tightrope 
 act) . When people complain about the chopper in Havana (Kane and Lynch. Yeah, I know. Shush) , being 
 a complete hindrance, they seem to be forgetting the Combine gunships that are about 6 times more 
 competent and deadly. 
  
  And I'll say it out loud, here and now: The Mass Effect MAKO is much easier to control than Half 
 Life 2's vehicles. Seriously. Once you get the hang of the moon buggy, it handles like a warthog 
 (in which, the 'hog is an absolute blast to drive) . Maybe it's the whole driving with one analog 
 stick or in first person, but it's an absolute chore. It's damn satisfying when you manage to run 
 over a group of idiot Combine soldiers, but the "managing" is harder than it's worth. 
  
  HL2 mixes action and puzzles together quite well, but ffs, I could do without the jumping sequences. 
 Freeman doesn't even see his own legs! Jumping from one ledge to another is always a gamble. Notable 
 moments include performing the stunts underneath the combine-controlled bridge (which, though off 
 topic, ended with myself playing chicken with a train in my go-cart.) , jumping on the planks to 
 avoid the sand which is... more difficult than it would seem, and that one section where Freeman 
 needs to get over a diagonal tripwire. I had to bloody restart it over five times because the good 
 Doctor's invisible legs kept catching the end of the sensor.
  
  Oh yes, why the hell do people always knock Halo 2's ending? Now that I realize, Half Life 2 came 
 out in the same year, did it not? Does it not leave off with a cliff hanger? I mean, Halo 2 ended 
 with a "Wait... that's it?" moment, but it at least had a semi-denouement. HL2 has such a great 
 set up during the final moments, but instead of leaving the player with a "Wait, that's it?", it 
 also leaves us with a "OMG WTF HOW DOES IT END?!" I thought HL2 dropped us off harder than Halo 
 ever did.
  
  As for HL2 episode 1 & 2, it's fine. Alyx really is a great character. Valve really made her "real" 
 with little moments I appreciate. Walking in the wrecked tunnels and your flashlight runs out, 
 her zombie imitation actually made me quickly switch on my light, ready to blast some crabs. But 
 other than that, Ep 1 is a joke (in length, that is... EDIT: I remembered that it does take you 
 places. The length really just feels like two levels of HL2, and I was expecting at least half 
 of the length HL2 was, since all they need to do was throw in some new levels and story) . 
  
  I finished Half Life 2 (shocked at the ending, ready to get back into the action) and was settled 
 in for another great experience... then it just ends. What in the hell? Maybe it was really fun 
 or something, but it felt like not even a quarter of the first game. I don't know about the guys 
 who bought Episode 1 at retail price, but I would feel ripped off. Thankfully, I'm playing the 
 Orange Box and Episode 2 picks off and makes up for Episode 1's length. 
  
  So there's my rant. If you're deciding if you should shell out $50, if you haven't played HL 2 
 at all and want to check out Portal/TF2, that's a definite yes. If you've played it on PC time 
 before, it's not going to be worth it for you (unless you really enjoy TF2) . 
  
  The Orange Box has a whole lot of value, but if you're looking for "THE Next-Gen Experience", look 
 elsewhere. However, you should at least touch this at least once before this generation is over. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiiIsLegend
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2008 12:12 am PT
Review:  Hands down THE best purchase YOU could ever make for the 360. I have beaten HL2 on pc. I borrowed 
 this game from a friend, and I havent been able to put it down. I had to buy it myself...
  
  Half life 2: Must play for any gamer in general. From fanboys of MGS, Halo, Zelda, anything.. 
 Jump on this bandwagon. If you have ever played a shooter and somewhat enjoyed it you have to get 
 this game.. From one of the coolest and immersive stories ever to some of the funnest and most 
 interactive environments ever.. This game is hands down a must play for anyone who owns a 360... 
 (yes I just said it)
  
  HL ep 1 + 2 make it even better...
  
  Portal.. If you've ever found yourself enjoying a puzzle that made your mind boggle for more than 
 a second, you will love portal.. Finding science and science fiction interesting makes this game 
 even better. MUST play...
  
  TF2: The most underplayed good game I have ever seen.. Even I fell for assassins creed's marketing 
 ploy... The game was OK... Now this is probably the most underplayed underknown multiplayer FPS 
 there is.. Gorgeous game, gorgeous mechanics, endless hours of enjoyment
  
  If you dont play this game.. You aint seen nothin yet..
  You could spend years playing this little 
 orange box.
  Getting achievements for this game is even as fun as heck... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteamPipe
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box is the Best FPS of the year. It offers revolutionary gameplay, good graphics, and 
 tons of content. I'll start with Half life 2, Half Life 2 is pretty much the best FPS ever created. 
 The only complaint I have with Half Life 2, are that the textures are outdated and the resolution 
 is low. Besides the outdated graphics, Half Life 2 offers stunning gameplay, highly realistic facial 
 animations and voice acting, and some dark humor. The story starts off with the gman plucking you 
 back on earth from your long absence from the world. You soon are traversing The sewers, Ravenholm, 
 The country side, and City 17 killing several combine soldiers, antlions, and zombies along the 
 way. Portal is a puzzle game that will blow the pants right off of you with revolutionary gameplay. 
 Its very simple actually, your the latest guinea pig at aperture science and are testing out the 
 handheld portal device that well, can create portals. Its only downfall is that its only about 
 a hour or two long. Team Fortress 2 is the long awaited sequel to the original multiplayer mod 
 for Half Life. It adds highly addictive gameplay with a unique art style not seen in most games 
 these days. Lag and dropped games though can somtimes be a huge problem. All of the classes are 
 well balanced with their strengths and weaknesses. Episode 1 and 2 continue the story of Half Life 
 2 adding the same formula it uses. In the end The Orange Box is the best deal in video game history, 
 by adding 5 amazing games in one orange box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiixx3
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box as we all know contains the amazing Half-Life 2 with all its episodes. It also contains 
 Portal and Team Fotress 2. People used to think that Half Life and all its episodes is all it has 
 to offer, but The Orange Box has so much to offer. Portal, in my opinion, is one of the best games 
 on the Orange Box. It has so much to offer and it interests you in its game capabilites and cleverness 
 in its story. Half Life 2 and all its episodes is placed 2nd with Half Life 2 and episode one looking 
 better than ever and Half Life 2 giving outstanding performance in its gaming. Team Fortress 2, in 
 my opinion, is placed last in the Orange Box. Don't get me wrong, its a great game but there is 
 just not that many match variants like Deathmatch to keep the game going. Also you cant play splitscreen 
 and enjoy good old fashioned multiplayer. That and said, the Orange Box is wonderful oppurtunity 
 for gamers who haven't played Half Life 2 and Portal. I highly reccommend the game and warn you 
 that it is hard. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T070Y
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  First of, Half-Life is the best FPS game for computer (well thats what they say, but I think is 
 true) , anyways, Half-life is a very long game you will take at least 20 hours to pass them all. 
 Half-Life is very entretainig game that will have you with the doubt of whats going to be nextin 
 the game.
  Portal is a new innovative game, which you will need a lot of time to think whats going to be your 
 next move. Portal has a good sense of humor, it will make you laugh while playing the game.
  Team Fortress 2 is one of the best online shooter games i have ever played, maybe is not as famous 
 as Halo or Call Of Duty, but is an innovative multiplayer that you are not going to regret playing.
 
  
  In fact, if you are looking for a good FPS game, the option you should take is The Orange Box. Amen.
 
  Peace up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fett76
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  First off, The Orange Box is an indisputably great value. Even though Half-Life 2 isn't a brand 
 new game and some of the others wouldn't warrant a $60 price tag by themselves, I defy you to put 
 together a better collection of 5 games for the same price using anyone's bargain bin. I'll save 
 you some time - you can't do it.
  
  For me (and many others) , Portal is what makes The Orange Box stand out as a great buy. The portal 
 gun is an awesome toy, and brings an increasingly rare breath of originality to the world of video 
 games. But the portal gun, and the great little puzzles it is used for, aren't enough to make Portal 
 great. Everything, from the environment (I am sure there is a metaphor involved with the dingy 
 dank underside of the pristine laboratory, and thank you Valve for not beating us over the head 
 with it) , to the personalities (I will truly miss you, Companion Cube) , to the audio (I looped 
 Still Alive for 2 hours on my laptop and never got sick of it) combine to make Portal truly shine. 
 Sure, the game is a little short, but the $60 price tag buys you a lot more than just Portal, and 
 I don't know if much could have been done to lengthen the game without ruining it.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is good as well. At least, I think it is. My one attempt to play it landed me on 
 an extremely laggy host, and I spent most of my time running into a wall and shooting at the ceiling. 
 The overall design of the game seems rock solid though, and would probably be a lot of fun in a 
 situation where you could actually play it. 
  
  I have to admit to not spending much time with Half-Life 2 itself, and none at all with its companion 
 chapters. I tried to get into HL2 again, having played it on the PC, but I feel like the game is 
 really starting to show its age (even though it's not all that old) . The graphics, the collision 
 detection (which is still too good - I hate getting stuck in doorways as a consequence of not hitting 
 them dead on) , and most of all the story pacing just aren't enough to keep me engaged. Maybe games 
 like Halo 3 and Call of Duty 4 are giving me a bit of ADD...
  
  In any event, it's hard to imagine many people picking up The Orange Box and not winding up feeling 
 like they got more than they paid for - and that makes The Orange Box a solid buy.
  
  As for the cake... play the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LudaToke
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box (as if you haven't heard already) is the game with 5 different games on one disk 
 (Half Life 2, Episode 1, Episode 2, Portal, Team Fortress 2) . It sounds too good to be true and 
 you you may think these 5 games may be lacking something but that couldn't be farther from the 
 truth. Any one of the 5 games on The Orange Box could be a stand along game on it's own.
  
  The Half Life series (HL2, Ep1, Ep2) is just amazing. It has it all. Engaging story, great graphics, 
 fast paced action, fluid game play. All the elements of the HL series are strung together to creat 
 a beautiful master piece.
  
  Portal is simply brilliant. Not since the invention of Tetris has a puzzle game been this creative 
 and enjoying. Portal can be described as a FPS puzzle. It sounds strange if you haven't played 
 the game but it is true. The great game play found in Portal is toped off with a wicked and dark 
 sense of humour that create a truly unique atmosphere.
  
  Team Fortress 2 can be best described as The Incredibles on acid with a tough of evil. The action 
 is fast paced and loads of fun. The 9 different classes of characters offer a lot of different 
 options to creat some chaos. The FPS game play is top notch and it is difficult to find fault at 
 all with Team Fortress 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkrul3s
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Okay this is the best deal in video game history without a doubt. All 5 of these games are great 
 in their own special way!!! I will review each of the games in the order of my personal favorite 
 to my least favorite (which is still great) .
  
  Portal:
  Portal is one absolutely fantastic puzzle game. It may look like a fps, but it isn't. The game 
 challenges you to think in some unexpected ways, but most of the levels are really easy, with an 
 exception to the last few levels. The game is horribly short (1-2 hours long) , but it is totally 
 worth it. After you beat the game you get some bonus levels and challenge modes. The story is hilarious 
 and I highly reccomend this game.
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode 2:
  This is the latest edition in the Half-Life 2 trilogy. In this game all the plans you have been 
 creating will come into play. This is the most exciting Half-Life game to date because you are 
 finally out-doors rather than doing indoor, narrow, tight fights. This game is awesome. 
  
  Team Fortress 2:
  This game is one of the best class-based shooters of all time. This game is 
 entirely multiplayer and it is a lot of fun!!! There are so many different classes and none of 
 them are overpowered which makes this game so much fun. The game does get old after a while and 
 there are very few people online right now so it feels a bit small. The game is fun while it lasts.
 
  
  Half-Life 2:
  This game is the original Half-Life 2 and it is a lot of fun. Time has dealt a bit of damage on 
 it, but it is fun none-theless. 
  
  Half-life 2: Episode 1:
  This game is not too much fun, but it is a good bridge between Half-Life 2 and Episode 2. It is 
 really short and it feels hard and tedious. Half-Life maniacs will love it though.
  
  This game is awesome, but it doesn't get a 9.5 because the few flaws do hold back on the fun. I 
 also don't count the fact that two of the games have already come out before.
  I highly reccomend this game to everyone!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box. How they packed so much gaming goodness onto one DVD is beyond me. How I'm going 
 to review four hit games is another thing I really don't want to ponder. Yes I said four games 
 seeing as the few times I tried to dabble with Team Fortress 2, I kept getting booted and kicked 
 out of matches before they'd start up. I'm not going to go too in depth and just pretty much give 
 the highs and lows of each entry.
  
  
  Half-Life 2 is the game I started out playing first as it seemed the best choice. Seeing as the 
 game is a few years old, the graphics are a little dated but are still above average compared to 
 some games that are just slopped on the 360. 
  
  
  All other games could take note from the HL series on story progression and HL 2 continues this 
 tradition. The game works all the emotions from panic, stress, hardships and triumph and just keeps 
 giving more and more of these feelings at every obstacle.
  
  
  The only thing I have to say is that the vehicle sections were a bit too lengthy for my liking 
 and just weren't any fun. Other than these points, Half-Life 2 was a beautiful romp through a city 
 state under marshal law.
  
  
  Half-Life 2 Episode 1 was next and was the low point of the collection. While having what seemed 
 to be slightly better graphics and similar gameplay, the story didn't seem to go much further from 
 HL 2 and in hind sight; the story didn't progress as far as in Episode 2. Also this Episode is 
 pretty short. If you enjoyed HL 2, then you'll enjoy this part also, it's just that not much is 
 added to the plot.
  
  
  Next up was Portal and this game was by the most amusing entry on the disc. The game doesn't have 
 much to do with the HalfLife universe yet ties in wonderfully well. Simply put, the portal gun 
 adds an amazing amount of depth to a FPS game. It is incredible how having a gun that opens two 
 different colored portals that are connected to each other opens up whole worlds of gameplay that 
 haven't been utilized in hardly any other game. 
  
  
  To top off the portal gun, you add great level design, brain teasing puzzles and a hilariously 
 evil AI. The only bad part of the game is that the game doesn't last too long. It may be a blessing 
 that it ends before it wears out the innovative parts but more often than not, it leaves gamers 
 wanting more.
  
  
  Episode 2 was the last game I played in the set and while it is somewhere between the length of 
 HL 2 and Episode 1, Episode 2 packed plenty of content into such a short time. Episode 2 felt much 
 more action packed and still did a great job of pushing along the HL mythos all the way until the 
 cliffhanger ending. The only complaint I have of Episode 2 is that it's just an episode. If it 
 was a full length game, it could have easily surpassed HL2 in every department.
  
  
  In each entry the sound is top notch. The voice acting and dialogue is always delivered superbly 
 in every situation whether it's supposed to be comedic or urgent and the music picks up pace where 
 need be. 
  
  
  The Orange Box was by far one of the best deals this past holiday season. With 5 hit games in a 
 $60 package, fans of FPS couldn't do any better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madbhal402
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  The Orange box is hard to come by in the gaming world. It has 5 games in one Box, all for the price 
 of one. Good right. Well my favorite part of the Orange box is portal. its a puzzle game. You have 
 to make it to an elevator by making a portal and then making another to get to the elevator simple 
 right? no not really its very challenging , the computer that tells you what to do has the funniest 
 dialauge I have ever heard in a Videogame. The story and Phisycs in portal are also impressive, 
 The only bad thing is Its short you will probably beat it in under 5 Hours. Next is team Fortress 
 2. A team based muliplayer only shooter. Its great you have 6 maps, and two modes Capture the flag 
 and territories with many variations to them. There are 9 classes to choose from in Tf2, my favorite 
 is the Heavy, a big guy with a chaingun that killes all enemies in sight. The community for Tf2 
 is also great there are many people playing it so you will always find a match. The only bad thing 
 is that if the host has a bad connection you will have a laggy match or get dumped out of it. Last 
 is the Half life 2 series. I really dont like this series. There is just too much thinking and 
 slowpacing in Half life 2 and episode 1. episode 2 has alot of action and it never really stops 
 so I like It. If The Orange box only had TF2, portal, episode 2 I would give it a 10 but it has 
 Half life 2 and episode 1 so it gets a 8.5. Hope you guys liked my review and it helped you with 
 Purchasing it. The Orange box is an awesome Pack that should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chapman_06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Where should i start, well the orange box is one of the best bargains in gaming history. With 5 
 games in 1 all for a usual xbox 360 game price of around 40 - 45. The 5 games consist of HL2 
 , HL 2 episode 1 , HL2 : episode 2 , Portal (which is only in the orange box by the way) and team 
 fortress 2 the sequel to the number 1 multiplayer game 2006 if im not mistaken. HL2 ( half life 
 2 ) is one of the best sequels ever. its epic story line is great with you playing as doctor gordan 
 freeman yet again as he tries to fight off the alien attack which continues in episodes 1 and 2 
 with you playing as alex in episode. alex is a new character to the the half life series with some 
 kick ass moves. but all in all i recommened the orange box to any gamer who wants an absolute bargain 
 game and an enjoyable 1 too ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rykh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  The games are great, all of them. Team Fortress was not quite as fun as other online shooters right 
 now, thats my only big complaint. 
  
  I have played HL2 and episode one before, so the value for me wasnt there. Episode 2 is very short, 
 not much added to the story either, as with portal it was fun but even shorter. I thought it was 
 a peice of cake (play on words intended for those of you that have played it) . Team Fortress as 
 I mentioned before was fun for a day or two but that was about it. With Halo 3 and Call of Duty 
 4 out, this game wont compete with either for online shooter or numbers online. 
  
  The graphics, story, gameplay, voice acting, and environments are all top notch, and this collection 
 has almost no bugs.
  
  Is this worth buying? Well that depends on if you want to play HL2 and Episode 1 again, if you 
 havent played either get this collection. If you have id suggest renting or borrowing. As the amount 
 of content is hard to justify $60 in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoke0
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box is a great deal. 5 games for the price of one, on one single disc! Who can say no 
 to that? I cant, and im happy that i brought it. What you are getting with The Orange Box is 
 Half-Life 2, Half Life 2 Epsoide 1, Half Life 2 Epsoide 2, Portal, and Team Fortress. Of course 
 the quality of these games are impordent, or else you cant sell 5 games on one disc. So how do 
 they fare? What follows is a review of each of the 5 games included.
  
  Half Life 2:
  
  The Good: Great port, the game is still a great as before, good story. good length.
  
  The 
 Bad: N/A
  
  STORY
  
  Gorden Freeman is back in the real world again, after having been captured in G Mans dimension, 
 but the world is not what it used to be. HE arrives in City 17, a city ruled by one man, and controlled 
 by his special force known as the Combine. A everyday life in City 17, includes hard work, rough 
 treatment by the Combine, who often hits and arrest people for no reason, getting bad quality food, 
 and living in fear of losing your home. After you been introduced, your determined to defeat the 
 Combine, and make the world a better place again. You are along the way helped by your sidekick 
 Alyx. The story is intresting, revealing more and more of the world, and the Combine themselves. 
 You also create a good bond between the characters in the game. The game isent terribly excting 
 as 24 or MGS, but its intresting enough to keep it going, and it does a good job of keeping you 
 guessing. 9.0
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The gameplay is basicly the same as Half-Life 1. There isent much new to speak off, but theres 
 a couple of reasons why its even better. The game throws much more action at you, there are great 
 locations, and the pyshics are just amazing. Basicly every item youll find, can be picked up, 
 and thrown around with. You even get a weapon later on in the game that lets you do all sorts 
 of things with items. And its greatley used too. Most puzzles revolve on using the pyshics to 
 create a path, so you can move on, and progress the game. Its great the pyshics are so great, 
 because it makes the game diffirent from other FPSs. So even though Half-Life 2, is Half-Life 
 one with better graphics, and great pyshics, its still a pretty amazing game. 9.5
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Pyshics have already been demonstrated, so how does the reat of the game look? 
 The locations are great, and they are quite diffirent from other FPSs. Where as most takes place 
 in a facility, city, or underground, HF2 takes place in a abaonded prison, docks, and on the country 
 side. It also includes city, facility, and underground too by the way. Theres great detail in 
 them, and they are big and beautiful to look at. Sometimes you want to slow down, just to explore 
 the enviorment. The character models are impressive too. They animate pretty well, but its their 
 facial animations that blows our minds. Its impressive. It looks like a real face. Its almost 
 as watching a real person talk. 10
  
  SOUND
  
  The sound is pretty good too. Theres a great cast, working on the voice acting, and theres some 
 good sound effects, that begs for coming out of speakers on a surround sound set. The only downside 
 is the music. The music has a few good tunes, but it lags behind compared to other games. The first 
 HF game used entirely eletronical music, that reminded at bit of techno. It was ok in 98, but not 
 now. Games these days are scored like a movie, and this isent the case here. The same type of 
 soundtrack from HF1 is used in HF2, so its a bit disappointing that the music wasent brought 
 into the future. 8.0
  
  LENGTH
  
  The game takes 20 hours to beat, but theres no real unlockables to speak off. No hidden difficulty, 
 not alternate stuff, no hidden modes or weapons. Just the game itself, and when its done, just 
 move on to the next game. It is a pretty long game though. 8.0
  
  OVERALL
  
  Half Life 2 is a worthy sequel to Half Life 1. It dones many things right, and has amazing graphics 
 and a pyshics system. If you love FPS, youll love Half Life 2.
  
  9.0
  
  Half Life 2 Episode 1:
  
  The Good: Same great gameplay, Alyx has a bigger role this time, 
 continues the story of Half-Life 2.
  
  The Bad: Too short, no new weapons to speak of, no mutilplayer.
  
  Half-Life 2 was a great 
 game. A truly great sequel to a great game. Episode One is the first of 3 expansions for Half-Life 
 2, so this one ends ready for Epsoide 2. But does this first episode show a bright future for the 
 other 2 expansions, or should they just drop it?
  
  STORY
  
  Episode 1 picks up right where Half-Life 2 ended. You are once again playing as Gorden Freeman, 
 who in HF2, was yet again taked away from the world by G-Man like in the ending of the original 
 Half-Life, but some wired looking creatures are breaking you free of G-Mans grasp, and sends you 
 back to the world. You wake up in the ruins of the citadal, being found by Alyx Vance, and her 
 mechanical pet Dog. You & Alyx have to get into the citadal, and make sure the reactor dosent 
 explode, so that they can get survivors out of City 17. What follows is a short story, that has 
 its thrills and a few memorable points, but the short length hurts it. 8.0
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The gameplay is basicly the same as in Half-Life 2, and includes the same weapons (although 
 not all of them) , and theres only 2 things that have changed. The first is that you have The Gravity 
 Gun all the time, which dosent hurt one bit, since its a great weapon, demostrating the great 
 pyshics of the Source Engine, and its used well. The second thing is Alyx. Alyx was seen quite 
 a bit in HF2, as she was maked the heroine of HF2. This time shes back, and now shes with you 
 all the time, acting as your side kick, and she does her job more than great. She follows you where 
 ever you go, never complains, always ready to give you a helping hand, and she can take care of 
 herself. In short: The perfect friend. Her AI is perfect, and there never seems to be any problems 
 with her. Youll also grow your feelings for her, as she cracks jokes from time to time, and is 
 a part of every event. The rest of the game is basicly HF2, with new locations, and 1 new enemy 
 type. Combine zombies, which can be reffered to as Zobines (get it?) . But the single-player does 
 have its flaws. If you have played HF2, and are looking for something new, this might not be it. 
 Only story is new here, the gameplay is the same as in HF2, which makes you wish there where some 
 new stuff. Unfortunely theres only the single-player here. No new mutilplayer enhancements. Only 
 the short single-player mode. 7.5
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics are pretty much the same as in HF2, which (unlinke the single-player) , is a great 
 thing. The graphics in HF2 was awesome, and so it is in Episode 1. You still get the same great 
 facial animations, the same detail, in short: pretty much everything that was great about the graphics 
 in HF2. 10
  
  SOUND
  
  Stil the same as in HF2. The same voice actors return, which is a nice touch, even though some 
 of the characters like Dr Kleiner and Barney only are on for a few minutes total. The music has 
 seen a bit of an improvement. The music in HF2 was very eletronic music, but this time, it reminds 
 a bit of the soundtrack from Halo 2, without the ocrestra though. But the sound effects are the 
 same, and some new sound effects wouldnt have hurt. 8.5
  
  LENGTH
  
  The main flaw of the game. The game lasts from anywhere between 2-5 hours. I completed the game 
 in 2 hours and 30 min, so it was a big disappointment that it ended so quickly. The replay value 
 is pretty low, because theres no unlockables, and no mutilplayer. Only a developer commentary, 
 and higher difficultys. Thats it. So what we got here is a pretty short game. 5.0
  
  OVERALL
  
  Episode 1 shows a bright future for the other 2 episodes for Half-Life 2. But the 
 developers should stop thinking about using the expansions only as progressing the story of HF2, 
 and starting thinking of some new stuff to include, and a longer game. 2 hour and 30 min compleating 
 time is unacceptable, for such a game as HF2 Episode 1, and expansion for the great HF2, and even 
 looking at todays standards. This is a pure example, that a game, that can be completed in no time, 
 really can hurt a great game.
  
  7.5
  
  Half-Life 2 Episode 2:
  
  The Good: Alyx, good Gameplay, a much better story, still great graphics.
  
  The Bad: Still 
 not much replay value, still no new weapons or mutilplayer. Gameplay beginning to show its age.
 
  
  Last year Half-Life 2 Episode 1 was released, and people was exicted. IT did continue the story 
 of Half Life 2 after all. After 2-5 hours, it was finished, and then began the wait for the next 
 episode. Now its here and part of The Orange Box, but this is a seperate review. HF2E1 had some 
 flaws, that hurt the game a bit, such as short length, and nothing new. Does HF2E2 follow the same 
 trend, or does it create something new?
  
  STORY
  
  City 17 is destroyed, and you wake up the the same train car you where in in the end of HF2E1. 
 Alyz has survived, and helps you get on your feet again. Meanwhile at The Citadel, the portal to 
 Xen has been opened, and threatens to send more combine soliders. You and Alyx recovered precious 
 data in HF2E1, which must be passed on to Eli Vance, and Dr Kleiner at the resistance base known 
 as White Forest. Theres also a new Black Masa researcher, Dr Arne Magnusson. The story has this 
 time around, more meat to it. Theres some moments that are truely great, although the cant match 
 COD4. The story has more twists and turns, and characters are as lovable as ever. Especially Alyx. 
 Now at the end you might ask: What is it with games and bad cliffhanger endings? HF2E1 ended with 
 a big cliffhanger, and HF2E2 ends with a bigger one. This time is just feels like they didnt have 
 more time to go on, and decided to make a rough cut here. Its very annoying, and considering that 
 theres still no news on HF2E3, this is going to be a real annoynce. But overall the story has 
 been improved. 9.0
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Again the gameplay is excatly the same has HF2 and HF2E1, so theres nothing new here. Still no 
 new weapons or abilltys. The only change is that your flashlight runs on its own power insted 
 of running on the power of your suit, but thats next to useless. Alyx still follows you around, 
 and the squad mechanic is still here, and nothing has been added or taken. The gameplay is still 
 good, but now its beginning to show its age. You cant keep using the same excat gameplay for 
 3 games, without getting a bit tired of it. And the more and more you play it, the more and more 
 annoying things youll find. Like why cant you look down on iron sights, or just zoom in with 
 your weapons to aim better. Every FPS does it, and why HF2E2 still dosent do that is a bit of 
 a mystery. HF2E2 is also a bit slow compared to the fast paced action in COD4. So while the gameplay 
 is still good, its starting to fall behind of other shooters. 7.5
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The Graphics hasent aged however. It still look as great as it did in 2004. Even though its not 
 impressive anymore, its still great. There really isent much to say that has allready been said. 
 Nothings been added or taken. 9.0
  
  SOUND
  
  The music has (like in HF2E1) moved away from just techno, to Halo inspired music without the oscresta. 
 The voice acting is great, but the sound effects are beginning to become repetive and old. New 
 sound effects please. 8.0
  
  LENGTH
  
  The game is still short. 3-5 hours apply here, and no real replay value afterwards. Again no unlockables, 
 and no new mutilplayer. 5.0
  
  OVERALL
  
  Half-Life 2 Episode 2 is an improvement on Episode 1 for sure, but its not as good as one might 
 have hoped. The great visuals, and great story cant make up for old sound effects, and recycled 
 gameplay. The story leaves with a big cliffhanger, and HF2E3 is a very very long way from finished, 
 so fans might be annoyed about this. Episode 2 is a example of that you cant keep doing the excat 
 gameplay for 3 games without adding new things. 
  
  7.5
  
  Portal:
  
  The Good: Suprsingly good story, great puzzles, groundbreaking gameplay
  
  The Bad: Too short, 
 dosent exploit the Source engine much.
  
  Value is most known for Half-Life, so it was suprising that they made a game like Portal. Portal 
 is a puzzle game trying to break newground. Does it succed, or do we need a portal to throw this 
 game away in?
  
  STORY
  
  Yes it has a story. You play as Chell, who wakes up in a tech lap, called Aperture Science. She 
 is told by the only other character in the game GLaDOS (Genetic Lifeform and Disk Operating System) , 
 that she needs to complete some tests, using their new Aperture Science Handheld Portal Device, 
 which allows the user to create teleportation portals. The story at first seems like non existent, 
 but as you get further into the game, the story really picks up, and throws some suprising twists 
 at you, that youll normally never see in a puzzle game. So later it envolves froma sad excuse, 
 to a good story. 8.0
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The portal gun lets you create portals on the walls, celling, and floor, if its a special type 
 of floor, wall and celling, which is it for most of the game. The objective is to cler each of 
 the 19 test rooms, and complete the game. Each of the rooms contain puzzles like get from A to 
 B, get box from A to B, and get ball from A to B. Sounds linear, and it is a bit, but its the 
 way its done that keeps it fresh and intresting. See creating teleportation portals, is never 
 seen in a game. its so completely orginal. The puzzles are a bit easy, but from room 17, you really 
 have to think, plus after the game has been completed, advanced versions of the levels is unlocked, 
 which are a bit hard. There are no real enemies in the game. Theres turrents who can kill you 
 yes, but that is the only enemy, if it is an enemy at all. So whats the bad part of the gameplay? 
 It can get a bit linear at times, but as i said, the orginal gameplay keeps it fresh and forgiveable. 
 9.0
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The game uses the same Source engine as Half Life 2 does, but the pyshic part isent used as much 
 here. Here its mainy for creating the levels, and things standing in your way. Its still there, 
 but not used as much as in Half Life 2. The levels look a bit linear too, featuring almost the 
 same textures every time, although that changes in the last levels. There is only one character 
 model in the game, and thats your play character, and you dont even get to see her much, although 
 you do get to see her. The weapon looks nice, but there arent any cool effects following with 
 it. In fact, the game dosent have many effects. It does have very few effects, and they arent 
 stunning, so in the graphics department, the game disappoints a little. 7.0
  
  SOUND
  
  Sound effects dont come in big numbers either, but it is helped a bit by the voice acting. The 
 only person that talks in the game are GLaDOS, who has some good dialoge, and promises you cake, 
 which is a nice touch. Seriously the cake talk is awesome. Her voice can be a bit annoying at times, 
 as its completely computer voice, but the dialog makes it easy to forgive it. The music is very 
 far and between, and it sounds like music from Half Life 2, so it depends if you liked the music 
 in Half Life 2 or not. 8.0
  
  LENGTH
  
  The game is suprisingly short, and can be completed in a matter of 2 hours, which is really short, 
 and its the thing that drags the game down in the long run. Its far too short. There is new levels 
 and achivements to unlock, but theres not much besides that, keeping you playing.
  
  OVERALL
  
  Portal is a suprisingly good game. Its orginal, full of good dialoge, and a suprisingly 
 good story. But its linear graphics, and very short length drags it down quite a bit. But if you 
 like puzzle games, Portal is the game for you.
  
  8.5
  
  Team Fortress 2:
  
  The orginal Team Fortress, was the first game to include class based characters, and fans have 
 been promised a sequel for ages. Now its finally here, but is it too late for the game, or is 
 it a great mutilplayer game?
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The game is pretty much like every other class based mutilplayer game. You start out by picking 
 from one out of 9 classes. You got all your basic classes like engineers, scout, sniper, heavy, 
 medic, and explosive, but theres a few who stand out. Pyro has a flamethrower and is very dangerous 
 up close, and Spy, who can disguise himself as a player from the enemy team, which is a nice touch, 
 and a new way to play the game. But apart from that, TF2 is pretty much like every other class 
 based mutilplayer game. Games modes are simple capture the flag, base, or territory. Theres no 
 deathmatch which is very wired. More annoyingly is that you cant just play every mode on every 
 map. Some maps are buildt for one mode. One map is build for capture the flag, while the other 
 is buildt for capture the base. There are only 5 maps so your options are pretty limited. The modes 
 are also non creative, as they basicly are rip-offs of games like Battlefield. The gameplay itself 
 dosent offer pretty much either. Its basicly standard FPS mutilplayer as a seperate game. 5.0
 
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The only real new thing about TF2. Instead of having real life graphics like HF2 and Portal, TF2 
 has The Incredibles feel to it, as the graphics are very alike to the movie. Its nice to see a 
 diffirent style of graphics for once. The game is pretty violent, as arms and legs can be blown 
 off. The maps are big and look great too, so the graphics are the best part of the game. 10
  
  SOUND
  
  The music is just halirous. Its so great, and funny that its a joy to listen 
 to. Theres no music in game though, and the only thing youll hear in game are weapon sound effects, 
 footsteps, and the sound of dying players. There isent much sound over the game. 5.0
  
  LENGTH
  
  The only thing that keeps you playing are either requests from friends, or for the 
 sake of achivements. The stat tracking are only for most kills, most time spent alive. Theres 
 no counter on how many you killed since you first booted up the game. There are no game spefic 
 challanges, but then again the achivements are there for that. 5.0
  
  OVERALL
  
  Team Fortress 2 is disappointing. Its basicly the same as every other FPS multiplayer mode, only 
 with better graphics, and funny music. Everything else is what you would expect from a FPS mutilplayer 
 game. 5.0
  
  PACKAGE OVERALL
  
  The Orange Box is great value. HF2 are a classic, and even though the 2 expansions does quite deliver 
 the same way as HF2, they are still good. Portal is a mindblowing game, thats impressive on gameplay 
 and story (for the puzzle genre) , but not on sound or graphics. Team Fortress 2 is just a pretty 
 dated game. Nevertheless, you should enjoy The Orange Box to a good degree. Theres 5 games to 
 beat, and an amazing 99 achivements to collect, so its going to take a pretty while to get everything. 
 If only the mutilplayer wasent a rip-off, and the expansions offered a little more, it would have 
 been the perfect package. Its a great package, but not everyone is going to be impressed by all 
 of its content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChefLinguini
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2008 10:25 pm PT
Review:  From the get go The Orange box gets a note, 'huge success'. First off, we see Half Life 2, and 
 its two expansions. These are the best games if you like to think alittle while killing things. 
 Next up is Portal, this is my favorite game in the box. I like how subconsciously creepy it is. 
 This game is the best reason to get The Orange Box. Next up is Team Fortress 2. This sequel to 
 the awesome classic delivers. In a nutshell this game finally gets 'the cake'. haha, that was a 
 joke I am very sincere here. However let me strike a note here on Portal. This game is more fun 
 than anything else. For starters its rather innovative. Its creepy in the true fear sort of way, 
 it haunts your dreams and warps your mind. Dead serious, I heard people talking like GLaDOS. The 
 game immerses you so much you almost forget its a game. You scream, you cry, you cringe, making 
 it so much better. If you could only get one game out of the orange box, make it Portal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redhairboy491
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Right off the bat you have the Half Life games which, albeit old, are still incredibially good 
 games. If you've never played them, get this game, because not only are they there, but Portal 
 and Team Fortress 2 are included. I'll admit, puzzle games aren't my favorite... who am i kidding, 
 normally i end up throwing the controller into a wall, moving to a small corner of the room, and 
 cry. But not with portal, oooo no, this game is amazingly addictive, unfournately short, but with 
 so much other content, that barely even subtracts. Team Fortress 2 has only 6 maps, but with its 
 cast of goofy characters and supriseingly good set up, you'll barely notice. Normally i hate those 
 kinda cartoonish games, but Team Fortress has just the right amount of humor, fps, and cartoon 
 elements to make it enjoyable. There can't be a better time to get it, specially with the updates 
 coming, such as new maps, differant equipment for the characters, and the overall reamping of the 
 game. Only problem is technical, as often as not lag will infiltrate the server, bend you over, 
 and... well you know the rest, and if you dont, you probably shouldnt be reading my reviews.
  
  Peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JiveBot
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Team fortress 2 was advertised as having PC-360 interconnectivity. Which was great because my brother 
 bought the game for his PC and I was eager to join him on my 360 console. When I bought it and 
 we set it up we slowly started to realize that there was no possible way for us to connect. When 
 we researched the problem we found out that Microsoft decided to scrap the connectivity at the 
 last minute, because they wanted to have their own solitary network - "Join the revolution!" - 
 I. E. "No one will be happy until everyone one owns an X-box." So, now, instead of playing Team 
 Fortress 2 with my brother and all the grown up experienced gamers that I saw playing on the PC 
 network I get to listen to all the 13 year olds on the Microsoft network call each other gay and 
 run around like idiots. If my Hunter S. Thompson Sniper Man could cry I'm sure he would, because 
 360s private land of four year olds is no place for mature gamers. I'm so jaded by this that I 
 think its finally time I grew up and sold my X-box. I don't know how all the 8 year olds on my 
 friends list are gonna take it, but I'm sure one day they'll understand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: movie_maniac21
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  Half Life was a landmark FPS because of its narrative. It also had a immersive gameplay and characters 
 you care about.
  
  Half life 2 continues this but now it has more characters great graphics and an awesome new gun.
 
  The gravity gun is what makes HL2 original. It is just amazing how fun it is to just kill an enemy 
 with a barrel of a saw blade. And now you have these awesome achievements but most of them only 
 give 5.
  
  Episode 1 is good but not great. I thought it could have used a little more plot because it was 
 pretty much 'get out of city 17'. 
  
  Episode 2 is all of half life 2 without the problems of ep.1. And the story is just amazing in 
 this installment.
  
  Portal has the most original gameplay that I have ever seen. And even though it's a puzzle game 
 it's one of the funniest games ever.
  
  My only problem with Team Fortress 2 is the connection. I might be in the middle of a game and 
 it will start lagging. And after a while I just say to myself 'to hell with this' and I go play 
 CoD4.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklord239
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  The orange box is a deal unlike any in gaming. It gives you all the half life 2 games to date, 
 portal, and team fortress 2, and the crazy thing is its all just for 60 bucks. There so much one 
 this one disc that it could really be the one game you buy, and you'd be set for at least a couple 
 of months. Half life 2 episode 2 continues the greatness of the half life 2 universe, and it the 
 best the series has offered so far. The likable characters and engrossing storyline are great, 
 and the gravity gun is easily the greatest weapon to ever grace a FPS. On the plus if you haven't 
 played the earlier half life games it comes with HL2 and HL2 episode 1. Just be sure to either 
 play HL1 (which if you haven't you really should) or read up on the story cause if your new you'll 
 be lost the entire way. Portal is a extra in the orange box, but its easily the most inventive 
 gun since the gravity gun. The concept is very simple. You have a gun that shoots out 2 portals, 
 one to go in and one to go out. Its easy at first but as you go it'll have you thinking in ways 
 no other game has you thinking. The writing in portal is also really good too. With Glados always 
 watching you and making comments that are not laugh out loud funny, but will make you laugh. The 
 last part of the orange box is my personal favorite, team fortress 2. Its the multiplayer side 
 which at first you may find confusing and difficult to understand, but stick with it and it's one 
 of the greatest multiplayer shooters out right now. All 9 classes are fun to play as and very balanced, 
 and no class is the class thats unbeatable. There set as offense, defense, and support, but can 
 be used for really everything in the battlefield. For example the defensive engineer can stay back 
 at base and set up turrets to defend, or can help push the front lines forward by building turrets 
 in the enemy base. Its a blast to play and it great. But with all the good must there come some 
 bad. Most of the shortcomings in the orange box are really found in team fortress 2. There are 
 just 2 problems with TF2. first is the lack of maps. While there are fun to play on there's only 
 6. And with no customization options for the maps it can sometimes make you feel restricted for 
 a game that was 9 years in development. The next is you will probably run into connection problems 
 when your playing TF2 more than other games. You'll experience lag in the game more than you should, 
 and to many times will you lose connection to the host. Even with those shortcomings though the 
 good out weights the bad enough where you'll be able to overlook those issues. If your asking is 
 this or a buy or a rent this is a buy. 5 games for the price of one, and every single game on the 
 disc being great, you'd be a fool to turn down this offer. Its not the greatest game ever, but 
 its the greatest collection of games so far, and the best videogame deal we gamers will probably 
 ever see. don't hesitate, buy the orange box today. You'll be glad you did.
  
  The Good
  5 games for the price of 1
  Every game on the disc is great 
  Amazing games in HL, Portal, 
 and TF2
  
  The Bad
  Lack of maps in TF2
  connection and lag problems in TF2
  
  Overall-9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twiztid4evur
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box is a really good game, there is five games in it, which makes it last, and the gameplay 
 never gets old. It was awarded "the best video game deal in history" for a reason. Three of the 
 games are new, and two of them are old Half-Life 2 and Half-Life 2: Episode One. Portal on the 
 other hand, is one of my favorites, you listen to some girl scream at you the whole time while 
 you go through the testchambers. Portal got "best humor" award and five other, so you know i'm 
 not lieing. If you get this game, it will last you a long time, yes some of these games are short, 
 but Half-Life 2 is like twelve hours long. Altogether, this is one box that is worth buying, and 
 something you don't want to miss [especially if you love Half-Life or Valve] . Just remember if 
 you get the game, then there will be some cake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 11:33 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about The Orange Box, it seemed pretty unreal, 5 games on one disc at the price 
 of one game is pretty mind-blowing, and not one part of this collection is less than superb. The 
 Orange Box offers up pretty much the best deal in the history of video games.
  
  PART ONE
  HALF-LIFE 2 and EPISODES 1 & 2
  STORY - At the beginning of Half-Life 2, you'll be 
 again thrust into the shoes of Gordon Freeman. You wake up on a train as you arrive at your destination, 
 City 17. The citizens of City 17 are being oppressed by their mayor and some mysterious baddies 
 known as the Combine, and you, of course, will lead the resistance, and try to put a stop to the 
 Combine's nefarious plans. Episodes 1 and 2 offer up new environments, and stories just as engaging 
 (though I won't spoil anything for you.) One interesting thing about the end of Half-Life 2 on 
 through to Episode 2, is that you'll have a sidekick, Alyx, pretty much the entire time, and the 
 running dialogue plus the help that you get from her throughout the games are certainly welcome.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY - If you haven't already heard about this, the biggest new factor in the gameplay starting 
 with Half-Life 2 is the Gravity Gun and the advanced physics system. The Gravity Gun is the focus 
 of almost all of the game's puzzles and is arguably a better weapon than anything else in the game 
 when you pick up and toss the right material. Other than that, Half-Life 2 and Episodes 1 and 2 
 are much more focused on shooting, and many smaller, simpler puzzles than the first game in the 
 series (which put a lot of focus on platforming, and big puzzles.) There are also several extremely 
 long vehicle sequences that are actually really well done, as the vehicles handle well and have 
 no shortage of weaponry. One thing that may disappoint fans of the first game is that there are 
 no real boss fights in Half-Life 2 and Episodes 1 and 2. But overall, the more action oriented 
 gameplay is definitely welcome, but even with a bigger focus of shooting, there's no shortage of 
 interesting puzzles due to the awesomeness of the Gravity Gun.
  
  GRAPHICS - The graphics engine is great, and runs silky smooth on the Xbox 360. The game features 
 great lighting and bump-mapping, superb textures, and, of course, an amazing physics engine. But, 
 the graphics do feel a bit dated as the engine is 3 years old, but considering it runs perfectly, 
 it'll be easy to deal with.
  
  SOUND - The voice-overs are amazing, and (unlike most video games) the voice actors' execution 
 of their lines comes across as very human. In addition, the sound effects are great, and the music 
 (though not used nearly as much as it should) is awesome when it kicks in.
  
  VALUE - Half-Life 2 should take about 12-14 hours to beat, Episode One should take about 4-5, and 
 Episode 2 should take about 5-6, so you'll be playing for quite a bit of time, not to mention that 
 certain moments in each of these three games are well worth replaying
  
  PART TWO
  Team Fortress 2
  
  GAMEPLAY - Team Fortress 2 plays out like a smaller-scale version of TFC. 
 It's a team-based, objective-based, class-based game. You can choose one of 9 classes which are 
 all (unlike the first game) really well balanced, and when one class goes up against another, it 
 always seems like a fair fight. The classes range from support classes like the Medic and Engineer 
 (who can build turrets to defend your base) to assault classes like the Scout and the Soldier, 
 so you really have a wide variety of play styles to choose from. There are only six maps, but each 
 are well designed, and perfectly symmetrical. There are two game types now, one being Capture the 
 Flag, and the second being a territories game type similar to what you would find in Halo 3 (one 
 team must capture two areas, the other team has to defend at least one until the round ends.) Capture 
 the Flag is just as good as it was in the first, but the territories game-type isn't as entertaining 
 because often, rounds go by too quick (offense swarms the two posts before anything useful can 
 be done) or too long (defense lets offense take the first area, then builds up massive defenses 
 in the second area.) All in all, the game could've used some more maps, and the territories game 
 type could've been balanced out better, but what disappoints me the most is that this TF2 is extremely 
 basic, and would've gotten a lot more out of more game types, and a higher player cap. But, the 
 game is still enjoyable and the classes are balanced out perfectly.
  
  GRAPHICS - Team Fortress 2 has a great graphics style reflected in their models, which are very 
 cartoony, but disappointingly not so much in the environments. The game runs very smoothly, but 
 from time to time you can experience quite a bit of lag.
  
  SOUND - There's nothing really exceptional here, but it's perfectly fine. The sound effects are 
 good and the voice-overs are pretty funny. The sound department does what it needs to, but doesn't 
 do anything really exceptional at that.
  
  VALUE - Team Fortress 2's value really depends on how much you can get into the game. Personally, 
 I got over the maps, game types and classes pretty quick, as most of it was featured in TFC, so 
 the game only kept me interested for a few hours, but some people I know have put in tons of hours, 
 so the amount of time you'll play will vary.
  
  PART THREE 
  PORTAL
  
  STORY - The universe of Portal is connected to that of Half-Life 2. You play as a test subject 
 of the Aperature Science research facility. You will be guided by a hilarious (really, it's gaming 
 humor at its best) robotic voice through 19 test chambers, and the story expands some more from 
 there.
  
  GAMEPLAY - The center of Portal centers around the use of the Portal gun (obviously.) With this 
 portal gun, you will solve a variety of puzzles to get through each test chamber. The portal gun 
 is extremely fun to manipulate, and adds a new depth to environmental interactivity. You'll be 
 doing anything from transporting yourself to places impossible to reach, to essentially catapulting 
 yourself (through momentum) to places even harder to reach. The test chambers can get really interesting, 
 and extremely difficult (especially at around chamber 17 and up) . Portal introduces one of the 
 most amazing ways of manipulating your environment since the Gravity Gun (I guess Valve likes that 
 sort of thing.) 
  
  GRAPHICS - Portal does what it needs to do in the graphics department, but doesn't offer up anything 
 exceptional. The textures aren't nearly as detailed as they are in Half-Life 2, but the objects 
 such as the portal gun, and things like turrets and crates look great and use bump-mapping very 
 well.
  
  SOUND - Portal has good sound effects, and the robotic voice-overs for your guide and the turrets 
 are awesome and extremely funny and the game has one of the best songs in it's closing credits 
 in the history of video games, but in the end, there really aren't enough sound effect littering 
 the environments, and there's a pretty noticeable lack of music.
  
  VALUE - Beating Portal will take you about 3 hours, but certain test chambers are definitely worth 
 revisiting, and you'll unlock 6 extremely difficult challenge chambers after you're done, so the 
 game will keep you busy for a long while.
  
  PART FOUR 
  OVERALL
  
  Half-Life 2 and Episodes 1 and 2 TILT - Half-Life 2 and Episode 1 are just as good as ever, and 
 Episode 2 brings an amazing new experience to the table. With awesome gameplay (due in large part 
 to the gravity gun) and great production values, these three Half-Life titles are thoroughly entertaining. 
 Not to mention these games will keep you busy for a while when you add up their total play-through 
 times.
  
  Team Fortress 2 TILT - Team Fortress 2 has good maps (though there aren't enough) , awesome cartoony 
 graphics, and perfect balancing, but fans of TFC have seen a lot of the content already, and the 
 territories game type isn't as polished as it could've been. Team Fortress 2 is pretty basic, but 
 it can still be entertaining.
  
  Portal TILT - Portal is funny, and features one of the most innovative new dynamics in gaming history 
 in the form of the portal gun, which makes for some truly awesome puzzles. While the gameplay and 
 sense of humor are top-notch, the graphics and sound are nothing too special.
  
  OVERALL TILT - Half-Life 2 and Episodes 1 and 2 along with Portal are four superb titles that are 
 definitely worth a play-through. Team Fortress 2 is fun, but is too basic and that ultimately makes 
 it the weakest link. But, The Orange Box is worth the price tag (actually it's probably worth more) 
 and if you're a fan of shooters, you owe it to yourself to purchase it (or at least rent it.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goduffgo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box, has 5 games...
  
  Half Life 2
  Half Life 2 Episode 1
  Half life 2 Episode 2
  Portal
  and the awaited online Multiplayer, Team Fortress 2
  
  5 
 games for the same price as 1 game, that alone is an achievement.
  Half Life in itself is one of the biggest and best games in this era and with the bonus Episode 
 that comes with it makes it a must for half life fans!
  Although both episodes are not quite the same lengh as a regular game, they sure make up for it 
 by impact and intensity.
  
  Portal is a unique puzzle game, where you use a your head to solve tricky but solvable levels. 
 All you have is a portal gun in which you can teleport via these portal doors by firing you portal 
 gun. (fire one door for your entrance, then fire another door to where you want to go) 
  Portal is quite strangley funny also and it give it another dimention.
  
  Team Fortress is 
 a great exciting, funny multiplayer game and its deffinatly worth a go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkWatchman
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Ok if ur gonna stick with single player then it's worth getting on the consoles if ur gonna get 
 it on xbox live or ps3 live to play online mind as well get it on Pc. Ok I'm not 100% sure about 
 the ps3 since I didn't got it on ps3 but I'm pretty sure it's the same way.
  
  Ok I mainly bought the orange box cause it said "Xbox Live" on the top and it had half-life2 episode 
 1 episode 2 , Portal , Team Fortress 2. Ok the main thing that really got me mad is I wasted $60 
 and only Team Fortress 2 is online. Team Fortress 2 is fun but it's only online so ppl that can't 
 get xbox live depended on where they live or if they can afford it. It ain't that good on xbox 
 live cause team fortress 2 is the only one and trust me it lags like hell it feels like the game 
 don't ever update. But since I bought it on 360 I'm not gonna waste another $60 on Pc version but 
 I played Pc version and the controls where way easier and team fortress 2 was not near as laggy 
 as the xbox live. Go ahead and disagree with my review ur gonna want to change ur mind when u play 
 team fortress2 online. But who knows maybe they will update soon if it doe's update I will remake 
 this review.
  
  Please Email "StanleyStank@Gmail. com" if they fixed the lag cause I haven't played it for along 
 time or if u want to argue bring it on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexh111
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2008 2:00 am PT
Review:  As always, I feel I need to be the voice of reason in the face of ludicrous 10's all around.
  
  Steam. Steam sucks. To buy a game and then have to spend 24 hours downloading (I am in Australia 
 at the moment where true high speed internet is incredibly expensive) is really pretty lame. Is 
 Steam going to exist forever? Will there be support forever? As silly as it may sound, if I want 
 to play COD4 in five years, I know I can (as long as there hasn't been a DOS-Windows like technological 
 shift) . I am not sure that Valve is going to endlessly support this package and that blows.
  
  Also, and perhaps this is just me, but I can't play without being online. 
  
  So, Half 
 Life.
  
  Frankly, I find it really boring and tedious. I presume I am missing something, but there just 
 aren't any really cool moments. No sequences that I'd like to play over. I find myself dragging 
 myself through levels more out of a desire to just finish than because it's all that fun.
  
  So, flaws
  
  1) The "I can carry 27 weapons at once" is very old school and seems to be 
 largely done away with in other FPS. I find it really amusing to watch Alyx struggle with the gravity 
 gun at the start of HLE2 and think that I have had like a dozen weapons at once. 
  
  As an aside, I would really love to see a simple weight system in the FPS world. Don't give me 
 artifical limits on the amount of any type of ammo I can hold. Let me pick what I want to carry 
 within a realistic parameter.
  
  2) The gravity gun is kind of cool (a precursor to the powers in Bioshock) . The rest are standard 
 and boring. The crossbow as sniping weapon? C'mon. 
  
  3) The "squad based" portion is silly. I found the NPC's little more than canon fodder and their 
 constant "Gordon, take care of the snipers for me", "Gordon, do this for me", "Gordon, Don't forget 
 to reload" as pretty grating. 
  
  4) It's very linear. There is no decision making as to how to approach a combat situation. Might 
 as well be in a straight line. 
  
  5) Oh look it's a standard door. No way I can blow it up with a grenade, I think I will have to 
 go the long way around through toxic goo to open it up from the other side. Lord, can we stop these 
 contrived situations? Either be more creative or let me blow up the damn door/steel gate or what 
 have you. 
  
  Anyway, enough of that. Half Life is at best a 7.5 or an 8 as a package. It's not a bad game, but 
 far from the best of all time and ranks as a standard FPS that's playable but not particularly 
 memorable.
  
  I don't play online games and so won't rate team fortress.
  
  Portal is a lovely game. Easily a 9/10 (with the loss of a point due only to length and the 19th 
 level which runs much longer than it should between the end of the level and the final boss) . It's 
 exactly what's missing from most games these days, a sense of fun and creativity. The song to end 
 the game is pricess. 
  
  On the whole, it's a solid package.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PyreofKoL
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2008 11:35 pm PT
Review:  My main reason for purchasing this compilation was to see what all the hype about Half-Life 2 was, 
 and what I got was a long overdue exposure to some absolutely amazing games. First and foremost, 
 minus a few minute technical blips here and there, Half-Life 2 blew me away. The game not only 
 lived up to the talk surrounding it, but far surpassed it. The story line is immersing, the game 
 play is tight as a rivet, and graphics barely look outdated. On top of that, the monsters which 
 you must fight are at a level of scariness and intelligence rivaled only by Resident Evil and Silent 
 Hill 4. Next, Portal had a wonderful combination of brilliant game play and puzzles and hilarious, 
 albeit very dark, wit. Finally, Team Fortress 2 not only has solid game play and great graphics, 
 but the quirky, hilarious cast of characters and their great set of comments had me cracking up 
 on every match. Any gamer, regardless of what your preferences are, should get ahold of a copy 
 of this where ever they can find it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phundude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  If your a fan of FPS and own a 360, you need this game. I wasnt able to put the game down once 
 i started it... the graphics arent the best on HL2, but as you move on to other games they start 
 getting really good..... and the sound on all the games is great. If you have surround sound, crank 
 it up. 
  
  This game is full of the gory violence we all love in FPS, its pacing is great. There are some 
 vehichle levels but they dont last too long, and your constantly moving forward. You spend almost 
 no time dilly-dallying. 
  
  The gravity gun is still amazing, 3 years after it was introduced. Nothing is better than having 
 a soldier throw a grenade at you, only to catch it in mid air and fire it back at him..... the 
 controlls are perfect. i cant overstate that enough. A game is only as good as the controlls and 
 this one is perfect.
  
  i cant say enough, sorry if i didnt explain the game or the story, but i figure you already know 
 about it. Im just here to say: this game kicks ass and you need to own it.... now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oli_kester
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Contains Half-Life 2, Half-life 2 Episode, Half-Life 2 Episode 2, Portal and Team Fortress 2.
 
  ~Half-Life 2 and Episodes 1&2~ 
  You are Gordon Freeman, an ex-scientist who lets out a terrible infestation at the research facility 
 Black Mesa. The story is very well written and it feels very involving. It is like an interactive 
 blockbuster, with twists and cliff-hangers. It's possibly the only FPS series to achieve this.
 
  The gameplay is excellent, with well balanced and well designed levels and weapons, and its not 
 as if there's a shortage of it, as Half-Life 2 alone contains about 20 levels, but they are each 
 as long as any Halo 3 level!
  The graphics are very good, but there are better looking games on the 360. The animation for characters 
 and enemies is sublime, which makes the action very exciting. There is a level in Ep2 where you 
 are chased down narrow tunnels by an invincible Antlion Queen (Antlions are bug like creatures 
 which live in nests like ants) . I played this with headphones on  you can practically FEEL it 
 stomping and behind you and smacking you in the back, sending you flying...
  The driving sections are OK, but they need improvement, as you can get stuck on objects and the 
 handling is unrealistic. But they can also turn out brilliant, as you can get out and explore the 
 environment - search through houses for ammo and interesting objects, a bit like little side quests.
 
  The environment is excellent and very well designed, with things to discover and explore. There 
 are also clever puzzles involving the Gravity Gun, which manipulates gravity. The grav gun is probably 
 the best FPS gun ever made.
  ~Portal~
  A fairly short puzzle game using portals. You are a test subject testing out the portal gun. It 
 is very funny and the storyline is great. This is the most innovative thing in the orange box, 
 and it does things that have never been done before in games. It consists of around 20 test chambers 
 which can take anywhere from 3 to 20 minutes to complete. They get harder as the game goes on.
 
  ~Team Fortress 2~
  This is an online shooter with no storyline or Campaign. It uses a class-based system which works 
 brilliantly. They are all equally useful and should all be played equal amounts of time. The classes 
 are the Engineer, who can build turrets and portals, the Pyro, who has a flamethrower, the Spy, 
 who can disguise as the enemy team and even turn invisible, the Sniper, who has a sniper rifle, 
 the Heavy, who has a gatling gun and extra health, the Medic, who can heal his own team and even 
 become invincible with the person he's healing, the Soldier, who has a rocket launcher, the Demoman, 
 who has a grenade launcher and the Scout, who is extra fast, can double jump and can capture points 
 twice as fast.
  And by the way, all of the above is done in a graphical style similar to the Incredibles film done 
 by Disney. Don't be put off, however, as this makes it clearer, easier to play and funnier to look 
 at.
  You get all of these great games for the same price as Gears of War, PGR4 and Halo 3, as it sells 
 at normal retail price for X360 games!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew_ribbons
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  If you're unaware of the stir the Half Life series has made in FPS games in the last 10 years, 
 you should probably crawl out from under that rock and find out. The Orange Box for 360, like the 
 other versions, comes with Half Life 2, HL2: Episode 1, HL2: Episode 2, Portal and Team Fortress 
 2. It's a wonder how they managed to fit all those onto a single DVD, kinda proving Blu-Ray pointless 
 (for now) while they're at it.
  
  Episode 2 was a great addition to the Episodal method Valve has been releasing Half Life 3. It 
 takes you further and further out of the city. You get a great feeling of actually travelling this 
 distance yourself. You travel in the luxury of a copped together buggy, basically an improved version 
 of the buggy from HL2. Some of the end battles are nothing short of epic in scale and complexity, 
 which is something great to look forward to at the end of any good FPS game. Personally, i'd consider 
 Epiosode 2 to be evidence of Valves super-saturated skill, in creating interesting new ways of 
 tackling First Person Shooters, i think it's the best in the series so far.
  
  The quality of porting to the Xbox 360 is outstanding, with framerates rarely dipping below 30fps, 
 consistantly and reliably smooth in all situations across all 5 games. The visuals are also high 
 quality, they didn't sacrifice graphical quality for framerate, instead doing a good job of the 
 port and giving near-PC quality visuals, HDR lighting and Anti Aliasing. The PS3 version as i've 
 seen, less can be said for, with framerates often in the sub-20s. Loading times ranged between 
 4-8 seconds on average for 360, never going above 10 seconds and are reasonably infrequent in number.
 
  
  I actually already have all the Half Life games up to and including Episode 1. However it was great 
 to have the whole latest selection of Valve games on my second favourite platform as well. It was 
 no less fun, in fact actually i found it more fun playing HL2 and Episode 1 on the 360. It proves 
 that the console really is a definite winner this generation, if a top PC FPS can be ported so 
 well to it.
  
  The other two games, Portal and TF2, are a blast. Portal is short, but very sweet. It involves 
 a portal gun, capable of shooting two portals simultanously for access around various puzzles and 
 mind-bending riddles. TF2 is a fantastic comedy-shooter and somewhat a rarity in todays WW2 and 
 Modern Warfare infested online market.
  
  Definitely a recommendation from me. It'll be even BETTER when the price drops down to 35 or less, 
 as it surely will sooner or later. The value is unbeatable as it is, the games are fantastic and 
 the quality is great.
  
  This is one of the best packages to get this year, so i'm going to give it a 10/10, since there's 
 just nothing i can fault, there really isn't. Unless of course i got stupidly pickly, which i'm 
 not going to do. Yes, yes, this is the second game in a row i've given a 10 Perfect score too, 
 but i'm not going soft. After the gaming wonderland that was 2007s releases, there's a couple more 
 of these i'll be giving 10s to when i get around to reviewing them.
  
  One of those games, will not be Blacksite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cabose420
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  The Orang Box is the first thing i have purchased from Valve. I admit i have never played any game 
 from them, and after playing the games on the disk, i have no idea how. The disk comes with the 
 complete Half Life 2 series, Team Fortress 2, and Portal. Each game is unique from one another, 
 so you wont find that you jsut bought 5 similar games at a cheap price.
  
  HALF LIFE 2 SERIES
  
  I've always heard how great HL2 was, but i never really payed attention 
 to it. I had a computer to run it, but never really wanted to pick it up. After playing it on here 
 though, I can hardly put it down. HL2 has great FPS gameplay with tons of guns at your disposal, 
 including the handy dandy Grav-gun. bunch of people in your way? no problem, just pick up a saw 
 disk with the gun, and slice them all in half. The world is very Immersive. Cutscenes are active, 
 where characters say their dialouge and you can watch them from any angle and interact while they're 
 talking. The voiceacting is also very topnotch to add more to the effect. The Layout of the maps 
 are great, barely noticing your on a set path. puzzles dot the maps to mix up the action and get 
 your heartrate back down before another big fight. Not going into much detail as you can check 
 out other reviews on the games like 3 other places on GS. If you haven't picked up any HL2 game 
 like me, The Orange Box is a great place to start and go through the whole series.
  
  PORTAL
  
  Portal takes place in the HL univers in another company called Apeture Science, similar 
 to Black Mesa in than it looked into the developent of portals. You wake up to find yourself in 
 a closed off room with no doors or windows, just glass walls. A robotic voice tells you that you 
 will partake in a test to test its new Portal Gun in Aperature Science's Enrichment Center. The 
 game is pretty funny as the AI voice, named Glados says pretty funny things through out the game, 
 such as "The Enrichment Center reminds you that the weighted companion cube will never threaten 
 to stab you and, in fact can not speak. In the event that the weighted companion cube does speak, 
 the Enrichment Center urges you to disregard its advice." Throughout the test you will use Portals 
 to get to places normally out of reach and to move objects to other places. some later puzzles 
 get pretty hard, but all are pretty fun to do. after defeating the game, which will take about 
 4 or so hours, you can try advanced maps and try to finishes puzzles in a limited # of steps, portals, 
 or time, which might take you quite a long time to get all of them. though the game is a bit on 
 the short side, the dialouge makes it all worth it and makes it one of the funniest games of the 
 year.
  
  Team Fortress 2
  
  TF2 is a mix of counterstrike, and the incredibles. The first TF was made about 10 years ago... quite 
 a long time for a sequel. The game is heavily team based and gameplay is based on a class system, 
 such as a medic and sniper, to the soldier and spy. Each class is very balanced with its different 
 strengths and weaknesses. The Heavy has a large amount of health and can rip enemys apart with 
 his gatlin gun, but is so slow he is very easy targets for long range classes and spys. The Scout, 
 who is at the opposite spectrum of the Heavy, who uses speed as its advantage, but has the lowest 
 health. Each class has different sub objectives to occomplish, such as the Engineer will want to 
 set up defences pretty early, while a spy will hunt out slow enemies to clear out the way for his 
 team mates. 
  
  As the name suggests, team work is the key to success in all games, a thing not readily found in 
 some XBL players. Heavy's needs a medic to watch his back as he's wide open to people sneaking 
 up on him, while Engineers need someone to watch their equipment from spys hacking them. With no 
 cooperation, teams will become disorganized and become easy prey, causeing some to want to go rambo 
 with a Heavy and possibly leaving your Intelegence or Command Point open to be taken. Although 
 this might be a turn-off for some, you'll usually find a game with a decent team and losses come 
 to a very well planed attack by the enemy. you didnt loose due to a sucky team, but a more cordinated 
 enemy. Lag is about the same as other games. Some games will be unberable, some will be godly, 
 and the rest decent. just got to hope who evers hosting doesnt have dialup.
  
  ALL TOGETHER
  
  each game is unique and adds something different to the whole disk making it 
 a great game to pick up. HL2 will give people who want a great shooter, Portal will please the 
 puzzle gamers, and TF2 will bring in the multiplayer aspect. And because it doesnt cost more than 
 an average game these days, you get more bang for your buck. Its a sweet deal and should be picken 
 up by any FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrManlyness
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  This year's christmas rocked. Got an HDTV, beat the endless setlist on Rock Band, and Green Bay 
 is going to the playoffs (woot) . How can it get any better? Why, simply create a box, color it 
 orange, and you've got the best video game deal in history. 5 games, you say? Nice. 3 amazingly 
 great campaigns? Now you're talking. Cake? CAKE?! Friggin' awesome. I had never beaten Half-Life 
 2, and never even played Half-Life 2: Episode 1, so this was going to be a blast. Half-Life 2 was 
 really good, but it didn't live quite up to my expectations. Until I played Episode 1. Wow was 
 that great. The best campaign i had ever played next to Halo (the first one, of course) . Then, 
 I played Episode 2. As in the words of the famous Peter Boyle from Everybody Loves Raymond, holy 
 crap. I don't want to give away the ending, but it is by far the best ending i have ever encountered 
 in a video game. It's also the closest a video game has ever made me cry. I'm too macho to cry, 
 however, and quickly held back my tears. Moving on, Portal was my favorite addition in this collection 
 of outstanding games. Not only is it the best puzzle game I've ever played (I'm a sucker for puzzle 
 games) , but it's also the funniest games I've played ever. The ending song is freakin' hilarious 
 too, which i'm sure you have been told. Plus, it's one of those games that makes you feel like 
 your a super genius. Of course, the game requires that you not be an idiot, but you don't have 
 to be really smart either. Then there's Team Fortress 2. It's a good multiplayer, but it's just 
 not quite groundbreaking. It feels limited, i guess is what i'm trying to say. It's good, just 
 not great. Each map has only one multiplayer type, and there's no deathmatch type, which is by 
 far my favorite type. Plus, the classes for your character doesn't seem quite balanced. The big, 
 heavy machine-gun guy seems like he could pwn anyone who stood in his way. Granted he's a lot slower, 
 but he's really good. Plus, the Scout is amazingly good. Really fast, and (if you know how to use 
 him) can beat anyone two or three on one. But that's besides the point that the Orange Box is a 
 great all around game. If i could, I would give it a 9.9, but since I can't criticize like GameSpot 
 can (curse you GameSpot!) , I'll give it a ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason4774
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 3:28 am PT
Review:  Funny thing about this set. I only purchased it for Half Life 2, ep.2. And, it turned out being 
 my least favorite addition of the pack.
  
  Not that it's horrible, cause it's not. It's lovely, but it feels slow, and sometimes tedious, 
 compared to other Half Life games. Some of the level designs are inspired, but others just feel 
 long and drawn out. Can't say I ever felt that way playing half life.
  
  Portal and TF2, on the other hand, are absolutely delightful!
  
  Portal is probably the most 
 fun I ever had playing a puzzle game. The computer that 'assists' you through your puzzle exercises 
 is genuinely hysterical at times, and the puzzles themselves are alot of fun to figure out. The 
 ending ballad the computer sings for you at the end made me laugh out loud!
  
  Team Fortress 2 is the multiplayer game for people who hate multiplayer games. The cartoony appearance 
 of the players make dying alot very fun, and less aggrivating than games like COD4, which make 
 it a good break from games like that.
  
  And Half Life 2 (which to me, is probably one of the best FPS games of all time) , finally got the 
 facelift it deserved for 360.
  
  If it weren't for Episode 2, I probably would have given this set a perfect 10, but it's clear 
 that TF2 and Portal are the obvious winners of this package, and replaying HL2 with better graphics 
 on my 360 was wonderful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fpShorty
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2008 11:11 pm PT
Review:  You a Half Life fan? Then this game is right for you. The Orange Box includes the new enhanced 
 Half Life 2 and Half Life 2: Episode 1 and also the new amazing addition to the Half Life Series, 
 Half Life 2: Episode 2. The new Half Life 2: Episode two gives you more action and better graphics. 
 If you are a very bad gamer at shooting games, then tough luck for you on this game. You'll be 
 facing some "hard" stuff on the second level of the Half Life 2 series. If you know the Half Life 
 2 series well, then you will love and make through the game. The box does not just include the 
 Half Life 2 series, but also Team Fortress 2 and the new game, Portal. Team Fortress 2 was delayed 
 long ago. But now, it's released with good graphics and a nice design. Team Fortress Two is the 
 multiplayer game of the Orange Box. The only problem is, you may face lag and disconnections on 
 servers, but it rarely happens. The final game in the box is Portal. Portal is a new puzzle game 
 made by Valve. You are a test subject of the Aperture Science Chamber using Aperture Science Handheld 
 Portal Device AKA the Portal Gun. You are also monitored and directed by a computer artificial 
 intelligence, GLaDOS, who actually lies at times. This game gives you challenging levels. However, 
 there are only 19 levels and it's simple to some of you. You can always go back and play it again 
 though.
  
  The Orange Box is the best deal you'll ever have. It's about $200 worth of games, crammed into 
 a box that's only for $60. Buy it today and you'll love it. 5 Games, 1 Box! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xPascal
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  And it is well worth the cash. This could possibly be one of the best deals on the market! Wether 
 you are a new comer to half life and team fortress, or you played the old ones, you will love this 
 game! This game covers Half life 2, half life 2 episode, half life 2 episode 2, team fortress 2 
 (the sequel to team fortress classic) , and a new game called Portal. Each run off of valve's stunning 
 source engine and you will love the elements that make is so stunning. The graphics, sound, and 
 game play are so great you will find you self on the edge of your seat waiting for what comes next! 
 In the half life series you play as Gordon Freeman, an expert scientist and alien-pwner. Who is 
 thrown back in to the "power" suit to save earth from the new out break of head crabs, zombies, 
 aliens, soldiers, you name it. In Team Fortress 2, it is a strategic CTF game where you can pick 
 player or classes to best suit your gaming style. This is the only multiplayer game in the pack 
 but it is one heck of a game! Portal is a new game where you use Portals shot from the gun made 
 be Aperture Labs to work and find your way through puzzles. All 5 games are epic and you will play 
 them for hours on end. Trust me you will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Memoryitis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 is awesome, you get five games in one: Half Life 2, Episode 1, Episode 2, Portal, Team 
 Fortress 2, that is a great deal and all five of those are great fun.
  
  Half Life 2 is basically about a scientist trying to take down an alien force known as the combine. 
 There is a butt load of action in it and the storyline is superb.
  
  Portal: Is a great puzzl game, get to use a sweet gun that can create portals you can travel through, 
 good storyline and the ending it sweeet.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is an online game that lets you choose 8 different classes, each one with unique 
 skills and weapons
  
  I reccommend it to anyone who likes FPS and Online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario2007
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Before I get into this review I want to let you know that I had previously never played Half-life 
 2 or Episode 1, so those will be taken into account in my review. The Orange Box is an amazing 
 collection from Valve, the creator of the famous Half-life and Counter-Strike games. The is tons 
 of Value to be found in this package for 60 bucks (50 for PC) . The Orange Box presents 5 games 
 to play. These are Half-Life 2, Half-Life 2: Episode 1, Half- Life 2: Episode 2, Portal, and Team 
 Fortress 2. You'll be getting a lot of Half-Life. You'll also get the highly anticipated multiplayer 
 game (Team Fortress 2) . And then you get a little "bonus" as I used to call (Portal) . I'll tell 
 you more on that one later. So I'll tell about the games one by one.
  
  Half-life 2:
  This is essentially a port of the 2004 masterpiece from Valve, so if you have played through this 
 before, you probably don't want to play through it again (unless you're playing for achievements) . 
 But, for those like me who hadn't played it before, this will feel very fresh. You will realize 
 what all the fuss was about. The story is kind of confusing even for someone who has played the 
 first one. But, I will stay spoiler free, and just tell you that the story is very immersing once 
 you get into it. I'll admit, the gameplay is a little linear, but that's really how the Half Life 
 formula works, and it works well. Levels are pretty long length the first time around. The levels 
 usually start out slow, but heat up as you keep going. The setting is spot on, and some of it is 
 a bit sad actually. The combat ranges from very good to OK. Sometimes it can feel a little "I'll 
 shoot you, you shoot me" gameplay (especially at first) . But once you get the gravity gun (a super 
 awesome gun where you can pick up objects and throw them at your enemies) , the combat gets more 
 varied. The graphics are still impressive today, even though this is a 3 or so year old game. Despite 
 a few flaws, you will be impressed by Half-life 2. 
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode 1:
  This is sort of an expansion to Half-Life 2. It picks up where the last one left off, and goes 
 from there. It feels a lot like Half-Life 2 (which is really good) , and fans should be pleased 
 by this. The graphics have been enhanced to make it look more modern. This one is a little on the 
 short side, but it still is a fun one. It kind of stands out as the weak link of the Half-Life 
 games included in The Orange Box. 
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode 2:
  The Half-Life 2 saga continues with this expansion. This is what most buyers of The Orange Box 
 came for. The story really starts to heat up, and the ending is well I'll let you find out for 
 yourself, but I really gets you pumped for Episode 3. Gameplay is much of the same with something 
 people have been asking a lot more of, combat. There is a lot more combat in this one and it is 
 sure to please fans. This is a very good entry into the Half-Life series, and should be welcomed 
 by fans. 
  
  Portal:
  Portal is unlike anything I've played before. It's kind of weird at first is really hard to describe 
 and review. It runs on the source engine, and although it is not as graphically impressive as the 
 other games in The Orange Box, it is really fun to play. Portal is well named because well you 
 create portals with your portal gun to help you get past rooms, and the rooms get more complex 
 as you keep going. It's kind of like a puzzle game or I should say "is" a puzzle game. The puzzles 
 are very clever, and it's a heck of a lot fun to play. Oh, and I almost forgot to mention, the 
 game is really funny (the cake joke gets old though) . This is a very welcome game in the Orange 
 Box.
  
  Team Fortress 2:
  A collection can't be complete without multiplayer right? Well you would expect Counter-Strike 
 to be in this collection considering it's like most popular game on the planet! But, they decided 
 to go with this, the long awaiting sequel to the "classic" Team Fortress Classic. If you remember 
 the original, you pick your own class, each being unique in their own way. These classes are divided 
 into more general classes. Each class has their own advantages against other classes, and there's 
 a little something for everyone. I like to think of the classes as the type of multiplayer FPS 
 gamer you are. The classes are very balanced and will please fans of the original. Team Fortress 
 2 also has a very unique art style. It looks very cartoony, but at the same time is very impressive. 
 There is no single player, like the new Counter-Strike have, but think this game fit for multiplayer 
 only. My only complaint is controls on the 360 feel a bit spotty, but other than that, great game.
 
  
  Achievements:
  The Orange Box promotes a whooping 99 achievements for each. That should keep Live users busy for 
 a long time. 
  
  I should mention that there is a Left 4 Dead trailer included. 
  
  Overall this game has to go down as one of the best deals in video game history. It has five great 
 games for 60 bucks. Even if you have played Half-Life 2 and Episode 1, this is still worth picking 
 up. This is a great package that any FPS fan should consider picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrPepper124
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  I didntknow what to expect when i bought this because almost everyone on my friends list was playing 
 it so i decided i should get it. i was stunned what a great game that is underapriciated. TM2 is 
 my favorite great online play. i like the different classes its fun being all of them. portal is 
 a very interesting game that takes a strategic attitude to beat it. the half life series is a very 
 good series but to be honest with you i got half way to three fourths through the game and just 
 got bored of them. this has some pretty decent replay value because when you get bored of one game 
 just play another one then again and again. This is an awesome game overall i really recomend it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobby_joe_is_in
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  The orange box had to much hype. Half-Life is ok, but he visuals are not jaw dropping, which a 
 game with this much hype needs to have in order to compete with games like Halo 3, COD 4, Mass 
 Effect and Assassin's Creed. The ad-ons to half-life 2 r a little better but not great. Team Fortress 
 ain't that good although it is ok. Portal is where this game shines. I've played Halo 3 and Assassin's 
 creed and games like that, but this is the most fun i've had in a long time. Once u have beat this 
 game, there is plenty of replay value cause it has this thing called advanced mode. It has things 
 like beat a level with a number of steps. Really challenging! Portal is one of the best games of 
 the year. The only flaw.... well there actually isn't in Portal. The game is just that fun. 
  So if u are thinkin of gettin the orange box, rent it first. Portal may be the only reason to pay 
 full price of 65$. Oh ya, Portal is also the most hilarious game of 2007. The end credits is a 
 song u will never forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspro73
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 10, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  The task of writing a review for a collection of games is a difficult one, usually made easier 
 by the inclusion in the compendium of a few lousy games. You can spend most of the review saying, 
 "But on the other hand." The Orange Box, Valve's collection of Half-Life 2 and Half-Life 2 related 
 games, is a little more difficult because in and of themselves each title is fairly good and two 
 of the games have not been released before.
  
  The Half-Life 2 series owes its popularity to three strengths; graphics, physics and story. Unfortunately, 
 the first two do not remain strong enough to demand a second play-through for those who have played 
 them in the past. When Half-Life 2 first came out in 2004 the most striking aspect of the game 
 was the rich and detailed visuals. While the visuals still hold up they are no longer the crowning 
 achievement of the game (something that Valve acknowledged with the very pretty re-release Half-Life 
 2: Lost Coast) . The game still stands out for the amazing facial animations which are only now 
 starting to be challenged by the work found in Uncharted: Drake's Fortune and Mass Effect.
  
  Beyond the graphics Half-Life 2 was also notable for its use the Havok physics engine which 
 made it fun to do almost everything in the game, from shooting a milk container to playing basketball 
 with a 40 gallon oil drum. Today, however, the realistic physics has moved from being a stand-out 
 novelty to being the starting point of expectations in first-person-shooters. Playing through the 
 series a second time, the low-end gravity gun now seems like a substitute for what could have been 
 more appropriate -- hand and arm animations. Using the high-end gravity gun to pick up foes and 
 fling them into their chums, while still very much fun, does seem a little silly given the tone 
 of the rest of the game. In fact, it now seems kind of tacked on as if it was someones favorite 
 way of playing around with the cool new physics engine.
  
  While time has taken the sheen off two of the three best aspects of the game one of Half-Life 2's 
 strengths remain entirely intact -- the portrayal of Gordon Freeman and associations. While the 
 story is nothing special, the motivation of your character to get from one point to the next is 
 always present in mind due to the good dialog, the brilliant voice acting and realistic facial 
 animations. The use of in-game engine to relay story without interruption was also something that 
 stood out in 2004 and it remains impressive today.
  
  Most of the weapons are nothing special, but the Magnum and Standard Issue Pulse Rifle are powerful 
 and fun to use. Level design is lacking for an FPS, most of the time you are being pushed down 
 a virtual tube with little room for strategy, but Half-Life 2 is no different than most other non-tactical 
 shooters in this respect.
  
  Portal and Team Fortress 2 are wonderfully original and humorous additions to the collection. Portal 
 being a puzzle-level game which makes use of the a "portal gun" to allow the user to solve their 
 exit from level to level and Team Fortress being a team-based shooter whose realistic staging is 
 matched only by the excellence of it cartoon-styled imagery.
  
  For the record, The Orange Box includes Half-Life 2, Half-Life 2: Episode One, Half-Life 2: Episode 
 Two, Portal and Team Fortress 2 any of which which would be worth the price of admission alone. 
 Well, maybe not Episode Two, but on the other hand...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: G-Rat06
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  I dont even know where to start with this game. i am completely addicted and this is all i do in 
 my spare time. if ur not familiar with the game it has 5 full games all on one disc. Half-Life 
 2, Half-Life 2 episode one, Half-Life 2 episode 2, Portal, and Team Fortress 2. All the half-life 
 games are good but to me, the real substance lies in Portal and Team Fortress 2. Portal is a great 
 puzzle game that can make you think and not a lot of games do that anymore... and Team Fortress 
 2 is just the best game i've ever played PERIOD. The gameplay is so addictive you never want to 
 stop and the cartoony graphics system is a perfect fit for the game. you do need online to play 
 it because its not a single player game (you can system link though) but once you play it online 
 and become good or at least decent at it, you will never want to put it down. Buying this game 
 is a must buy for anyone with a pc, 360, or PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tarzanman0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2, Episode 1, Episode 2, portal, and Team fortress 2.... wow. $200 worth of games for 
 $60.... tell me your catching on. Best deal of the year with shooters 3 years old, but still better 
 than most current shooters. The amazing AI will keep you laughing and the graphics are top shelf. 
 This is one game were you actually care about the story. Portal is innovative and fun, adding to 
 the awesomeness of The Orange Box. Have not tried Team Fortress 2 because it needs Live, which 
 kinda sucks. This game deserves a 9.75, but not a 10. Pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: See_Brandon_358
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  This pack is a must Buy for any Xbox 360 owners, and can be the most entertaining, most challenging 
 and most interesting games out there. Portal Brings new innovation to the series while half life 
 2 games bring entertainment and depth, and Team Fortress 2 gives you all of the Action you want. 
 this is the ultimate FPS bundle. Half life 2 Episode 2 is brand new and really shows that Valve 
 still has it, going up against tough competition like Halo 3 and Call of Duty 4 was Team Fortress 
 2, and it brought competition. Did it beat Halo 3? To me Yes. Did it Beat Call of Duty 4? To me 
 by a hair. I think that Portal was a bit too short but sweet so it was worth it to add on. As an 
 exclusive, whether it would soar, I doubt it. 
  
  Team fortress: 9.0
  Half Life2: 10
  Half life 2 ep.1: 8.5
  Half life 2 ep. 2: 9.5
  Portal: 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smiggles116
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  I'll be honest, I've haven't had this much fun with a video game in a long, long time. The Orange 
 Box is a game that is filled with awsomeness. Almost everything is flawless, from the sound design, 
 to the gameplay, to the story, to the artistic quality of the somewhat-dated graphics (Half-Life 
 2's graphic have aged, but that minor considering the game is three years old) , to the controls, 
 to the level design, to the puzzles, to the awe crap, there is to much to list about this game. 
 It is just that good. However, there is one thing you should take into account. This is a game 
 that was made for the hardcore shooter fan. If you are just a casual player, you probably won't 
 enjoy this game as much as the hardcore guy would.
  
  The following is the list of the games included in Orange Box, and my opinion about all of them. 
 Enjoy. And buy this game. It is one of the smartest things you can do.
  
  
  Half-Life 2-
  
  Half-Life 2 is a solid, awesome, and lengthy game. The game, while three years 
 old, is probably one of the greatest games ever developed. Sure, the game's once cutting-edge physics 
 engine is nothing special now, but it is a little surprising that the physics are just as good 
 as any other game today. The story, which I won't go into, is well written and interesting, and 
 is highly cinematic. While the game is highly scripted, the moments in this game are just damn 
 awesome. The graphics, while dated, still look good (the motion blur really helps things) . The 
 gameplay is intense. The nature of the action goes like this: see the enemy and kill the enemy 
 before they can kill you, which can happen fast if you diddle of in space like some retard. If 
 you ain't on the ball, you ah dead son' b*tch. One of the best things I like about HL 2 is the 
 sound of all the guns. They're loud, realistic, and nasty. My personal favorite is the sub-machine 
 gun. It owns.
  
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode 1-
  
  Episode 1 is pretty much like Half-Life 2, but with shorter playtime (five hours max, compared 
 to 15 hours in Half-Life 2) and updated graphics and physics. To be honest, there is a simple thrill 
 going through the Half-Life games included in Orange Box and see how much the graphics evolve form 
 game to game. The evolution between the games is pretty drastic. The biggest problem with Episode 
 1 is the pacing. It is often a bit slow, and given that the pacing of Half-Life 2 is slow, Episode 
 1's pacing is almost agonizing. But that's forgivable, considering the game is still pretty awesome.
 
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode 2-
  
  Episode 1 is pure crap compared to Episode 2. Its that good. In Episode 2, the AI and environments 
 are drastically improved, which makes this Episode fell fresh and exciting. There is a new emphasis 
 outdoor combat, and that kind of gives the player more options and tactics that you couldn't use 
 in either Half-Life 2 or Episode 1. 
  
  Portal-
  
  Portal is a unique puzzle game that is arguably the best part of the Orange Box. The game's creative 
 premise (create portals with a portal gun to progress through stages) is fun and challenging (but 
 not confusing) . Also, the sound design is superb. The sound effects are solid, and the snarky A. I. 
 that guides you through the game is pretty amusing to listen to. All in all, Portal is a fun game 
 that provides about six hours worth the gametime. 
  
  Team Fortress 2-
  
  TF2 is a fun, balanced, and stylized fps that is a multiplayer only addition to the Orange Box. 
 However, this is arguably the weakest addition to the Orange Box, for the game's lack of multiplayer 
 maps (as well as the fact that each game type is consistent with each map) really hurt it's lasting 
 value. However, the game is still pretty damn fun (it's just as fun a Halo 3) . 
  
  
  So, in the end, buying the Orange Box is smart. Hell, buying Orange Box is about as smart as selling 
 your kidney. Hey, I did it! It paid off in the end. I took the money I made from the kidney and 
 bought this game with it. By the way, I plan to sell my blood so I can buy a copy of Call of Duty 
 4.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sillyfanzgirl
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  I first heard about The Orange Box from a friend who went on and on about it, I thought 'Oh it 
 won't be that great, it's all hype.' Said friend brought the game and I played on Team Fortress 
 2; OMG awesome! In my eyes Team Fortress itself makes this game worthy of buying. 
  
  Portal simply amazes me; it may be a short game but I think it's really stunning and clever. GLaDOS 
 also makes that game what it is as lol.
  
  I have only just started to play Half Life 2 as I've been too addicted to Team Fortress... But 
 so far it is really good. It's not as hard as I thought it would be and the Headcrabs amuse me 
 (Are they supposed to? lol) 
  
  So yeah this game is amazing; it's only downfall is that Team Fortress 2 isn't a multi-player, 
 only an online multi-player but that's not exactly a big downfall. I also recommend you buy it 
 or at least play it (I'm trying to persuade someone to buy it now 8D)
  
  ~Sillyfanzgirl~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandonthesaint
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  There has been a good amount of hype behind The Orange Box, Because it's probley the best deal 
 in video game history, and that there is a multiplayer game that took decades to make just right, 
 also a puzzle game that everyone wanted to get their hands on since we saw the first gameplay footage 
 awhile back, another great thing is the new installment to the Half-Life series and the previous 
 two that have been refered as the greatest games in history. 
  Well, whats start at the beganning, Team Fortress 2. This is one of the best multi-player games 
 I've played in a long while it combines a Pixar look with the bloody, gory, violence of Half-Life 
 2. If that wasn't enough the game feels great and really makes you want to explore the classes. 
 The only complaints I've had is the that there are only 5 maps, but more is being added and the 
 maps they give are good enough for me. Also, there is no local play only Xbox Live and system link, 
 kind of a bummer when I just want to play with my buddy in the same room with one 360.
  Now that puzzle game I was talling about earlier is Portal, probley the best and funniest puzzle 
 game to date. It combines some of the great physics from Half-Life with a mind bending twist on 
 what was possible before. The game has some great moments and a great level of satisfaction when 
 you figure a really hard puzzle out. The game is hilarious and has a lot of remeble lines of what 
 Gladus tells you. The only draw back is the fact that once you get really used to it and know what 
 to do when, the game ends. I probley beat the game in less than two hours.
  Then you have Half-Life which still will put you on the edge and immerse you in City17. I won't 
 get into detail, but the game is amazing from the begenning of Half-Life 2 to the end of Episode 
 2. The game will keep you up all night and maybe later it is probley on my top 5 greatest games 
 of all time and shouldn't be overlooked.
  Well, theat's the Orange Box and as you can tell it is diffenetly worth your time and money. You 
 can't go wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2008 1:59 am PT
Review:  As a package this gets a easy 10/10. But im going to review each individualy 
  
  [b] Half Life 2 - 9/10 [/b] 
  
  I loved this game. The story, set pieces, atmosphere, characters, 
 weapons, locations - everything is great. Most of all this game is fantastic fun. The gravity gun 
 is easily the best ever weapon devised. My only complaint being that it cant lift heavier objects 
 or people until the last bit of the game - which shows how much more fun it could have been. But 
 this could have also ruined the perfectly pitched difficulty level as it may have made it too easy. 
 But it doesnt stop it feeling like a missed opportunity. Also the items in the game world dont 
 have much weight to them. For example cars only move slightly & dont go very high giving a sense 
 of wieight but they just seem very light still. Again this is a missed opportunity as anyone who 
 has played Psi-Ops will know adding weight to items adds immeasurably to the experience. 
  
  This doesnt stop it from being brilliant though. There are many stand out moments - ravenholm, 
 running across rooftops, Dog - there are just so many moments that stand head & shoulders above 
 all other games. I cant recommend it highly enough. Also it does away with one of my most hated 
 FPS traits - recharging health & limited weapons. This for me just makes the whole experience even 
 more enjoyable. 
  A brilliant game just missing the 10 mark due to weightless environment & limited gravity gun. 
 
  
  [b] Half Life 2 Ep1 - 7/10 [/b] 
  
  The low point of this package for me. Sure all the gameplays there its the locations & the feel 
 of a rushed job that ruin it. Most of the time is spent in the uninispired, repetative sci-fi citadel 
 centre (one of the worse location of HL2) , in the dark or fighting Antlions - which get almost 
 as annoying as Halo's the flood in this episode. 
  
  The whole thing feels a bit thrown together. Its too short & the locations are dull & repetative. 
 Luckily the gameplay & atnmosphere still raise it above average. But still a let down 
  
  [b] Half Life 2 Ep2 - 9/10 [/b]
  
  This is more like it. A return to the strengths of the first 
 instalment. Some shocking moments in the story with people you have actualy grown attached to & 
 actualy like reaching near death & even being killed. 
  
  The locations are again brilliant & different enough form the first 2 without seeming out of place. 
 & set pieces & experiences sometimes bettering HL2 with some mammoth battles taking place. Defending 
 the base being a particularly cool battle. Still my minor problems are here that stopped HL2 getting 
 10. But again this is brilliant & left me gagging for Ep3 to come out. 
  
  [b] Portal - 9/10 [/b] 
  
  Wow. What a breathe of fresh air! This is one of the most charming 
 & original games I have ever played. 
  
  1 weapon with 2 functions - fire a portal you enter & one you exit & use this to solve 19 increasingly 
 complex puzzles. Its so simple its genius. There are some serious head-f*@$s involved in this. 
 Coming out of the ceiling when you've walked into a wall is seriously disorientating & best of 
 all mad! 
  
  Movement is also take into effect. The faster you walk in the first portal the faster you leave 
 the 2nd. So jumping off a great height into the floor can send you flying through a wall across 
 entire chasms. & throughout all this you have a psycho robot talking to you. This provides some 
 truly laugh out loud moments. & any game that can make you laugh out loud is doing something right. 
 Its brilliant. There is no other word for it. 
  
  Which makes this review difficult. Unless you play the game you cant be told how brilliant it is 
 without ruining the puzzles or surprises this game holds. Just take mine & many more peoples word 
 for it. YOu must play it. 
  
  My only complaint is that after extended play it becomes exhausting on the old noggin & starts 
 feeling a little repetative. But dont despair it feels fresh again after a short break. But its 
 much better suited for quick 1-2 hour blasts. Some will complain at the length but I think its 
 perfect. It never outstays its welcome & there are loads more challenges when it has been completed. 
 & if there were anymore levels it may have become disheartening looking at how many challenges 
 you have to perfect.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warheart1188
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 debuted in the fall of 2004 and received phenomenal reviews. It's possibly one of the 
 best games ever. Valve released the game on the original Xbox a year later which didn't give the 
 game any justice. Now, we can experience the game on Xbox 360. The Orange Box brings the (for now) 
 complete Half Life 2 experience along with 2 other games: Portal and Team Fortress 2. So we have 
 5 games in total: Half-Life 2, HL2 Episode 1, HL2 Episode 2, Portal, and Team Fortress 2. Half 
 Life 2 is a great as it was on the PC, maybe even better. The graphics are great, the framerate 
 is solid and the addition of Episodes 1 & 2 makes the experience even better. Overall, the gameplay 
 is as solid and great as ever. Portal is the gem of the package. Portal is a puzzle game were you 
 use a gun that creates portals. Using this portal gun, you have to solve puzzles that deal with 
 places cubes on platforms to open doors or to guide orbs into traps to open doors or to get rid 
 of gun turrents. The game gets very, very tricky and will make you go crazy trying to figure out 
 the puzzles. Overall, it's so much fun. The last game in the pack is Team Fortress 2, a team-based 
 online game. This is the online component of the pack. The game itself is alot of fun and the gameplay 
 is great. The graphics are cartoon-ish but it couldn't be done any other way. There are different 
 classes to choose from and they're all unique in their own way and they're are fun to play with. 
 The game is too much fun and it'll have you going for a long time. Overall, The Orange Box is the 
 best deal in video games. You get 5 spectacular games for the price of one. It's a must buy for 
 gamers who don't have high-end PCs to run these games. This review may be short given that these 
 are 5 games but all you need to know is that this is a great package and a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petervenkman
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  OK, it has taken me awhile to get around and review The Orange Box. So, here it is.
  
  The Orange Box includes five games in one box; Half-Life 2, Half-Life2: Episode One, Half-Life 
 2: Episode Two, Portal, and Team Fortress 2. 
  
  The Half-Life series will offer gamers the first-person shooter genre to anyone who loves to shoot 
 things or they just love the Half-Life series.
  Portal is very much like a puzzle game with mind-bending scenarios and very funny dialogue.
  
 Team Fortress 2 is for gamers who like team-based multiplayer battles or just a fun online experience.
 
  
  I am going to review each game separately.
  
  Half-Life 2 is known as the best first-person shooter game and as, arguably, the best game of all 
 time. At the end of the original Half-Life, as protagonist Gordon Freeman, the so-called and mysterious 
 G-Man offers you a "job" or to basically die. You choose to take the job. At the opening of Half-Life 
 2 you are awakened by the G-Man to ,well, begin his job and save City 17. You arrive at City 17 
 and realize that Earth has been taken over by the Combine, an alien race of superior technology. 
 The world seems to be ruled under a totalitarian type of government. It is up to you to save the 
 planet from the alien menace. The gameplay is some of the best quality gaming I have ever seen 
 in a video game. The game also uses physics very well and you, if armed by the Gravity Gun, can 
 alter the environment and use everyday objects , such as a chair, as a weapon. The characters of 
 Half-Life are very believable and you WILL grow attached to them and admire them, especially Alyx 
 Vance, who is the daughter of Eli Vance. The graphics are great, but Half-Life 2 being an old game, 
 the graphics seem a bit dated. The programmers have enhanced the graphics slighlty, but not enough 
 to be good for the Xbox 360. The sound is my favorite part. The sound is amazing, like hearing 
 a dropship fly over your head or hear the "footsteps" of the Striders in the distance. The sound 
 quality is phenomenal. Half-Life 2 is an awesome game and is great by itself as an included game 
 in The Orange Box.
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode One continues the adventure as Gordon Freeman after the cliffhanger of its 
 predecessor. For the majority of the game you will be with Alyx. The gameplay and sound quality 
 are still really good. The graphics are improved and the character models are very good. Pretty 
 much everything is the same as in Half-Life 2. The only thing that is a problem with Episode One, 
 is that it is over too quickly. You will probably be over with it in about four to five hours. 
 Besides that, it is still a very good game.
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode Two once again continues the Half-Life saga. Episode Two is probably the best 
 game in The Orange Box, besides the original Half-Life 2. The sound and gameplay are still very 
 good and will keep you on your toes. The graphics are once more improved, but they look very good, 
 better than Episode One. In Episode Two you can once again man the wheel of a vehicle. In Episode 
 One , there were no vehicle sequences. But Valve brought it back. The vehicle looks like an old 
 1969 Dodge Charger that has been revamped. In the original Half-Life 2, gamers complained of the 
 confined and enclosed locations and felt like it was just going from corridor to corridor. But 
 in Episode Two you will find that the developers caught on to this and gave gamers very open spaces, 
 such as a valley where you will fight two Antlion Guards at the same time and the areas where you 
 will be driving. You will also be introduced to a new enemy, the Hunter. You will see this enemy 
 early on in the game, but you will not confront it yet. But once you do fight them it feels like 
 an epic battle. The Hunters pretty much look like a small strider. They are probably approximately 
 8-10 feet tall. Near the end of the game you will have to defend a missile silo base from striders 
 who are being escorted by a small group of Hunters, two or three at most. You will also be able 
 to use a new weapon called the Magnusson Device. You use the Gravity Gun to throw it at the head 
 of the strider where it attaches and then you simply pull out a weapon to shoot it. Then, you can 
 watch the fireworks. Episode Two ends with the biggest cliffhanger yet, but I am not going to divulge 
 what happens. All I am saying is that it was, emotional. Episode Two is really fun and you will 
 have a blast playing it.
  
  Portal, as I said before, is a puzzle game. You will obtain a "gun" that you can use to shoot portals 
 into walls, ceilings, or floors to solve the puzzle. The game pretty much has you going from puzzle 
 to puzzle and complete each one. They get harder as you go. Portal also has ties to the Half-Life 
 universe, such as you being a test subject in Aperture Sciences, which is basically the Black Mesa 
 Research Facility of Portal. Portal is also humorous. The supposed computer construct, GLaDOS, 
 will guide you through the first set of puzzles and will amuse you throughout the game. She says 
 that there will be cake if you complete the puzzles. She also says many other things. Portal is 
 really fun, go and try it out.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is team-based multiplayer game that allows you to choose from different classes 
 of the character you want to be. There is a lot of variety between the classes; each character 
 has there strengths and weaknesses Either you can be a huge guy with a minigun, but you are slowed 
 down. Or you can be a Spy that is fast and uses stealth to eliminate your foes. The game has a 
 kind of cartoonish style to it that makes it stand out and at the same time it is quite brutal. 
 Team Fortress 2 is an enjoyable game that should be played.
  
  In conclusion, The Orange Box is a must have addition to your gaming collection. The Half-Life 
 series is my favorite game of all time and it is pretty much why I got the Orange Box, but as I 
 played Portal and Team Fortress 2 I realized that there is a whole lot more that is to be offered 
 with The Orange Box. Awesome game or should I say games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zolloz89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box is a compilation of the most up to date Half-Life 2 adventure to date as well as 
 great class based multiplayer and the most clever puzzle/adventure ever.
  The Half-Life adventure continues in a sequel and two complete expansions in The Orange Box. The 
 classic first person shooter mechanice is alive in Half-Life 2. The controls are very sharp and 
 responsive. The music and sound effects really immerse you in the game and since the perspective 
 never changes from the first person view of Gordon Freeman, you experience everything he does and 
 can feel what he might be feeling. Besides a graphical makeover, Half-Life 2, and Episodes 1 and 
 2, are just a port from the PC versions.
  Team Fortress 2 is a class based first person shooter that puts any other to shame. Each class 
 has its own character, style, and gameplay strategies, such as the Scout, who runs around the map 
 quickly capturing control points and taking flags, whereas the Pyro, will run into a stronghold 
 and take out his flamethrower and burn anyone. The graphics and overall artistic style are completely 
 different than the Half-Life aspects of The Orange Box.
  Portal is, in my opinion, the greatest part of the compilation that is The Orange Box. It has the 
 same graphics and physics engine as Half-Life. What makes Portal the gem of the package is the 
 entire personality that it has. The computer, GLaDOS, is humorous beyond belief. The premise of 
 Portal is that you are a guinea pig at a research company that is testing a portal gun. Over the 
 course of the research, you are tested by trying to use the portals to travel around, transfer 
 energy balls, and eventually escape from the facility. Portal is, by far, the most innovative game 
 I have played in years. The ending song, Still Alive, is sung by GLaDOS, and is full of quirks 
 from the game and a very funny reference to Black Mesa of Half-Life.
  The Orange Box is the greatest product of budget gaming in a very long time. It has a different 
 type of game depending on your preference of shooter at the time. It is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twistedmental
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Please respect my review. No game is perfect. No game.
  
  
  The Orange Box:
  
  Pros: Five games in one is a great deal; fun multi-player game so you're never lonely; Half-Life 
 2 is already one great selling game; Portal is an innovative game; graphics, particles and motion 
 blur makes it feel more "new".
  
  Cons: Two expansions, two stand-alones and one game that's only worth 10$ changes your mind about 
 how this is a "great deal"; most of the games included in The Orange Box are really short; Team 
 Fortress 2 is multi-player only; what kind of name is The Orange Box?
  
  Achievements: There are 99 (wooh!) achievements for this game. Most are for Half-Life 2 of course, 
 but mostly rely on tough skills, as well as Portal and Team Fortress 2 achievements. They do kinda 
 require you to play a lot.
  
  P. S: I really feel like this is not what I had expected. It's not the greatest deal ever. They're 
 simply expansions and stand-alones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXists
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  Note: Played HL2, Episode 1, Episode 2 and Portal. No Team fortress, didn't have time for multiplayer.
 
  
                                                
  [The Good]
                                                
  - Portal   By far, the best game in the lot. 
 You would think HL2 would be the better game .... NOT! They should release extra levels.
  
  - You can't beat the $59.99 for all these games, it's amazingly cheap.
  
  - Story   Pretty 
 cool HL2 story, not great but helps with the monotony (see below) .
  
                                                
  [The Bad]
                                  
               
  - Repetitive   HL2 can be excruciatingly repetitive! Some levels are never-ending and it's the 
 same action again and again.
  
  - Framerates   Having played this game for hours upon hours, there is a significant framerate drop 
 and might get you dizzy at times.
  
  - Levels too big   I never thought I would even complain about that but you get bored playing some 
 of these levels. Same thing over and over...
  
  - Presentation   Compared to Gears or COD4, this game just feels pretty old, not 1 yr old but many 
 yrd old.
  
  - Achievements   After FEAR, this is maybe the worst game for achievements, played it for   20 
 hours and did everything and yet I didn't cross the 500 pts, besides way too many achievments. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronfilmltd
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2008 6:11 am PT
Review:  If you have a list somewhere of the first person shooters you want to buy, be it Halo 3, Bioshock, 
 Mass Effect, etcetera, etcetera... and you DON'T have the Orange Box ANYWHERE on that list, then 
 you need to slap yourself 34 times, jump off a 15 foot wall backwards, walk on needles, then punch 
 yourself until you have a headache. Oh, and don't forget to put the Orange Box on the top of the 
 list, underline it three times, circle it, box it, and then triangle it.
  
  The thing about the Orange Box is that it is simply the biggest deal you could EVER make in the 
 history of gaming. There are five hilarious, Halo-quality games on one single disc. Between Half-Life 
 2, Episode One, Episode Two, Portal, and Team Fortress 2, you will find yourself in over 25 hours 
 of the most enjoyable gameplay experience you've had in your whole life.
  
  Let's start with The Half-Life series, shall we? The Half-Life 2 component of the game will take 
 up three-fifths of the whole game, but it is easily over 20 hours of entertainment ALONE. Half-Life 
 2, Half Life 2: Episode One, and Half-Life 2: Episode Two are graphically impressive, and the storyline 
 is simply immersive. In the game, you are plunged into the first-person view of Gordon Freeman, 
 an incredibly skilled scientist who rebels against the Combine, an alien force that is in control 
 of the world's laws and freedoms. You, along with other human inhabitants, are slaves to this powerful 
 alien force. You eventually meet up with some familiar faces from the first Half-Life game (which 
 you don't need to play to understand the plotline in this game) , who help fight back against the 
 Combine. As hours of gameplay go on, more and more plot points are unravelled, leaving you always 
 hanging as you move from one chapter to the next.
  
  Portal, the fourth game on the Orange Box, is the funniest game I have ever played. Ever. Even 
 that feels like an understatement. You play as Chell (as stated in the credits) and awaken in a 
 testing chamber to the sound of a robotic voice over an intercom. This robotic voice is the voice 
 of GLaDOS, an AI voice that helps you with the complex tests ahead of you, and makes the most hilarious 
 sarcastic kinds of jokes you could ever hear.. In each test chamber, there are two portals: a blue 
 one and an orange one. This works so that when you enter a blue portal, you come out the orange 
 one, and vice versa. Eventually, you gain the ability to shoot portals yourself, leading to far 
 more mindbending tests. As you move through the test chambers however, you soon realize that something 
 far more sinister lies beyond the innocent-looking test chamber. Portal alone makes this game worth 
 a buy.
  
  Finally, there's Team Fortress 2, the online component of the Orange Box. This component of the 
 game is another great addition, with a cartoony kind of feel added to an FPS game. There are a 
 certain amount of classes to choose from, and a wide variety of skills come with them. The only 
 problem with TF2 is that there are very few maps to choose from, but even this doesn't hinder the 
 gameplay experience one bit.
  
  The Orange Box is the greatest video game deal out there, hands-down. The amount of value in the 
 game is immesurable. The single player component alone will take up to and beyond 25 hours, while 
 Team Fortress 2 also provides countless additional hours of fun to that.
  
  No matter who you are, even if you never were a fan of Sci-Fi FPS games, this game is worth more 
 of a buy than any other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RolandReeve
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Woah! best deal in Video game history is right... Normally when someone puts more than one game 
 in one box only one is good... So far I've played Half Life 2, Portal, and Team Fortress all Rocked. 
 Graphics Great. Deal perfect. Fun Hours. Buy now! One complaint didn't Half Life 2 originally have 
 on line? Besides the fall of the on line for Half Life 2 the game comes up strong with Team Fortress 
 great on line. As I said before BUY NOW! Go to  and pay the 60$ 
 for the price of 60x5= $300. You save over 240 dollars! Go now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  You must buy this game, plain and simple. Don't rent it, go buy it, it has so much game play and 
 replayability that is worth buying even to the most frugal of people. Lets start with the obvious, 
 half life 2. This is one of the best single player experiences you'll have with a shooter. This 
 game was made a while ago, and the graphics hold up. Those of you who played the original port 
 for the Xbox may be asking, how about the frame rate? Well I am pleased to report it is vastly 
 improved and runs very smoothly. As for the expansions, they are both long enough to be $50 games 
 on their own, and are both great fun. Portal is amazing and innovative. The puzzles are great, 
 but sometimes extremely tough. Quite possibly the best part though is the humor, which is hilarious. 
 However, it is a bit short. Last but not least, is team fortress 2. Some people have waited for 
 this game for 10 years. I can safely say it is the best multi player shooter experience I have 
 ever had. Yes better than halo, counter strike, battlefield, or even goldeneye. Keep in mind this 
 is all opinion. I cannot express enough how badly everyone needs this game. Even if you already 
 have half life 2, this has the two expansions, portal, and team fortress 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireAndIce53
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  The orange box has 5 full games in it for only the price of 1 new xbox 360 game, it will be a blast 
 if you've never played any of the 5 games in it. 
  
  Story (10/10)
  Half life 2, Ep1, and ep2 are all amazing games, the characters are very believable and have amazing 
 voice acting, every character in TF2 has a personality (which is pretty neat) , and the robot who 
 talks to you in portal is hilarious at times.
  
  Graphics and sound (9/10)
  although half life 2 game, and all the episodes are starting to show their age but at the time 
 they came out it was very good graphics. Portal has great graphics with great lighting, so does 
 TF2. TF2 has a pixar style look and it has tons of blood and gore when kill someone.
  
  Gameplay and Replay value (9/10)
  hl2 has tons of moments that makes your heart beat faster, 
 Portal makes you think with portals by figuring a bunch of puzzles out with your portal gun. TF2 
 has the most addicting online ever, I literally spent 6 hours playing it last night which almost 
 ties Rainbow Six Vegas (7 hours) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flavort
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  This is the best buy ever in video game history. I have to say I have not played Team Fortress 
 and am upset about that. So I cant really talk on that game except for what I have been told. I 
 have been told it is super tight. So the game itself. You get the whole H2 pack which is great 
 considering I loved it for the xbox. It comes with the 2 episodes also. The only issue I had was 
 the first episode seemed like a little of a drag, EVEN THOUGH I LOVED IT. The 2nd episode was insane 
 and really added so much to the value of the game. Grafics, crazy story, gameplay and fun factor 
 blow it away. Then they add portal. Portal rules. It is funny as hell and wild as heck. It is so 
 fun to play and can get real challenging. You have to play it to understand. I would have to buy 
 this for you if you dont have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giyanks22
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  Valve has tried something different here. They're selling Half Life 2, Half Life 2- Episode 1, 
 Half Life 2- Episode 2, Team Fortress 2, and Portal all for the price of one. All of these are 
 excellent games that will keep you preoccupied for hours. 
  
  Lets start with Portal . Portal is a really cutting edge amazing game that is just plain brilliant. 
 Portal is a puzzle game where you get a Portal gun. The gun shoots orange and blue portals that 
 transport you to each other. Physics and momentum play a key role in the transportation. As you 
 fall through a portal you gain speed and go farther. The voice acting in Portal is brilliant and 
 funny. The only downside to portal is that it is extremely short . Even though Portal is short 
 it will take you a while to complete. Portal is a really amazing game, and it looks really great. 
 Portal is something you really need to see.
  
  Team Fortress two is the multi player aspect of the Orange Box. It is a great class based shooter. 
 The graphics are Cartoonish, but not unrealistic. There are different classes to choose, and each 
 has different stregnths and weaknesses to benefit your team. Team Fortress 2 can get very addicting 
 because it is so unrealistically fun. Team Fortress 2 is a really solid multi player.
  
  Half Life 2- Episode 2 is a really clean and smooth FPS. It really improves upon its predecessors, 
 and adds a little humor to the game. You continue the story of Gordon Freeman. The citadel has 
 exploded and created a huge portal and you have to stop it. The weapons are very fun to use, especially 
 the shotgun, which is a ton of fun. Half Life Two , and Episode 1 are also on there. They are older 
 games, but they are still fun to play.
  
  Really the Orange Box is a perfect package that has little bit of everything, all for a really 
 great price. It is an awesome set of games with no flaws. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ligerpotumus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 1:32 am PT
Review:  There is a lot to be said about this game, actually games. How can you argue with Half Life 2, 
 which is awesome, but in some ways seems like it just sets the player up, two exciting episodes 
 making a great game better, Portal, which is one of the most creative games ever created, if not 
 the most creative, and Team Fortress 2, being a nice class based multiplayer with a unique art 
 direction. And dispite minor complaints, the front cover is as stated before, the worst part of 
 he game, honestly just look at it. 
  
  I shall start with the half life games. Half Life 2 and its two extra chapters puts you in the 
 boots of the scientist with absolutely no personality, gordon freeman who in the begining of the 
 game is stationed in what is dubbed "city 17" on a combine controlled earth (the combine being 
 a militiristic alien people) . You eventually escape killing some combine in the making, go back 
 to city 17, still killing combine along with the resistance, then you blow up the combine filled 
 citadel in the middle of the city. In episode 1, it turns out you and the girl who sticks around 
 you in some portions of the predecessor, alyx survive, you go back in the citadel, still killing 
 combine, then you get out, trying to leave the combine infested city, still killing combine, you 
 leave and thats where that episode leaves off. Then in episode 2, which takes place in a much more 
 open forest setting, trying to get away, you and alyx continue to kill combine and help the resistance 
 wipe the combine out. You probably notice that these games are more about gunplay by the repetitive 
 "killing combine" but the characters along with voice acting make an actually preaty good story 
 awesome.
  
  If you dont already know, the most unique thing about the half life series is the gravity gun, 
 which allows you to pick up objects and fling them around. Its fun to do so because the source 
 engine's amazing physics , but it takes serious skill in combat, but otherwise the gunplay is solid 
 enough and you will undoubtedly fall in love with the cast of characters. Each game (at least in 
 my opinion) get better and better, half life 2 is great but may seem like a drag because of the 
 occasionally annoying physics based puzzles, episode 1 is much more focused and satisphying because 
 the game is more combat focused and alyx is alongside you for nearly the entire time, making the 
 game more dynamic, and the environments seriously open up in episode 2. The 2 episodes as one might 
 be half as long as Half Life 2, whichs is around 15 hours long.
  
  Then there is portal. Portal is awesome in a thousand different ways, yes its short and when you 
 find you play it through on the second time, itspossible to beat in about two hours. Basically 
 you are in the shoes of, well you dont know who, if you look into a portal with another set in 
 a good location, you play as a girl with odd shoes. Yes portal is a first person shooter but the 
 reason its different is that you have a firearm that is called the "Apeture Science Handheld Portal 
 Device" which allows you to shoot a blue or an orange portal, so when you shoot the blue on the 
 ceiling then the orange on the wall, you fall in the come out the other side, but its used for 
 more than just getting across gaps you eventually do crazy things like shooting a portal into a 
 ditch then shooting the other on the ceiling, you then jump into the ditch, coming out the other 
 one quite quickly. Lets just say its never been so fun being a lab rat.
  
  If you dont seem sold by the gameplay, one thing that stands out just as much is GlaDOS, the computer 
 voice that dictates the entire experience. Her voice is robotic, making the dialogue absolutely 
 laugh out loud because shes being funny without sounding like she is trying to be. Thats what makes 
 it great, but even though the cake is a lie, this game is worth playing a hundred times through, 
 and im tempted to say you can pay 60 bux to buy the entire package play only this and still get 
 your money's worth. 
  
  The last part of the package is Team Fortress 2, which is the multiplayer portion of the game. 
 The two things that make it unique are the classes such as the engineer who can build turrets and 
 other stuff, the spy who can turn invisible, the medic who can heal, the sniper who snipes, the 
 heavy with a chaingun, a soldier with a rocket launcher and shotgun, the pyro with a flamethrower, 
 among a couple others. That and the art direction make the game unique, sure this runs on the source 
 engine, but it has a cartoonish look that doesnt feel 100% cell shaded.
  
  Their are a few complaints, one there are only 5 maps as of now with only 1 game mode for each, 
 one of them called 2fort which is the map that was in in one of the first trailers for the game 
 if you saw it, aka the only map with a ctf senario (though instead of the flag its the enemy intellegence) 
 while the other 4 are based around capturing control points on the map, similar to the game type 
 that is constantly used in the star wars battlefront series. 
  Also their is sometimes problems with disconnection and lag, but the other complaints are towards 
 other players. Friendly fire may be turned off, but cheap tactics are. Turrets called sentrys that 
 are placed by engineers at times seem overpowered. Even though the spys are very weak, ive had 
 multiple times where players stabbed me in the back after using its cloking ability and their is 
 always the time where they use their ability to look like an enemy soldier which is kind of annoying, 
 but because if you look at a ally, you see his/her gamertag, then if you look at the disquised 
 spy, you see an allys gamertag, hell i had a wtf moment when i was seeing a disquised spy using 
 my tag, then i quickly noticed then killed him. But this is a problem because engineers and spys 
 are incredibly popular. Because team fortress 2 is the multiplayer game, it should be the real 
 value, that is true once you get past the lack of aim assist , but addiction set in after a while.
 
  
  The Orange Box is one awesome deal. Whether you think of it as one big game or 5 smaller ones, 
 you are correct either way. Half Life 2 and its episodes offer intense gunplay and dramatic story, 
 team fortress 2 offers an addictive multiplayer, and portal is just something else, and will even 
 give people who think they mastered their rubik's cubes a run for their money without going overboard 
 on the challenge. Many of todays recent shooters including Halo 3 and Call of duty 4 have awesome 
 single and multiplayer with an addition of a weird distraction (aka forge and arcade mode) this 
 package is like that in some ways, making five games one box have seem more like 5 games with not 
 a lot of content but still incredibly fun in 1 box but this game has it all but they all feel completly 
 different and is worth your trigger happy gametime and sixty dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VGLeo34
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  I'll just review the orange box by game:
  
  Half Life 2:
  Valve finally fixed the console version of HL2 with no lag and a few graphic pumpups. But it's 
 still half life, which is good, wait, GREAT.,
  
  Half Life 2: Ep. 1: Ya know, It works beautifully. Graphics are excellent, AI is amazing, and the 
 puzzles are still here. Best improvement is you can go from a televison view to a computer screen 
 view.
  
  Half Life 2 Ep 2: Half Life goes outside in this episode. There areless confusing puzzles and more 
 action in ep 2. The best part though is the levels. The enviorments are top knotch, large and open.
 
  
  THE BEST, AND ORIGINAL, CONTENT:
  
  Portal: This is an FPS tetris. That's all i can say.
  
  TF2:
  THIS TOOK 10 YEARS! IT IS AMAZING!~!!!!!!! 
 The only problems are ther are only three game types, and only tree good maps, Also, the fact that 
 almost everyclass has a shotgun is boring 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ska_dude101
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box from Valve is a compilation of the Half-Life 2 series with some extra goodies thrown 
 in.
  
  For the offline players, the Half-Life 2 games are going to be the bread and butter of the purchase. 
 On the same disk there is the original HL2, Episode I, and Episode II. Half-Life 2 came out on 
 XBOXs everywhere pretty close to 2 years ago. Not too much has changed. The game plays exactly 
 the same, it only got an extremely minor graphical facelift.
  
  Half-Life 2 is an old-school style sci-fi shooter. You'll spend your time blasting at aliens of 
 all sorts, some that are humanoid, and others that are not so much. The game, especially early 
 on, forces you to take damage from enemies you can often do nothing about. Nowadays, with the regenerating 
 health system that has become so favorited among FPS's, this wouldn't be a problem. However, due 
 to HL2's nature, it is, since the player has the used-to-be-typical health and "armor" meters that 
 require health- or armor packs to refill. Health packs can be plentiful from time to time, but 
 you may still be hard pressed, especially due to the game's often confusing nature. There are times 
 in HL2 where waves and waves of enemies will continue to come at you until you figure out where 
 to go. Other times, your path will not be saturated with enemies, but just extremely obscure as 
 to where to go.
  
  The story of HL2 is something to be desired. Although it expands on the original Half-Life story, 
 HL2 is half just Gordon Freeman running away from whatever happens to be pursuing him at the time.
 
  
  The controls work similar to that of every other shooter out there. If you're familiar with console 
 FPSs, the controls will be largely intuitive for you. The only thing I can complain about here 
 is the weapon switching system. Don't expect to be able to accurately switch weapons on the fly 
 every time.
  
  The graphics show the age of the Steam engine. Even with a minor graphical update, the enemies 
 and environments look a little below par, compared to some of the graphical powerhouses that were 
 released for the 360 this year.
  
  Portal is a nice departure from the shooter setting, even if it's a puzzle-shooter. The game only 
 lasts about 3 hours, however, depending on how quickly you can figure out where to go (a problem 
 in the later levels) . The game has an unmistakable sense of humor that can be perceived as somewhat 
 macabre, depending on how you look at it. The graphics here, too, look weak and often sterile, 
 but Portal is an enjoyable experience.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is the final game of the package. The multi-player only game is a great online 
 shooter experience. If the online people in Halo 3 are getting on your nerves and the people in 
 the COD4 games are too serious for you, Team Fortress might just be the thing you're looking for.
 
  
  The Orange Box is not 5 games in one. It is, at best, 3 games in one. Even less if you think a 
 game has to be longer than 5 hours to be considered a full game. The Orange Box takes a run-of-the-mill 
 shooter thats been milking the ingenuity of the Gravity Gun for the past 2 years, and packages 
 it with a short, but enjoyable, first person puzzle game and a great, quick-paced online only multiplayer. 
 This is a great deal for those who don't already own the HL2 saga. However, for everyone else, 
 and those that don't particularly enjoy Half-Life, this isn't enough to spend another $60.
  
  Synopsis: The HL2 is a tired first person shooter with graphics that are showing their age. 
 Portal is an enjoyable, funny puzzle game, but doesn't last long enough to warrant anything other 
 than a rent. Team Fortress 2 is a great, comical multiplayer shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homey4life
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Well "The Orange Box" is quite hard to put into words. I really can't go into it much unless diving 
 into things like "BEST BARGAIN EVER" or "THER'S A LOT TO SEE FOR THE TYPICAL GAMER." All I can 
 say is that "The Orange Box" is a great bargain and a must have for gamers world-wide, well excpet 
 for some.
  
  PORTAL: Portal brings a great new twist into the gaming world. Basically you weild a portal gun 
 that (duh!) shoots portals. Sounds dull right? WRONG! Ther's a lot to Portal that meets the eye, 
 as they say "don't judge a booke by it's cover." Suprisingly Portal is very fun and it seems will 
 never get old to me. Another suprise is that Portal is one of the funniest games to date. It's 
 a laugh-riot, but I won't dive into the details. 
  
  Bad: Ummm, there really sin't anything bad about Portal, I guess I can say that it can get a LITTLE 
 repetetive sometimes, and when your stuck on some things you might just give up.
  
  Team Fortress 2: Announced quite a long time ago Team Fortress has been remade from top to bottom, 
 but in a great way. It is very innovative in it's art style pixar movie scheme and it's game-play 
 is really fun! I love the different classes seemed to be made for every type of gamer, like the 
 big pycho gamer in you can be "the heavy"or the passive gamer can be "the medic." It was worth 
 the wait and a must player for everyone.
  
  Bad: Not that many maps, AND A REAL DISAPPOINTMENT AND SUPRISE IS THAT YOU CAN ONLY PLAY "TEAM 
 FORTRESS 2" WITH XBOX LIVE OR WITH SYSTEM LINK (LINKING 1 OR MORE 360'S TOGETHER) . I WAS ANGRY 
 WHEN I FIGURED OUT THAT YOU CAN'T PLAY THIS GAME WITH YOUR FRIENDS WITH ONE 360. THIS IS THE MAJOR 
 FLAW OF "TEAM FORTRESS 2."
  
  Half-Life 2 ep 2: The most recent game in the half-life franchise. This game is very hard to put 
 in words, and I have mixed emotions about it. I like the innovative gravity gun and the new souped-up 
 buggy car. This game also has a sense of humor to it. The graphics are great and the voice animations 
 are too.
  
  Bad: The action in this game is quite slow in my opinion, and I ABSOLUTLEY HATE HOW YOU CAN'T SKIP 
 LISTENING TO THAT LADY THAT YOUR WITH, SHE'S SUCH A BLABBER MOUTH. This may sound real stupid but 
 I think Half life 2 was made to piss people off. For example, usually in games there's a map or 
 and objective screen, but half life 2 ep 2 doesn't have that!. I spent like 30mins trying to figure 
 out what to do in this one level! I don't know if it's just me, but if your just going to buy the 
 orange box for half life 2 ep 2 then your wasting your time and money.
  
  Overall though "The Orange Box" is one of the most innovative and valued game to date. It gives 
 a really good deal and it is worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakehips57
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  Start at Zero
  
  +3 Value for Money
  +2 Amazing Sense Of Humour
  +2 For Portal Alone
  +1 Character Animation
  +1 Length of Time it takes to compkete
  +1 Great Acheivement Incentives
 
  
  - 1 For extremely poor A. I. - Enemies will walk up to you, stand there and shoot, just about everything 
 that happens in the game is scripted.
  
  Portal is the most fun I have had on a console.... ever, it has a twisted sense of humour and the 
 song you get at the end is worth the whole game anyway!
  
  TF 2 is wickedly fun if you can find a game with a decent connection, especially if you are p [laying 
 as the SPY.
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmreedy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  In this review for the Orange Box, i will explane most facts about each game. The games are:
  
  Half Life 2
  Half Life 2: Episode 1
  Half Life 2: Episode 2
  Portal
  Team Fortress 
 2
  
  Each game has it's goods and bads, but each are fun to play over and over again.
  
  Half Life 2:
  
  Half Life 2 is a new experiance for gamers who havnt played the original 
 xbox version or the GOTY version on the PC. With it out on the 360, it enhances it's graphics to 
 look like the steam engine version on the PC, powered by Source. Half Life 2 is confusing if you 
 never played Half Life 1. But you will begin to learn every step you take. Lots of people think 
 this game is confusing, but thats just becuase they never played the first. So if you think it's 
 confusing, buy a copy of Half Life 1 for the PC and play it. Anyway, Half Life 2 can be repetative, 
 but the achivementts make the game not as repetative.
  
  Half Life 2: Episode 1 and 2:
  
  Episode 1 is basically the aftermath of Half Life 2. Continuing the cliff-hanger of Half Life 
 2, excpet adding the new lighting system, if you havent noticed. They add a new enemy, the Zombine, 
 and yes, it is short. There are plenty of secrets and the great sound and graphics make the game 
 look nice and amazing.
  Episode 2, however, adds plenty of more enemys. Episode 2 is a little longer than 1, but adds even 
 more and new lighting engine, as well as the nice detailed skybox. The fun, "gnome" makes the game 
 10x challenging, getting through the game in one piece. But, don't get the gnome first, complete 
 the fun and good sounding and challanging game first.
  
  PoRt@L:
  
  Portal is a really fun and funny game. Even though it's short, the puzzling with Portals is really 
 neat and new. Whats there to say about portal? Humorous, short, really, REALLY fun, good graphics, 
 really cool gun.
  
  Team Fortress 2:
  
  Take a break from singleplay and fool around in team fortress 2. This adds completly new and different 
 graphics, making the game look cartoony, but really good at the same time. It's fun with a variety 
 of classes and maps, but not that many maps. Don't feel bad though. I hear VALVe will make new 
 maps after the holidays. Hopfully.
  
  If you got this before of for Christmas, than you are very lucky to have one of the best games 
 out so far. If you don't have Orange Box yet, than finish reading this review and get it. You wont 
 regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xRaZoR_LiGhTx
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  You need this game. Not only is it so very, very good, but, its a BARGAIN. 5 games. For 40. Well 
 even less now its after XMAS. And I mean 5, BRILLIANT games.
  
  Half Life 2, the sequel to one of th best shooters of all time, exceeds in being awesome.
  
 
  Its episodes, while short, deliver new aspects of half life gameplay, and leave you begging for 
 more of the story.
  
  Portal, a FPS puzzle. Now I'm not one for puzzle games. But damn. This, is an exception. This title 
 has alot of story packed into it, and has created a few memes...
  
  And finally Team Fortress 2. Multiplayer, awesome. Many different classes, main goal is to steal 
 the other teams intelligence. You really do have to work as a team to get through this.
  HL2 the half life series, which at one point, you had to pay over 40 for, as well as its episodes, 
 as well as 2 other games.
  
  I am not complaining.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nawras
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 3:52 am PT
Review:  DISCLAIMER: This review is based on Episode 2 and Portal only.
  
  YAYS
  - great package
  - Portal is hilarious and interesting
  - great voice work and animation
 
  - interesting locales in Episode 2
  
  NAYS
  - no improvement in the HL2 formula
  - lots of recycled content in Episode 2
  - cliffhanger ending, again
  - too short
  - the 
 HL saga is taking too long to wrap up
  
  
  When Half Life 2 was first released in 2004, it was a force on its own. However, to much of the 
 players' dismay, the game created more questions than answered and ended in another cliffhanger 
 ending that left gamers wondering when Half Life 3 will come along. Instead of making a new game 
 experience, Valve decided to continue the story by releasing Episodes.
  
  Unfortunately, Episode One took two more years to come and it did not leave an impact like HL2 
 did. Moreover, it left an even worse cliffhanger ending and people spent the time waiting for Episode 
 2. Now that Episode Two is here, I must say I am rather disappointed, but let me first mention 
 the good stuff about it.
  
  Episode 2 continues directly where Episode 1 left off. Freeman and Alyx have escaped the Citadel, 
 which exploded and has created a superportal which will call in inexhaustible alien reinforcements. 
 The story in Episode 2 takes you from the crash site of the train all the way to the Resistance 
 camp of White Forest, with the bulk of the story focusing on the journey to deliver the transmission 
 packet (obtained in Episode 1) to the camp.
  
  Of course, the path is not enemy-free, and you are back once again to battle headcrabs, zombies, 
 antlions and striders. Three new additions to the enemy field include an acid-spitting antlion, 
 which is not only annoying but also difficult to kill because it attacks from afar and it is deadly; 
 a glow-in-the-dark Guardian (you only encounter one of them) and finally the Hunter, which is the 
 highlight of the enemies. They're versatile, fast and deadly, and are remarkably intelligent at 
 pinning you down and causing a lot of frustrations.
  
  Although your journey initially begins indoors - in caves to be specific - soon you get outside 
 and spend the rest of the game in open-terrain environment. These areas of the game are truly impressive, 
 and the graphics do not slow down and show how remarkable the Source Engine is. The HDR lighting 
 is great, the water looks authentic, and the lush greenery and torn down buildings truly add to 
 the atmosphere.
  
  Unfortunately, despite all the extra things to render and the special effect, the texture are still 
 a bit muddy in parts. Hazardous areas and sewage is badly textured and has remained unchanged from 
 2004.
  
  To my surprise, enemy designs have not changes as well. Although it is understandable that Valve 
 wants to preserve the experience throughout the Episodes, killing the same zombies and headcrabs 
 at the beginning sections of each Episode has become redundant. The enemies are virtually unchanged, 
 with the same model, polygon count and behavior. In that regard, Don't expect anything different 
 when it comes to encountering enemies here. Other than the hunters, and the final section of the 
 game, the gunfights and AI are virtually unchanged and I beat the game using only the gravity gun 
 and shotgun.
  
  Which brings up another point: No new weapons have been added. In fact, your gravity gun seems 
 to have lost its superpowers from Episode 1. Again, it is understandable that the weapon selection 
 is maintained to give the illusion of continuity, but you'd expect something different from 2004 
 by now. Most of the other weapons also don't have any particular use: There is no need to use the 
 rocket launcher, grenades, bow gun and most of the other weapons, unless you really feel like it. 
 Or maybe it is because I got so used to the gameplay mechanics I can make do with only the gravity 
 gun and shotgun.
  
  On a more positive note, due to the open terrain aspect of Episode 2, fans of the vehicle scenes 
 will be please to hear that the vehicle is back in Episode 2 and it kicks butt more than ever. 
 The controls are intuitive and easy to get into, plus there is a lot of fun driving to do which 
 serves the pacing well. The pace of the game is excellent; you never get too exhausted from fighting 
 or puzzles or driving. Every section ends just before it gets too tedious, and intense fights are 
 followed by relaxed driving or a cool puzzle (which almost always involves physics) to recharge 
 your batteries.
  
  Sadly, Episode 2 also ends in yet another cliffhanger - this time even worse than the previous 
 two as it ends just after a plot twist. However, to its credit, the timing of the ending does make 
 sense. The game, although a bit longer than Episode 1, is till incredibly short, at about 4 hours. 
 It is too short of gameplay to justify one year in development. Thankfully, Valve decided to put 
 in some surprises in the package.
  
  First, the package includes the original Half Life 2 and Episode 1, so it is a great deal for those 
 who did not play the first games or would like to spend some hours on them. It also includes Team 
 Fortress 2, the long awaited sequel for Team Fortress. However I won't be reviewing it here.
  
  The highlight of the package is Portal. It is a great puzzle first person shooter that spans 
 19 different levels. The mechanics of the game are truly awesome. You are given a gun which opens 
 portals - two at a time - which you can go through one and out the other. The puzzles are always 
 based on this portal mechanic; getting out of a room, getting boxes around and disabling turrets 
 are all based on portals. The trick is that only some surfaces allow for the portals to open, which 
 makes sense.
  
  If it were only for the puzzles, Portal would be great, however, what makes it truly distinguished 
 is the computer in the background which "attempts" to give you "advice". The voice acting is hilarious 
 and so is the dark humor. The quirks in the game are numerous and will definitely gain enough fan 
 base to sport a sequel. You simply can't go wrong with Portal regardless of how you look at it, 
 and no amount of words and descriptions can say how much fun you'd have unless you experience it 
 first hand. The ending song is also the absolute best and most innovative I have heard in years.
 
  
  So overall, is Orange Box great? Yes, with Team Fortress 2 you are granted innumerable hours of 
 gameplay. Portal, while short, will definitely remain in memory more than Episode 2. The actual 
 saga, on the other hand, is becoming redundant and way too prolonged. I do not commend Valve on 
 their decision - by the time the story arch is done it will be 2008 or 2009, meaning that the Half 
 Life 2 experience has been stretched and saturated over 4-5 years.
  
  Regardless, the Orange Box is a great compilation but it would made more sense to release the compilation 
 with Episode 3; to have the whole Half Life 2 saga, as well as portal and Team Fortress 2 on one 
 disc will sure be the most prized collection in videogame history 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuckyPierre1441
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Though Half-Life 2 was released a couple years ago it still holds up as the greatest shooter ever 
 made. Yes, that's better than Halo or Bioshock. With the power of the 360 the graphics have been 
 amped all the way up and look much better than they probably did on your PC two years ago or on 
 your original xbox. The sound design is full of the small details that really matter when trying 
 to get drawn into a game, from the chatter of combine soldiers to the far off hum of enemy drop 
 ships everything sounds perfect. The combat here is always intense and just when you're getting 
 used to things the game throws some new quirk at you to keep things fresh all the way up to the 
 end. The story in HL2 is also one of its strongest features, the closest thing to a page turner 
 I've played in a long time. The subsequent episodes are definitely a fan service picking up where 
 the game left off. While both are pretty good, the first is a little less exiting than you'd expect 
 and only lasts about 3 hours. The second on the other hand ramps things right up again and leaves 
 you wanting more. The games other two diversions are really everything they're cracked up to be. 
 Portal really is a brilliant puzzler with a quirky sense of humor and I'd definitely like to see 
 more. Team Fortress 2 is just about as good as a shooter 10 years in the making (not by 3D Realms) 
 can be. While there are only six maps, they are all beautifully designed on just about every level 
 and provide for tons of variety each time you play. The class system is perfectly balanced and 
 lets even new players hold there own with the more experienced. The sole complaint I have with 
 the game is that the load times for each game are far too long, considering they each only take 
 you to a menu it's a little confusing. But this is a really very minor annoyance from and otherwise 
 outstanding game. All and all, for only $60 you're getting a metric ton of game play, all of which 
 is solid and oozing with quality. Really THE must buy game for the xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lego863
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 11:45 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2, Episode 1 and Episode 2 are enough to get console gamers who have never played Half-Life 
 2 to get this game. The console version of the game is extremely close to the PC version. Half-Life 
 2 starts with you playing as Gordon Freeman entering City 17, fighting his way through the countryside's 
 canal with an air-boat and runing over combines and ant lions on the freeway with a car. At the 
 end of Half-Life 2, you ended up destroying the entire Citadel.
  
  Episode 1 continues right after you've destroyed the Citadel, only thing is you have ended up in 
 the rubbles out of the Citadel, You and Alyx reenters the Citadel to stop the core of the Citadel 
 from Exploding and get some data from the Citadel's system. Then, both you and Alyx escaped City 
 17 with a train.
  
  Episode 2 continues right after the train derailed and crashed in the forest, both you and Alyx 
 have to fight your way to the Rebel's Base known as White Forest. When the rebels are preparing 
 to lauch a rocket to destroy the huge portal formed from the destroyed Citadel, that's when the 
 combines attack the base. That's when you have to defend the base from the combine who are trying 
 to ruin the launch of the rocket. The rocket was successfully launched and the story ends with 
 the death of Alyx's father.
  
  Overall, those three games are very fun t play with gorgeous graphics and new uses of the physics 
 engine for puzzle-solving makes the game feel fresh. Also, the game has large, open outdoor environments 
 which makes the game looks beautiful everytime you play it. The only set-back of the game is there 
 are lot's of loading screens, but you can cope with the problem after all the pros that i've mentioned.
 
  
  Next, Team Fortress 2, is the game worth the wait? Well it is, at least for the XboxLive gamers. 
 There are nothing much i can say about the game because i don't have an XboxLive account, but what 
 i can say about the game is there the visual of the game is unique and every character in the game 
 has advantages and weaknesses that makes him both fun to play and hard to master.
  
  Finally, the game called Portal. A very unique game where you use a unique gun to create portals 
 to navigate through the puzzle rooms. There are 19 rooms to solve and there is this android that 
 delivers a very hilarious dark humor you've ever seen in a game. After you've completed all the 
 19 levels, there was supposed to be cake for me, instead i almost ended up being murdered by an 
 android. The cake is a lie!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrjam0
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Orange Box Review: Half Life 2
  
  PC magazines call Half Life 2 the "best game ever made". Not quite, but it is among the very best, 
 especially in the FPS's. With console shooters dominating the market, its hard to pay attention 
 to the PC, where some of the best shooters come from. Luckily for many, who feel that the PC is 
 an "old man's platform", Valve has brought one of the most critically acclaimed first person shooters 
 of all time to your home console. 
  Half Life 2, to say the least, is a sophisticated shooter. The game takes place in the not so distant 
 future with a frighteningly realistic storyline. You play as the physicist Dr. Freeman who is a 
 famed rebel in this post modern world. The antagonist is the twisted Dr. Greenman who's goal is 
 to take away humans "instinct" and humanity. I'm not going to tell the whole story, I leave that 
 up to you. But this pretty much sets the tone of the game's characters, and environment. 
  Unlike games such as Rainbow Six, or any of Tom Clansey's shooters, HL 2 implements rich elements 
 that's rarely found in other shooters. The biggest element that stood out to me isn't the advanced 
 physics system, not the flawless voice acting, but platforming that you could only find in, well 
 platformers. Other shooters incorporate platforming into their games. But, either they don't do 
 a good job, or paths are so blatantly obvious, that it ruins the look of the environment. Finding 
 your path in HL 2 is a puzzle in itself. Your eyes have to be sharp in order to find passage to 
 make progress. 2x4's, metal sheets, concrete walls, and other pieces of the environment lay around 
 waiting for you to tread on them. 
  If you've ever heard of HL 2, you're most certain to have heard about the puzzles. Now these aren't 
 pulling levers, or rearranging piece puzzles. Physics, and the use of the famed Gravity Gun is 
 what you will use to solve these puzzles. The way that the game forces you to move the right objects 
 based on their density, weight, and size is simply ingenious. Objects in the game will have a realistic 
 reaction when used a certain way. Cardboard boxes, when thrown, wont hurt. Washing machines will. 
 Empty barrels will float, full barrels will sink. Here's an example, a few hours into the game, 
 after getting the hover craft, you will encounter a bridge sitting on a mount concrete. The problem 
 is that the bridge isn't quite high enough so that you can make it across. Looking around you'll 
 notice some metal and plastic empty barrels. Dive into the pool under the bridge, you'll find one 
 of the plastic barrels under an enclosed part of the bridge. Hmmm what does that mean? If you 
 place enough plastic barrels under the bridge, they'll float up, pushing the bridge high enough 
 so that you can jump across. 
  The use of the Gravity Gun is probably the latest ground braking innovation in shooter history. 
 This gun allows you to pick up light or heavy objects, and place or shoot them. This becomes an 
 effective weapon if low on ammo. Hurling saw disks, blades, and oils barrels is oh so satisfying 
 as you dismember, decapitate, and blow up enemies. This is also an obvious tool used to move, stack, 
 and brake obstacles that lay in your path.
  Another element of the game that is also a rarity, is the games voice acting and character animations. 
 You can mute you television, and still be able to tell the characters real time emotions on screen 
 as they twist from joy, to shock, to despair, and to anger. This game features some of the best 
 facial expressions I've ever seen. Many, many games cannot even come close to matching HL 2's voice 
 acting. And it's not just the VO, but the script is so rich with dialogue, that you really feel 
 like you're in the middle of an argument, or the characters are talking directly to you.
  Now lets move on to the actual shooting. This game isn't set in a world too far from reality, so 
 there aren't any guns that can shoot 5 projectiles at once, or fire a heavy beam the obliterates 
 the enemy. So expect the usual, pistols, machine guns, shot guns, rocket launchers, and a few others. 
 It's a decent variety to keep you interested. The enemy AI is also very well done. They will take 
 cover when you approach, throw a grenade if you're too far, flank you if there's a way, and if 
 you wait too long behind a door, they come through and shoot. The AI isn't punishing, but they 
 will keep you on your toes, and kick you r ass a few times. The same goes for the creatures. They 
 behave appropriately, and offer a decent challenge. 
  With all the praise I give to this game, it's not perfect. There are some flaws, some minor, some 
 quite major. First are the loading screens. They brake up the pace of game play, and pop up unexpectedly. 
 But these aren't just one time occurrences. Each time you enter or exit an area, the game will 
 load. So if come from an area, then immediately turn around and go back, the game needs to load. 
 Ladders are another slight issue. You will climb them a lot. It feels very awkward climbing them 
 as Freeman flies up, or down them. The problem is, sometimes you'll find yourself climbing in the 
 opposite direction, especially during dismounting. If you try jumping off ladders, you risk yourself 
 falling, sometimes to your death. Vehicle post another problem. Sometimes, you will need tight 
 and responsive controls to maneuver yourself through chaotic battles. Almost every single time 
 you reverse, you'll find yourself driving in the opposite direction. Also moving your vehicle after 
 it has stopped can give an inaccurate response, also turning it in the opposite direction. The 
 only time driving become a smooth experience it when your driving at high speeds without stopping. 
 The biggest issue I have with this game is the ally AI. Valve tries to make them smart by giving 
 them medical and ammo refueling positions, also having them say things like, "here's a med kit", 
 "remember to reload", "excuse me" (If they're in your way) or, "follow Freeman!" But some of these 
 don't quite follow. Sometimes when you're low on health, it'll take the medic forever to replenish 
 your health. Also when they're in your way and you're trying to get through, after saying "excuse 
 me", they won't always move out of your way, which it very frustrating especially while carrying 
 four squad mates. On the note of "follow Freeman" much later on in the game, you will be able to 
 control squads. "Control" is a bit of an overstatement. "Giving limited suggestions" is more fitting. 
 The only control you have over the squads are via the select button. Point in a direction, and 
 hit select to send them there (when they listen) . Tap the button twice to have them follow you. 
 The control is very limited and sometimes impossible when they don't listen to you. The worst experience 
 I had with that is in one of the later levels, where you have to enter a plaza. Inside the plaza 
 was a murderous security system that you had to avoid. In one part, you had to take cover in a 
 few protected areas. After entering an area, my squad came in and completely trapped me in. So, 
 I ordered them to walk over to another spot. All except one moved. No matter how many times I told 
 her to move, she wouldn't budge. So, I threw a grenade at her (don't worry, they're more than expendable) , 
 still nothing. Then I threw another one, and it killed us both. Terrible. I haven't played much 
 squad based shooters in my time, but controls aside, HL 2 has some of the most idiotic ally AI 
 I have ever seen. The main problem is that they will run into the line of fire, often ignoring 
 your orders and ALWAYS getting themselves killed. My advice, don't bother paying any attention 
 to them, you'll get new ones.
  These flaws, though present, are minor. Half Life 2 is a must have for shooter fans, and even non 
 shooter fans alike. This game offers up an epic experience that will run you at least 14 hours, 
 which is quite lengthy for a shooter. After this, do move on to episodes One, and Two. And episode 
 Three is already in the works. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 200166
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Well lets start out by saying that this game is tottally worth the price you will pay for it and 
 worth your time to check it out but maybe not if you had already played half life 2 and the episodes 
 Half life 2 is a great game and has many enviormently puzzles and the gravity gun has to be one 
 of the most creative weapons ever put in a video game while the game is fun it also can cause some 
 challenge with people who havent been playing other fps but still fun to play Portal is a fun and 
 challenging first person puzzle game that has many levels that will problay keep you scrathing 
 your head on where to go or what to go through Team fortress is a intersting multiplayer experience 
 that is nothing amazing and wont find yourself enjoying as much as some of the other online games 
 out there but is a nice soild multiplayer with various classes that will keep you intersted with 
 it for the time you play it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zekere
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 4:32 am PT
Review:  I never had the chance to play a Half-Life game before . However, I saw Half Life 2 running on 
 my brother's PC a few years ago . I remember being quite impressed . Not the shiny graphics or 
 action drew my attention, but the amount of fun my brother had with using a certain weapon (more 
 of that later) and solving well created puzzles .
  With those memories in mind I gladly picked off a copy of The Orange Box from the shelves in my 
 favorite games store . 
  When I first started the game, I felt a little weird . Without any Half-life experience, I decided 
 to start with the main game first . Right at the start, I didn't understand a thing about what 
 the hell was going on, as you wake up into a moving train that arrives at a big station in what 
 seems like an Eastern European city . There are weird guys walking around telling you what to do 
 and without any means to defend yourself, you suddenly realize what is going on . Earth has been 
 invaded by extra terrestal forces known as the Combine and humanity didn't stand a chance . It 
 doesn't take long before these Combine soldiers turn against you and what happens next is a game 
 experience that I missed for a long time . Half-Life 2 has to be played to be believed . Apart 
 from graphics that are a little dated (although still very good, especially the facial animations) 
 this game has everything, ranging from creepy cellars to wide open marshes, enemy filled outposts, 
 long deserted villages, and much, much more . The game design is perfect, although some parts seem 
 a little too long and can become a little tedious . Add to that enemies that give you the creeps 
 (alien creatures, robots and a combination of both) and a storyline that draws you in and you have 
 the ingredients that make a classic . 
  However, Half life 2 is even more than all this . All levels are filled with complex puzzles that 
 really need your brains to be solved . In later levels you need a cool tool to solve some of them 
 called the Gravity Gun . This is the weapon I mentioned in the beginning of my review . With the 
 gravity gun, you can draw in equipment both small and big, and use it to attack enemies, or stash 
 it up to make a stairs of some kind . It can also be used to open gates, break barricades and build 
 bridges to otherwise unreachable areas . Heck, you can play most parts of the game with using only 
 the gravity gun !!
  Main reason this gravity gun is such a cool gameplay mechanic are the game's incredible physics 
 . Gravity is as in real life . That means that Gordon Freeman (your character) jumps pathetically 
 low , that a car weights a ton and that standing on a floating platform makes it sink . Gravity 
 plays a main role in Half-Life 2 . 
  One thing that some players will dislike is the fact that the environments can feel a little empty 
 . In some areas you can drive or walk around for a long time without encountering any form of life 
 , both friendly and hostile . In my opinion, this adds to the atmosphere and the storyline that 
 Earth is being robbed of its natural recources and its inhabitants are simply left to starve . 
 
  I already mentioned the game's graphics . They are not as bright anymore as they did two years 
 ago, but still manage to impress . Soundwise, Half-life 2 scores 10/10 , although most of the time 
 there isn't any music at all . 
  
  Now, with a ton written about Half-Life 2, how about the other 4 games ? Episode 1 takes off right 
 where the main game stopped and the biggest difference are the graphics . Gone are the ugly draw 
 distances and the lighning effects are much more dynamic . Now people have been complaining that 
 Episode 1 is much more linear and boring than the main game . For all of those people, I strongly 
 recommend to go for the "one free bullet" achievement , where you have to play the entire Episode 
 1 game with only the gravity gun, rocket launcher, grenades and crowbar . 
  There I mention it . Achievements . The Orange Box has the best set of achievements I've come across 
 in any Xbox360 game (yeah, it even beats Dead Rising for my part) . It encourages you to play certain 
 parts of the game in exiting ways . Also, the game has a ridiculous amount of achievements to achieve 
 (99 in total) with some of them quite engaging . I found Episode 1 as interesting as Half Life 
 2 . The only minor things are the fact that it is much shorter than the main game, the game has 
 the same weapons as the main game and you've got a compagnon through most of the game that is in 
 constant chatter with you (Oh my God, did you just see that !!-meaning on the scripted event behind 
 the corner) . Finally, yes, Episode 1 is quite linear although in my opinion the main game was 
 too . 
  
  Episode 2 is a new part in the trilogy of episodes . The graphics are tuned again but can't compete 
 with today's standards set by COD4 and Bioshock . Weird enough, it actually doesn't matter . When 
 you've played the previous games before, you're glad with the subtle changes graphic-wise . Valve 
 also noticed the critics on Episode 1, as the game isn't as linear anymore as part 1, and has a 
 brand new thing going on in the finale (no spoiler here) . Again, it's a little painful to recollect 
 the same weapons again, but the biggest achievement Valve has achieved with Episode 2 is the fact 
 they keep things fresh and original, even after all that much Half-Life you've played before . 
 They just keep on coming with original events and twists to keep the story and gameplay interesting 
 . 
  
  I wonder how Valve will continue the saga with Episode 3 . I also wonder how Valve will present 
 Episode 3 and when . To keep things fresh, they can't wait that long because of the engine . My 
 bet is a downloadable version . 
  Anyway, when all Half-Life is over, there's still much more to do with the Orange Box . First comes 
 Portal, a puzzle game where you have to shoot portals in order to get to unreachable locations 
 . Basically, it's like shooting a hole in the ground, then shooting another hole in the ceiling, 
 and then hop, you jump into the ground and come out of the ceiling . But there's more . When you 
 jump into a portal, you come out of the next with the same velocity you went through . So when 
 falling down for a long time before entering the portal, you will fly out of the other one with 
 high speed . 
  When first playing Portal, it will seem a little easy and you'll think it will be over quite soon 
 . However, the later levels are longer and require all your brain cells to solve quite fiendish 
 puzzles . 
  Portal has an incredible Final that really rewards you for playing the rather short experience 
 . Also, when you've played Half-Life before it, the whole Aperture Science thing becomes much more 
 dynamic, because you know what it is all about (well, sort or less) . And there's the advanced 
 mode and challenges to achieve after completing the main game . 
  
  Number five in the Orange Box is Team Fortress 2, the team-based multiplayer-only experience where 
 you choose a class and play a preset game type on a preset map . There's not that many maps or 
 modes, but the experience is quite fun and changes completely depending on which character you 
 play . The graphic style is unique and reminds me a bit of the game "XIII" . It has some little 
 lag problems and the problem that many players are opting for Halo3 and COD4 nowadays for multiplayer 
 . But it is still a great game and will find its own fanbase . 
  
  Final conclusion ? This is my biggest review ever written for gamespot but the Orange Box is also 
 the biggest game value you'll ever get for 60 quid . HalfLife 2 is nothing less than perfect , 
 the two episode games bring more of the same with their own strengths and weaknesses . Portal is 
 great and team Fortress is a nice distraction from the serious other games . 
  2007 has been a great year for gaming, and especially for XBOX360 . It will be difficult to decide 
 a game of the year this year . In my opinion, The Orange Box is definetely a serious contender 
 !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nificant
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  I love forcing people to play Portal. I like watching when the light bulb goes off and they "get 
 it". Everyone I've forced to play it absolutely loved it. But, there's much more to The Orange 
 Box besides the charm of GLaDOS. 
  
  I've never played Half Life before purchasing The Orange Box. By the time I finished Episode Two, 
 I felt like slapping myself for missing out on such an amazing ride. Now I need to go back and 
 play Half Life 1. If you're one of the few like me who have missed out on this amazing game, you 
 really owe it to yourself to check it out. Sure, there's parts in Half Life 2 where I felt the 
 game was dragging along (vehicle sequences) , and Episode 1 isn't as fun as the others, but overall 
 all three are amazing games. A video game has never made me care about its cast and story like 
 Half Life 2 and its episodes have. Great story, action, sound, and overall great experience. I 
 can't wait for episode Three!
  
  Team Fortress 2 is a really fun multiplayer FPS. The first thing you will notice about it is just 
 how different it is from everything else out there. The artwork and playful character classes really 
 stand out from anything I've played before (though I'm not exactly a mutliplayer FPS veteran) . 
 The classes and gametypes are all balanced really well. I wish there were more maps, and the speed 
 of the game is a little too fast for my liking, but those are just my problems with it. I'm sure 
 others don't have a gripe about the game speed. 
  
  Portal was my favorite of all the games in The Orange Box. It's incredibly fun, innovative, and 
 hilarious. It's just one of those games you have to play to understand just how amazing it is. 
 I think I've beaten it about 30 times now. The only complaint I have about Portal is how short 
 it is. It can be easily beat in about 2 hours or so on your first playthrough. At least there are 
 advanced maps and challenges to keep you going. Not to mention the fact that I can play through 
 it over and over without getting tired of it.
  
  All-in-all, The Orange Box is just too good a deal to pass up. This game needs to be a part of 
 everyone's collection, period.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakesp
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  Obviously with me only getting this at Christmas (yesterday) I've only played it for a few hours 
 but wow is all I can say. I played on portal for the longest cos its just so immersing. I spent 
 hours shooting portals at walls and still haven; t got anywhere near to completing it. Most of the 
 mag reviews there are say there's something inside you'll like but I haven't found anything I don't 
 like. 2Fort is amazing. Its only amazing obviously if you have XBL and if you don't then why the 
 hell not you're missing out on an amazing game. I still haven't tried HL2 ep1 & ep2 but thats cos 
 I haven't really played on HL2 but what I have played of it rocks. The graphics are amazing considering 
 it's an Xbox game unless valve updated the graphics. I'm ashamed that I've never played this before 
 and if you haven't then you should be too! If you haven't thought about buying this then your stupid 
 cos there's 3-5 games that you've never played before and that is brilliant for 40 quid 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrbnuts
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  Mr Bnuts is back up in your brain for a post Xmas Orange Box review.
  
  A GIANT MAZEL-TOF to all you who secured a copy of the Orange Box over coal from Senor Claus at 
 the Christmas!!!!! This game has to be the biggest steal of the year. You get 3 games for the price 
 of 1 AND all three are solid.
  
  Here is a breakdown of what is in the box:
  1. Half-Life 2 (this is really 3 games in itself; HalfLife2, Episode 1, and Episode 2)
  2. Portals
 
  3. Team Fortress2
  
  Half Life 2 etc.
  
  This game gets the not so coveted "Zach Randolf Mr Average Award". This award goes to a solid performer 
 (a 20/10 guy like Zach) who does sooooooo much work, but for some reason is just lost in the mix. 
 This is a great game, but to me it falls behind (nh) Portals and Team Fortress 2.
  
  I never played any games in the Half Life series, but had heard nothing but good things. So far 
 I have only played HalfLife 2 which apparently was released on Xbox in 2004???? It is confusing 
 to me how this works, but apparently episode 1 and 2 are the new games? In any case I give the 
 thumbs up to what I have seen so far. I do agree with other reviewers that the vehicle scenes where 
 you are escaping from City 17 are entirely too long. They could have cut that in half. One thing 
 I noticed about Half Life that makes it different from other FPS games is that rather than the 
 AI leading you through the entire game you frequently hit a "wall" where you have to figure out 
 what to do before proceeding. Often this is something tricky like having to find a hidden room 
 or object. It can be frustrating if you are more into games like COD4 where you can just blast 
 your way through the game.
  
  Portals
  
  Portals  This game gets the coveted "Neil Rackers Award". This award goes to the game that comes 
 the most out of nowhere and absolutely kicks a$$. 
  
  (allen Iverson practice speech tone) Portals????? Portals????? We talking about Portals! Not the 
 game.. not the game that you and I love, but PORTALS!!!!
  
  Portals is the equivalent of a chick flick you watch with your girl, enjoy and cant admit to your 
 boys. What kind of game is this you ask?????? No MURDER? No scoring points? No time to trash talk??? 
 BUT it is a great game! Some would argue the best game on the disk. (But not me)
  
  Team Fortress 2
  
  MrBnuts gives this one the coveted "King James GOAT award". This award goes 
 to the hands down "bombest" game on the disk. In fact I will so far to call this game MY FAVORITE 
 ONLINE XBOX GAME EVER!!!!! Better than Halo, Better than Ghost Recon, Better than COD4!!!!!!! A 
 4 STAR LOCK PICK. The John Anthony pick!!!! (Two for the Money reference)
  
  Let me tell you about it. If you don't know, now you know Suckaz!!!!!
  
  The game is a standard 
 capture the flag type game. There are two teams and the object is to either capture the other teams 
 intelligence (the flag) and return it to your base or control their base.
  
  The coolest thing is that there are about 12 different character types you can be while playing 
 & you can switch between those classes when you respawn.
  
  My favorite is the Engineer. This guy has the ability to build machine guns, health recharging 
 meters, and portals where you enter on one side of the map and emerge on the other. The challenge 
 is that the enemy will always be trying to destroy the things you build, so you have to keep collecting 
 scrap metal to maintain and upgrade your machines. I like when you get credit for kills that your 
 machine guns get while you are not even around. I like building things my teammates can benefit 
 from.
  
  Another MrBnuts favorite is the spy. You actually disguise yourself in the other teams uniform. 
 Then you run to the other side and destroy the other teams engineer built machines and stab people 
 in the back. I love when people on the other team think you are with them. Sometimes I pretend 
 like I am defending with them and then stab everyone in the back, destroy their machines and TAKE 
 THEIR MONEY AND THEIR GIRL!!!!
  
  There is also a scout who cant take much damage but is sooooo much faster than the other characters. 
 All Day AP BABY!!! I like to use the scout, sprint to the other side and start chaos. I usually 
 use the bat and beat people down - Queens style.
  
  There is a medic that can heal other characters. DoA or H-you have to be the heavy machine gunner 
 and let me roll with you. I will be the medic and just keep healing you while you gun people down. 
 (nh)
  
  There is a pyro who carries the flame thrower, a solider with a rocket launcher, and a few other 
 characters. 
  
  GAME OF THE YEAR!!!
  
  THE ORANGE BOX IS A MUST BUY. 3 GAMES IN ONE, THAT IS CALLED VALUE KIDZ!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hongkingkong
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  This game actually contains 5 seperate games in their own right, 200 acheivement points per game...
 
  
  First game: Half Life 2. Played Half Life 1? No worries, it seems Half Life 2 has very little to 
 do with it when you begin your journey battling against fascist supressive evil dudes called the 
 "Combine". Protagonist Gordan Freeman (not Morgan Freeman by the way) is awoken by the Gman to 
 do a 'job' for him. You battle through intense levels of supreme graphical quality, despite being 
 a 3 year old game. Developers valve made all the characters you interact with seem real, real not 
 in a corny gimmick way that you see demos of people with facial animations technology, you just 
 get fooled into believing the characters are genuinely real at times and you really become attached 
 to them. Its a great shooter also, with officially the coolest gun in gaming the "gravity gun" 
 or "zero point energy field manipulator "if you must. Solid from start to finish, all i can say 
 is you have to try this game you will not regret it.
  
  2nd game: Half Life 2 Episode 1- HL2 ends on a cliffhanger, but you need not suffer this peril when 
 you quickly swap to this additional episode in the saga innstatntly. A shorter affair than HL2 
 but infinately more rapid, thrilling and revealling than the first one. HL2 was good, but this 
 one takes the biscuit.
  
  3rd game: Half Life 2 Episode 2- unfortunately after these rollercoaster ride of a game you'll have 
 to wait until Episode 3 comes out to see what happens after this brilliant ending. I said Episode 
 1 was better, i lied, it just gets better and better. Hours of fun and replay value just like the 
 other two.
  
  4th game: Portal- This game is wrong, how is it so fun? The kind of puzzles in this game are found 
 in christmas crackers and newspapers, but the short attention span of a gamer manages to find this 
 game... AWESOME. To start with you're given a portal gun that lets you shoot doorways, you go in 
 one and out the other, that way you meeander across arena style obstacle courses with the power 
 of your noggin. Sounds lame to some, but it works, you will not put this game down. Its brilliantly 
 balanced to make you think, but also it doesn't isolated the puzzle-challenged majority. Also, 
 somehow, the game is actually hilarious. The things the machinery around you say is utterly side-splitting, 
 but i'll let you be the judge of that.
  
  5th game: team fortress 2- sequel to a game that looks nothing like it, 9 years in the making it 
 finally graces xbox live. Its a cell-shaded first person online only shooter that encourages team 
 cooperation by the most perfectly balanced class system in a game to date. Its worth the money 
 just for the hilarious moments this game creates. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nomadknightz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  Valve Software is known for its quality games and long delays, although the former can certainly 
 be said to outweigh the latter in the final tally. The Orange Box collects some of their best work 
 yet, including full versions of Half-Life 2, Half-Life 2: Episode 1, Half-Life 2: Episode 2, Portal, 
 and Team Fortress 2. Even if you've already experienced Gordon Freeman's adventures on Combine-dominated 
 Earth, The Orange Box brings enough to the table to satisfy just about any gamer.
  Half-Life 2 and Half-Life 2: Episode 1 are the only retreads in the Box. For console gamers who 
 have never played Half-Life 2, this alone makes the game a must-buy. Half-Life 2 follows the adventures 
 of silent theoretical physicist turned freedom fighter Gordon Freeman, who single-handedly inspires 
 the human race to revolt against alien overlords known as the Combine. A long and twisting narrative 
 sees Gordon navigating the streets of City 17, buzzing along the countryside's canals on a fanboat, 
 rumbling along crumbling freeways in a dune buggy, bisecting headcrab zombies with giant saw blades, 
 battling giant alien walkers, and generally fighting for his life in innumerable unlikely situations.
 
  
  While the FPS genre has evolved much in the three years since Half-Life 2's release, Gordon can 
 still swing a crowbar and sling a gravity gun with the best of them. The console version of the 
 game is extremely close to the PC edition, although some control concessions are made in certain 
 areas. The fanboat's gun auto-targets now, for instance, and the lighting is much brighter to allow 
 you to see enemies sooner due to the slower aiming speed of an analog stick as compared to a mouse. 
 There is an option to change the display to "PC Monitor," which restores the darker, richer tones 
 of the PC version, but it can be more difficult to play.
  
  Episode 1 continues the story, beginning a three-part arc of episodic content that starts out very 
 strong and left PC gamers on the edge of a cliffhanger for a year. Valve's lighting and physics 
 work improves noticeably between the original game and Episode 1. Indeed, one of the coolest elements 
 of The Orange Box is watching the Source engine evolve from game to game.
  
  The Orange Box (finally) delivers Episode 2, picking up where Episode 1 left off. Despite a slow 
 start in which Gordon starts out weaponless (again) , slogging through constricted antlion caves, 
 most of Episode 2 takes place in large, open outdoor environments, addressing the criticism that 
 too much of Half-Life 2 confines you to corridor shooting. Tremendous setpiece moments and new 
 uses of the physics engine for puzzle-solving makes the game feel fresh, despite being the third 
 part of an ongoing plotline.
  
  Finally there is Portal, an odd little game that nobody really paid a whole lot of attention to 
 in light of the Half-Life episodes and the long-awaited Team Fortress 2. But once you fire up Portal, 
 you'll be hard-pressed to put it down again. Portal documents your adventures as an android in 
 the Aperture Science testing chambers, using a gun that can create extra-spatial portals to navigate 
 fiendishly complex puzzle rooms.
  
  It sounds simple, and in concept, it is. But you can do so much with the portals using the physics 
 and construction of the game's levels that there's almost an endless number of ways to play around 
 with your reality-bending toy. When the story is done, you can go back and try advanced versions 
 of six of the game's levels, and only the absolute best of the best players will succeed at scoring 
 gold medals on them.
  
  It's hard to think of a game on the shelves that provides more bang for the buck than The Orange 
 Box. For $60, you get one of the best games ever made along with its episodic sequels, a top-tier 
 multiplayer game, and a brilliant little puzzler with some of the best writing in the medium. There's 
 really no reason not to own it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infinite_venom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 3:30 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box is great and totally fun. For Half-Life 2, Episode one, and episode two, portal, 
 and team fortress, they're all great and fun. People though who already played HL2 and HL2 Episode 
 one may find those games in the Orange Box either less appealing or exciting . Half-Life 2 has 
 the best graphics of all the five games though Portal and Team Fortress 2 has also nice graphics. 
 There are a few ocational hitches on the games graphics though they're rare. The frame rate is 
 occationally smooth though it may slow down at times especially on HL2, Episode 1, and Episode 
 2. The sounds and musics of the game are great. Again, you get to hear most of it in Half-Life 
 2 though Portal and TF2 has also nice sounds and music.
  
  Both the Xbox 360 and PC versions of the game (which I have) doesn't have any differences. The 
 only difference is The Orange Box performance is better on the PC if your computer can completely 
 handle it.
  
  There's certainly five great games on the Orange Box. Each are both fun and amazing. Overall, The 
 Orange Box is completely great pack of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrMC7992
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Okay, there was this little FPS that came out way back in 2004. It was called Half Life 2; you 
 might have heard of it. If you have you know what to expect in this insane deal in the history 
 of gaming. The Orange Box comes packed witch 5, all which are basically full length games, for 
 the price of one. Yes, you could get more games for this price, but not these games. The games 
 are incredible. I guess I'll go over each game individually.
  ****WARNING THIS MIGHT BE A LONG READ BUT I'LL KEEP IT SPOILER FREE****
  
  Half Life 2:
  
 Considered to many as the best FPS of all time, Half Life 2 is gunna deliver. To go through the 
 game, you gotta use it's awesome physics engine. Basically, anything that makes sense to you, you 
 can do in the game. Most FPS's just make the environment destructible. Half Life 2 does this, and 
 allows interaction with almost everything in the game, especially the help with your gravity gun 
 that can pick up objects and send them flying. Use it to pick up a buzz saw and launch it at an 
 unfortunate zombie to cut him in half. Tell me that doesn't sound fun... The puzzles in this game 
 are incredible. The action, the same. The story, even better. Overall, a sick ass game. 
  
  Half Life 2 Episode 1 and Episode 2:
  These two games are sequels to Half Life 2. I really don't 
 need to say anything about these. Their just as great as Half Life 2. However, if you really want 
 a review on this then...
  Considered to many as the best FPS's of all time, these sequels to Half Life 2 are gunna deliver. 
 To go through the games, you gotta use their awesome physics engine. Basically, anything that makes 
 sense to you, you can do in these games. Most FPS's just make the environment destructible. Half 
 Life 2 Ep. 1 and 2 do this, and allow interaction with almost everything in the game, especially 
 the help with your gravity gun that can pick up objects and send them flying. Use it to pick up 
 a buzz saw and launch it at an unfortunate zombie to cut him in half. Tell me that doesn't sound 
 fun... The puzzles in these games are incredible. The action, the same. The story, even better. 
 Overall, some sick ass games. 
  
  Portal:
  This is a trippy puzzle, FPS. Yes, that sounds awesome; and it is. Portal's instructions are simple, 
 get to the next area. The twist: you get to make these 2 ovular shaped figures, portals. You get 
 a gun that makes these. They are just little doorways that are connected to each other. If you 
 walk through the blue portal, you'll come out the orange one, and vice versa. Simple as that. So 
 the levels are incredibly complex but here would be one of the more basic ones. There are 2 doors, 
 with a wall in between them. The wall has a hole in it, but it's not big enough to squeeze through. 
 The one door is where you came from, the other is where you want to go. You shoot a portal in the 
 wall next to you and through the hole shoot one by the exit. You walk through the portal and, bam, 
 you are by the exit. 
  
  Team Fortress 2:
  Maybe you are a little worried that after you beat 4 complete and awesome games that you won't 
 have anything to replay and you'll have wasted your $60. If that's the case, Team Fortress 2 is 
 your reason to come back. An awesome class based, multi-player FPS is what it is. It's just fun. 
 That's all I've got to say. Well, I guess I can go over the classes.
  Scout: Fast as hell and equipped with a sawed off, a pistol, and a baseball bat... awesome.
  Soldier: 
 A dude with a rocket launcher that can use it to "rocket jump" to crazy heights.
  Pyro: A psychopath with a flamethrower.
  Demoman: Grenades and mines. Oh yeah, he also smacks 
 people with bottles of whiskey.
  Heavy: A huge guy with a minigun.
  Engineer: A dude who builds crap. Sentry guns that shoot bullets and rockets, teleporters, and 
 dispensers that help your team with life and ammunition.
  Medic: A crazy guy with a saw and a needle gun. His main gun heals teammates, and you can make 
 them and you invincible for a period of time.
  Sniper: A sniper. He's got a sniper rifle. Obviously the least creative but at least he's got a 
 machine gun and a machete also.0
  Spy: Use him to disguise yourself as the enemy and stab them in the back. Go invisible, and sap 
 all the energy from whatever the engineer makes also.
  
  Okay, I guess it's time to review "The Orange Box." I don't feel like writing much more though... 
 Honestly, just buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stone1992
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of Half-Life games, way back to black mesa. So when this was released i 
 bought it the first day it came out. I can honestly say that it was well worth it even, at full 
 price. 
  
  Playing Half-Life 2 again brought back good times, with polished graphics and achievements introduced 
 it felt better than it did first time round. Playing through Ravenholm without bullets was the 
 best part. and the scariest. 
  
  Episode 1 of Half-Life 2 is where i felt the game could have been extended. 
  I finished that 
 chapter within 3 hours of gameplay and whilst playing through the 3 storys of Gordon Freeman this 
 one will come across as being the weakest. 
  
  Episode 2 takes you out of City 17 and into the Foresty environment, allowing you to explore a 
 new place outside of the city walls. 
  
  portal was amazing, if not short. the gameplay isnt like any ive played before and its well worth 
 a try
  
  alongside team fortress 2, a great multiplayer game based on teamwork. where you can use a variety 
 of characters each with thier own unique skill
  
  All in all a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: milroybro13
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Wow.... those are the words I have after playing through a good portion of each of the 5 games! 
 While I am not going to sit here and talk about each game because IGN's review is spot on in nearly 
 every way, I just wanted to talk a little about the game in general.
  
  This game is hands down the best bang for your buck on the market. While the overall episodes and 
 single player don't have too much replay value the TF multiplayer game is an extremely fun game.
 
  
  For the presentation part of this game it is very simple to understand. The menus and layouts are 
 clean and the overall feel of the game is top-notched.
  
  Graphically the overall game varies. HL2 is ok at best since it is for the most part a direct port 
 from the Xbox with some minor upgrades in texture and what not. But moving into Episode 1, you 
 start to get the sense of more and more detail to things. And finally moving into the 2nd episode 
 you really get an idea of how incredible the graphics are. The face animations are some of the 
 best that i have ever seen on a game in my life. Episode 2 is an absolute blast is the best of 
 the first 4 games on a whole (exluding Team Fortress 2) . Graphically 2 is one of the better looking 
 games on the 360. The lighting effects and textures are extremely fine tuned and detailed up the 
 you know what. TF2 is one of the more comical looking games graphically i have ever played. It's 
 cartoony yet blood and guts still fly everywhere. Technically and graphically its a fun and welcome 
 idea of graphical genious.
  
  There really isn't too much to say about sound other then the fact that it is extremely well done 
 and sounds great in 5.1 surround!
  
  Gameplay is the meat to this game and it delivers in all 5 games. Most games struggle with gameplay 
 in a sense that it usually is what makes a game suck or not do well. But all 5 deliver in a fantastic 
 and unisys type of way.
  
  This game will last you a long time with the multiplayer. The actual episodes and portal games 
 will last you a while but other then episode 2 I don't see a terrible amount of replay value.
 
  
  Overall "The Orange Box" is a fantastic bundle of games and is a must have for almost every Xbox360 
 first person shooter fan. This game delivers where it counts and is the best deal on the market 
 in video games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box is compilation of five games. Three of the games are composed of Half Life 2, Half 
 Life 2: Episode One, and Half Life 2: Episode Two. The other two games are portal and Team Fortress. 
 This review will exclude Team Fortress due to the lack on-line support. 
  
  Let's start with Half Life 2. Released on the PC four years ago, this game remains as one of the 
 premier games of the first person shooter genre. The source engine looks great on the XBOX 360, 
 and the Havok physics engine makes Sir Isaac Newton weep in his grave. Of course, the game has 
 aged over the years, and it does have a few flaws.
  
  One of the major draw backs of this port is the load times. The load times are constant, and they're 
 long enough to be annoying. They occur too frequently for a stream less experience. It can be over 
 looked, but it can't go unnoticed.
  
  Another drawback would be the physics engine. It doesn't render as well as it did on the PC. Items 
 seem to lose weight once in picked up. Again, this can be overlooked, but when a game that's renounced 
 for physics has such a noticeable flaw, it can't go unmentioned.
  
  Episodes One and Two simply add icing to the cake. Both continue the tale of the Freemans journey. 
 This time though, he's aided by Alyx Vance throughout. She's a hot companion to have around, and 
 she kicks a lot of but. Having these two only compliment Half Life 2 for the truly amazing game 
 that it is. 
  
  The overall design of Half Life 2 and the expansion packs is a marvel. While this technology is 
 old, gamers who never got the chance to experience can truly enjoy it on their home consoles. Playing 
 Half Life 2 is an experience that every shooter fan should have. While the style maybe old school, 
 it feels fresh to have such a long and compelling single player story to watch unfold.
  
  The best part of The Orange Box is Portal. Portal is a first person puzzle game. It takes gravity, 
 velocity, momentum, and other factors into play. You'll have several levels to complete with a 
 portal gun that allows you to create portals. You can have two portals at any given time. One is 
 an entrance portal, and one is an exit portal. You'll have to place them through various parts 
 of maps to progress. It's humorous, fun, and could've sold as a standalone game. 
  
  Overall, The Orange Box is the best deal you can get this year. For the price of one game, you 
 get five. Three of them total up to 30 plus hours of game play and portal can tack on another six 
 to eight. They each have high replay value, as the re-experience can be extremely memorable. The 
 Orange Box is a must have for any game collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box combines 5 great games into one package that will blow your mind. Half life 2, HL2 
 ep 1/2, Portal, Team Fortress2. The half life games are almost a must play for any shooter fan 
 si its awsome that they are available for the console gamers now. Half life 2 is in the same form 
 as it came out years ago with hardly any things added or takin away. Ep 1/2 are more modernized 
 but still there remains an obvious graphical difference between HL2 and Ep 1/2. This aside, the 
 half life games are amazing. The story is engaging and dramatic as you see the characters not as 
 pixel created people but people stuck in horrible situations that need your help. There is a wide 
 variety of sweet weapons at your disposal and the enemy's are very unique. you will fight everything 
 from Combine soldiers to jumping bugs and zombies. You will be driving lots of vehicles in the 
 HL games but they feel very authentic as you are bumping and crashing all over the place. Besides 
 the HL games there is team fortress 2 and Portal. Portal is a puzzle game developed by Valve. Portal 
 can be described in one word is FUNNY!. Valve's humor makes u laugh all the way through the game. 
 The game itself is very fun and unique. no other game has the kind of gameplay portal has. I dont 
 want to give anything away because its the kind of game u have to trty yourself to get the concepts. 
 The Multiplayer aspect of the orange box is Team Fortress 2. This game is one hell of a lot of 
 fun. TF2 is a class based 1st person shooter. you have 9 classes to chose from each very different 
 from the other. There are 6 maps which is the only downside to TF2. The graphics and very cartoony 
 which adds to the awsomeness and the humor of the game.
  
  Conclusion: Great bargain with amazing games. Pick this one up of u are interested in anything related 
 to Gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pugsy44
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  This Game is probably the best gaming deal ever, I mean 5 games for 60$? Didn't think you'd see 
 that happen, didja? But the thing is.... the games are GOOD! The Orange Box contains Half Life 
 2, Half Life 2 Episode 1, Half Life 2 Episode 2, a new puzzle game called Portal, and Team Fortress 
 2, a VERY addictive Online Multiplayer Game (You can play system link too) . Half Life 2 is the 
 very same Half Life 2, and Episode 1 is the same Episode 1, but the all new Episode 2, Portal, 
 and Team Fortress 2 are the Main Attractions. Episode 2 continues the Half Life 2 story (I haven't 
 played much of Episode 2 yet) . Now.. lets get to Portal. Portal is an all new puzzle game that takes 
 place in the "Aperture Science Enrichment Center" where they are testing their all new "Portal 
 Gun", which is essentially a gun... that shoots Portals! These portals lead you through puzzles 
 and rooms. There are 19 levels in Portal, ( you can also replay it on Advanced mode where you have 
 time challenges, Portal limits, ect. and you can play it with Developer Commentary on) . The first 
 few levels introduce you to Portals and the Portal Gun (To reduce Confusion) while the last few 
 levels KILL your brain. Team Fortress 2 is a very very very very VERY addictive Multiplayer game. 
 While there is no "Deathmatch" Mode, the game focuses on Teamwork and Strategy (or lack of -_-) 
 by having designated game types (like Territories, Capture the Flag, ect.) for the maps. You can 
 be a  and a few others. Each class has a Special 
 ability, like the Scout can run fast, the mechanic can built turrets, the spy can disguise himself 
 as the other teams player, and the medic can heal people. If you have a 360 buy The Orange Box! 
 DOO IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leshatton
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  This is a great package of games, i was expecting it to retail for more than the standard 39.99, 
 so i was happy to snap it up on release day.
  The Halflife games are great, really good storylines with some good action scenes but the graphics 
 are showing their age a bit. The textures are just not up to todays standards and some of the characters 
 and scenery look a bit blocky and unfinished.
  But as all proper gamers know, a great game is a great game regardless of graphics, this is a collection 
 of the best FPS games on ANY format.
  ALSO the game called Portal is a real treat, its a totaly new type of game and i personaly found 
 it massively playable. If this game had been released on its own i recon it would have been a chart 
 topper. 
  And for all the online players theres Fortress, yet another brilliant online game, with a massive 
 community of players.
  All in all this is a fantastic package and any 360 owner worth their salt should own a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xcKUN1Txc
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  In todays world of big business and the bottom line it is nice to see a company like Valve do something 
 to really honor all of their loyal fans. The best part is it that this experience isn't restricted 
 to them alone, it's for everyone. Those who don't think that the Orange Box is in at least the 
 top three gaming deals of all-time is either A: Jack Thompson who hates games no matter what they 
 are like, or B: too rich to realize when they are getting their dollars worth. But Valve for me 
 and many other gamers you generosity doesn't go unnoticed. The Orange Box combines one of the best 
 Hollywood worthy stories in game history with Half-Life 2, but also its to expansion episodes in 
 Episodes 1 &amp; 2. This probably would have been enough to have the two episodes only and it would 
 still sell like water in Nigeria, but Valve packed in the genius Portal as well. It really could 
 be described as a videogame equivalent of Tic-Tac-Toe. Simply, easy to play and fun when ever you 
 don't have anything else to do. But Portal is also fun enough to play every day because it is so 
 smart and unlike most of todays linear shooters, actually makes you think. Finally is Team Fortress 
 2, the first was an awesome class based experience and the sequel is still good with well desighned 
 maps and a variety of balanced classes for everyone.
  But the Orange Box is not without its fauts in each of the games. With Half-Life 2 it still plays 
 the same but because of age is not the prettiest game on the block anymore. HL2: E1 is good but 
 doesn't advance the story as much as it should and is the shortest of the three HL2 games in here. 
 But HL2: E2 is the best despite suffering some predictability problems and having a weak starting 
 portion in a Antlion cave that you are dieing to get through before it even starts. Portal really 
 only suffers from being criminally short. TF2 is good but it is the packages weakest link because 
 for fans of customization you will find nearly none here.
  Overall though it is an offer that should not be passed up and experienced by all. You owe it to 
 yourselves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  FPS in recent memory have begun to crawl out of the wood works. It seems like every other week 
 a new FPS comes out that doesn't innovate in anyway yet finds a way to rip off some other popular 
 FPS. Yet, no developer has managed to capture the unbelievable pacing and in game story driven 
 aspects of Half Life and Half Life 2. This compilation doesn't just come with one of the greatest 
 FPS of all time; it also has both of its episodic content, portal: an interesting new 3D puzzle 
 that does wonders to the human psyche. Last but not least, the long awaited sequel to Team Fortress; 
 the cleverly named Team Fortress 2 the online portion of this compilation. Half-Life 2~ HL 2 has 
 two main principles in mind that play throughout the entire endeavor. The pacing is down to a science; 
 every intermission between in-game battles is never pointless or dull. Each transition is meaningful 
 and since there are no cut-scenes the immersion factor is never lost. Obviously, the second greatest 
 aspect of HL 2 is gameplay. At first, it may seem like nothing special,; there have been tons of 
 Run and Gun FPS's in the past so whats makes this game so revolutionary. It's the overall mentality; 
 though the guns are fairly standard, they are mixed in with unique weapons that stand out. Like 
 for example, the gravity gun: which uses zero point energy to lift large objects and fling them 
 towards oncoming carbines. Beside the weapons, puzzles also play a big role in HL 2s gameplay. 
 The interesting part is that most of the puzzles are physics based. So, in most games you would 
 just find a ledge or pre-build crates to advance to the next section. In HL2, you create the actual 
 stairway ogoon the fly using different materials lying around. In the end, everything about HL 
 2 is amazing: the story is complying if not at times somewhat confusing. The graphics aren't as 
 impressive as they were a couple of years ago when the source engine was originally created; but 
 they hold up to the test of time fairly well. The sound is still the best in the business; I mean 
 when you can hear ever single casing of ammunition hit the ground, music in the background, chatter 
 of different carbine soldiers and your own foot steps at the same time its pretty incredible. HL2 
 episode 1~ Half-Life 2 episode 1 doesn't really change much in the graphics and sound department. 
 In fact, the only main aspect of the game that really changes is the gameplay. The gameplay is 
 still a run and gun experience with awesome physics based puzzles; yet, instead of running off 
 on your own this time around Alyx joins you for the ride. Now, don't think for a second that this 
 is a 4 hour escort mission; it isn't, Alyx can more than hold her own in all the crazy situation 
 the two end up in. In fact quite the opposite in my mind happens; for around 4 hours Alyx single 
 handedly kicks the crap out of carbine and those weird zombie-like things. Basically, throughout 
 I'd say about 90% of this game your way under equipped, so Alyx does most of the grunt work which 
 leads me to ponder. Why does Alyx always seem to come off as some half-brained nitwit when she 
 is essentially as badass or even more badass than Gordon? Who knows but all I know is that episode 
 one was very enjoyable and really changed up the pace of things. Also there was a greater emphasis 
 on story this time around than pure gameplay. Overall, Episode one definitely gets the point across 
 and never really felt boring or worst, playing a massive escort mission. HL 2 episode 2~ Episode 
 2 is a lot like the original HL 2 than episode 1. Were episode 1 was story driven and saw Alyx 
 kick a lot of ass, this game again throws the player back as the main force of ass kickingness. 
 Beside the story elements which I don't want to ruin, everything is just as awesome as it was in 
 the original Half-Life 2. There are minor tweaks like graphics are slightly enhanced and controls 
 seemed tighter than the original but overall it's the best episodic content to come out so far. 
 Portal: This game is very unique; it is a 3D puzzle game that uses two portals to navigate treacherous 
 acid filled floors to machines that shoot on site. The game is mission based and actually has a 
 main boss which is one of the coolest bosses of recent memory in gaming. The final song that is 
 sung at the end is very memorable; thats all I'm going to say. The controls are great, the graphics 
 are fine and the sound effects are solid as well. Overall, though this game is relatively short 
 it does provide plenty of replay value and is just genuinely challenging at the end.
  
  Team Fortress 2: This game provides the much needed online component to the already amazing package. 
 The actual gameplay is completely squad based and it doesn't allow for any sole deathmatches. What 
 makes this game different is the class system. Both teams get to choose from a handful of different 
 classes. The classes are: Scout- a lightly armored soldier with a baseball bat and shotgun. He 
 is the fastest person in the game and can capture objectives faster than anyone. The scout can 
 also double jump. Solider- is a slow moving class used for spearheading offensives. He has a high 
 damage tolerance and can boost themselves to higher platforms by rocket jumping. He is equipped 
 with a rocket launcher a shotgun and can use an entrenching tool for melee attacks.
  
  Pyro- is an offensive class with average damage tolerance, equipped with a short-range flamethrower, 
 a shotgun and a fire axe. His flamethrower is one of the most powerful short range weapons in the 
 game, designed for ambushing enemies and capable of setting other players alight.
  
  Demoman - is a defensive class with average damage tolerance. Armed with a grenade launcher, a 
 remotely detonated sticky bomb launcher and a bottle of Scotch.
  
  Heavy- is physically the toughest class in the game. Armed with a minigun, a shotgun and his fists, 
 the heavy is used for both offensive power and defensive fire support.
  
  Engineer- are a lightly armored defensive class, he can build a number of structures in the game: 
 upgradeable sentry guns for defending strategic areas, dispensers to resupply the team with health 
 and ammunition and teleporters to allow quicker team mobility. He is armed with a shotgun, a pistol 
 and a wrench.
  
  Medic- are tasked with keeping other players alive. Armed with a healing medigun , a syringe-firing 
 flechette launcher and a bonesaw, medics are able to continuously regenerate a teammate's health 
 and temporarily boost it to 150%. The medigun also allows medics to make themselves and a teammate 
 invulnerable for a number of seconds after the device has been used for a specific amount of time.
 
  
  Sniper- are a support class they have low damage tolerance. He is armed with a bolt-action sniper 
 rifle, a submachine gun and a machete.
  
  Spy- is a lightly armored character that can disguise himself as other players and is armed with 
 a revolver, a butterfly knife, an electric sapper and a rechargeable cloaking device. Using their 
 covert abilities, spies are able to infiltrate enemy positions and assassinate key enemy players 
 with their knife. They can also use the sapper to sabotage enemy structures
  
  Overall, the gameplay is extremely fun if you can find a decent group of guys or girls that actually 
 play right as oppose to just running around without a strategy.
  
  Conclusion: In the end this is one of the greatest compilation of any type of games every created. 
 I would say that nothing really prepares you for the amount of content available in this package. 
 For those of you that missed the original Half-Life 2 or those that just want to re-experience 
 its glory with all the current episodic content than I highly suggest you purchase this great game!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikebuck
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Well lets start out by saying that this game is tottally worth the price you will pay for it and 
 worth your time to check it out but maybe not if you had already played half life 2 and the episodes 
 Half life 2 is a great game and has many enviormently puzzles and the gravity gun has to be one 
 of the most creative weapons ever put in a video game while the game is fun it also can cause some 
 challenge with people who havent been playing other fps but still fun to play Portal is a fun and 
 challenging first person puzzle game that has many levels that will problay keep you scrathing 
 your head on where to go or what to go through Team fortress is a intersting multiplayer experience 
 that is nothing amazing and wont find yourself enjoying as much as some of the other online games 
 out there but is a nice soild multiplayer with various classes that will keep you intersted with 
 it for the time you play it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: searoscoe
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  I. Love. This. Game. It was a Triumph. ;) Any way the games all rocked. The Graphics: Superb. The 
 Story: Involving and Intuitive. The music: Endurable. However, Episode One was lacking when compared 
 to HL2 and Episode Two. I didn't expect Portal to be what it was. I believed it to be some Mini-game 
 like tease, but it was Second only to HL2 on my rating list. The reasons? Funny. Makes you think. 
 Can be difficult, but in a fulfilling, satifing way. Oh, and the way it Ties into Episode Two, 
 Simply Prefect Story writing. I could not put it down. I've finished it TEN times. My only gripe 
 with Portal was it ended too soon. Team Fortress 2..... eh. It was okay, but it was not of the 
 same caliber as the other Games. Over all, a VERY good buy. Oh, and GLaDOS says hello. (The cake 
 is a lie.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Ok well first off the orange box comes with 5 games so I will try to keep this review not too long 
 hopefully.
  
  Half Life 2:
  Undeniably fun, this game has perfect atmosphere to have you run around and kill and playing with 
 the gravity gun. It's a classic regular shooter. Best thing in the game is that you can ride in 
 a boat, ride in a dune buggy and most greatest and unique weapon is the gravity gun. The gameplay 
 is just too fun! And the graphics especially are still pretty remarkable for 2004. And explosions, 
 sounds of bullets, sounds of battles roaring and awesome voice acting is just too extreme and real. 
 Still half life 2 I find is still remarkable for me, the story itself is gripping and makes sense 
 from the original half life. For those who haven't played half life 2, well your in for a real 
 treat. I played Half Life 2 when it first came out and I find it still one of the greatest shooters 
 but that because I played it back in 2004 so that is why its a 10 for me:) .
  SCORE: 10
  
  
  Half Life 2 Episode 1:
  So far it is the weakest out of the 5 games in the orange box because 
 it is extremely short. But hey it is still worth it. I mean I really like it, it had a great story 
 to continue from Half Life 2. The story is pretty much running with Alyx in the whole adventure 
 and trying to get out of the Citadel before it blows up. But interesting events occur so don't 
 feel bad despite the 3 hour storyline. You won't be disappointed.
  SCORE: 8.5
  
  
  Half Life 2 Episode 2:
  Very awesome! A great addition to the orange box. Episode 2 has that 
 immersive gameplay feel like the original Half Life 2. The intense survival gameplay and the fun 
 of it. Especially the charger vehicle, its fun:) . Also the story is still as always gripping in 
 my opinion. The story line will keep you wanting more for the next Half Life games. Also there 
 are some new enemies on the way in this episode and some new characters to find. . Overall Episode 
 2 is superb, very addictive single player campaign and the great battles that come in this episode 
 once you play it. Definitly another good reason to get the orange box.
  SCORE:9.5
  
  
  Portal:
  Probably one of the most unique and hilarious games I have ever played. Portal definitly 
 breaks the cake... ha cake:) Anyway portal maybe short but it is non stop playing. Valve has made 
 a unique original genre game that have been waiting for along time. Puzzle mix with shooters is 
 a great mix my friend. But that is not only the reason that you should play this game but because 
 of the just plain fun gameplay. The portals are very fun to use, and that Portal is very funny, 
 I won't spoil some funny parts but when you hear about the cake you will know what is so funny 
 about it:) . Overall Portal is definitly a one of a kind game, it is very fun and that we will hope 
 to see more challenges in Portal.
  SCORE:9.0... cake:)
  
  Team Fortress 2:
  Back when I played the original team fortress was a bit more serious looking and fun. But man I 
 am so glad they change the look of this one, it reminds me of the movie "The Incredibles" which 
 I know a lot of people said but it truly does. Anyway the graphics are spectacular, the art style 
 of this game is top notch. The gameplay itself has improved more than the original I find. It is 
 more highly fast paced action. The multiplayer is downright great in TF 2, you get to pick which 
 class you want to be like scout, sniper, spy, heavy, pyro, engineer, demoman, soldier & medic. 
 There are all good I find, it does not matter what character you use, they are all fun. However 
 I do usually use the engineer because I am a defense kind of guy in Team Fortress usually. But 
 yet Team Fortress is undeniably fun and does have its sense of humor at times. This maybe the only 
 multiplayer game in the orange box but damn is it ever worth it!
  SCORE:9.0
  
  I hope this review was not too long and a borefest but overall the orange box is a amazing value, 
 you won't regret it. The half life games continue to have its great shooter gameplay and the fun 
 of it. Portal and TF 2 are truly amazing so go and buy the orange box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaRaRandy123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  This game seemed to me that it was gonna be a regular game to suck in money. Nope! Great! Half-Life 
 2: Episode 2 is the best Half Life game ever, Portal will MIND F* you till you get the hang of 
 it and have loads of fun, Team Fortress 2 is incredibly, incredibly addicting, and it also includes 
 two other Half-Life games! Wow! Team Fortress is simple fun and very very easy to get use to. Also 
 you can set the buttons to any buttons for your liking. You go to options and it asks you to push 
 what button you want for jump, shoot, reload, etc. Portal is very fun and a great challenge. I 
 was playing and I couldn't stop smiling when I fell from the wall back into the same room again 
 and again. lol... I played Half-Life 2: Episode 2 for 8 hours straight the day I got it! It is 
 so fun, you lose track of time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkam_Asylum
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  This sampler pack of games really raises the bar on the bang-for-buck category and does it with 
 the highest standard of games.
  
  Don't let the value proposition of the variety diminish from the fact that each of the games can 
 really stand on their own. If you were like me and have not played the Half Life 2 Series on the 
 PC, it holds up beautifully and the console acts and plays great. What's more, Portal is a game 
 that must be played to be appreciated.
  
  Half Life 2, Portal and Team Fortress 2.... nuff said.
  1 box; all value. Tons of playtime in 
 a truly groundbreaking presentation.
  
  Keep it coming Valve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sycosi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 5:28 am PT
Review:  
  Ok no mucking about on this one. I loved and love HL2 the Orange box. I have literaly nothing bad 
 to say about it! 5 games in one game for 40 all of which were completely brilliant makes it my 
 game of the year and by FAR the best game I've played on any of the next gen consoles. The story 
 is great, the gameplay engaging and enjoyable, the mechanics and design are first class, its RAMMED 
 with atmos and superb FPS fun. It took over my life for much longer than I'd have liked! Even phoned 
 in sick one day as I was up til 3am! The depth and amount of game you have to work your way thru 
 just keeps you locked in!! Portal was a really nice touch too with its puzzle come the Cube come 
 the evil twist at the end that you get drawn in by. TF2 was also excellent and has an amazing amount 
 of depth for an online only game. The characters and content in TF2 remind of a whacked out Lonny 
 Tunes for adults, so much fun if a little laggy. You have to praise the developers for giving gamer 
 fans really VFM in this greed induced market of short games and 'additional content' buy in's. 
 So well done you guys! Ok so the game is 2 years old but for us who don't know better this is an 
 essential an 07 release than other, and INFINITELY better than the hideously over hyped Halo 3. 
 If you have to buy only 1 FPS ever then TOB is essential and would cover any other FPS desires. 
 I dare anyone who likes FPS and hasn't experienced this game before to not love it, made even more 
 amazing in the over saturated world of FPS. Enough of me go and get! I'll be sure to check out 
 the delayed Ps3 version, should be interesting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bens_so_cool
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  I will start off saying that The Orange Box is simply the greatest thing to grace a console since 
 GTA: San Andreas. I have beat HL2 and the episodes 4 times already and working on number five. 
 I could go on for hours about how truly amazing and unforgettable this experience was but I will 
 get started reviewing each individual component of The Orange Box.
  
  1. Half Life 2
  Playing Half Life 2 on the Xbox 1 was really enjoyable but unfortunately suffered from and erratic 
 frame rate and OK graphics, greatly reducing my liking of the game. I unfortunately didn't have 
 the chance to play HL2 on the computer simply because i have a lame computer that can barely support 
 the original Half Life. So i was forced to get the Xbox version. Now that The Orange Box came out 
 I can fully experience HL2 graphics and all (with the exception of using a mouse and keyboard.) 
 Running through HL2 again was still extremely entertaining from mowing guards down in your wicked 
 airboat or just looking at how detailed the mysterious G-man's face is. Overall HL2 it unbelievably 
 fun in every aspect and is nothing short as one of the greatest games ever.
  
  2. HL2- Episode one
  Half life episode one was extremely new to me, again not being able to play 
 it on the PC made me even more anxious for The Orange Box. I have to agree with Gamespot, ripping 
 through this entire saga make Episode one fell sort of the weak link, but that doesn't mean that 
 it doesn't rock. This game was really, really entertaining. Overall, being more story based than 
 HL2 Episode one forces you to fall in love with the characters and truly makes the story more deeper 
 and compels you to immediately start ripping into Episode two.
  
  3. Hl2 Episode Two 
  Episode Two i thought was a bit more exiting than Episode one. This time around it was extremely 
 emotional....... beat it and you will know what I'm talking about. In Episode one you really began 
 to fall in love with the characters and that gave Valve a chance to show those characters in danger 
 which makes the game that much more intense. The ending game play was riveting, unbelievably fun 
 and challenging. I really had a blast. The new cinematic physics system they added into it Is unbelievably 
 cool. Overall Episode two is just as good as the others if not better; the only negative it waiting 
 for the final epic chapter.
  
  4. Portal 
  Hmmmmm... Where do I start? Amazing, ingenious, innovative, unique, hilarious, and so, so ridiculously 
 fun. Portal is an amazing achievement, at first it starts of a puzzle game and quickly adds humour 
 and slowly adds story. Also the graphics are awesome and GLaDos is wicked. Overall I would buy 
 portal for 60 bucks alone, even if it's like 3 hours long! 
  
  5. Team fortress 2
  TF2 it probably the funnest multiplayer I have ever played. Every single class is fun to play with 
 and then again every class is well balanced and can be conquered with another class. To be honest 
 I didn't have a lot of fun first playing TF2, but once you get used to the classes and learn how 
 to use them effectively this it easily better than halo, COD4, gears, ect. I've honestly never 
 had so much fun playing an online video game than playing TF2. And it last forever I have been 
 playing it for over 50 hours (The game adds up all you individual class time, it just added them 
 all together) and i am still going. Sure there are only six levels but that doesn't matter with 
 TF2 because of how addictive it is, hell I've played 2FORT for 3 hours straight. Also each level 
 it brilliantly designed. I do have one problem with the game...... it lags!! Quite a bit too if 
 you don't get a good connection i just hope the fix it somehow. But that doesn't stop me from playing 
 it non-stop and it doesn't stop a baggillion people from playing either. There is always people 
 playing I never need to struggle to find one... unlike some games (*cough *cough FEAR *cough *cough.) 
 Overall TF2 is so extremely fun to play, that's all you need to know.
  
  Achievements
  Wow, out of 99 achievements i have 88 that's impressive simply because this is definitely a hard 
 game to get achievements in. So when i see someone with 1000 gamer score (which I haven't yet) 
 I will be impressed (I hate the friggin gnome achievement sooooooo much, and neighbourhood watch.)
 
  I fact some of them are so hard (with friends like these, and some portal ones) that I will never 
 get them NEVER. 
  
  Overall 
  This box it so lovely time consuming that I don't know when ill will ever stop playing The Orange 
 Box. In short, get this game. So after my really long review I have one thing to say.......... buckle 
 up and "PREPARE FOR UNFORSSEN CONSEQUENCES"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knightrise
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 4:10 am PT
Review:  UNBELIEVABLE is only one word I can say because Half-Life: The Orange Box is a must play series. 
 The setting is possible what makes the game unique even though it is set in the future and a evil 
 corporation is taking over the world but its much more than that. Even if the graphics look a bit 
 dated, you look right past it because the action is non-stop. A gamer that loves first person shooters 
 or is just looking for a good deal on a new game must check this out. Half-Life 2 is possible the 
 best in the series but Episode 1 and 2 arent near as long as the first game but the story is so 
 good you will want to see what happens next. All I can say is that Episode 3 will be EPIC and change 
 the way Half-Life is going. I mean Portal and Team Fortress 2 also comes in the box. So what more 
 could you ask for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chelo91
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2007 12:04 am PT
Review:  the gameplay of half-life 2 is better than the version of xbox original the 2 expansion pack are 
 a great adition to the game story. the episode one is i little short because is only 5 hours of 
 gameplay, the episode two have more content and a new gameplay system. fortress 2 is great one to 
 but like other multiplayer online games at the first time ist a little slow to get it. a great 
 aspect of team fortress 2 is the chance to chose the class more suitable for you. portal its a 
 short game but give you more fun by playin in hard modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShaneC2000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box may just be the pinnacle of achievement in console gaming. Actually 5 games in one, 
 it includes Half-Life 2, it's subsequent Episodes One and Two, Portal, and Team Fortress 2. 
  
  Half-Life 2 is one of the most immersion, involving, innovative games I have ever played. With 
 a clever mix of run-and-gun, puzzle solving, and movie-like immersion, I found myself completely 
 drawn into the world of Gordon Freeman, and his mission to save the residents of City 17.
  
  Team Fortress 2, TOB's online component is a quirky, fun-filled shooter with a surprising amount 
 of depth. It's often difficult in team-based online games to get people to work towards a common 
 goal, but TF2 manages to make it work beautifully.
  
  But Portal is where the Orange Box truly shines. Easily the most innovative game to come along 
 in years, Portal is a First Person Puzzle game that absolutely delivers. Though shorter than everyone 
 would like, it provides a challenge unlike anything that we've seen in a long time. Portal alone 
 is worth the price of admission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trogeton
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying WOOOOW This is one of the most unique thing any company has done with 
 any game, putting all the games of one series on 1 disc.. how cool is that, and for the great price.... 
 Ive gotten soo much play time on this game up-to-date that it's crazy. There is just soo much stuff 
 to do on this game disc there is 3 different sequels and also the extra portal game.. witch I also 
 think in my opinion is one of the coolest things about the game, and the physics engine is by for 
 one of the best things I have seen on any game... the portal gun and how well thought out the physics 
 of the over all game and that gun is.... Is it just soo revolutionary is will make your head hurt.. lol 
 but My gosh anyone with a xbox360 should get this game no questions asked its just such a great 
 game, and then all the interesting achievements on it.. Its just loads of fun and you will have 
 a blast on this game there is no doubt
  
  YOU MUST GET THE ORANGE BOX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stangsaleen2000
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  Hey one of my favorite games ever finally has it's sequel out! Half-life has always been a favorite 
 of mine and I'm glad to finally be able to play it again, but not only is there the sequel there 
 now is two other games that came with it to play! 
  
  I'll just start with going over Episode 2. It started right where episode 1 ended and has a great 
 way of keeping it going. Half-life always had a great way of keeping the story flowing and always 
 keep me in the world with amazing acting (Yeah it is possible for a game to have god acting!) . The 
 game play and weapons are the same so the only complaint I have is that they need to make some 
 new weapons. This is the middle game so there is one more problem, it doesn't have a beginning 
 or an end, but the orange box comes with Half-life 2 and episode 1 so it solves for the no beginning 
 with that. What really got me in this episode was that it started to show a greater amount of story 
 than in episode 1 and really has me questioning what is going to happen in the next one. I do have 
 a problem with this episode stuff and how long they are taking to make them, but I can forgive 
 this by how they are making good quality games. They are linear but linear means good story and 
 not having to deal with dumb ass fake choices that are supposed to make you think you have the 
 option of free roam and that you can do what you want. Episode 2 just came out to be a good middle 
 sequel that keeps me wanting more in the end. 
  
  Next I played Team Fortress 2 and nothing got me into this game. It was a nice multi-player feature, 
 but it is still the same capture the flag while slaughtering people. Nothing new, but I think it 
 will be another decade before the multi-player market ever changes. There are different characters 
 to play as that have very different features, but it still is the same thing as the last game just 
 with a nice looking cartoon animation that looks like The Incredibles. 
  
  Portal was what really makes the Orange Box. The only thing old about it was the first-person view. 
 This game really pushes your mind at some points as you are forced to rethink how you travel through 
 areas in the game. It doesn't take long to finish the story line but the challenge maps and time 
 trials keep me occupied for a long time because some of them are impossible! Also this game has 
 some pretty good humor in it for how it is supposed to be just a puzzle game. Half the time you 
 are surprised with what you have to do next and you only wish the game was a hell of a lot longer 
 when you are finished with it. 
  
  The orange box keep me entertain for a while and only left me wanting more when I was finished 
 with everything inside. This game isn't the peak of the current generation of gaming and definitely 
 not it's future, it is just a good end to the last generation. Except for Portal, I hope this game 
 brings a great future to gaming. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: artiedeadat40
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  WOW is the only way to describe this game. I have played many first person shooters and was growing 
 very tired of the genre over the years. That is why I was so surprised that I found myself to be 
 so addicted to this game. The puzzles are very innovative and just plain fun. The A. I. is very 
 smart as well. The single player mode is unrivaled you will not find a better single player experience 
 in any other fps. My only complaint is that there is no Unreal style fragfest deathmatch which 
 I love. The class system in Team Fortress is fun but not what I prefer in a fps shooter multi player. 
 All around this is a great game and well worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heistenfaust
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2007 2:00 am PT
Review:  The good: 
  
  - Features one of the best games ever made
  - 5 games for the price of one
  - Meaty single-player offering, 20-25 hours on the first playthrough
 
  - Graphics are great. The textures aren't that great up close, but the style and cool effects 
 make up for it. Game keeps a steady framerate throughout
  - Sound: The soundtracks are brilliant, and the voicework is almost second to none. All the quirky 
 Half Life sound effects are back and better than ever
  - You'll want to play each game through more than once, they're that good
  - Portal is very fun 
 and innovative
  
  The bad: 
  
  - Portal is a bit short, by the end of it you'll be wanting more
  - Team Fortress 2, the multiplayer 
 aspect, is fun at first but lacks any significant depth to keep you playing for long. There are 
 only six maps.
  
  All I can say is that if you've never played Half Life 2, you must get the Orange Box. Half Life 
 2 and its episodes combine to make one of the greatest experiences you can have with a single player 
 game. Portal, while short, is also alot of fun, but Team fortress just isn't that great with games 
 like Halo 3 and COD 4 out. If you have played Half Life 2 more than once I would recommend you 
 rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RiSkyBiZ-13
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 11:57 pm PT
Review:  "The Orange Box"
  by RisKyBiZ 13
  Half-Life 2: An excellent sequel to an excellent game. The graphics are still up to par on today's 
 standards. The storyline, as with the original Half-Life, is phenomenal. The physics set a benchmark 
 in gaming. The A. I. is very good, I would always have enemies pinning me down with cover fire while 
 a team advanced on my location. The weapons are very well balanced, and the gravity gun leads to 
 a lot of interesting fun. 
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode 1: Incredibly short, but a nice addition to the former's storyline. Don't 
 expect too many revolutionary changes, but it adds even more depth to this storyline.
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode 2: Another short expansion to the original game, picking up where Episode 
 1 left off. Again, the storyline makes us realize that we really never will get enough of Gordon 
 Freeman. 
  Portal: Surprisingly, this was my favorite addition to the Orange Box. This is one of the most 
 unique puzzle games I have ever played, and it is somehow hilarious. The dialogue will get you 
 rolling, especially towards the end. It is a short game, but you can go back to the different levels 
 and set new goals for yourself. I would easily have paid $50 for this game alone.
  
  Team Fortress 2: VERY surprisingly my least favorite addition to the Orange Box. Being a Team Fortress 
 Classic fanboy myself, I have been eagerly awaiting this game's release for years, and it didn't 
 seem to deliver. The max allowable in a game is 16, this game works better with a 32 cap. The classes 
 seem- to me- horribly imbalanced. There are no more grenades (a big letdown, they added a lot more 
 strategy in Classic) so a well placed Turret will be virtually impossible to breach save for the 
 demoman or soldier. There also seems to be some lag and a few glitches where I'll be randomly disconnected. 
 Despite these flaws I still find myself playing it until the wee hours of the morning, so I can't 
 dock points from this amazing package simply because I'm a TFC fanboy.
  
  Summary: This game is a must have in anyone's collection. 10/10!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pure_Awesome
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Orange Box Review
  
  "Wow" will be the first words out of your mouth, when you pick up The Orange Box, and realise that 
 it's not a collaboration of Tetris and arcade games. But it contains 5 full blockbuster games, 
 all developed by the legendary Valve company. The games are: Halflife 2, Episode 1, Episode 2, 
 Portal and the long awaited Team Fortress 2. This package is possibly the best value game ever 
 released.
  
  Halflife 2 continues Gordon Freeman's story from past events, as he attempts to bring down the 
 Combine Empire. While meeting old and new faces along the way!
  
  Halflife 2 and its episodes cross a production gap of 4 years, while each game is close to a masterpiece; 
 you have to be forgiving for their graphics. The earliest game; Halflife 2, contains pretty average 
 graphics. It's clearly the port from the Xbox version that graced the original Xbox. That being 
 said, the graphics do improve a lot of over the original Xbox version. The main issue is just low 
 resolution textures, close up views of anything are generally blurry or pixeley. Animations holds 
 up very well still, facial animations are still much better than recent games. The graphics gain 
 a huge difference in quality as you reach Episodes 1 and 2. By the end, you'll be very happy about 
 the graphics quality. The game utilises probably the best physics engine around, but besides being 
 pretty this is, one of the core aspects of Halflife 2's gameplay.
  
  Fear not, gameplay over graphics right? Gameplay in Halflife 2 is fantastic, besides being a great 
 shooter with most things perfectly balanced. Physics takes as much of a part as shootouts, all 
 thanks to a wonderful weapon you acquire early on; The Gravity gun. Basically this gun is used 
 to pick up heavy or light objects and throw them around. This weapon can be very powerful, but 
 it's also the main source for the games puzzles. While the puzzles aren't entirely revolutionary, 
 it's fun to move things around as the physics are just so pleasing. Because of the reliance on 
 Physics puzzles, they can become a little bit repetitive by the end of Episode 2. 
  
  Guns and shooting still takes the major role in the Halflife 2 games, you still have access to 
 many weapons such as your handguns, machine guns, and rocket launchers. These are all evenly balanced 
 and is pleasing to have alternative firing methods. For many weapons that adds a lot more strategy 
 into planning when to use them. Having different areas with different enemies helps prevent repetition 
 occuring. Just when something almost becomes boring, a new enemy will take the old ones place and 
 make it all new and fun.
  
  Portal, a game made by 4 university students, has a new take on puzzles games, first it's a FPS. 
 Secondly, it's fun for people who don't like your basic puzzle games like Tetris. Using Halflife 
 2's most modern graphics engine, the game looks beautiful but simple, which is not a bad thing. 
 Portal is about finding a way to get from point A to point B. Alas; there are many obstacles in 
 your way. You have the portal gun to help you. Basically you need to make portals to move around. 
 Such as create a portal on the floor next to you, and create one across the room up near a high 
 ledge you cannot reach. Now you can simply jump through the portal and you'll be right where you 
 need to go. Later on in the game, you will have besides neutral obstacles, machine gun turrets 
 that attack you on sight, you will have to either flip them over, or avoid them. And there even 
 may be a few other surprises in there! To make it even better, this game even ties in with Halflife 
 2 universe story!
  
  Team Fortress 2, has been maybe one of the most long awaited games. And boy is it fun! I believe 
 this will be competing with Halo 3's multiplayer ratings. It's comical inspiration just makes things 
 more fun. With 9 classes to chose from, things becoming boring is not going to happen quickly. 
 Each class is totally unique ranging from snipers to stealth obsessive Spy's! Its graphics style 
 is completely different Halflife 2 and is very pleasing to the eye. Its 6 maps and 15 second respawn 
 times are its only downfall. 
  
  With 20+ hours of Single Player content! And countless Multiplayer hours, how can you lose!
  
 
  9.7/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tokanite
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  The story, immersive atmosphere, and amazing gameplay of the first Half-Life game grounded it permanently 
 into gaming history. The story ended in a way that one felt a need for more information, but also 
 seemed like the kind of ending that never had to be continued because of it's ambiguity and ability 
 to be interpreted. The appearance of the sequel stunned many gamers and excited them beyond belief. 
 And we were not disappointed. Half-Life 2 was equally, if not more so, an amazing piece of fiction, 
 and immersive and entertaining gameplay. The first episode, upon its release, was once again an 
 amazing feat in the sense that it introduced a companion to Gordon Freeman. This companion, Alyx 
 Vance, has amazing AI that interacts beautifully well with the game environment. Episode two has 
 enough plot twists to effectively build the story arc into a wonderful climax, and leaves the player 
 in NEED of a conclusion. 
  
  Portal is fun all around, with amazing and original gameplay that entertains a player enough so 
 that one feels compelled to play through the game multiple times. Also, the additional challenge 
 modes add for an even more interesting and entertaining experience.
  
  Finally, Team fortress 2 is altogether an absolutely crazy and intense piece of multiplayer action. 
 Over-the-top violence and hilarious characters, accompanied by a strong competitive element create 
 for a truly unique and fun experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GOWfreak
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box is truly one of the most amazing experiences of video gaming ever, not only do you 
 get Half-Life 2, one of the best games to come out this decade, but bundled with TOB is it's two 
 expansions, Episodes 1 and 2, and in addition, the sequel to the popular online game Team Fortress, 
 Team Fortress 2. But the most amazing and innovative game of the pack has to be Portal, which sets 
 the bar for puzzle games on current-gen consoles with it's strange blend of humor and puzzles that 
 will make you think outside of the box.
  
  All in all, The Orange Box is one of the best deals you will ever encounter on Xbox 360, and is 
 a must-buy for all gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moosechild
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  the game is extremely amazing! it's five whole complete, highly addictive, games that suck you 
 in. the game contains Half Life 2, Half Life 2: Episode 1, Half Life 2: Episode 2, Portals (my 
 personal favorite!) , and Team Fortress 2. the Half Life 2 series are extremely immersing first 
 person shooters that make you forget the other joys of life. Portals is a very innovative Puzzle/FPS 
 game where you use portals to get around obstacles and complete clever puzzles. Team Fortress 2 
 is a clever multi player experience where you must work together. over all the game is extremely 
 fun and for only $60 for 5 games you're getting a really good deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantom-4112
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  I must admit, before the orange box, I thought the Half-Life games were a travesty of God. I decided 
 to give them a chance, though, and I am now a complete convert to valve. I now love HL2, and believe 
 it is the most amazing fps and one of the best games I have ever played. It has superb gameplay, 
 and highly addictive puzzles and storyline. Now, don't think that I'm just going to do nothing 
 in this review besides praise HL2. I wouldn't have shelled out $60 unless i wanted to play the 
 other 4 games. Now, the real reason I wanted to buy the orange box is for portal. My pc is horrible, 
 so i had to buy the 360 version, and I thought it was sorta a waste, but also that portal looked 
 good enough to pay $60 for, and I was right. It is one of the most innovative , immersive games 
 I have ever played. My only complaint is that it's way too short. And last but not least, there 
 is Team Fortress 2. I won't waste too much time on it's segment, so here we go: TF2 is the weakest 
 link in the package, but it isn't really bad, just a little stupid. Don't get me wrong, I like 
 it, I just don't find myself playing it that much.
  
  All in all, the orange box is pretty much explained on the back of the box: one of the best deals 
 in video game history. It has the best fps I've ever played (HL2) , the best puzzle game I've ever 
 played (Portal) , and a great online experience. If I had any complaints, They would be that Portal 
 is too short, TF2 isn't as amazing as the others, and that kinda stands out after you play the 
 other 4 games, and also, the box art is atrocious. I defiantly think that if you like fps in any 
 way, shape or form, you should buy this package. A few side notes; the reason I haven't said anything 
 about Ep. 1 or 2 is cause i haven't beaten Hl2 yet. Also, I'm going to approximate the amount of 
 hours I've spent on portal, TF2, andHL2 together in the time spent area. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 10:43 am PT
Review:  It seems to me these days that Microsoft can tell anyone that a game for their system is awesome 
 and everyone believes it no matter how good the game actually plays. The Orange Box is yet another 
 example of good marketing. Let me explain why this is not 5 games. First you have Half Life 2 which 
 is one full game. This game came out on the original XBOX over 2 years ago and it now looks a little 
 better and plays the same. So for most fans of the series they have already played this game. Then 
 you have episode 1 and 2 which can be finished in about 8 to 10 hours. I could say that this is 
 2 more games if they didn't look and play exactly like HL2. Both episodes are just an extension 
 of the main game not whole games by themselves. So HL2, episode 1 and 2 equal to be one full game 
 that will take you around 25 hours to complete. A good size game for a FPS. But like I said most 
 that buy the Orange Box have already played HL2.
  
  Then you have the game Portal which takes about 4 hours to complete. If you really want to you 
 can call this a full game on its own because it is quite different than the main game. But being 
 4 hours long means it would be worth maybe $20 by itself. Portal is hit or miss depending on your 
 taste. I found it enjoyable at times and super frustrating a lot of other times. No real fighting 
 goes on with portal just a lot of mind bending puzzles that will make you think (alot) . A fairly 
 fun extra in my opinion.
  
  Then you have Team Fortress 2 which is the multiplayer. This MP has a very unique cartoonish look 
 about it and it plays closely to what you would expect judging by the visuals (arcade like) . I 
 found this fun but not nearly fun enogh to take players away from games like COD4 and Halo3. That 
 is obvious because the last time I played it there were like 30 players online. My question though 
 is how is a multiplayer considered a game by itself. Does that mean Halo and COD series are 2 games 
 in one? I also experienced quite a bit of lag while playing and the stats never updated correctly. 
 I have yet to ever find myself on the leaderboards with a rank. It is like I have never even played 
 one game. This doesn't give players much of an incentive to keep playing especially when the gameplay 
 is not as polished as Halo or COD. A fun multiplayer that will get played sparingly by most.
  
  So my question to all the game players out there is how is this game any better of a deal than 
 Halo or COD series or any other good game for that matter. I ran through episode one and two in 
 less than 10 hours and through Portal in less than four. I have put around 10 hours into TF2 and 
 I am quickly growing tired of it. Oh yeah and HL2 I beat that game two years ago. The only reason 
 I feel this game deserves an 8.5 is because of the clever level design, thought provoking puzzles, 
 good story and it does offer replay with TF2. There are also 99 available achievements to try an 
 obtain if you are one of those kind of players.
  
  Overall if you have played the original Half Life and enjoyed it then it would be a better deal 
 because of Half Life 2. But for those of you like me and played HL2 on the XBOX then you should 
 rent this game first to see if you think it is the best deal in video game history. HA!
  
  (A revised review that raises my score from 8 to 8.5 due to the fix of the lag for the most part 
 in TF2. After playing more TF2 I found myself really enjoying playing as the different classes 
 and the counter upon counter moves that each team needs to make in order to win. I still wish there 
 were more maps and I wish it kept up with your total kills and deaths but it is a surprisingly 
 deep and fun mp experience if given the chance.) 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SAGE_OF_FIRE
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  The Orange box sells for $60 just like any other game but unlike other games it comes with five 
 games in the package.
  1) . Portal- Portal could have easily just been a demo but it really is a very good game. It packes 
 lots of laughs and good gameplay.
  2) . Team Fortress 2- at first it doesn't seem very fun but eventually you will see it has a surprising 
 amount of depth which makes it highly addictve. 
  3) . Half Life 2, Episode 1, and episode 2- Come on its Half life do I really need to say anything. 
 But this may be one of the best FPS ever made it has great gunplay and some good puzzels to break 
 things up. 
  
  
  DONT EAT THE CAKE DONT EAT THE  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GSsw009b7359
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Whats to say about the Orange Box, for the price of a full price Xbox title or if you import (game 
 is region free) around 60% of that that price, you get:-
  
  Half Life 2, Ep 1, Ep 2, Portal
  
  and Team Fortress 2
  
  Half Life 2 alone has won god 
 knows how many nominations and deservedly so it simply never grow old, ep 1 and 2 although shorter 
 introduce a different more action packed style into proceedings with the emphasis being more on 
 scripted action. Portal although starting out weakly with the basic maps comes into its own once 
 you get the companion cube and the computer invites you for "cake".
  
  Team Fortress 2 is bags of fun online, they need to fix the lag but other than that its one of 
 the more enjoyable class based games over Live.
  
  Positives:- 5 games for the price of 1= bargain
  
  Negatives:- Team Fortress lag, engine showing 
 its age and looks better on PC its clearly running at a lower res/textures lower res on 360.
  
  In all its win/win though, fun achievements too.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GotRustyB
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  Half life is an awesome classic, but on the 360 it just got better for me. I love being able to 
 play this great game with a controller it just made the experience that much better for me. Half 
 life two is still great after all these years. I could do with out the dune buggy but thats an 
 old complaint. There's hours of fun just in that one title. But wait theres more! Half life two 
 episode one and two are also included and I cant even describe the greatness of playing all of 
 those in a row. Ah continuity. And theres still more! Team fortress was ok but for me it just didn't 
 flow and it's really my only gripe. I would have rather had counter strike but really thats a pretty 
 small gripe. Portal is probably my favorite part, which will sound stupid until you play it. It's 
 fun and addictive, plus all the hype about it being funny was true. "seriously I'm going to kill 
 you, and all the cake is gone". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cacapoopoodoodo
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  At first a was quite apprehensive about it and choosing between the box and COD4 but i knew i made 
 the right choice. when i had my ps2 i had the first half life and that was quite amazing and the 
 sequel was even better the game ticks all the right boxes it has a long but deep story line a good 
 dose of humour and the graphics are one of a kind there is twists and turns in the game and throwing 
 the other episodes was the icing on the cake. Portal is not just a throw in game to be left behind 
 i really has some legs to it. it bends the mind and is quite fun and if you get stuck you can just 
 have fun with the portal guns. team fortress 2 looks good but without live i cannot experience 
 it but hopefully i can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellhound1345
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  We have all waited some time for Episode 2, Team Fortress and Portal to come out. Valve seemed 
 as though they were taking far to long to release it, but the wait sure was worth it. Not only 
 did they release those 3 games, but HL2 and Episode 1 with it as well, this game is a must buy.
 
  
  The visuals in Episode 2 are nothing short from amazing, the funny thing about it is, the graphics 
 are great, but at the same time, arnt really that great. Its hard to explain, the visiauls are 
 really gritty which gives it that sense of realism to it, unlike most games today which are highly 
 polished e. g. Bioshock. 
  
  The gameplay is nothing short from amazing, it has been so long, where, a game has made you warm 
 up and actually care about the characters, in a FPS anyway. The story of HL2 really wraps you into 
 it, it seems as though your actually in this together with everyone else, it really is somthing 
 else.
  
  Portal, was one of the most engaging FPS games i have played in a while, it is so different to 
 everything else. The puzzles throughout the "19" levels are quite good, and has a hillarious "ending" 
 to the game.
  
  Team Fortress is also another excelent game, very enjoyable. Although i think TF isnt really suited 
 quite well to a console, because the pace of the game is quite fast, and would be suited more to 
 a mouse and keyboard.
  
  Then throw in HL2 ad Episode 1 and youve got yourself the Orange Box, on of the best games (and 
 value) to come out for some time now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konsento_0
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  I don't even half to talk about HL2. Everyone talks about it. I'm going to talk about the other 
 games. 
  
  Amazing. Just amazing. Portal is innovative and fun and once you pass a test chamber, it's so gratifying. 
 Too bad the cake is a lie. 
  TF2 is great. I'm glad they brought back the class-based shooter system. Only, this time it doesn't 
 feel like Counter Strike. Every class and game mode is fun, I just wish there were more maps. 
 
  
  The other games are so fun, that I'm wondering why it's the Half Life Orange Box and not just "the 
 Orange Box". Maybe Valve will add on to the portal and tf franchises in the future. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cookie2-0
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  I used to be a half life fan long ago and when I saw that the orange box had half life 2 in it 
 I was mainly buying the game for that.... but then I went and tried Portal and Team fortress and 
 I think I fell in love. Although the games seem to look similar they are huge and varyied now I 
 have never been one for words so Ill just come out and say it the Orange box is probally they best 
 buy of the year no matter if you are a hard core gamer or just looking for a pass time this game 
 will have something for you.
  Lets put it this way if you can only get one game this christmas you may as well make it the Orange 
 Box becuase there is nothing else that comes close. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dailyderek
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  But they weren't! Half life two gives us a wierd, and pretty boring shooter that might appeal to 
 fans of the series and it gives the next two episodes making it a much longer game but when we 
 really think of it, it's kinda just one game. the other two however play out alot better (for me 
 at least) team fort2 is only online but delivers cartoony fighting action like spy vs spy almost 
 and lastly portal gives us unique puzzle solving gameplay with a bit of a creepy story and wierd 
 events but in the end just makes you laugh. (the gore was a bit much for a puzzle game tho) the 
 flaws were team fortress wAs only online, plus half life isnt really very good to me. overall it 
 kept me occupied for a few days and i think you should at least rent the orange box! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flamehead8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  this game is for every1 to die hard HL2 fans to casual gamers who want a challenge in Portal to 
 the multiplayer addicts who love TF2. This is also the best bargin ive ever seen u get 5 FREAKIN 
 GAMES dude now thats alot and it only costs the amount of a reg 360 game, bout $60. But one draw 
 back i have or more that one is that 1) if ur one of those ppl who doesnt want to mess up there 
 gamerscore (I. E.- scores that dont end in 0 or 5) , u might want to get the bookguide, but that 
 will cost u around $25, or u could just go on sum fourm and check it out 2) HL2 has been released 
 so many times that it's not even funny anymore, so do urself a favor if u have already played this 
 game on the XBOX or PC, just pass on it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakjbt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  well here are my review for all 5 games:
  
  
  half life: 2
  Before this I hadent played the series much I completed about half of the first half-life and i 
 though it was decent but this is much more enjoyable!
  Unlike half-life 1 the game is much less liner enviormets are easier to get around. THe game is 
 very enjoyable and has been my favourite FPS to play ever. The envoirments are billent ranging from 
 cities, beaches, caves, sewers to prisions. And the guns are top notch.
  
  Half-life 2 part 1: This is much the same except much shorter 4-6 hours but is still a blast to 
 play.
  
  Half-life 2 part 2: A Leap longer than part one and uses moe cinematic moments they look great!
 
  *Gameplay:10/10
  *Gaphics:8/10
  *Sound:10/10
  *Value:9/10
  (*star counts for all half-life games)
  My favouite game above is Half-Life 2
  
  Portal: Very 
 original game that is great to play. the puzzles will bend your mind you will have to think ouside 
 the box and use precise timing. I dont usally overly enjoy puzzlers but thi is an exception using 
 the portal gun is great fun! It may not be to long but time trialsetc will keep you coming back 
 for more.
  Gameplay:9/10
  Graphics:8/10
  Sound :8/10
  Value :8/10
  
  team fortress 2:
  the online section of The orange box which is unique and fun to play but thier 
 is no deathmatch. theres 9 types of charachters all work out brillently. and their are nice cell 
 shaded type graphics...
  Gameplay:9/10
  Graphics :9/10
  Sound :8/10
  value :9/10
  
  PREFORMANCE: the game works great apart from bad lagging in team fortrees 2.
  
  Well thanks 
 for reading my review (give me a thumbs up please.)
  play me on team fortress 2? gamertag: jackjbt07 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uawildcat22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  This game is incredible. For what you pay, you get the best gaming experience on the xbox 360 compared 
 to any other game out there. You will be enjoying this one for years.
  
  Graphically, there is a notable difference from the first HL2 through Episode two, as they get 
 noticeably better. But the game still looks great in the first HL and it's really a tribute to 
 the art design and Valve Engine.
  
  TF2 is incredible and for those of you who used to stay up all night playing team fortress sniping 
 people this will definitely bring back memories. I think it would've been cool to include the original 
 TF with maybe a graphical overhall just for nostalgic reasons, hell even the original.
  
  All in all, with awesome gameplay, an incredible story and characters, and top notch graphics you'll 
 be hard pressed to find a better value and experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: georgiaboy329
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box is the best game i have ever played. It contains Half Life 2, Half Life 2: Episode 
 One, and Half Life 2: Episode Two, Portal, and Team Fortress two. In this review i am going to 
 talk about how much of a deal this game is and i have written separate reviews for each game in 
 the box, so go check them out. This game is only 60 bucks for 5 games that are some of the top 
 games ever made. You pay 60 bucks sometimes for terrible games like Hour of Victory. All i can 
 say is to go buy this game. Best deal out right now on any consle or PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Praetor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  -- Half Life 2 -- 10/10
  
  Awesome linear shooter. You play the Gordan Freeman, the mute (but purposefully so) pysicist hero. 
 The setting is Earth in maybe 40-50 years (that's just a guess) , after an invasion of an alien 
 race named the Combine. The Combine have the government in their command, harrassing the population 
 with their willing augmented human soldiers. 
  
  Gordon is the John 117 of this universe (but this is no comparison to Halo, believe me) . He somehow 
 hauls around 11 weapons this whole game, blasting the Combine soldiers while navigating through 
 complex and beautiful environments. From what I hear, the graphics are far greater than the Xbox 
 version, while on par with a good PC.
  
  One of the most incredible stories I've ever encountered in a game. Dr. Freeman begins on an escape 
 from prison, goes on through a homemade portal (all the while encountering future allies and enemies) , 
 then through a zombie-filled town. This is just the first third of the game. You go on to join 
 up with a fellow scientist's daughter in a fight for the freedom of City 17, and humanity.
  
  This is every bit deserving of a 10.
  __________________
  
  Half-Life 2: Episodes 1 & 
 2 10/10
  Fantastic sequels with improved graphics from the original.
  In no way did I find Episode 1 the "weak link" as many describe it.
  
  __________________
 
  
  --PORTAL --- 9/10
  
  Fantastic puzzle game that utilizes a Gravity gun-like Portal gun, which fires two Portals: orange 
 and blue. It is the ultimate pick-up-and-play, requiring only half the buttons of Half LIfe 2's. 
 It has a short life though, but then, it is a VERY high quality puzzle game with a brilliant plot, 
 hilarious robot artificial intelligence, and CAKE. You'll get it by the end of the game.
  
  Really looking forward to a franchise of these.
  
  - 1 for short length.
  ___________________
 
  
  -- Team Fortress 2 -- 8.5/10
  
  GREAT multiplayer game that is gimped by horrible connections and bad server browser. Unfortunate, 
 as this is EXTREMELY fun. It should be re-released on it's own, with matchmaking, more maps, and 
 larger teams (at least as much as the PC version) .
  
  I must say, this is the most balanced MP I've ever played.
  
  OVERALL: 9
  Only because of 
 a lack of true longevity. It seems like playing the 3 current volumes of the Half LIfe 2 series 
 might be daunting for a player just starting out on the series.
  But, the games are fantastic, so this is definitely worth buying.
  
  Last note:
  People often 
 freak out about the "value", but when you really think about it, you'll be playing this about as 
 long as you'd play Halo 3, so I'd say it's a pretty good price, but not revolutionary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  = a pretty dang good game.
  
  PORTAL:
  
  Wow where do i start? Your bassicly in a test building and you go through a bunch of tests as a 
 project sort of thing. You go through these portals where you can litterly see your self looking 
 at yourself looking at yourself. You will at first be blinded and your mind will hurt with allt 
 he deminsions and weird stuff. I litterly spent about 30 minutes playing around with the deminsions 
 and the amazingness of the game before i even started going to the first test.
  
  So anyway the point is to get through very hard puzzles that get harder and harder. It completely 
 involves your mind and all matter of phisics. You eventually get a gun that can fire your own portals 
 and heres a good explanation. You are on a platform and u need to get to a platform that is over 
 a lake but u can't cross the lake you u shoot one teleport across where u want to go and then the 
 other teleport where u are then you jump through it and appear on the other side while seeing yourself 
 going through. Lol its amazingly awesome and it will shock your mind litterly.
  
  HALF- LIFE 2:
  
  Wow! Nto a normal First-Person-Shooter. Deffinetly a higher quality game. 
 You start out in a train going to the train station and as you proceed you realise your a slave 
 ready to be executed but then u escape and realise that these aliens are killing all these people 
 and you are one of the lucky people to get out and you end up meeting a scientist who gives u a 
 armor suit and sends u in a teleport. where do you go? Find out for yourself. The game is amazing. 
 You get a good selection of guns and the story is amazing. Half-Life 2 is just plain awesome.
 
  
  I haven't played the other ones yet so I don't have reviews but I'm sure they are worth playing.
 
  
  TEAM FORTRESS 2:
  
  Fun, fun, fun! Almost reminds me of TimeSplitters if you, ve ever played it? And the guns and classes 
 are all really fun to try out. Tons of guns, tons of levels and tons of explosions!!! It's a fun 
 cartoony shooter with big weapons and alot of fun. It may be unrealistic but it has fun and thats 
 all video games were supposed to be in the first place.
  
  
  PORTAL 9 HALF LIFE 10 TEAM FORTRESS 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aduana69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  Half Life its a good game for its price. It has Nice graphics but when you are playing portal and 
 team F. common its annoying the way the console frezzes. But it deservex an 8.5 in my opinion because 
 like I said before its worth the money. The gameplay its good and sound superb. if you dont mind 
 the freeziing. BUT THIS GAME TS A MUST BUY NOT FOR RENT. This is my modest opinion. ITS NO HALO 
 3 BUT FOR the price ITS A BARGAIN.
  IT HALF LIFE WITH NEW GRAPHICS WITH A UNIQUE GAME THAT LAST AN HOUR OR SO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: norton1231
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Come on people what is better than 5 games for the price of one. Nothing except 6 games for the 
 price of one but that's just crazy talk. I think I really should be praising half life 2 but come 
 on who hasn't played half life 2 or beaten half life 2. Now I will say episode two is a nice installment 
 to the half life two saga. I am pretty mad I beat it on someone else's console so your welcome 
 for those achievement points. Portals is really what we should talk about. I don't want to go into 
 too much detail because it's worth experiencing for yourself but what I will say is The Cake Is 
 a Lie!!! Oh by the way Team Fortress 2 is a lot of fun. Critical Hit! ACHIEVEMENT !!! 5g CRAP! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxRyoxX
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  I wasn't too sure if I should get this or not because I haven't played the Half-Life series and 
 Fortress looked really cartoonish and looked like it was a twist on like The Incredibles or something 
 along that animation.. When I started playing I couldn't stop playing Half Life until I knew what 
 the hell was going on and fortress does have the cartoon thing going on but it's fast paced and 
 a lot of choices with the classes.. Now Portal... That game IS awesome, I play it over and over 
 just because darting through portals and seeing yourself is pretty funny. The idea of it was awesome 
 and I didn't stop running through those portals until I either got sick ( not literally, just really 
 confused.. ) or I beat it. Another bonus is... It's five games for the price of one.. Can't get 
 much better than that.. I recommend this game to people who basically just just 5 games for the 
 price of one game. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JamilAhmed1994
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 11:59 pm PT
Review:  Buy this package now. You have to. It's The Orange Box for Christ's sake. 
  
  I'll tell you what's in this delicious package. Mmm. There are five games in one box. Here they 
 are: Half-Life 2, winner of over 35 Game of the Year awards, Half-Life 2: Episode One, cited "Best 
 Action Game 2006", Half-Life 2: Episode Two, the next chapter in Valve's critically acclaimed Half-Life 
 series, Portal, mind-blowing puzzles that will have you stumped and Team Fortress 2, the sequel 
 to the fantastic Team Fortress classic - only this time it has a new look and there's plenty of 
 laughs to go around.
  
  Has that paragraph made you drool? Good, now buy it dammit! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDanwich
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  In spite of all the games I have played over the many years, one sticks out in my mind when I think 
 of FPS. Half-Life, the FPS that started a growing trend we see in almost every game to date. Now 
 when I heard they were making a second Half-Life, I almost pissed myself. I jumped on a band wagon 
 of expectations and dreams for Half-Life 2, and I must say that Half-Life 2 delievered the same 
 amazing game I have come to expect from Valve. Sadly though, I never finished Half-Life 2 on the 
 PC, for my game crashed on me and I just moved on to another game. So when I found out that Half-Life 
 2 and all the episodes plus 2 other games were coming packaged together I pissed myself twice. 
 
  
  So while that introduction had nothing to do with Half-Life 2 The Orange Box, I feel you need to 
 know why I would buy this game considering Half-Life 2 has been out for a long time now. Anyway 
 on to the review.
  
  I would rather talk about all the Half-Life games in general right here. When I began to play Half-Life 
 2, I was ecstatic. I marveled at the graphics engine Valve had built, I ooo'ed at the brilliantly 
 designed physics engine they had built, and I cheered for the fantastic voice acting and gun-play 
 I have come to expect from Valve. So overall, all the mechanics for a great FPS game are there. 
 Graphics, Gun-play, Sound, and a nice story for the icing on the cake. So after clocking around 
 ten hours with Half-Life 2, I moved on to Half-Life 2 Episode One. While I must say I felt the 
 same things I felt when I had played the previous game, I felt something different. It was boredom, 
 not extreme "I want to go play Pokemon" boredom, but something along those lines. You see, after 
 a while of running and gunning with my favorite mute, Gordan Freeman (I think i spelled the name 
 wrong) , I began to notice a pattern with how the game was structured. Introduction to story, walk 
 around for a bit, solve a puzzle, get a gun, walk around some more, solve a puzzle with the gravity 
 gun, solve a puzzle with Valve's physic's engine, shoot some enemies, and you get the point.
  
  Here's a meaning to my rambling, at no time when you are playing a game should you notice a 
 pattern on how things are going to go. It should always be unexpected, unpredictable, and most 
 of all original. As I continued through my game, I realized that Valve had just given me the same 
 game as before, just shorter. Now this might be nit-picking at it, but its still a problem. So 
 I can't exactly give the Half-Life side of things a perfect score. All the Half-Life games in this 
 package have excellent game-play, great graphics, great art direction, great sound, great stories, 
 and a great physics engine. Its just getting rather stale Valve, please do something about that. 
 
  
  Half-Life 2 and all the episodes::: 8 out of 10 
  
  I will split the next two games in the box and talk about them very briefly.
  
  Team Fortress 
 2:::: This game is the succesor to the smash multiplayer hit, Team Fortress. Which was put into 
 the original Half-Life and sure enough they made another one for Half-Life 2, imagine that. Now 
 lets talk technical, this game looks great in its cel-shaded form. Although not everyone is going 
 to be crazy over this look, so it was risky for Valve to choose that look. To make another point, 
 the gameplay in this game is incredible shallow, although well balanced. The various classes are 
 what you've come to expect from any typical FPS, and will not surprise you. But perhaps the strongest 
 thing about this game is how well balanced these classes are. Everyone has there own roll, regardless 
 of if your a medic or a sniper. Theres always something you can do to help your team. One more 
 thing before I wrap this up, the map selction and game-types are disapointing. You get to choose 
 between 4 maps and 2 game types. Thats really an embarresment considering this is supposed to be 
 a hard-core multiplayer game. 
  
  Team Fortress 2:::: 7 out of 10
  
  Portal:::::: This is perhaps one of the most simple and yet complex games I have ever played. Every 
 game developer is slapping their heads saying "Why didn't we think of that!" They should be, this 
 game is stand alone one of the most fun games I have ever played. The concept is this, your given 
 a portal gun that shoots portals that you can walk through. You solve puzzles as a test subject 
 for some weird company. Thats the basics, wait until you begin playing. Thats where this game shines 
 the most, Game-play. Its fresh and original and keeps things that way with the addition of some 
 rather hilarious but dark humor. The ONLY thing I can say thats bad about this game is the length. 
 Its only about 4- hours long, but theres still plenty of other missions and harder puzzles to solve 
 once your done with the main story. So don't fret, and please, play Portal. 
  
  Portal:::: 9.5 ouf of 10
  
  Overall Package:::::: This is one of the best deals to ever come 
 out in the industry. If you have never played a Half-Life game before, this will be a roller-coaster 
 ride you won't soon forget. If your looking for a multiplayer game that will keep you intrigued, 
 best look else where. But if it's something new that you want, then Portal is the game for you. 
 This package, like I said before, is one of the best to come out in many years. I won't soon forget 
 my experience with Half-Life 2 The Orange Box. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowfire14
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Ok, let's break down what exactly you're getting in this deal. you get a completely new game, a 
 sequel to a classic class-based multiplayer game, a classic FPS, plus its two continuations. That 
 is indeed a deal, but where to start the review? Well, let's start at square one, Half-Life 2. 
 It's the same game that many of us have come to love over the years, and is indeed the same one 
 that won over 50 or so game of the year awards during the time of its release. There is nothing 
 changed except for the control scheme on the 360, (which was actually a very smooth transition) . 
 It retains the same charm it had when many of us first played it and then some. The two episodes 
 really aren't any different, either. They both retain the same story and charm of the first game 
 and build upon it and add to the suspense of Half-Life 2. If you haven't played HL2 at least once 
 through before, you are going to need to before delving into the two episodes, and they will need 
 to be played in sequence for best effect. All the weapons are satisfying to use and beyond that 
 make a really pleasant experience for those playing, but let's move to another part of the game.
 
  
  Portal. Yes, it seems like it might be lame, but it is incredibly fun, even if it is very short. 
 The game itself shouldn't take much more than about 2 hours to beat on the first go round, (unless 
 you just get really stumped on the puzzles it provides) , but there is still alot more fun to be 
 had after the first run through. It provides a series of much more challenging versions of some 
 of the maps and even some challenges such as beat the map with as few steps or portals as possible.
 
  
  And then there is Team Fortress 2. This is the lone multiplayer section of the package and is where 
 a lot of the replayability come into play. it can provide hours upon hours of intense team heavy 
 action and then some along with hours of frustration. A must play at least once, which simply won't 
 be enough after you had a taste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hahuang65
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  A lot of people would argue that Halo 3, or Crysis, or Guitar Hero 3 / Rock Band is the greatest 
 game this year. But The Orange Box is the greatest game release this entire year. 
  
  The Orange Box brings together 2 award winning games (Half-Life 2 and HL2: Episode One) , creates 
 a third installment to the series (HL2: Episode 2) , redefines 1st person puzzle games with Portal, 
 and resurrects the classic Team Fortress franchise in an expertly crafted Team Fortress 2.
  
  The Half-Life franchise, boasting 2 game of the year awards, is remastered for the Xbox 360. 
 Improved graphics, great audio effects, fantastic controller mapping, and a masterpiece of a story. 
 You have no idea what you're missing until you've played Half-Life 2.
  
  Portal is an extremely fun and challenging game. Unexpected storyline that I will not spoil for 
 you guys. You have two portals that you can put up. You walk in one, and you come out the other. 
 Sounds simple? Try completing the challenges of this game. Innovative and fun gameplay.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is the cream of the crop. It is by far the greatest FPS for the Xbox 360. It is 
 far superior to any of the Halo games. The idea is simple, team-centric class based combat with 
 capture the flag and variations on the king of the hill style games. Three words can sum up the 
 game. Ridiculous, outrageous, and classic. It basically follows the same formula as its predecessor, 
 Team Fortress Classic, but delivers it in a cartoony, but gory fashion. 
  
  All in all, The Orange Box is true to it's commercial jingle: "The Best Game of All Time."
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00Aresnal7
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Valve really delivered the goods in this bundle!!!! Lets start with Half-Life 2!!!
  It is basically the xbox version with some graphics blemishes patched up, still great like always!!! 
 Episode one is fun but very short!!! Episode 2 is just right very very fun!!!!!!!!! Portal is one 
 of the greatest puzzle games every made and that is a fact!!!!! Team Fortress well it is personally 
 is one of the mager reasons I bought this package cause I have been waiting for years for this 
 game let alone it took a decade to finsh the game i figured it had to be a masterpeice!!!! I give 
 the graphics over all perfect with team fortress pixars graphics to portal to half life it doesnt 
 get any better than The Orange Box!!!! Sound it perfect and the gameplay and value is perfect!!!! 
 So This game is perfect in my opion!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  JUST BUY IT 
  
  Half-Life 2 originally came out almost three years ago. With cutting edge graphics, a stunningly 
 realistic physics system, and amazing game design, it's no wonder why it was such a masterpiece 
 on PC. The game was so ahead of its time that it doesn't seem like a three-year-old title, and 
 now that console hardware has caught up, we are able to get the full, undiluted experience onto 
 our TVs. So if you haven't played the original Half-Life 2 and Episode One before, then you need 
 to read my headline again. For those who have played both, don't worry  there is still $60 worth 
 of new content in this package, so you too should go ahead and re-read that headline, because you 
 shouldn't have to read this whole review to understand why The Orange Box is probably the best 
 videogame deal ever.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JFannn
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 5:11 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box is an ambitious idea, to say the least. Valve releases are few and far between, 
 and after waiting years for Portal and even more years for Team Fortress 2, they've given the gaming 
 world a gift by crafting what will surely be known as the best deal in history. The entire Half-Life 
 2 saga to date, including the original Half-Life 2 from 2004, 2006's follow up Half-Life 2: Episode 
 One and the brand new, fresh from the oven Half-Life 2: Episode Two, are bundled together with 
 one of the single greatest video-game experiences of my life, Portal, and the most addicting multiplayer 
 component in years with Team Fotress 2. That's it. Review is done. At least, it might as well be, 
 because passing up five games for the price of one is absurd, especially when it's five of the 
 best games of all time. But, if you're not convinced, let's take an in-depth look...
  
  
  Half-Life 2 
  
  
  Now, I'm going to keep this brief, because you really should have 
 played Half-Life 2 by now. It's been out for three years on PC, and well over a year on the original 
 Xbox. Granted, you may not have had access to either one, and that is a shame. There is a reason 
 the series is so well regarded by just about everybody you ask... well, I shouldn't say that, because 
 there are numerous reasons and it will change depending on who you ask. Some people love the combat; 
 fighting off Combine soldiers with a shotgun, or cutting zombies in half by launches a sawblade 
 at them with the Gravity Gun. How about the physics, which allow for some of the most innovative 
 puzzles to ever be seen, let alone in first person shooters? There are two huge vehicles sections, 
 one on a boat through a huge canal (complete with helicopter chase sequence) and one on a dune-buggy 
 through a spectacular mountain high-way that is simply  the 
 reason, Half-Life 2 is great. For me, it's all because of the pacing. The developers at Valve are 
 smart. That is perhaps the understatment of a lifetime (or a half-lifetime, get it?) . These guys 
 and gals know how to craft a video game, and they do it perfectly. Just when you get sick of fighting 
 off zombies, the game switches to a new location without warping you and you're doing something 
 completely new. The fighting is always balanced by clever puzzle solving, sometimes within the 
 heat of a battle, and you never feel lost because, as I said, these people know what they're doing. 
 I'll give you an example from a scene in Half-Life 2: Episode Two (which will be covered later) . 
 At one point in the game you'll encounter a boss fight against a Helicopter that drops mines on 
 you, much like the one seen in this first Half-Life 2 installment, sans vehicle. Now, the way to 
 beat the boss is obviously by using the gravity gun to shoot the mines back at the helicopter, 
 but that is only obvious because the entrance to this fight was blocked off by one of these mines, 
 and the way by it was to use the gravity gun to move it, thus teaching the player that you could 
 actually pick those up. These sublties lie within the entire HL2 universe and help craft what I'm 
 ready to call the best first person shooter experiences of all time, and as you'll see from the 
 previous reviews on our site, I'm not alone. Now, the series is making its debut on 
 the 360, so a bit of a graphical enhancement is expected. Though the game looks very good and runs 
 smooth, it isn't up to par with the 360's latest offerings, and while it's a shame it isn't a complete 
 surprise, nor does it really matter that much. Why? Well, for one, because the game is great! But 
 for second, it's because the sound on the other hand is completely amazing. The sci-fi elements 
 of the series allow a whole breed of interesting effects; I guarantee you haven't heard anything 
 like the sounds of a Strider collapsing on itself of an airship going down. From those epic examples 
 to the disgusting sound of Gordon Freeman's feet stepping in toxic sludge, Half-Life 2 sounds absolutely 
 incredible all the way through. But enough of that - really, if you haven't played 
 the game yet, now is your chance to do so and earn some great Achievements along the way. If you 
 have played it, get ready to play it again, because really... if you can't appreciate Half-Life 
 2 more than once, what can you? You'll want to get reaquanted anyway, in preperation for the following 
 expansions.
  
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode One
  
  
  Episode One of Half-Life 2 took an agonizing two years to hit the PC after the original game blew 
 us away, and add the fact that HL2 ends with a cliff-hanger and it feels more like four years. 
 As always, I will do my absolute best to not spoil anything as I know there are many fans out there 
 who may have played Half-Life 2 on the Xbox, but haven't had an opportunity to enjoy EP1 due to 
 only hitting PC until now. Obviously, Gordon and Alyx manage to survive the blast at the end of 
 the game, though G-Man's motives remain unknown - something we've come to hear a lot in regards 
 to the iconic character. 
  
  
  Starting off buried under a pile of debris somewhere in City 17, Alyx and the always faithful Dog 
 stumble upon Gordon and release him from his makeshift prison. However, upon your rescue it's quickly 
 evident that you're hardly being rescued at all: City 17 is in shambles, and the Citadel is about 
 to blow at a moment's notice. Instead of trying to evacuate, which will almostly certainly result 
 in death before you make it, Alyx and Gordon decide to thrust back into the Citadel to stunt the 
 process, buying the citizens and themselves more time to escape what's left of the city. And when 
 I say thrust, I mean it literally... sitting down inside a van, Dog throws you and Alyx into the 
 Citadel for what is one of the coolest looking sequences I've ever seen in a game. It doesn't stop 
 there, either, as you'll soon find yourself riding a slow-moving elevator that's a prime target 
 for debris raining down from above. Once inside, the feeling that you're replaying the end of Half-Life 
 2 vanishes when you see what has become of the precious Citadel.
  
  
  While the whole basis of Episode One is escaping the city, Valve had an underlying idea for this 
 chapter of the saga, and that was character depth. Obviously not with Gordon, since he is essentially 
 you, the player, and the two of you never part for one second. However, where as in the first Half-Life 
 2 you would sparadically meet with Alyx only to split again, the two of you are side by side for 
 nearly the entirity of Episode 1, and it's far more than her simply tailing along. Valve developed 
 a whole new AI for Alyx, allowing her to get right into the thick of the battle while avoiding 
 being in your way; there's sections of the game where she will completely dominate enemies with 
 a sniper rifle or turret, all while making remarks that really make you ponder the relationship 
 between Gordon and herself. Players no doubt got left with a feeling of wanting to know more about 
 her, or just wanting to see her more, and this game delivers that beautifully.
  
  
  While short, Ep1 is a wholly satisfying experience that stands on its own as a terrific first person 
 shooter. The entire game feels like a big rush to get out of the city, leading you from the citadel 
 to underground parking garages all the way up to a climatic finale dodging a Strider at a train 
 depot while escorting resistance fighters out of the city. No new weapons are introduced outside 
 of the flare, which only acts as a makeshift weapon to light zombies on fire, however Half-Life's 
 never-ending brilliance allows you to find new ways to use the equipment you already have, most 
 notably the gravity gun. Oh, and those zombies you can light on fire? I forgot to mention that 
 they're a new breed of Combine/Zombie hybrids that love nothing more than holding their grenades 
 above them whilst running at you dead on. 
  
  
  My only complaint for Ep1, outside of the length (which is to be expected) , is that not a whole 
 lot is revealed story-line wise. The character progression with Alyx is absolutely fantastic, but 
 we still know next to nothing about G-Man, only subtle hints here and there. Despite this, I simply 
 couldn't give the Half-Life series anymore praise. It's brilliant - everybody knows it, but how 
 long can it continue? With Orange Box comes an brand new chapter in the series, debuting on the 
 PC and consoles at the exact same time. For an in-depth review of Episode Two, I pass the readers 
 onto one of AceGamez newest and brightest writers, James Fanciullo: 
  
  
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode Two 
  
  
  
  After waiting so long between Half-Life and 
 Half-Life 2, it actually feels a little weird catching up on the exploits of Gordon Freeman on 
 an annual basis, even if it's in five-hour pieces. The latest installment, Half-Life 2: Episode 
 Two, arguably falls a little short of its predecessors, but is still an excellent adventure with 
 lots of the great moments we've come to expect from the series. It can be hard to 
 remember what's happening in the Half-Life story, which is why it's nice Valve included a "previously 
 on" video to kick off Episode Two. After downloading a mysterious data transmission from the Combine 
 Citadel, you and sidekick Alyx Vance spend Episode One attempting to escape City 17. When the Citadel 
 finally goes kerplooey, the resulting shockwaves cause the train you're escaping in to derail, 
 which is where you wake up when Ep2 begins. Like every game in the Half-Life series, 
 you're slowly eased into Episode Two with minimal combat and lots of exposition. Alyx frees you 
 from the derailed train, hands you the gravity gun, and after being treated to a few picturesque 
 scenes, the two of you set off to find a resistance outpost outside City 17. As it turns out, the 
 Combine are attempting to build a "super-portal" which would open the doors to crushing any lingering 
 human opposition, and the data Alyx is carrying may be the only chance to stop it. Unfortunately, 
 moments into the game, you're ambushed by the new starring enemy of Ep2 (the Hunters -- think of 
 them as mini-Striders than can chase you almost anywhere) , and Alyx is gravely injured, throwing 
 everything into chaos. From here, the gameplay moves from one set piece to the next. 
 The opening segments are arguably the weakest, where you're running around underground caves fighting 
 antlions and other bugs (yawn) . You finally meet up with some freedom fighters, which gives way 
 to a defense sequence involving turrets (it's nowhere near as tough as the prison defense in Half-Life 
 2) and then you're accompanied by one of the friendly alien Vortigaunts for more bug killing and 
 traditional Half-Life  the next few hours, you run into all sorts 
 of opposition attempting to get to the resistance outpost, both Combine and otherwise, varying 
 from entertaining (there's a great fight with a Combine chopper) to frustrating (it's easy to run 
 out of ammo and explosive barrels in a fight with two antlion bosses) . As in previous games, you'll 
 get access to a vehicle that looks like the remains of a souped-up Mustang and tear out across 
 the countryside. Of course, there are some death-defying stunts and a chase scene involved. It 
 all feels different and yet familiar, as if it's a remix of scenes from earlier Half-Life games. Half-Life 
 2 Episode Two sequences in particular stand in direct opposition in terms of innovation-versus-tired 
 gameplay. The former is a sprawling defense mission in which you patrol a huge valley in a buggy 
 and attempt to down Striders (with a whole new weapon introduced in this episode) before they can 
 reach the resistance base; it can take a few attempts to get it right, but it's an entertaining 
 event the likes of which hasn't been seen before in a shooter and makes a terrific finale to the 
 Episode. But then there's the inexplicable inclusion of a sequence where an area is 
 blanketed by devastating sentry guns that can kill you in a fraction of a second; you'll die and 
 reload dozens of times just trying to figure out where the guns are, let alone get a grasp on where 
 to go. Cheesy "gotcha!" deaths like this are something we'd expect from the Medal of Honor series, 
 not Half-Life, but they pop up from time to time in Episode Two, leaving us wondering if maybe 
 Valve's spreading itself a little too thin with so many projects in the kiln these days. What 
 keeps Episode Two interesting is what happens between the action. Aside from the intro sequences, 
 there are plenty of scripted events scattered throughout, some expanding on the strange Combine 
 psychic creatures from Episode One (called "advisors") , others introducing old friends (one makes 
 an enigmatic appearance; another makes a spectacular return) . There are hints as to the direction 
 of Episode Three, some of which tie in with Orange Box companion Portal, and in fact the entire 
 last chapter is basically several huge cutscenes chained together. These sequences are important 
 because they continually remind you who you're fighting for and what's at stake; rarely will fifteen 
 minutes go by where you're completely on your own. Episode Two is a worthy, entertaining 
 addition to the Half-Life saga, even if it's a little more inconsistent than its predecessors. 
 It's got plenty of the action, puzzles and set pieces that's made the series so successful to date, 
 and that formula hasn't been tampered with. The question now is: What kind of finale does Valve 
 have in store for Episode Three?
  
  
  Thanks James - it will certainly be interesting to see what Valve's next move for the series is. 
 After the startling conclusion of Ep2, more questions keep popping up than answers. The final installment 
 for HL2 absolutely must reveal more about G-Man, but the twists near the end of the game only opens 
 the floodgates for more questions. All we know for sure is something epic is bound to happen in 
 Episode 3, one way or the other, and I can't wait to find out what it is. Let's just hope it comes 
 packed with Left 4 Dead, Counter-Strike, Day of Defeat, and maybe... Portal 2? I can dream! 
  
  
  Portal
  
  
  Ah, Portal. I heard whispers of you when Prey came out last year, 
 and all people said was that Prey was only a slight hint of what you would offer me. I waited and 
 waited for you, knowing little other than the brilliant concept. I would be a test subject for 
 a new device that creates portals. That was all I needed to know; the gameplay possibilities were 
 almost limitless. A first person shooter puzzle game had finally been crafted, and I couldn't wait 
 to get my hands on it. And you didn't let me down. You thrusted me into chamber after 
 chamber of puzzle brilliance, challenging me to find ways around seemingly impossible paths. How 
 could I possibly navigate this huge pit of acid armed only with two portals? You only allow me 
 to create a link between one space at a time, meaning any portal I shoot will exit out of the other 
 portal I've already placed. Limiting, yes, but luckily you allow me to control each one with a 
 different trigger on my control device, allowing me to pull off manuevers such as jumping through 
 a portal on the ground linked with one on the very top of a near by wall, then creating another 
 one below my landing point, thrusting me through the same portal on the wall at an even greater 
 velocity. But then you did something I hadn't expected, Portal. You began throwing 
 turrets in my face... and these turrets hurt. They hurt me. They wanted to kill me... yet they 
 failed. I created portals above their heads and threw crates in another portal next to me to destroy 
 them. I dropped turrets on top of other turrets, but I had to be extra careful to make sure I didn't 
 create a portal that would extend a turrets line of sight to myself. I overcame those odds, and 
 you really pushed me to the limit near the end there, especially with the platforms that lower 
 into acid as soon as I touch them, challenging me to launch myself higher and higher while shooting 
 new portals as I flew through the air. But then you did something that hurt me more than anything... 
 you ended. After only 19 chambers of mind-numbing, platform based first person brilliance, you 
 called it quits. I guess you did offer extra challenges afterwards, such as testing 
 me to complete your brilliance using only a couple of portals, a few steps, and a limited amount 
 of time. And you did even give me some modified versions of your earlier chambers to test me with... 
 but there was something I truly was un-prepared for, Portal. You're hilarious, and you have a twisted 
 side... you let me get behind a couple of those test chambers, and I saw some twisted stuff. In 
 fact, for over an hour you lead me through a place that I was entirely unfamiliar with and you 
 showed me more depth than a lot of games with an actual prominant storyline. How is it you managed 
 to have such an engaging story when on the surface you just looked like a tech demo? You really 
 scared me sometimes, Portal, yet you eased my mind with your incredible wit and sly remarks, the 
 likes of which I've never heard in a video game before and likely never will again. At least not 
 until Portal 2... you are coming back, right? Right? : (Guys, I have to go... here 
 is James to lead us out with Team Fortress 2...
  
  
  Team Fortress 2
   
  
  The last game in the select screen in The Orange 
 Box, but the first in my heart is the extraordinary Team Fortress 2. This is where your multiplayer 
 Xbox Live fix will be meet for all you Live junkies. The name says it all when it comes to Team 
 Fortress 2 (TF2) . This is a team-based online multiplayer game that is heavily influenced by the 
 character classes. The characters are broken up into three categories: Offense, Defense and Support. 
 While each category helps in describing the characters in the game you're never limited to use 
 a character as you want in the game. Currently there are a couple game modes in TF2, Capture the 
 Flag, Control Point and Attack/Defend.
  
  
  Capture the Flag has you capturing the enemies intelligence while Control Point is a King of the 
 Mountain style game. Your team has to capture and control all of the Control Points on the map 
 in order to win. Attack/Defend is self-explanatory for the most part: one team defends a certain 
 amount of points from the other team. On one map in particular, failure to do so will progress 
 to an entirely new section of the map, up to three times [In fact, I never saw the third part of 
 Dustbowl until I had clocked over 10 hours into the game! - Chris] . One interesting map that varies 
 from the rest is Hydro; the map is setup in sections, and each round both teams will fight for 
 one point while defending one. The goal is to capture each point round by round until you push 
 the enemy all the way back, however the unique aspect of this is that at times you'll be defending 
 the same point in back to back rounds but attacking a different one, giving the map a great deal 
 of extra replay value. On Offense you have the Scout, Soldier and Pyro. On Defense 
 you have Demoman, Heavy Weapons Guy and the Engineer. Support has the following three characters: 
 Medic, Sniper and Spy. As you can probably tell the name of each character class gives you an overview 
 of the characters abilities in the game. For example, the Scout character can run faster than another 
 of the other characters in the game, as well as double jump. The Engineer can build four different 
 building types that can assist your team on the map. While the Spy has the ability to disguise 
 himself as a character on the other team or use a cloak to become temporarily invisible. Each character 
 has three different weapons to choose from during the fight and the characters have a primary and 
 secondary fire option depending on the weapon selected. Since each character has their own specific 
 weapons and abilities working with your teammates is vital for success. However, since you have 
 nine different classes you can have a near limitless variety on how you play a map. For example, 
 do you have everyone play as a Scout because of the Scout's speed? Or what if you had one Scout 
 while the rest were Medics? The game allows you to change character classes at any point in the 
 game which keeps the possibilities going of never playing the same map the same way twice. Keep 
 in mind, this is no Call Of Duty 4. In no way is Team Fortress 2 like real life. Its graphic style 
 is a wonderful cartoon-ish world, where if you get hit by an enemy soldier's rocket when you're 
 weak, you'll be nothing but bits and pieces of what you used to be. The only memory of you being 
 the blood splattered on the walls and floors. And believe me, you will be getting blown apart. 
 A lot. Between the duties of a Demoman and a Soldier, you'll be getting blown up at least once 
 or twice a match. Now you may be thinking, wow! Team Fortress 2 seems like a gaming 
 euphoria! Well, you'd be partially right. This is the only Multiplayer game in The Orange Box, 
 and its wicked fun. But there are only 6 maps, and 1 Capture The Flag map. Speaking of the Capture 
 The Flag match, I was in a match with AceGamez's own Christopher Martin, whom I'm reviewing the 
 game with, and it lasted 2 hours! I mean, damn! The problem was that there were a decent amount 
 of Engineers on the other team, and they were making Turrets so we couldn't really get to the flag 
 [It wasn't only that we couldn't get to the flag, it was that they were blocking entire entry ways 
 with turrets making it impossible to bypass - Chris] . Soon, we realized, lets just take 4 people, 
 2 Heavy Gunners, and 2 Medics, and the Heavy Gunners will just take 'em down. We figured that out 
 at about, 1 Hour 45 Minutes of being crushed by the Turrets and realizing it was simply impossible 
 to find an alternate route, and we straight dominated. I mean, we rocked them. Yes, like a hurricane. 
 After all, we lost. Devastating, I know.
  
  
  Though the turrets are a pain and honestly a bit over-powered, there are other means to disable 
 them. A fully upgraded turret comes equipped with rockets and damn-near 360 degree turning, which 
 is instant, so you'll have to be clever. A quick demo man can use remote grenades by launching 
 them around corners and destroying them with ease [my personal favorite class! - Chris] , while 
 Spies can sneak in undetected and latch a satchel charge onto the back of a turret. Snipers can 
 even take them out from a distance by staying in their scope from a certain amount of time, thus 
 making their shots more powerful (told you it was cartoony... though, this is something that was 
 featured in the original TF as well!)
  
  
  Along with TF2's graphics style is a set of sound effects that take over the top to all new heights. 
 Each character has a hilarious and unique voice, from the German medic to the Pirate influenced, 
 booze drinking Demo Man. During the match you'll hear characters yelling and screaming for whatever 
 reason; they might be on fire, they might be losing a sentry gun, they might have just nailed a 
 sweet headshot, or melee'd somebody down with a broken bottle of alcohol. And if they aren't running 
 their mouths, you can make them with one of three class specific taunts, each animated to near 
 perfection.
  
  
  Team Fortress 2 makes for a great Multiplayer component for The Orange Box's package. It's shallow, 
 and with only 6 maps you may feel like you've seen everything there is to see after a while, but 
 after about 8-10 hours of actually playing this game, and only those 6 maps, I feel like there's 
 so much more I need to do and play. I need to take down more turrets, heal more Heavy's, Headshot 
 more people, Capture more flags, and make more people nothing but bits and pieces. So please, won't 
 you join me for some online action in Team Fortress 2? 
  
  
  And there you have it; for the price of one game, you're getting three incredible chapters of arguably 
 the best first person shooter you can find, the brilliant experience that is Portal, and an incredible 
 multiplayer game that stands-alone as incredibly unique, addicting, and unlike any online shooter 
 on the market. Valve set out to create the best class-based shooter with TF2 and they've done just 
 that. Orange Box is simply the best deal money can buy and if we had to recommend any one 360 game 
 for the Holidays, The Orange Box will get you the most life, and probably the most fun as well.
 
  
  
  
  Written By Christopher Martin and James Fanciullo of AceGamez.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob6918
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Well first off you get the Half Life 2 game buffed up to 360 standards and looking and playing 
 as great as ever as well as including chapters 1 and 2.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is a awesome multiplayer experience no dedicated 360 owner should be without. 
 
  
  Finally you have Portal, for such a unknown title what a incredible game!!!
  
  Pros: This entire package is a total bargain and should be bought as quickly as possible. All three 
 games are addictivley good, and always enjoyable. Basically you get the bang for your buck and 
 won't stop playing these titles well into 2008.
  
  Cons: None really, besides the fact that valve is still trying to suck the money away from its 
 fans =P, but that is nothing new.
  
  SO trust me on this one, it is a must own and a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TVR_Fan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box is not box that is orange, which contains lots of Oranges but in fact five games 
 in one. Anyway, as part of this package let me talk about Half-Life 2 first:
  
  Half-Life 2 is the follow up to Half-Life, which is by far one of the games that graced the PC.
 
  
  About the start of the game:
  
  In Half-Life 2, you play as Gordon Freeman who wakes up on a train that is heading for City 17. 
 However, after the train stops, your full journey through the game begins, and as you get off the 
 train, you look around to find someone on a big screen talking.
  
  Which is Breen and not only that but there are Combine Soldiers keeping the law within there hands. 
 After you see this you start, walking more around some more you start going through some control 
 points.
  
  Once you have gone through some control points you head to a room, but as soon as you enter it 
 and the door closes you get a nice warm greeting by Barney who is undercover as a Combine.
  
  As soon as he gives, you a bit more of a backdrop on City 17 your journey carries on and you 
 are heading through City 17 to head to a block of houses, which soon gets under siege by the Combine.
 
  
  After the Combine gets more and more control of the living block, you are racing towards the roof. 
 After you race to the roof, you finally make it, which means you have to make it across the roof 
 and make your way into another room followed by some more.
  
  Once you have gone through a couple of rooms you get attacked by the Combine, but do not worry 
 Alyx Vance gives you a helping hand with you out you seeing her for a couple of seconds and saves 
 you.
  
  Next, up you head to the lab of Dr. Isaac Kleiner and more of the story, once he tells you some 
 more things Barney has something funny to him by Kleiner's pet.
  
  A couple minutes later, you meet Dr. Eli Vance in a strange way, but do not worry you will meet 
 him fully later on in the game.
  
  Right that is a plenty of revealing some of the story. However since this is a review from me, 
 I do not want to spoil anything else about the game, and let you find out more about the games 
 story by yourself.
  
  About the Game Play:
  
  Half-Life 2 still to this day has some of the best game play, tied to great action, puzzles and 
 use of physics. Take the physics, not only is it used for the puzzles at points in the game, but 
 it also used in the action parts.
  
  Other then the action, physics and puzzles there is some driving parts, which also have a great 
 amount of action tied to them.
  
  The Graphics:
  
  The graphics in this game may not be up to the standard of the Unreal 3 engine to the Crykek 2 
 engine, but the graphics are still nice to look at. Take the facial animations they are still great 
 to see in action.
  
  Even if there are some games out there, which are better then them now. However, that still does 
 not stop Value using those facial animations in the Half-Life 2 engine.
  
  Anyway before I move on I would like to point out one thing, and that is Value have done one great 
 thing to the Xbox 360 version of Half-Life 2 and is improved the graphics engine in parts like 
 the textures.
  
  The level design in this game:
  
  Half-Life 2 has some great level design, which can offer some challenge in some situations for 
 some players, but overall the game's level design does not make the game impossible to beat.
  
  Characters and the enemies:
  
  There is a great bunch of Characters in this game good or 
 evil, take Dr. Isaac Kleiner he knew you back from Half-Life so it is like a reunion for him and 
 Gordon Freeman.
  
  Then there is Dog who is Alyx's pet, which is not a dog, but in fact robot built by the creator 
 Dr. Eli Vance to protect her Daughter.
  
  Anyway, let me talk about one of the enemies now, called the Headcrab who is one of the old favourites 
 from the first game, and the mission for the Headcrab is to do one thing to you and that is leap 
 for you, as it just wants to give you a bit of a kiss.
  
  However since a Headcrab is not that kind I only have one suggestion for you, and that is get your 
 trusty crowbar out.
  
  The weapons:
  
  Half-Life 2 has a good mix of weapons from the return of the Crowbar to the trusty Shotgun, but 
 other then these two weapons there are others, which I cannot fully talk about, since this is a 
 review for The Orange Box.
  
  
  Half-Life 2 Episode 1 and 2
  
  Episode 1 leaves off from Half-Life 2, which is all about carring on the fight with the combine, 
 which Half-Life 2 Episode 2 also carries off from Episode 1.
  
  The game play and story line of both these Episodes:
  
  
  The game play and story line are 
 still as good as Half-Life 2, but since there is not much to talk about the game play other then 
 some more enemies to help boost the game play.
  
  I want to talk about the story line from both these episodes, the story line in episode 1, will 
 see you wait up in a dark place. However after Dog frees you you find out what happened after something 
 blew up in City 17 from your actions.
  
  Once you are fully getting aware about something you blew up in Half-Life 2, it is up to you to 
 try to stop the thing you blew up getting even worst. After you done this you start heading through 
 Episode 1 going to more locations, which I will not spoiler for you.
  
  Anyway it is time to move onto the story line about Episode 2, which also has some more enemies 
 but other then this the graphics engine has some extra things added to Episode 2.
  
  The Story line:
  
  In Episode 2, you will be making a journey to a large Resistance base called 
 White Forrest. However, in this location it holds some device, to create a super portal to try 
 to aid a new invasion by the Combine.
  
  
  Portal:
  
  Portal is a first person puzzler, where you make your way through a good amount of puzzles challenging 
 and not.
  
  Game play and jokes:
  
  The game play is top notch in this game, where you use your portal gun to make an entry portal 
 and an exit portal. However, to make you feel like you are getting rewards you will not get the 
 full use of the portal gun until later on in the game, which is when it starts getting more challenging.
 
  
  Moving on from the interesting and great game play of Portal, I would like to talk about the jokes, 
 and all I can say is the jokes are funny. One of these jokes is something called the Companion 
 Cube, and with this cube you will not want to lose it.
  
  Because if you loose it you will start feeling like your lose your girlfriend, or your child ran 
 away from you.
  
  
  Team Fortress 2:
  
  Team Fortress 2 is the follow up to one of the best mods on the PC called Team Fortress, but other 
 then this short backdrop on this game. Team Fortress 2 is one of the best parts of The Orange Box 
 along with being one of the best online shooters on the Xbox 360.
  
  The Classes you can play:
  
  Scout: Scouts are the fastest class for getting around levels 
 on, but with a cost, and that cost is being lightly armoured, so if you are going to pick this 
 class it is also about using that double jump really well.
  
  Soldier: This class is slow moving, but with plenty of firepower, and can take a good amount of 
 damage.
  
  Pyro: If you love your candles or even setting people on fire through any online shooters, then 
 this class is for you.
  
  Demoman: This is a defence class so if you like defending or you like grenade launches this class 
 will suit you.
  
  Heavy: Heavies can take the most damage and can deal the most if well used.
  
  Engineer: The 
 Engineer does not have much amour, but can deal a good amount of damage if used right. However, 
 if you love defending positions or just killing with guns that kill by themselves then this is 
 for you.
  
  Medics: When you select this class, your main goal is keeping the other players on your team alive, 
 but do not worry this class can still kill.
  
  Sniper: If you play this class then be ready to go long range with your attacks most of the time.
 
  
  Spy: In this class, you will be sneaking a lot trying to back stab people as much as you can.
 
  
  Final Thoughts on - The Orange Box:
  
  If are into First Person Shooters and you are yet to buy this, then I suggestion you should buy 
 this as soon as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Neccers
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Finally half life a the intrepid journeys of good old gordon are on the 360! After playing through 
 this amazing bundle i have to say that although i am a diehard half life fan the thing that really 
 stood out of me was PORTAL. portal is amazing, the sheer ingenuity of it is staggering, an it is 
 soooo much fun. the clever game design and the witty sarcastic comments of the voice over character 
 add alot of character to the game an make you want to play it again, just to hear them. the last 
 level was incredibly fun and to be honest the credits were by far the best i have ever seen. unfortunately 
 it was rather short : (
  anyway the halflife side of things are up to their usual great standard and it was great to get 
 up to date with the story. so thats all good. every gamer out there should play this great saga.
 
  team fortress 2 was a dissapointment to me though it sounded good but personally it just didnt 
 turn out to be my thing.
  overall this is well well worth the suprisingly low cost it has and more.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: filmfreak1138
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  THE ORANGE BOX is a great buy!! I had played Half-life 2 on the Xbox... but never finished it. 
 I have now that it is on the 360. I love the story and it took me on an adventure that I really 
 did enjoy. Episode 1 & 2 were both great, and I am hoping to see Episode 3 arrive on Xbox LIVE 
 to download.
  
  Portal was nice and refreshing. I heard alot about it and I enjoyed it, but not as much as some 
 of the PODCASTERS did. But i was great.
  
  TEAM FORTRESS 2 is a blast... I think it looks great! It is lots of fun.
  
  For the price of 
 the ORANGE box... there is NO way you could get all this for the low price. PORTAL itself would 
 cost $15 if you bought it on LIVE Arcade.
  
  To go over each game would take me forever... and I dont want to put you to sleep withan amazing 
 story of how wonderful these games are.
  
  To those that gave this game a LOW score: OH WELL! your opinion
  
  To those that gave this 
 a high score: You found the enjoyment of the Half-life world
  
  If you have never played HALF-LIFE 2 before... let this be a game you pic up and buy. This is not 
 a game you can rent and get ALL that it has to offer.
  
  OVER ALL
  The LOOK: It looks great 9.5 for the graphics
  The FEEL: The controles are very good 9.0
  The 
 SOUND: Great music, great sound, brings you into the settings 9.0
  The GO AHEAD: BUY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gjagiello
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  I am not a PC gamer, so the Xbox 360 version of Orange Box is my first exposure to Half Life 2. 
 I'll cut to the chase -- HL2 is the best FPS game I've ever played, without question. The story 
 is engaging, great pacing and suspense, characters are well developed, visually it's outstanding, 
 the environments are varied and interesting, enemy AI is above average, the weapons are clever 
 and effective, vehicles are fun and tied in to the storyline nicely. This is a fun game that I 
 didn't want to end. In my opinion, HL2 in the Orange Box is the high water mark in game history. 
 That this game also includes HL2 ep 1, ep 2, Portal, and Team Fortress is just icing on the cake. 
 Recommended without reservation -- a must-have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthzew
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  I had never played any of the Half-Life series. Ever. I knew that Half-Life 2 was considered one 
 of the best games of all time, but I had just missed out. I wanted a chance to rectify that mistake 
 and the Orange Box was that chance. 
  
  To get the backstory and the full ride, I decided that it was best to play Half-Life 2 first. So... 
 I did. I was pulled in immediately. The twisted beginning really makes you feel the suffering in 
 this near-apocalyptic world. I couldn't help but feel sympathy for the citizens of City 17. I went 
 through this and was wowed, but I stopped playing when I hit the maddening vehicle sequence. Using 
 a horrible one-thumbstick system, the hovercraft pissed me off more than anything. So, I stopped 
 playing and moved on for a while. 
  
  I wanted to give it a chance. So after hearing that Episode 2 was amazing, I decided to play that. 
 As said... Yeah, Episode 2 is AMAZING. Even though it used the same vehicle interface... I couldn't 
 put it down!!! The last level was especially awesome: the most intense piece of gaming I've played 
 since fighting my first Berserker in Gears of War. Only problem: it was over before I was finished! 
 I WANTED MORE!!!
  
  So I wound up finishing Half-Life 2 and loved it despite the hovercraft sequence. What really made 
 me love Half-Life 2 was the sequence in which you have an army of really big bugs called Ant Lions 
 at your command. 
  
  Episode One felt weak after playing the better two-thirds, but it was Half-Life 2 so I was happy 
 with it. 
  
  SCORES OF THE HALF-LIFE 2 GAMES:
  SOUND - Great acting, great sounds, great music although it's not always there. Overall: 9
  GRAPHICS 
 - Not on par with modern standards of excellence, but great facial animations are the saving grace: 
 7
  GAMEPLAY: Actually a weak point. It's confusing because the B button is the reload button, where 
 X or RB is the standard. And vehicles are a drag: 7
  VALUE: It's Half-Life 2 plus goodies... what more do you need? 10
  TILT: I'm tilting with an 
 8.
  TOTAL AVERAGE: 8.2
  
  Team Fortress 2... the worst part of the box. The concept is EXCELLENT, I will give it that. But 
 it's not executed well.
  
  It's supposed to be a team based multiplayer game featuring various units you can choose from to 
 complete an objective. I'm not going in too much depth here, but here's why I don't like it:
  
  Bad matchmaking system. Let's look at Halo 3's matchmaking system and compare. Halo 3 owns 
 it.... I really hate joining a match mid-session... it's awkward and can really affect the balance 
 later on. Adding to this, the games are never full and even if they are... there is no way to fully 
 implement use of the various classes you can choose from. 
  
  BREAKDOWN:
  Graphics - Fine, but not impressive: 9
  Sound - Wait... there's sound? What little you hear is 
 good: 7
  Gameplay - Kind of clunky at points, like HL2 and there my class complaints and matchmakings issues: 
 7
  Value - Only great if you count in the rest of the Orange Box: 5
  Tilt - Meh: 8
  TOTAL 7.2
  
  PORTAL:
  My favorite part of the Orange Box. There are basically no problems 
 with Portal. The concept is that you are doing some kind of corporate experiment test using the 
 Portal Gun. You make portals that serve as two-way doors between two locations that you place. 
 You make these portals basically anywhere and it's loads of fun to play with.
  
  The best part of Portal is that it's downright hilarious. There is a computerized voice that guides 
 you through the test. Well, it consistently lies to you and says things are simply hilarious. Add 
 to that, the end credits song will crack you up and leave it stuck in your head for ages to come.
 
  
  This is best reviewed in the BREAKDOWN:
  Graphics - Once again... fine, but not impressive: 9
  Sound - The computer voice that guides 
 you is hilarious and the emptiness the game gives is great to the overall feel: 10
  Gameplay - Flawless and easy to use: 10
  Value: Really short...: 6
  Tilt: Too awesome to not 
 give it a 10.
  TOTAL: 9.0
  
  The Orange Box as a package is great and the final average total is... 
  8.1
  
  However, 
 seeing as it takes three games and puts them together, with two being awesome, I have to give it 
 a raise to 9.1. But thank you Gamespot for forcing me to make a 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 4:44 am PT
Review:  Let's get this out of the way. If you don't like First Person Shooters or the first person perspective 
 you won't like The Orange Box. Go back to playing mediocrity. Those who have great taste in games, 
 buy this package. It comes with five fantastic games. First of all is the defining, superb Half 
 Life 2. Those who wish to belittle Half Life 2 and say "Halo for da world" are complete idiots. 
 Yes, Halo is good. But no Half Life, no Halo. Simple as that. The second game is Episode 1. It's 
 a little on the short side but this tiny episode surpasses other FPS games without breaking a sweat. 
 Then there's the new release of Half Life 2 Episode 2, which is as fantastic as it gets and upstages 
 its previous episode and tantalizes on the possibilities of Episode 3 and the eventual true sequel. 
 The next game to follow is Portal. A fantastic, if painfully short, game that ups the ante of the 
 puzzle genre. It's probably the most standout game because of its ingenuity and originality. It 
 doesn't last long but you'll be back for more and wanting more. Than there's the game that will 
 add loads to the lifespan of the entire package, Team Fortress 2. With its aesthetic appeal and 
 fantastic animation and humour, it's a great online multiplayer.
  
  Buy it, just buy it.
  
  GO ON!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cactuar123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Half-life is one of those games that blew everyone's minds way back when Gamespot was a little 
 baby website. But Half-life 2, that definetly became a staple for gaming. Then came Half-Life 2: 
 Episode 1, and came with a greater physics engine, much better graphical achievment, and a great 
 and compelling story. Team Fortress was the inspiration for class based shooters, such as the Battlefield 
 series. Portal is just the one of the most psychologically weirdest game I have played. It features 
 a portal system, but this game is based heavily off of some weird portal game that was realeased 
 some time this decade. Now, mix this together with some extras, achievments, online play, and beautiful 
 graphics and physics engine, and you have The Orange Box. Half-Life 2: Episode 2 features Gordan 
 Freeman just after you escape City 17, which was the goal of Half-Life 2: Episode 1. You do what 
 you did then, but with new and better graphics, different puzzle style, updated physics, continuing 
 story, and achievments! That.. is really all there is to Half-Life. Team Fortress 2 is a Pixar game 
 with blood and gore [which is just crazy] , better graphics than a Pixar game, a class system, and 
 no story that involves you getting that Xbox Live for the 2 people that haven't. Portal is... a 
 puzzle adventure where you are up for an Aperture Science expriment to test a Portal device. You 
 shoot an orange portal somewhere, then shoot a blue portal elsewhere, and when you go through the 
 orange portal, you end up at the blue portal! So this compilation of some of the most impressive 
 games I've seen during the flood of games that are coming out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow9669
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  now half life 2 was an awesome game so are the episode. This box is a must play portal is a must 
 play to now if you play TF2 Expect lots of leg thats one of the things they should have tried fixing 
 for release. If leg was showing up in beta they should have tried fixing that problem instead of 
 brushing it aside and just releasing the game. now where stuck with a online game that is very 
 hard to enjoy becosue it legs almost all the time. Now I am hoping that they will come up with 
 and update for the game that will fix this leg but i still haven't heard anything.. theres my review 
 peace......!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that I never played the first Half-Life, and that after playing the 
 Orange Box, I want to get my hands on the original because I had lots of fun with the sequel and 
 it's two episodes. Also note that since I don't have XBL, I couldn't play TF2 with other people. 
 Too bad it doesn't have splitscreen. From what I've seen, though, the online looks fun. 
  
  I'll start with Half-Life 2 and it's two episodes. From the very beginning, I was immersed in the 
 game world more than any game I've ever played. You can interact with ANYTHING! Want to talk to 
 people? You can talk to anyone, and they'll have something to say. It helps that the facial animation 
 is the best I've seen. Want to interact with the environment? You can get soda from a machine, 
 pick it up, and throw it in a trash can. Now, that may sound dumb, but think of the possibilities 
 in the combat (which is very intense and fun) . You get a weapon called a Gravity Gun and you pick 
 things up and shoot them. No need for bullets. Anything can be a bullet. The enemies are fun to 
 fight, too.
  
  With such immersiveness, you feel like you really are making a difference in people's lives and 
 in the world around you. Couple this with some of the best story I've ever seen in a game, and 
 you get a must-play action game. Now onto my favorite part of the Orange Box, Portal. 
  
  I came into Portal not knowing what to expect. I just knew that it was supposed to be good. After 
 beating it, I can safely say it's the most fun game I've played on my Xbox 360, along with Halo 
 3. So how can a 5-hour puzzle game be as good as Master Chief's third adventure? 
  
  I'm not really into puzzles, but the game is paced enough to ease you into the some-what complex 
 mind benders. You get a portal gun, which lets you shoot portals and walk through them. The developers 
 made very great levels, with some of the most original ideas I've ever seen in a game. It isn't 
 really hard, (I got through it without any help whatsoever) but the length of 4 to 5 hours is perfect. 
 The game is short enough not to get boring, and is long enough to make you feel like it is a whole 
 game. 
  
  What makes it even better though, is that it's the funniest game I've ever played. It made me laugh 
 out loud many times, and has the best ending and credits I've seen in my life. There isn't much 
 of a story, but the addictiveness and enjoyment I had from the game really makes it one of my favorite 
 games ever. I can go on for hours about how great it is, but I'm going to stop here and not give 
 anything away. Portal alone deserves a 9.0. If you are not into Half-Life, the Orange Box is worth 
 renting just for Portal. 
  
  I strongly recommend the Orange Box. It has some of the best First Person experiences any game 
 could offer, and is a blast to play. If you have any interest in games, buy the Orange Box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hawawaa
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  Wow don't you love the fact you just got the biggest steal ever. 60$ for 5 games this is worth 
 it. HL2, E1, and E2 are great single player games. You can play them over and over and over again. 
 Portal is smart, fun and love that ending song. Team Fortress 2 finally. OMG its funny, fun and 
 replayable. Love my Demoman sooo much! Graphic are the best 360 has. Gameplay perfect. AI best 
 360s got. Multiplayer and single player will be played years to come. This is a must buy! Come 
 on now 5 games for 60$ who wouldn't buy this come on now... you know you want too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  Every once in awhile a game from the PC world decides to give the console kids a chance. Some times 
 it may be terrible development, or bad calls in how to implement certain gameplay elements or functions. 
 Then again, some games actually shine almost better than the big brother PC. With the Orange Box 
 offering a solid single player story worth reliving, a well made online shooter that has immense 
 potential, and a sample game that feels like the next big step in the evolution of puzzle gaming 
 all equals into one of the best games that can be purchased on the Xbox 360. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  In no way is it difficult to express how well a game by Valve plays. Controls are smooth, 
 interaction is diverse, and just about everything you use has a reasonable purpose. Not only is 
 the usual greatness present, but now its spread across 3 games. HL2 plays just as good as it did 
 on the PC years ago and even with minor gripes with switching weapons, all was well. Now hop over 
 to the highly anticipated Team Fortress 2 game and get a taste of what a well made game plays like 
 online. Being the only bit in the whole package that plays online puts a little pressure on TF2, 
 and yet it fairs well with only a handful of levels to play on. Plenty of space to choose between 
 the various classes really helps, but unless you fancy online gaming this game could easily be 
 neglected. If shooting stuff bores you, prepare to enjoy Portal. With total emphasis on puzzle 
 solving and natural know how, you explore a scientific facility using only a gizmo that allows 
 travel between 2 different points. Not much can be said for a game that introduces a whole new 
 dynamic to puzzle solving besides, play it to believe it. For any gamer who thinks such a game 
 can't be fun unless your head shotting dudes, steer clear of this lovely gem.
  
  VISUALS
  After years of praise and success on the PC version, HL2 still manages to impress running on the 
 360. No doubt, you will see some areas that look a litte rough around the edges, but unless you 
 thrive on graphics as a essential to a solid game, you may miss the wonderous world of HL2. Everything 
 in the environment compliments the world by making it extremely believable and characters from 
 the story only cement this feeling more. Once you realize how comfortable you are in the world 
 of HL2, check out Portal and try not to laugh out loud too much. A lot of recycled content from 
 HL2 is apparent in Portal, but in no way does this harm the overall enjoyment. If you do want something 
 visually different, check out TF2! Not only has the art style took a semi-cartoony approach to 
 character design, but its so well animated and realistic you can't help but want to play more just 
 to see how diverse all the characters are. 
  
  AUDIO
  Music that never feels intrusive, voice work that is well produced, sound effects that are accurate, 
 and wonderful ambience that only makes it harder to save the game and walk away. HL2 is a full 
 experience on all fronts. If you have the speaker setup to enjoy, I highly recommend you turn the 
 volume up. TF2 will have you chuckling at how smoothly the various classes add their own 2 cents 
 when interacting with others which is a priceless perk to have in any game much less a competitive 
 online one. With Portal you don't have as much special presentation as the other titles, yet simply 
 playing through the game to enjoy the end credits song is more than enough in my opinion to give 
 this one a sit down. 
  
  EXTRAS
  For any gamer who adores achievements, prepare to put in some overtime. HL2, TF2, and Portal all 
 combined ask of you to do everything from avoiding certain terrains, completing advanced puzzles, 
 to even using every class open to your selection in particular ways. Some are very simple and given 
 to you while progressing through the standard game, while many others frusterate you to great lengths. 
 Depending on your skill and determination, the replay value is very high no matter if its fun factor 
 that drives you or just the gratification in seeing those lovely words pop up at the bottom of 
 the screen. 
  
  OVERALL
  Some gamers have completly written off FPS games as bloody adventures of pure carnage and horribly 
 written stories. That is NOT the case with Orange Box. HL2 offers a great chunk of story that extends 
 the original game that plays pretty good on a console controller and includes the 2 expansions 
 that continues adventure and possibly leaving room for more. TF2 brings a competitive twist to 
 the mix offereing a great online shooting experience with awesome visuals and characters. If you 
 bore easily the few maps and game modes available at present time might wear you thin. Then again, 
 if shooting stuff in the face and traversing sci-fi worlds are not your cup of tea, Portal may 
 or may not be your last hope. All together, its been a long while since I played a game that had 
 me thinking about it while away from it. Maybe once you finally squeeze every ounce of gameplay 
 out of the Orange Box, you can complain about it being just another 60 dollar game. In the mean 
 time, I'm sure anyone who gives it a shot won't deny Orange Box is worth every dollar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -BassO-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:42 am PT
Review:  
  Through STEAM, the exclusive online pay-per-download service, Valve found a specific niche in the 
 market: Why focus on one super-game for a large audience if you can develop three or four specialised 
 games serving different audiences instead? So with The Orange Box, they dusted off and revamped 
 some of their oldies, packed a few extra gimmicks and kicked it out of the door and on to the shelves.
 
  
  And the thing is, it shouldn't be this tasty. Half Life 2 is cool, but the game is almost 4 years 
 old. Team Fortress is even older. Sure, they added some Episodes and TF got revamped some. But 
 still, these games are so old they didn't just excel in their genre: they /defined/ the genre. 
 The original Team Fortress actually was the first add-on to feature Capture The Flag, back when 
 Quake was all about deathmatch. How's that for old?
  
  And these games are still actually quite okay. HL is still holding its own against Bioshock and 
 TF2 is hitting the tray more often than Shadowrun, on my machine. And, while that means The Orange 
 Box actually is a good deal, that's rather sad.
  
  As fot the review: If you've never played HL2 before, welcome on planet Earth. Don't wait 'till 
 the end of this review, but scramble for the nearest retailer. You can either buy The Orange Box 
 at a premium or dig to the very bottom of the oldies bin and find the original for pocket change.
 
  
  The Episodes are okayish, but they're just more of the same. Sure, they added some game mechanics 
 and used the engine in some spiffy ways. But it's still, you know, HL2
  
  Team Fortress 2 is cool, but would never have made it on its own. Maps are limited, gameplay lacks 
 diversity and it takes ages to find a game to join, since the lobby exits every time a game you 
 want to join turns out to be closed. Sure, the visuals are different. But that's pretty much saying 
 it all: they're different, not really better in any way.
  
  Portal is funky, but it's more of a showcase than an actual game. It's a nice puzzler. But it's 
 short, straightforward and rather more of an extra on the DVD than a feature movie.
  
  In the end, The Orange Box is far less than the sum of its parts, back when they were all the rage. 
 And still, I can't shake off this 'incredible value for money'-feeling it leaves me with. And to 
 be honest, that makes me sad about the state next-gen gaming is in today.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dniq_gamespot
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 12:13 am PT
Review:  What amazing about Half-Life 2 is that now, 3 years since its first release on PC, it's still SO 
 FREAKING MUCH FUN TO PLAY! (sorry for the caps - just love this game! :) ) . Episode I and II just 
 add more fun to the whole experience.
  
  I'm very happy that Valve has released the whole enchilada for XBOX-360 now. This is absolutely 
 the best game ever made, a classic of genre. Story, gameplay - all top notch. Graphics, even though 
 3 years old, still looks great.
  
  Portal is absolutely a "must-have" game! No matter what they say - there IS cake!
  
  And for 
 the record: this is the best $60 you will ever spend. Promise! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hal0Junke
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:22 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box comes with 5 different games, Half Life2, Half Life2: ep1, Half Life2: ep2, Portal 
 and Team Fortress 2. Each of these games are some fo the best games ever made; and each is very 
 distinct from the other. Thus, i will give a rating to each of these games and average them for 
 a total score. But the simple fact that one disk gives you 5 games for $60 should be enough to 
 sway you to buy it already.
  
  --Half Life 2--
  Hailed as one of the best games ever made, this game will put you in the silent shoes of Gordan 
 Freeman as you fight to escape a city in a post alien invasion world. Fight your way through hours 
 of game play against enemies that adapt and surprise you. Fight with guns, a crowbar, and a weapon 
 known as the 'Gravity Gun' that allows you turn trash, office chairs, anything around you into 
 a projectile. A compelling storyline that doesnt require you to play Half Life 1 (although you should 
 at least look it up)
  A great story line, awesome graphics, and a very well put together game.
  9.7/10
  
  --Half 
 Life 2: ep 1--
  Starting off where Half Life 2 ended, this sequel puts you in new situations against foes in a 
 very different manner. Complete with new story, new places to explore, and some upgraded graphics. 
 This game provides more hours of enjoyable Half Life. Originally released buy itself (not a very 
 good deal) it fits perfectly in the Orange Box.
  The expansion of the story line as well as character devolvement, was great; but it didnt provide 
 as much new gameplay to make it truly a game of its own.
  7.8/10
  
  --Half Life 2 :ep 2--
  Plays up where HL: ep1 left off, but this time comes with more material 
 than its former sequel. With the introduction of memorable new enemies and some very new places 
 to protect and explore, it also puts the player in scripted mini sequences and surprise battles 
 that really make this game something more than its previous expansion.
  Shocking new storyline, new places, one of the coolest battles ever in the entire Half Life series; 
 this is how you make an expansion.
  8.8/10
  
  --Portal --
  Let me put this gently; I am a Halo FREAK and this game is better than Halo 3. Portal is a puzzle 
 adventure game. You have two portals you can lay, orange and blue; go through orange come out blue, 
 and vice a versa. Place one Portal on a roof and below you -- and watch as you fall through the 
 roof. Look in Gamespot for the trailer video -- I cant give this game justice. But more than its 
 revolutionary gameplay; portal is freakin hilarious. Its storyline and three characters will keep 
 you trying to figure out the puzzles for the next punch line as well as somehow figure out just 
 what the hell is going on with in this science experiment gone wrong. 
  Even after you have finished the storyline, it leaves you with a series of challenges that will 
 push your brain to its limits. Its hard to compare this game (for me anyway) to any of the others 
 ive played; because its in a genre and league of its own. 
  I bought The Orange Box mainly for this game.
  10/10
  
  --Team Fortress 2--
  ] {WARNING -- 
 This Game Can Only Be Played ONLINE} [
  This game has some of the best planned graphics, with the most personality I have ever seen in 
 a strictly multiplayer game. This solid and balanced game has you and your team mates go head to 
 head in a sort of strategic frantic shoot out. Each of the Nine characters is very defined with 
 a specific game apply role; so each a has weakness and strength in certain situations against certain 
 classes. Where one class and decimate an other -- not one class is not dominated by another (although 
 in the hands a skilled player it may seem that way) . Which brings me to my next point -- this game 
 is hard. With no training or Champaign mode, your forced to learn the game by getting killed by 
 skilled players -- but dont fret!!! This is a team game, so stick with a group and bring something 
 they dont have and you'll learn soon enough.
  A great a Multi-player shooter, and definitely one of the best graphic styles ever.
  9.5/10
 
  
  So there you have it, each of the 5 games that make up the Orange Box. The actual average between 
 them is 9.16/10. But because they all come on the same disk for $60-making this quite possibly 
 the best deal in gaming history I give it an overall 10/10.
  
  The cake is a lie-
  Hal0Junke
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: macn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  If you said, "This is one of the best deals in videogame history" i would have to say that you 
 are right.
  
  Ladies and Gentlemen, welcome to The Orange Box, For $60 you get five games: Half-Life 2, HL2: 
 Episode One, HL2: Episode Two, Portal, and Team Fortress 2
  
  Half-Life 2
  There's little debate that Half-Life 2 is among the greatest shooters ever made, If, by some strange 
 chance, you haven't played Half-Life 2 before
  I won't judge you, but there's always been an empty place in your soul, hasn't there?
  
  I 
 wanted to make this review short and sweet, but it's hard to stop writing, even when excluding 
 facts that could potentially contaminate an exceptionally well thought-out gaming experience. There's 
 just so much to say. Half-Life 2 is, simply put, the best single-player shooter ever released for 
 the PC, What Valve has created is simply a masterpiece.
  
  this game has cinematic presentation and a better-than-Hollywood plot written by a legit science 
 fiction author.
  
  Doesn't do a whole lot differently than other games in the shooter genre in terms of pure gameplay 
 innovation, but it takes existing styles, then mixes, matches and makes them better. It sets the 
 standard in all areas, especially the use of physics as a gameplay tool instead of merely a visual 
 treat for gamers.
  
  If you're a fan Videogames, action games in general, or are looking for a way to get into gaming, 
 this is it. It'll hook you, reel you in, and hold you captive for serious hours of hardcore brilliance. 
 This is gaming at its best and shows that the future holds no bounds when the might of technology 
 and touch of artistry work in tandem.
  
  Half - Life: Episode One & Two
  
  Episode One is a very polished experience, with a sense of humanity and personality that you rarely 
 see in a shooter. And there are some intense segments here and there. But this installment doesn't 
 have the "wow" factor of HL2; that was an ambitious game with a legacy to live up to.
  
  Any way you look at it, Episode Two stands out, even among the Half-Life series, as something special. 
 It may be shorter than the original, but it's a burly experience packed into roughly six hours 
 or so that offers up all the diversity, level design, and thoughtful gameplay i've known while 
 making sure to propel the story forward and leave me wanting more.
  
  Portal
  
  Set in the Half-Life universe, you play as a test subject at the Aperture Science Center. With 
 an experimental portal gun in hand, I'll be more simple:
  
  Portal is Tetris for the next generation. It's a new kind of puzzle game that finally takes advantage 
 of the 3D space and does something fresh and innovative.
  
  Team Fortress 2
  
  Team Fortress 2 brings two things rarely seen on Xbox 360: humor and good class-based multiplayer.
 
  
  TF2 comes with six maps; three are new, three are remakes. The roster doesn't feel slim once you 
 play them. Hydro, a control-point map split into six zones, restructures itself between rounds 
 to put teams into one of 16 different configurations. The others are mostly a linear series of 
 control points - all except Gravelpit, which gives attackers a choice of two to assault, and 2Fort, 
 which remains stubbornly Capture The Flag. Capture The Intelligence, sorry.
  
  ---
  
  There's nothing else available on any console like The Orange Box,
  While Portal and TF2 may 
 not be strong enough to stand on their own, coupled with the Half-Life titles, The Orange Box really 
 is one of the best games ever released.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: roosteraxe1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Could they cram anymore hours of shooter into one game? I had already played and beaten Half Life 
 2 (which by itself is still an awesome game) when this came out, but hadn't got to experience Episodes 
 1 & 2 yet. The first thing I went to however was Portal figuring I'd just get it out of the way 
 and crack into Ep.1. Man was I wrong. This game sucked up almost an entire night in and of itself. 
 I never thought I'd have to think in such weird ways to solve puzzles before. And the computer 
 voice that speaks to you throughout is hilarious! Anyway after an evening of this great game I 
 moved on to Episode 1. Awesome! If you liked Half Life 2 you owe it to yourself to play through 
 this. Same goes with Episode 2. Both pretty short games on their own, but combined with H F 2 they 
 make for a long and satisfying adventure. Unfortunately I really haven't played much of Team Fortress. 
 Online gaming's not really my thing, but what little I played seemed like a nice addition to this 
 already killer package. Yes the graphics are a little dated, but barely and not nearly enough to 
 detract from these amazing games. If you're looking for a shooter that'll get you the most bang 
 for your buck (no pun intended) , this is definitely the game to pick up. I highly recommend it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stillereize
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 16, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Pro: Great bundle of Games for one seemingly low price.
  Con: You've most likely already played these games so now you've spent twice the money on the same 
 game.
  Pro: The action and storyline are satisfactory, even engaging at times
  Con: While the action and storyline are satisfactory and even engaging at times it felt much like 
 F. E. A. R., Where the hell do I go next because every map looks the same when you are on foot? Walkthrough 
 neccessary so you don't pull your hair out running around in circles or to find that little hole 
 in the wall off in the corner.
  Pro: The mechanics of the game are solid
  Con: With the exception of Team Fortress which can tend to be choppy and make every character run 
 really way too fast. There's no way characters should be able to sprint every where they go like 
 they're on a 6 pack of Monster E. Very little balance between Half Life and Team Fortress when 
 it comes to mechanics and speed of characters. Half Life 2 feels deliberate and human, where Team 
 Fortress feels a little too amped to get any handle on any particular skill unless you're crack 
 addicted to it, then on the other hand, like any game, you need to get outside more often. Try 
 girls or movies or hanging out with friends.
  Pro: Multiplayer
  Con: The Not-really aspect Multiplayer because your friends that come over and hang out can only 
 watch you play Multiplayer. That in itself brings the grade way down. You're Half Life 2 and you 
 create Half a Multiplayer? Seriously?
  Pro: Team Fortress as well as Half Life have some amazing graphics and sound
  Con: These two 
 are not well balanced, meaning either you play Team Fortress and learn TF2 speed and skip the campaign 
 or you play the campaign and feel seriously disappointed that the two levels of character motion 
 are not in synch. Why? Most likely they didnt give a damn.
  Pro: The game does prod you along at a good pace making you want to see what happens next.
  Con: 
 What happens next is usually more of the same and the game slowly winds down instead of building 
 up to a nice epic finish. 
  Pro: Acheivements Galore
  Con: Acheivements Galore (99 achievements in all) I think the highest one is like 40. I'm probably 
 wrong, dont care to double check but seriously you are nickel and dimed on every acheivement. 7.5 
 being the average, Im guessing. Achievements are mostly story related so theres really no extra 
 effort needed to pound out the majority of these achievements that make any of them . . . well, 
 cool. Who cares if I found the lost cave of some alien? It has no bearing on the story and is completely 
 benign. Why is breaking a mini teleporter worth 5 points when killing 5 guys with one Enrgy ball 
 is worth the same? The 2 point acheivement is actually not worth 2 points because it's not fun, 
 not accurate, and again pointless. As you can see the biggest problem I have with this game is 
 their achievement schedule. This game was never made with acheivements in mind so therefore unlocking 
 acheivements feel anti-climactic. 
  Pro: Weapon selection 
  Con: Like Bioshock, with an arsenal of weapons at your ready, the game is not a challenge . . . 
 at all. It's just a matter of dying and tretrying. Maybe if they had achievements geared toward 
 player's skill and not just achievements that seem to patronize your purchase of a ported game.
 
  Pro: Great Rental
  Con: 6 maps on Team Fortress make this buy a Why did I buy this because no one is playing this 
 any more. You are literally playing against the same people over and over again. Boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthDravvid
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  There's not much to be said about the Orange box except that it takes the first two Half-Life 2 
 games and places them in a series among three new titles. This all comes in one package and it's 
 worth the price of one game. The Half-Life games have great graphics, great sound, great controls, 
 and a great storyline. 
  
  Portal is an extremely innovative game. For someone like myself, wanting to solve my problems with 
 guns, I was skeptical that this would keep me entertained. Man was I wrong. It's so satisfying 
 when you complete a level in this game. 
  
  Team Fortress 2 is also an amazing game, blending cell shaded graphics with the source engine. 
 I was never a big fan of cell shading, but I think that this game pulls it off rather nicely. 
 
  
  As for Episode 2... let's just say I finished it needing to find out what happens in Episode 3. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjatim
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 16, 2007 5:07 am PT
Review:  Firstly, i'm a great supporter of team fortress and halflife but i was left very disappointed after 
 my friend brought this round to play on my big tv. There were three of us ready to go, but then 
 there was no support for local players. only online. Not even a guest option. NOT HAPPY, after 
 all its a "Multiplayer Game". Great game apart from that.
  
  I'm a bit bemused by Microsofts approach to online gaming. They are just small things like allowing 
 guests on Gears of War. Halo 3 managed it and multiplayer is fantastic so why not TF2 or gears 
 of war. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7-ate-9
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Wow. I am writing my review before finishing my experience with this game because I imagine that 
 the Orange Box is going to keep me occupied for a lot longer, than the average 360 game. 
  
  For now i'm going to just say buy this game, especially if you can't afford a lot of games 
 because everything in this package is top quality. The gritty sci-fi world of half life has kept 
 me up for many a sleepless nights as I just want to fight through "one" more encounter. 
  
  For now i'm just holding the space here for a proper review when I have time to go into for more 
 detail, but it's a 10/10, no question. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: illufox
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  As an avid first person shooter fan, I've always considered Halflife 2 as one of the best games 
 ever!. I cannot believe that Halo 3 has got the same score, as it falls far behind this game! In 
 fact, Halo doesn't even come close to this game, not in graphics, sounds, challenges or game play! 
 This game delivers everything a good FPS can deliver and more. What makes it truly challenging 
 are the riddles you are facing every now and so often during each level.
  
  The Orange box doesn't only offer one but three Halflife 2 games! The first one is the old version 
 from the original Xbox, which was outstanding back then. The other two are new. When I thought, 
 I've seen in all in the first game, they had me surprised once more! There are so many new things 
 to discover and learn! While Halo 1 was fun to play, version 2 and 3 where rather disappointing 
 and offered no challenge whatsoever, Halflife is keeping up with the pace.
  
  Ever since I played the first Halflife, I find most other games boring or too easy. It's like driving 
 a Lamborghini and then going back to drive a Toyota.... it just doesn't feel right.
  
  Portal is a result of the genius minds at Valve. Test your IQ right there! Fantastic!
  
  Team 
 Fortress is only for people who have Xbox Live.... not something I have time for - what a huge disappointment! 
 Why couldn't they make this available offline as well? I would have loved to check it out, as I'm 
 sure it's a great game, like anything coming from Valve. 
  
  But overall, you get a lot for your money. The best game ever times two and a mind game that literally 
 blows your mind!
  
  A must for every serious FPS gamer! You will laugh at Halo :)
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: J_Fernandez
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  Best value of the year for the 360, and totally a sleeper hit that surpasses even Halo 3 in terms 
 on content and game play, a must buy, even for for Portal alone.
  Amazing deal, and amazing quality. That more or less describes the Orange Box. Half-Life 2: Episode 
 2 is simply entertaining from start to finish. Then you have Team Fortress 2, the addictive multiplayer 
 game included with the package. Also great. Finally, Portal, one of the best puzzle-based games 
 I've ever played, and has some of the most hilarious humor ever heard in a game. As a whole, one 
 hell of a great deal, and plenty of fun to be had between these three great games. Thumbs up.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonslayer22
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  If you like the Half-Life series, then this is the complete experience. There is enough new content 
 here to justify a purchase. If you didn't really like the first Half-Life (like me) then this is 
 still worth your time and money. If you're an Achievement freak (like me) , then this will keep 
 you busy for quite a while. It is the first game to have 99 Achievements (but still a total of 
 1,000 G) , and a lot of thought was put into making them interesting. Here's a rundown of the games 
 in the box.
  Half-Life 2 is a 12 hour or so thinking man's shooter. It uses physics-based puzzles and high-tech 
 weaponry to keep the gameplay fresh and life-like NPC's to tell an entertaining story. It's the 
 video game equivalent of a summer blockbuster movie that doesn't make you feel like a meathead 
 for enjoying it.
  
  Episode 1 is about 3 hours long and throws a few new gameplay twists your way and lets you spend 
 some quality time with the characters everybody loves the most.
  Episode 2 is about 6 hours long and improves on the vehicles and weaponry of the previous installments.
 
  Portal is very short (about 1-1 1/2 hours) but is a very challenging puzzles game that will definitely 
 make you laugh out loud. If you have a quirky sense of humor. If you're boring, skip this one.
 
  Team Fortress 2 is the one you'll keep coming back to. It's all about multiplayer and the handful 
 of maps with pre-set game-types would seem to limit your options. But with about a dozen different 
 character classes very few games will feel the same. And it's funny too.
  
  Really, five great games- with graphics that still look admirable by next-gen standards and characters 
 that feel more alive than any you've seen before- you can't beat this deal. The Orange Box should 
 be in everyone's green and white box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xomonuchi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  This is not a game !!! this is a virtual reality game , i didn't play it ! i lived it !!!!
  u will experiance invasion u will live it !!!!!! 
  amazing graphics ( people are real !!!! ) 
 
  great environement !!!!!!!
  fantastic gameplay ,, so addictive !!!!!!!!!!! 
  great weapons !!! and the invasion is real damn scary ! u will live it !!!!!!
  
  This is not 
 a game !!! this is a virtual reality game , i didn't play it ! i lived it !!!!
  u will experiance invasion u will live it !!!!!! 
  amazing graphics ( people are real !!!! ) 
 
  great environement !!!!!!!
  fantastic gameplay ,, so addictive !!!!!!!!!!! 
  great weapons !!! and the invasion is real damn scary ! u will live it !!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mohit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 3:58 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, I think Halo 2: Orange Box is a great game and an incredibly great value. It's 
 just that after having played Half-Life-2 about 3 years ago there's not that much new going on. 
 Episode 1 and 2 sounds great in terms of episodic content delivery but aren't that much more than 
 a mission pack with a little story thrown in. The most annoying aspect remains the loading screen. 
 There is a pause every 5 minutes in the game as stuff gets saved or loaded. That totally kills 
 it and is what defines the dated nature of the game. Graphics are kinda ca. 2004 too. Gameplay 
 remains tops.
  If you've not played HL2 yet, or are vey keen on multiplayer, definitely go for it. If you have, 
 not sure you want to pay that much for two mission packs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Browncoatgamer8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Remember when you were a kid, and occasionally you'd see games that tout "3 in 1" or "Hundreds 
 of minigames"? Well, this actually reminds me of that, except here you have 5 completely incredible 
 games, where the replay value is high, and the fun level is even higher. Let's take Half-Life 2 
 first, incredible game, we've all played it (and if you haven't you should just for the experience) . 
 There's nothing like seeing a war torn city being occupied by hostile militants bent on your "well-being". 
 Also, seeing a Strider for the first time is just scary, let alone fighting them later on in the 
 game. Half-Life 2 episode 1 & 2 expand on the incredible story and even offer new gameplay experiences, 
 especially with the Hunters in episode 2. The Hunters accompany the Striders, accessing places 
 the Striders were never meant to go. Then we have Portal... incredible game, albeit just a tad 
 short. The game didn't need to be any longer than what it was, but I would really like to see Valve 
 implement this new feature into the series (maybe episode 3) . The humor in Portal is amazing, from 
 the wieghted companion cube, to the sadistic empty promises of cake, the A. I. will keep you hysterical 
 for a while. Team Fortress is one of the ultimate multi-player games on the 360 keeping strategy, 
 skill, and humor on the forefront. The battles in Team Fortress are incredibly hectic, and tense, 
 and the presentation of the characters is perfect. My only gripe with this game is the fact that 
 there is NO split screen for team fortress, so if you have a lan party, everyone has to bring a 
 360 and a TV if they want to play together, which does make the picture better, but reduces the 
 amount of people that can play in one game.
  Overall buy this game. This review is hasty, only because I have to get back to blasting Hunters 
 in episode 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sufcmax
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Right where do I start? The orange box is the best deal in video game history. Every game is amazing 
 and all of them keep up to Valve's great reputation. Team Fortress 2 is probably my favorite game 
 in the package; I think its just plain fun no over complicated control scheme or stupid gimmicks. 
 I just love it when you get 15 kills plus on your sentry, you just great a rewarding feeling. All 
 the character classes are balanced to perfection so theres no dominant class but you obviously 
 have your favorite.
  
  The Half Life 2 collection does the franchise proud as it has complete versions of HL 2, HL 2: 
 Episode 1 and HL 2: Episode 2 all of which are spectacular games.
  
  And then theres portal; the one game that took me by surprise not by disappointment but by amazement. 
 I wasn't interested by this game at first but I finally got into it and it really is the best puzzle 
 I have ever played. It has a linear story but it fits in nicely without taking the focus of the 
 complexity of the puzzles.
  
  One thing though... I cant wait for HL 2: Episode 3.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: qsue
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  like i said above, you get 5 games half life 2 was a very good game .at first i didn't understand 
 it but when i did the research i started to get it. i never did play half life one my friend always 
 talked about it when i was in junior hi school but i never played it. i wasn't into computer games. ( 
 im a console man) half life 2 is what all shooters should be modeled from. now the episode are 
 not meant to be full games. people are getting mad saying that they suck they don't tell you anything. 
 most of these people are probably the ones that gave halo 3 a 9 and above. yeah halo 3 is horrible 
 halo 2 is better. the episode explain so much it tells you what happens between half life 2 and 
 half life 3. know if halo had done this maybe the story would be so awful. well the story is good 
 if you read the books but bungie says the books are not related to the video game. after you beat 
 the half life games go and listen to the developers commentary. its very good. the story drags 
 you in. you feel it when things happen. like when your in ravenholm you feel scared but when you 
 get out and see the light it feels so good. when you first see a hunter it runs by your screen and 
 your like ' "what was that thing" the graphics are a bit old but what valve is doing is they are 
 using the episodes as a test bed. they put new stuff in so that ep 3 and half life three will be 
 great. like in ep 2 they added a new particle system and the added more debris . the structures 
 seem like the programmers built every beam and board individually. everything about it seems like 
 it can be destroyed. the lighting in the game is very realistic. they fixed the flashlight so it 
 is independent of your sprint. it also last a long time. but in ep 2 you rarely use it. in ep one 
 you do though. one thing i especially love about this game is the sound omg i am a sound fiend. 
 if a game doesn't sound right i wont like it. the guns in this game disturb the piece. when thy 
 fire your neighbors can tell especially if you have a good sound system. the shotgun from halo 
 3 sound like the pistol from half life 2. lol they sound like a real gun do. also the A. I in this 
 game is very intelligent. if they had the same strength as you they would be unstoppable on normal. 
 they are so intelligent that if the attack in group some will lay down suppressive fire while the 
 others infiltrate where ever you are hiding and flank you from the rare. if you shoot someone they 
 would retreat unless your all up in their face .the guys that are on your side are pretty good 
 at helping themselves. unlike the marines from halo 3 anyways the orange box is a rediculous deal 
 i think its too much for one box but it is worth every single dime. i felt guilty walking out the 
 store lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iworkfortheruss
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  The orange box is the best value for your money i've ever seen
  Half-Life 2 is great no matter how old it is, it's 3 years old, and it's graphics still easily competes 
 with Halo3 -- and it probobly has one of the scariest levels in gaming history, try this: Play level 
 "We don't Go to Ravenholm" on HDTV at night with lights turned off, you'll have nightmares -- game 
 has really fun achievements to complete-ex. HotPotatOWNED -- enemy throws a grenade at you, you pick 
 it up and throw it back at him with your gravity gun (best weapon ever -- use physics to kill things -- cut 
 zombies in half with saw blades like grass) and blow 'em up. Has very good storyline-facial animation 
 is amazing. Gives you 12+ hours of single player-way more then Halo3 could offer (sorry to Halo fans, but 
 I'm still kind of pissed at Bungie for crappy single player)
  Episode 1-- it wasn't as long as HL2, but it's still really fun -- show's a new type of "suicidal" 
 zombie -- play it and you'll see what I'm talking about -- has you playing in the dark most of the 
 time -- oh yes and the best part -- you 'll play side by side with girl Alyx (best sidekick ever) (unlike 
 Arbiter) -- she helps you a lot in gunfight's and helps you, also tells you about your past-something 
 you would not know unless you played first HL -- about 6+ of gameplay
  Episode 2-probably the best HL ever looked -- large scale environment -- and the best part Half of 
 the game you'll be driving a muscle car -- Alyx is still by your side -- 8+ of game play
  Portal -- best puzzle I've played since we (Russians) invented Tetris -- Physics can be fun -- Smarter 
 then most puzzles I've seen lately --very original -- Humorous -- Best endgame song I've ever heard -- has 
 ADVANCED maps for smarter people (like me) -- 4+ hours of gameplay,+1 hour for advanced levels
  Team Fortress 2-- funniest multiplayer game ever -- each character has 3 funny animations -- characters 
 actually play differently when you play them -- very balanced -- Pyro is awesome --
  
  Valve Cares for their fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicUSMC
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  The game or games are very fun to play. But if you already have Half-Life 2 and ep1 then its a 
 better to buy the 360 verson.
  
  Half-Life 2: the same thing just better graphichs. If you have played the game a few times you 
 will have a easy time getting your gammer score up.
  
  Half-Life 2 Ep1: Same thing as HL2.
  
  HL 2 Ep 2: This is one big leap from the last one. With 
 the better graphichs, more action and a lout driving for the second half of the game. And some 
 more bad jokes.
  
  Portal: Fun for the people how like playing stargey games. With the weired woman voice telling 
 you what to do during the time of the hole game. The only thing that is not good is that its about 
 2 hours long.
  
  Team Fortress 2: Is the game that will hunger your online fun. With Captor the flage and outher 
 game types this is a fun way to kill time. The only down side is that there is no death match. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Presidentman2
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Hey now!; Dont get me wrong.
  
  I love this game.
  Half life is still ahead and senior to most FPS's
  
  The graphics, story line and playability 
 are all top notch. (speaking directly of half-life) Being able to throw in cheats any time during 
 the game brings back old strands of nublet-hood. You'll often recieve achievements for just being 
 destructive and resisting authority. 
  
  
  
  Portal though, is pricesless. 
  And I must say, I enjoyed my cake. :)
  Long live the companion cube! 
  
  
  Anywho, You'll 
 love racking your brain whilst an overly sarcastic computer tells you just how doomed you really 
 are.
  
  Team fortress could've kept deathmatch mode. Switching from spy to medic and completely changing 
 the tide of the match still thrills the way it used too. All in all Im happy i spent my money.
 
  
  Presidente
  (Quick and flashless) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodsek
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 11, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  The orange box is decent at best. The story sucks, their are muityple times that i was just like 
 wow i am bored. Theirs time where i felt like i was cheated ( which i was) . i felt like the on 
 reason that i needed to beat this game was to get the achievements. Random loading screens, loading 
 screens that load the loading screen. Load times are bad.
  Portal was fun but not worth the 60 bucks that i paid 4 the orange box. 
  
  The half- life 
 series is very over rated and probably wont buy another game of theres
  
  I Give it a 6.0 because it sucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AudioSoldier
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  It's night-on impossible to mark The Orange Box down. Boasting Valve's magnum opus and its episodic 
 follow-ups, you already have a harmony of supreme first-person shooters. And that's before you 
 factor in the gravity-defying Portal and cartoon-embodied Team Fortress 2, both worthy purchases 
 in their own right. 
  
  The Xbox version groups the games together in one easily-navigable menu. Given chronological proceedings, 
 Half-Life 2 is the place to begin. And what a lot changes in three years. The first thing you'll 
 notice as the synonymous City 17 events unfurl is just how bad it looks. True, the water effects 
 still dazzle, the facial animations are impressive and the weapons look nice, but the game's textures 
 look muddy at best. A few objects looked positively woeful too, imbued with a sickly green tinge 
 as if the game's lighting was completely off-kilter, or the engine was struggling to cope. It looks 
 better on PC, but only because a 37 inch television doesn't do it any favors. 
  
  Still, you'll awaken from your post Crysis stupor -- where you might be accustomed to lovingly 
 rendered jungle vistas running at atrocious framerates -- when you realize just how well Half-Life 
 2 has translated to Microsoft's brain-child. Its seamless firefights and seamless story underline 
 why this is still a definitive shooter. 
  
  I was eager to press on to newer ground nonetheless.
  
  Episode One is newer, though not altogether 
 new, having been released prior to The Orange Box. Forever a disappointment in my eyes, its stymied 
 gameplay contrasts markedly with its more imaginative forebear. While it continues Half-Life 2's 
 formula, it does so in a more diluted and constricted manner. Given that you can play all three 
 in succession however, Episode Two included, its feels less like filler and more like a bridge 
 between two bigger stories. 
  
  Episode Two then is a far more interesting affair, adhering less to the conventions of corridor 
 crawling and placing a greater emphasis on outdoor roaming. Alyx doesn't repeat her performance 
 of holding your hand throughout the entirety of the adventure, though the game stills feels nicely 
 scripted. You don't wander about aimlessly at a loss of what to do, as in Halo 3, for instance. 
 
  
  The game is also a far meatier affair. Gordon traverses a diverse gamut of locales, and his ability 
 to commandeer vehicles adds a new dimension to the ensuing gameplay -- this was one aspect of Episode 
 One that was sorely lacking. Sadly, the driving is belittled by awkward Xbox controls that see 
 the car being accelerated and steered with the same stick. Unsurprisingly, Freeman's new adventure 
 is far longer than his previous expedition, taking six or so hours, a heinously Strider mission 
 notwithstanding. 
  
  It also looks the best of the three, largely thanks to its wonderful art direction True, the textures 
 do seem less muddy than before, though you'll be more struck by the scenic vistas, a welcome addition 
 to the Half-Life routine. 
  
  The game as a whole is wholly more expansive in its execution and while the opening chapters signal 
 a far more claustrophobic affair, Episode Two ultimately branches out into a game that shadows 
 its predecessor for its sheer quality. And, unlike Episode One, it benefits from its truncated 
 length as it has seemingly convinced Valve of the possibilities inherent in a game without the 
 need for padding. 
  
  Not that Episode Two is faultless. It still doesn't look that technologically impressive given 
 recent visual feats and White Forest also isn't that wowing. It's pretty, but you don't get that 
 sense of awe that you do with something like Crysis. Crysis is a far more powerfully-driven game, 
 true, but there's the pervasive sentiment that, with Episode Two, you're in a tight little box 
 and Valve is trying their damnedest to cover up the limitations of the gameworld with clever ploys 
 and subtle tricks. 
  
  Its storytelling occasionally feels at odds with recent squad-based shooters that employ mission 
 briefings, though its seamless tale is a trademark of the series that many have become accustomed 
 to love. Gordon's insistence not to speak is a Half-Life staple too, though it does seem odd at 
 times. Perhaps he'll blurt out a cameo line professing a love for cheese in the last episode, akin 
 to Saint's Row's nameless hero during the boss missions. 
  
  As it stands however, Episode Two is exactly the sort of game that rectifies the blemish that was 
 its predecessor. 
  
  Portal is ingenuity personified, a game seemingly born to ridicule Prey's lackluster attempt at 
 the portal idea. Its ability to make you laugh is a bonus and you'll find yourself re-playing it 
 when Gordon's inhabitance is not to your tastes. 
  
  Team Fortress 2 is strangely appealing from a visual standpoint, though some may abhor its cartoon 
 visage. Nonetheless, it has a smooth anti-aliased sheen to it that is not as noticeable in the 
 Half-Life games. While lacking in quantity of maps, its differing classes and immensely enjoyable 
 online play will keep you coming back all the same. 
  
  Taken as a whole, The Orange Box is an unrivaled bargain even if you've already sampled Half-Life 
 2 and its first episode. Gordon's new White Forest adventure is such an addictive, compelling ride 
 that it makes The Orange Box worth purchasing alone. But you'll find that Portal and Team Fortress 
 2 only solidify your reasons for buying this wonderful package. I can only dream of the deal that 
 will arise when Episode Three emerges. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blarg_blarg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  Hail the arrival of the Orange Box. Tho orange box contains: Half life 2, Half Life 2: Episode 
 1, Half Life 2: Episode 2, Portal, and Team Fortress 2.
  Over the course of this review I will review only the new games e. g. Episode 2, Portal, and Team 
 Fortress 2.
  Minor Spoilers
  
  Episode 2
  Episode 2 starts off right where episode 1 left off. The new episode boasts no new weapons but 
 many new enviroments not seen in the other games. Ranging from Antlion infested caves to vast forests, 
 almost no space is tight or constricted. The new enemy, The Hunter is hot on your trail the entire 
 game. Like In HL2* driving is a major portion of the game. Your new car can and will splatter many 
 a hunter and zombie. Your goal: To make it to White Forrest, a rebel fortress/lab/hideout. The 
 controls for the Xbox 360 version can take some getting used to but once you get a hing of them 
 (or customize them) it plays out like a normal FPS. Like in all Half life games, be ready to solve 
 some puzzles with your trusty gravity gun close at hand. Graphical improvements are visible and 
 enviroments are somewhat breath taking. No multiplayer or co-op is available for episode 2 .Grade 
 by itself 9.2. Better than episode 1.
  
  Portal
  Portal is a smash puzzle FPS. Get ready to use your brain (maybe for the first time in your life) 
 to solve hard puzzles. You wake up in an enclosed room to hear the voice of a robotic female who 
 quickly gets you on your feet and off to solving puzzles. GLaDOS as she is identified on the equally 
 puzzling website, aperturescience. com (look ar my blog for more info) , is one of the only voices 
 you hear in the game and often making sarcastic/funny/snarky comments about you and the testing 
 facility. Enemies consist mainly of turrets. Allies consist of your trusty weighted companion cube 
 and an unknown possibly previous test subject who leaves you sign. Be vigilant if you want to catch 
 the easter eggs in this wonderfully crafted game. Game is single player with no co-op. Score by 
 itself 9.7.
  
  Team Fortress 2
  Team Fortress Classic was the game that started class based FPS*'s. Team Fortress 2 made tem x10 
 better! The graphical aspect has been stepped up since TFC* which was a mod for Half Life 1. Playble 
 classes include: he Scout, The Soldier, The Pyro, The Demoman, The Heavy Weapons Guy, The Engenier, 
 the Medic, The Sniper, and last but not least The Spy. Like in TFC if you get blown up by a rocket 
 you actually blow into pieces and your body parts go everywhere. TF2* is primarily an Xbox live 
 game so if you don't have it you may not find this game very enjoyable. This game is singe player 
 with up to 16 players over xbox live or over system link. Leaderboard enabled. I give it a 9.4 
 if you have xbox live and if not, I would give it a 0.1
  
  See my blog for more info or send me a message over the PM system!
  
  *HL2 = Half Life 2
 
  *FPS = First person Shooter
  *TFC = Team Fortress Classic
  *TF2 = Team Fortress 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llTylerll
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Wow 5 games in one lets check them out
  -Half-Life 2 , Half-Life 2: Episode one , Half-Life 2 episode 2
  these Games are just so much 
 fun and with 3 campaigns youll Be spending alot of time in singleplayer which means don't be afraid 
 to buy if you don't have xbox live because the production quality is fasinating and awesome.
  -Portal
  one of the neatest puzzle games ive played which is very trippy and gets you to use 
 your head A fun and a good 2-3 hour story with some advanced levels later, Great fun for fans and 
 sometimes non-fans of puzzle games
  -Team fortess 2
  The multiplayer component of the Orange Box, Is a nice Gorey cartoony madness with 9 classes and 
 fun levels, youll be hooked. p. s not a kids game wait till you see when you get blown up :D
  
  Overall if your a fan of Fps or A half-Life Fan this is a good package worth the $59.99 price 
 tag. And worth the time spent!
  
  P. s Team Fortress 2 ROCKS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ForceFlow301
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  First of all I will review each game at a time.
  
  Half-Life 2: The story is good, the characters are very believable, the graphics are okay, and 
 overall this is a good game.
  
  Episode 1: A bit short, but it nicely builds upon Half-Life 2
  
  Episode 2: The best expansion 
 I have ever played, it is much better than the previous installments by far, and it excels in every 
 field.
  
  Portal: The little Gem of the orange box. I was never a big fan of puzzle games, but this sure 
 got me hooked, the game play is very fun, the humor is just right and it is very enjoyable, a bit 
 short, but it doesn't matter.
  
  Team Fortress 2: A very fun multi-player game, It really is a great laugh, I wouldn't change a 
 thing, the classes are prefect and the maps are well designed and another plus is that the community 
 is nice.
  
  Overall, 5 games for the price of 1? The best deal in gaming History, definitely a must buy, especially 
 for people (like me) who have never played Half-Life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is so much fun! This is 3 games in 1, you have Half life 2, Team Fortess 2, and Portal 
 2. Man, I can't believe I never tried HL2 before. That game is amazing. Portal 2 is good but not 
 as good as HL2. Then we have TF2. This game is my favorite of the bunch because the online is some 
 of the best I have ever played. The one reason I did not give this game a perfect score is because 
 Portal 2 gets boring kinda quick and TF2 has some horrible servers which really does not have anything 
 to do gameplay wise but some of the worst lag ever occurs in this game. Buy this great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnivek
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  This has to be one of the greatest game values out there. When Half life 2 came out I didn't have 
 a good enough computer to run the game so I missed out. Half Life 2 and the couple of episodes 
 on the disc hold up well to other things I have played the only problem I have with it is the funky 
 way of controlling the vehicles in the game, always got me frustrated. Team fortress is also a 
 very fun multiplayer but the best part of the package has to be Portal. A funny little game that 
 you will quickly get hooked playing. I hope in the future more games like Portal come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan_lord
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 4:27 am PT
Review:  To start with; Portal- sooo much fun, not 6 hours either like sadistic gamer told us, its closer 
 to 3 if your not realy concentrating that hard and your very tierd, this game will entertain you 
 so much, and make you think alot. without making you be realy stuck for more than five minuits.
 
  Team fortress 2: not much i can say realy, only that its MINT!!!
  and unique, it realy is. makes for the ultimate team playing multiplayer game.
  Half Life 2. 
 hours and hours of great gameplay, challenging, but not over the top
  graphics for these games are respectably tight (including the original half life 2 for its time 
 perriod)
  the gameplay is outstanding
  and the value for money is outrageos.
  BUY IT ( no rent, waste of time you want it) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leesius
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  the sheer amount of content in this box should sell the game but with the name half life 2 what 
 is anybody waiting for run out and buy it great action great story the difficulty is just right 
 for me each timre you play you progress each time i think that this game should get another award 
 for the content that's in the box alone i don't normally go for fps but this is well worth it. 
 the only thing i can find wrong with it are the amount of times it loads up but that is nohing 
 to be to concerned about as they are only a few seconds and then your back to blowing stuff up. 
 it is best played on a hdtv but a normal tv wud be sufficiant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjpeters57
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  If you like solving puzzles while killing aliens, this game is for you. It's a blast, the graphics 
 are surprisingly well done and also interesting, and the game play is spot on, for me anyway. I 
 have yet to dive into Portal, and have only dabbled in Team Fortress, but the Half Life games are 
 cool. TF is very expansive, many options, maps, player types and a lot to learn, so I have been 
 slow to pick it up. Also, the matches can last a long time, and I haven't been willing to invest 
 that much time yet. I really enjoy the brain teasers and figuring out how to get from one place 
 to another, and it's really fun. At one point I tried to do everything to a door, threw bricks 
 at it, tossed an explosive, tried to burn it, and it turns out - all I had to do was open it. Silly 
 me! It's a bargain. You can't beat that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sw_and_wet
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 1:24 am PT
Review:  Alright, this is really a busy year I have to say, so many good games coming out, I still have 
 bunch of games yet to be reviewed. Anyway, The orange box, IMO, is the greatest deal in the game's 
 market. It has included 5 games in 1 box, Half-Life2, Half-Life2 ep1, Half-Life2 ep2, Portal and 
 the MP component Team fortress 2.
  
  Half-Life series is no doubt a classic, the storyline is definitely engaging and interesting as 
 everyone know. The graphic for the new ep is very nice, despite the old series are sort of out-dated. 
 But it is forgivable thanks to solid and intense gunfight. And best of all, even there are 5 games 
 in the box, the frame rate is still stable.
  
  Portal is a new experience of gameplay, it allow you to pop portals on the wall, so you can walk 
 through it to another place, it's hard to describe but it's just pure fun, the dialogs are full 
 of humor and again, IT'S FUN TO PLAY!! For those people who love new experiences should really 
 check out this game.
  
  Team fortress 2 is basically the MP component of this box set, the developer has made a huge change 
 to pervious title, firstly the characters have become cartoonish and it's fun to look, animated 
 violence is also fun and wicked as you'll see hands and body parts flying around when you blow 
 up a opponent. Anyone who played the previous game, should know the battle is fast-pace and intense, 
 and I am sure you won't be disappointed this time.
  
  With this box set, it is really great for those who have missed out the half-life series early, 
 allow them to catch up, also experience the new, innovative and exciting portal, also enjoy the 
 fresh look of Team fortress 2. In my opinion, The orange box is totally worth to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcane_Night
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games to get. It will keep you playing for hours and hours. With five games in 
 one and only 60 bucks it is a great value. The Half Life 2 series is enough to keep you busy for 
 days. Half Life 2 and both expansions look great. Half Life always keeps you at the edge of your 
 seat. episode one was great and developed characters besides freeman, but it was extremely short. 
 Episode two was fun and looked good with the improved graphics. It also had more open areas. Portal 
 was one of the best parts of the Orange Box. It kept me thinking throughout the entire game and 
 was still fun. In addition to that it was a hilarious game. Even after being done with it you will 
 want to go back and try to beat it at a harder difficulty. Team Fortress 2 was a good game and 
 was fun, but it was a weak point in Orange Box. It does not have a death match and I had connection 
 problems. The graphics wre different and the different classes are all fun to try and play as. 
 Overall the Orange Box is a great value and has something fun for everyone. It will have you going 
 back years from now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ant123ant123
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  The reason i got the orange box was complete for portals and team fortress 2. So ill be reviewing 
 those 2 only since i didnt play half life 2. Personally i think that game is horrible. I just hate 
 naggy fps adventure games. Aside from the constant stupid AI and the feeling of being lost because 
 of no compass for feel of direction the game always sends you to the state that makes you feel 
 like you dont have enough health when truth is you dont need it cause right after you refill that 
 health and energy gadge to 100% it would be gone due to some senseless battle but enough of me 
 complaining about half life
  
  Portals: a real hard and fun puzzle game. I didnt expect it to be so short see to as how long i 
 waited for this game. Basically your some women who is being used as a test subject and you need 
 to survive all the levels. There isnt much to say about portals because its self explained. The 
 visuals are neat and the gameplay is fun. It just always has you thinking.
  
  Team Fortress 2: Wow is all i can say for how great this game is. Most of the times when we play 
 online its to show off how good you are and it gets into that angry competitive match where your 
 cursing at everyone to do their job so you can win, but TF2 is completely the opposite. This game 
 is just fun. The cartoony feel the game is just splendid. Theres 7 classes you can choose from 
 and each is different ranging from your long range snifer to the short ranged pyro the experience 
 of going through each of them is amazing. Overall l think its TF2 that makes the orange box what 
 its worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TarzanTheMan
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  I can't say enough good things about the Orange Box. I can say too many, in fact, I will say too 
 many. It's just so good. If you've never played the Half-Life series, you need to get this. If 
 you've been looking forward to Team Fortress 2 at all, you need to get this. If you've been looking 
 for a nearly perfect puzzle game, you need to get this. If you've done none of these things and 
 in fact don't even own an Xbox 360 or a PC, you still need to get this. It's amazing.
  
  Half-Life 2, as a series, is what many people will get this for. And what a series it is. Half-Life 
 2 itself is definitely one of the top 3 or 4 games of all time and its sequels just keep improving. 
 Episode 1 is definitely a weak point in the series, but compared to other games on the Xbox 360 
 that begin with Ha and end with lo and are called Halo 3, it's pure gaming bliss. Episode 2 is 
 possibly the most well-constructed game of all time - in 7 hours you'll feel like you've accomplished 
 so much. I can't wait for Episode 3.
  
  Portal is an interesting game that went way past my expectations in terms of originality and fun. 
 Many people have complained about the length, but I think it's perfect. It's also the funniest 
 game I've ever played. Try it out, it'll take you about 3 hours.
  
  Team Fortress 2 shows that Valve's care for its players and attention to detail and quality in 
 their games extends to multiplayer. Team Fortress 2 is the most balanced multiplayer game I've 
 ever played and easily one of the most fun. It's not terrible complex, but it's extremely accessible 
 and has amazing graphics and animations. Plus, while not a huge feature, the you did THIS MUCH 
 better than your last time part of the game really gives you a feeling of increasing in skill.
 
  
  Basically, you need this game. Everyone needs this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MB116
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  I have only played through half life episode one and 2 as well as portal and Teamfortress two. 
 Epsiode one is a little bit boring at times but overall it is a very fun game. Unfortunatly it 
 only takes about 3 and a half hours to play. Episode 2 is amazing. It takes about 4 and a half 
 hours to play but the graphics and the gameplay is amazing. The action never stops. Portal takes 
 a couple of hours to play but it is so-so funny and at times it is a bit hard. Team Fortress 2 
 is AMAZING! the game is tweaked so good and it is a very addicitng game. Overall the package is 
 a great deal because if you play half life 2 episode 1 and 2 that is 7 hours right there. A seven 
 hour game is usually 60 buck alone. Portal gives you some more time but Team fortress 2 gives a 
 lot of playing time. Overall this is so far the best deal of the year for the xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodman_Red
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  I mainly bought this game (or package) just for Team Fortress 2, but ended up playing through all 
 four single player games many times through. Portal is the shortest game in the package (only took 
 me two hours to complete) , but I find myself playing through it and spending more time on this 
 game than any other FPS campaign that I can think of. Even if you've never had any experience with 
 the Half-Life series, I would highly recommend this game just simply for the great deal, five games 
 for the price of one. On the case itself, it says The best deal in video game history. This couldn't 
 be any closer to the truth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dom_boi14
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  1/5 you got Half Life 2 well if you played this on the PC you already now whats going on and all 
 that jazz, 2/5 you got Half Life 2 Ep.1 well in my opinion i did not enjoy this very playing the 
 version on the plain xbox so i was not happy to see my self get completely ownd by crab zombies 
 again but what ever, 3/5 is Half Life Ep.2 and i have to say that it is absolutely amazing and 
 i recommend playing it first only if you've played the other two first, the gravity gun ownzzzzzzz 
 even know you get it the other 2 but still its even better in Ep.2 and the story fits with all 
 of the half life's there have been and the graphics for Ep.2 are 5x better that before, 4/5 is 
 PORTAL, i loved this game and yes i loved it it had a great story line even though some didnt make 
 much sense at some parts of the game but it had a comedy/drama/romantic or so/adventure ring to 
 it but it was really cool, the main things i can tell you is that you're some lady that is being 
 tested by machine named glad-os and she puts you through tests that have to be done with a portal 
 gun and what you got to do is get throught these impossible courses with that portal gun. 5/5 you 
 have the multi-player side of the orange box called Team Fortress 2 in this game you have 6 maps 
 and 3 game modes and 9 classes to be while fighting in these insane battles with friends or new 
 people you just met. this game is extremely fun and if you plan on getting it i would play portal 
 first because it was very very fun and will give you a different side of the gaming world. Warning 
 PORTAL May Give You A Headache While Playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EternalMax
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Right off the bat i'm gonna say this- This was made for PC. it becomes very apparent when i play 
 the challenges on Portal and the MP on TF2. The only reason i'd buy this for Xbx360 is if you don't 
 have a computer that can run this, or your that obsesed about your gamerscore.
  
  I'll start with portal. At first it's a breeze. in the beginning you think your some hot stuff 
 just cuz you went thru 5 test-chambers in 10 min. then you hit a wall. the diffucluty gets pretty 
 darn hard, and if you whern't paying attention in the early levels your pretty much screwed. The 
 nice thing about portal is that you may get stuck trying to figure out the solution, and it may 
 not come at first, but eventually it will come. For the most part it's a great puzzle game that 
 has me scrathing my scalp up until the end. the only thing that gets my nickers in a bunch is the 
 challenges . they are very challenging. It's easy to get frustated, unless you cheat and go to 
 youtube..... so all in all it's a 3-5 hour game, and it's worth every second. with unforgetable 
 dioluge and crazy puzzles, it's hard to go wrong.
  
  Half-life 2...... Great stuff, i love messin around with the Grav gun and all that but come on Valve! 
 Couldn't you come up with any new content!! that and after playing thru it a bit, i noticed how 
 proud valve is of their physic's engine, with little puzzles like the see-saw. We get it, your 
 physics engine is cool, can we move on? The Default controls are terrible, they make no sense. 
 I ended up changing them, thank god for that feature, to somthing a little more comprehendable. 
 This was meant for PC, and PC alone. Other than all of that it was a decent experience. i don't 
 recconmend trying to jump right into this one, the story will confuse you. Play half-life first. 
 Probaly the most astounding feature was the facial expressions, even though this game has been 
 out for years i have yet to see a game top it in this field. amazing.... so in the end i'd say if 
 you enjoy going thru a extreamly quiet and lonely gaming experience with a confusing story, terrible 
 controls, and a crap load of cool guns, this is your game. TF2. i like it. it didn; t blow my socks 
 off like everyone thought it would. it felt and played a lot like CS. granted it does come from 
 the same people and uses basicly the same engine, but still. the animations are fluid and cartoonish, 
 whichs makes me happy. and thats a good thing. they have a few issues to work out like insane lag 
 and glitchy game transtions, but other than i can't complain. it's the most balenced gameplay i've 
 ever seen on a FPS and the animations make the game pure gold. Theres momments where i can just 
 scream with frustration when a spy takes down my turret, yet again. and theres times when i can 
 laugh histaricly as i backstab an entire team as a spy. so it's a game that has it's ups and downs.
 
  
  This on more of a personal note: the main selling point of this game was Portal. And thats what 
 makes up for everthing bad that i experienced. portal was not dissapointing at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayfi33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  I never played half life 2 or episode 1 so i had the unique opportunity to play both parts as well 
 as the brand new episode 2 in succession for the 1st time and it was a wild and unforgettable ride. 
 it is certainly one of the best sci fi stories around and might be my favorite shooter. There is 
 nothing to hate when it comes to the HL series. the characters are loveable and all the voice acting 
 is spot on and prefectly crafted. the game is not easy, nor is there an overwhelming learning curve. 
 the balance is struck perfectly and there are a bunch of edge-of-your-seat moments along the way. 
 Bioshock stole telekenesis from the gravity gun! just wanted to get that out of the way. the dystopian 
 future that half life brings to reality is seamless and is a great story of fiction and really 
 sucks you in. Portal could not have been more fun and is impossible to not love. It has a lot of 
 replayability and when you factor in all the extra challenges and advanced maps you can definitely 
 log some serious time with the game. It will have you scratching your head in ways you never thought 
 possible from a video game and when you finally solve the puzzle you feel like Einstein. This is 
 a great lateral thinknig game and should be considered as an educational tool as well. It makes 
 you think out of the box and in a way that you are not accustomed to. Portal is sharp!
  
  Team fortress 2 is also long on charm and all the playable characters are well balanced and it 
 is tough to find a favorite. i wish i had more time with TF2, but all my friends play Halo 3 and 
 dont want to bother with TF for some reason. i guess the only weak point is the game type that 
 is lovked to each map but i am sure there wil lend up being new maps and team deathmatch in the 
 future, it would just make no sense not to do it. the animation and cell shaded look is well executed 
 and adds a unique feel to a game that already has a ton of standout qualitites. Overall THE ORANGE 
 BOX is a cant miss title. You've never spent $60 bucks better in your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fohammer67
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  okay okay, i mainly got this for portal.
  granted portal is well worth the money but is way too short.
  sooooo. id say to even things out 
 im going to review bit by bit.
  
  team fortress two - has multiplayer that exceeds that of the halos.
  awesome class types. and 
 is excellent for those days you dont want to hear halo brats.
  
  the half lifes- some of the best games. period. so id have to say pick this up because you get 
 all three of the half life twos that were already released.
  simply put this game has one of the best atmospherical stories you will ever experience. if you 
 havent played this, you are not a gamer.
  
  portal- it is one of the most inventive games under the sun.
  to put it simply you will be thinking 
 like you never thought before.
  you have to take into account the momentum of your entrance into the portal out of another, you 
 have to be 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slapshotsaint
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2: Episode Two -- the second installment in Valves episodic trilogy advances the award-winning 
 story, leading the player to new locations outside of City 17.
  
  Portal -- a pioneering type of single player action game that rewrites the rules for how players 
 approach and manipulate their environment  much like how Half-Life 2s Gravity Gun reinvented 
 the way gamers interact with objects in the game.
  
  Team Fortress 2 -- an all-new version of the legendary title that spawned team based multiplayer 
 action games. The games daring new art style features the most advanced graphics of any Source-based 
 game released to date.
  
  plus the original Half-Life 2 and Half-Life 2: Episode One. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: element120
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 2:43 am PT
Review:  buy it best deal ever man 5 games in 1 half life 2, episode 1,2 portal, and team fortress 2 great 
 graphics and multiplayer
  buy it best deal ever man 5 games in 1 half life 2, episode 1,2 portal, and team fortress 2 great 
 graphics and multiplayer
  buy it best deal ever man 5 games in 1 half life 2, episode 1,2 portal, and team fortress 2 great 
 graphics and multiplayer
  buy it best deal ever man 5 games in 1 half life 2, episode 1,2 portal, and team fortress 2 great 
 graphics and multiplayer
  buy it best deal ever man 5 games in 1 half life 2, episode 1,2 portal, and team fortress 2 great 
 graphics and multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xRmRxfreakBOMB
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  First off this game is very fun. But if you've already played the original Half-life 2 and/or Episode 
 1, you might find a bit disappointing. The main reason I bought this game was because of Portal; 
 very fun and challenging for 2-3 hours and then it's done. Well then you say to yourself, lets 
 play Team Fortress 2 . Then you play it and you realize the if the host a tiny bit of lag that 
 it'll screw up the whole game. ( I have a good connection: all the other multiplayer games that 
 I play run very smoothly.) But the stand out part is Half-life 2: Episode 2. It's not as strait 
 forward as it used to be and the graphics are pretty good to. Overall, if you've only played HL2, 
 want all them in one box, and/or your a HL2 fan, you really owe it two yourself to check this one 
 out. For the rest, it's atleast worth a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guy4christ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  From three Half-life 2 games, to Portal, to Team Fortress 2; this collection has everything for 
 almost any gamer. Portal was the first game i played and it wasn't too hard to beat. It still has 
 plenty of replay value due to its advanced stages that you can attempt to beat. The award-winning 
 Half-life 2 provides me with plenty of action packed FPS fun to keep me entertained for hours. 
 Finally, Team Fortress 2 with its comical animation style and interesting classes, supplies the 
 multiplayer aspect of the package. In my opinion, You can't go wrong with this package. You get 
 five games for the price of one. On top of that, all of the games are very entertaining and provide 
 hours of entertainment. You can't go wrong with The Orange Box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebraz83
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  60 dollars is a lot to pay for a video game. There are a lot of games out there that I would probably 
 purchase and play but because they weren't received too well I hold off on dropping 60 bones on 
 them. The Orange Box is the first game that I've come across that I feel like 60 bucks is a good 
 deal. Half Life 2 by itself could merit the price tag. When you add to that HL2 episode:1 it becomes 
 a pretty good deal. Add to that HL2 episode:2 AND Portals, AND Team Fortress 2 and you have one 
 of the best gaming values ever! Sure Half Life 2 came out a couple years ago so it's not exactly 
 new but the fact that it's still better than a lot of the games coming out now is a testament to 
 it's quality. This is the first exposure to it that many people with a 360 have. Not everyone has 
 a computer geared towards gaming. It's a top notch game with good storyline, good characters, moments 
 of very intense action, head scratching puzzle solving, and a variety of gameplay mechanics which 
 are all blended together seamlessly and perfectly. For a FPS fan this is a must have. Tack on to 
 that Episode:1 and Episode:2 and the fun continues. Ep 1 and 2 are just expansions and are not 
 full games but they make the whole HL2 saga that much longer. Amazingly, even after playing through 
 the main game, and both episodes, it doesn't feel like it went on too long or that the tasks became 
 redundant. The game design is great and they're always throwing something new at you like new enemies 
 or new clever little predicaments that you have to think your way out of. It's all very well done 
 and very fun from start to finish. Besides ep:2 there is other never before released content in 
 the box. Portals is a game in which you have to think your way out of some crazy puzzle rooms with 
 the help of a device that shoots portals onto walls, ceilings, floors etc... Shoot a couple portals 
 onto a wall, walk into one, walk out of the other. Sounds simple but they think of some pretty 
 crazy ways of using them. This is an extremely fun game with a great sense of humor provided by 
 the artificial intelligence and source of the only dialog in the game: GLaDOS. There is some replay 
 value here too since after you complete the relatively short game, you have the option of playing 
 some of the levels again with time challenges, footstep challenges, and challenges involving minimum 
 number of portals used. You can also play more advanced and more difficult versions of certain 
 levels. The multiplayer part of the box is Team Fortress 2. This is an addicting and deep multiplayer 
 experience under the glossy coating of it's cartoon graphics. It is class based in a way that no 
 other mulitplayer game has been. You absolutely need to use the strengths of the nine different 
 classes or you will not be successful. This may scare away some people that are more accustomed 
 to the run and gun type of play. You run and gun here, you die. There are not many maps and not 
 many gametypes but with the wealth of classes you don't need them. Playing as one of the classes 
 will give you a completely different experience than playing with another. From the engineer that 
 builds turrets and ammo/health dispensers, to the medic which can heal and can make players invincible 
 for a short time, to a spy which can disguise himself as a player on the enemy team, you are bound 
 to find a class that you enjoy playing as and that fits your style. It is very fun and a great 
 game to play when you get sick of the run to find the biggest gun you can before the other guy 
 style of play in a game like Halo. Overall it's hard to find anyone who wouldn't recommend The 
 Orange Box after they've played it. If you only like half of the content included, it would still 
 be worth the purchase price. Lucky for you, all of the content is top notch fun. A very well made 
 game and a ton of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crowebar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  I like many people rushed out and bought this game when it came out. Now I already owned the HL 
 games on my PC so I was not buying it for this. The Portal game was challenging and truly different. 
 I did love the redone graphics for TF2 and the comedy with it. Personally though on my upgraded 
 high speed cable connection I could never seem to find a game that was being played with 16 people 
 that did not lag horribly. When the lag was not present I had fun with it, but to me it didnt 
 capture all my attention. I also am still saddened that they did not rework the HL games so that 
 there would be coop in them. It would have been a nice addition to the game. Yes there are some 
 puzzles that are in HL but overall its a shooter and if you could play with a friend it would 
 be more fun than alone and give it more staying power. Compared to games like Halo3 or even Gears 
 of War overall I just was not impressed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayjay7117
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  Man, this is a pretty solid game all-around. I've barely starting playing (10 hours or so) but 
 have the following obervations...
  
  Sound:
  When I'm playing a game and think, 'man, the sound effects in this game are awesome,' I realize 
 I'm playing a game where the developers didn't skimp on the details (btw, the sound of the police 
 intercom when you put an alien officer down is arguable one of the coolest sound effects in any 
 game - plus, you get to hear it a lot) . Weapons:
  This is definately one of the more satisifying games I've played in a while as it takes some time 
 to really build a sweet payload of weapons (starting with nothing, then slowly adding a crowbar, 
 hand guns, machine guns, gravity gun, etc) . The other cool aspect of the game is that you constantly 
 find a need to use all the weapons throughout the game (even the crowbar) . Gameplay:
  Just right, you'll die a few times (if you're an average gamer like me) , but all in all it's easy 
 enough to not be frustrating but hard enough to piss you off every once in a while. The other crazy 
 part of the game is everwhere you go looks different. There's really no recycled areas and the 
 game gives a pretty realistic feeling of post-appocoliptic (spelling?) earth. The fun FPS combined 
 with the TombRaider or POP - type environmental puzzle constantly keeps the game interesting.
 
  
  Value:
  Speaks for itself - 5 games in one. I've really only played one so far and it alone would be worth 
 it.
  
  I highly recommend this game. Especially for any FPS fan who was a bit let down after the mega-hyped 
 release of H3. Get this game - totally awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Countryboy11
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box has the best set of games to date. First of all, there is Team Fortress 2. Team 
 Fortress 2 is a basic team multi-player game that contains 9 classes, 6 maps, 2 game modes, great 
 cartoony graphics ( especially when you find you or someone else blown to pieces with a rocket 
 launcher) . Overall its just really fun and addictive. Then there is Portal which is a truly amazing 
 puzzle game in the first person perspective. Again the graphics are amazing, and it has a sense 
 of humor which you can find yourself cracking up during the game. Last but not least, is Half Life 
 2: Episode 2 which is my favorite in the trilogy so far. Episode 2 has nice pacing ( never too 
 fast or slow) , and the graphic are again amazing. I have to say that the source engine is amazing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: True_Avery
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  I played the original Half-Life, the original Counter-Strike, and all the other old games out there 
 and I think many would agree that they set the bar as to where a game and its developers should 
 be within a community. So many games have tried, but it is still Valve and Half-Life sitting up 
 there with the gold... and not many games and developers can claim to have birthed nearly all games 
 after it.
  
  Valve, yet again, throws itself out there to try and serve its fan base right while still making 
 story and game play immersive. Half-Life 2 may not have hit the world as hard as its predecessor, 
 but Valve yet again set a bar as to where a game should be in this day and age, especially the 
 first person shooter genre.
  
  The two Episodes, although short, are, in my opinion, better than even Half-Life 2 itself. It is 
 quite obvious that Valve spent much more time polishing and refining each short episode into near 
 perfection while Half-Life 2's size made them leave a few places rough in order to meet their huge 
 deadline. The voice work is Hollywood material, the game play is fluid and never gets boring, and 
 the scripted sequences are to die for. I love these games.
  
  Portal is an unexpected treat however. When I picked up the Orange Box, I did so for the Episodes. 
 I did not expect to see some of the best black humor in a game ever and amusing game play all wrapped 
 up into a pack that can really make you think. There isn't much more to say. I love this game, 
 I will continue to love it, and even if you can find anything wrong with it then there must be 
 something wrong with you.
  
  Valve has yet again made a series of games that set the bar as to where all other first person 
 shooters, and games in general, should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gifteddie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  I'll start with Half Life 2. I played Half Life 2 on a computer and I thought it was amazing. I 
 heard that it was coming out for the Xbox so I waited and got it on the Xbox. It sucked on the 
 original Xbox. The framerate was terrible, the controls sucked and the graphics were bad too. Some 
 games just look better on the pc and controls feel better too. Now that it is out for the xbox 
 360 I mainly bought The Orange Box for Portal and Team Fortress 2. I pushed myself into playing 
 Half Life 2 and my face lit up like a kids face on Christmas. The graphics were improved (epi. 1&amp;2 
 look better for some reason) , controls are kind of the same but ar okay, the framerate is very 
 smooth. Some parts of the game might be choppy but thats only during loading. They didn't add anything 
 new so you're just playing it over again for the third time. Half Life 2 episode 1 is the first 
 in the many expansions to come out for the Half Life 2 series. It picks off just where it left 
 off (like saw 3 pick-up so its not like they skip anything and just later explain it) off. There 
 are a few new weapons and a cool new enemies and a great story but sadly it ends in about 4-6 hours. 
 Luckily all we have to do is just o back to the Menu and press A on............... .... Half Life 
 2 episode 2 is just like epi. 1. Some new weapons and enemies short (but excellent) story and you 
 are done. I wonder how Valve is going to release Episode 3 or Half Life 3 because epi. 2 doesn't 
 have a storybook ending. Will it be the first downloadible 360 game or will there be something 
 like the FEAR package where you get two expansion games in one? Portal has to be the most creative 
 and mindbending game of all time. You awaken in a strange testing facility and must use you r portal 
 gun to navigate you through 19 levels. The graphics for this game were pretty good and gameplay 
 was the best on the Orange Box and maybe the year. Story is terrible because they don't really 
 reveal anything and the ending doesn't solve anything so mybe a sequel? Hey a new game for half-life 
 and a new portal and throw in a couple of other stuff and we got Orange Box 2. Team Fortress 2 
 is easily the best multiplayer game out there right now just because of it's fast paced action. 
 Too long have I been killed by a camping Sniper on Counter-Strike and Halo 3. The character you 
 play in this game are all unique need at least one of each to win. The graphics were amazing how 
 it felt like you were in a comic book and shows you that Valve had a different Art Direction and 
 worked to perfection. This is easily the best deal of a game this year. Five games in one box. 
 Which would you rather pay? $300 or $60? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canahvas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  I am not going to lie, the only game i have played is Team Fortress 2 and have not touched the 
 others. I am definetly looking forward to playing all of the other ones too tho. Team Fortress 
 is so much more than Halo... do not get me wrong i am a die hard halo fan and will play it till 
 my disc breaks or it just dies out, but teamfortress2 is such a nice game to switch over with because 
 it is different. i would pay 60$ just for teamfortress if i had to. This a must buy for anyone 
 with a collection of games and overall the value is fantastic. the more you play it, the more you 
 like it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKretinousQ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 11:48 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box, not a fruit selection but still this juicy compilation of Valve games just can't 
 be passed up. On the lone disc you will find Half Life 2, Half Life 2 Episode One, Half Life 2 
 Episode Two, Portal and Team Fortress 2. That's five games, on one disc for the normal &pound;40. 
 Longevity of The Orange Box is unscalable, it could literally last some of us forever. I'm sure 
 like me Half Life fans will want to play HL2 all over again and play the episodic content in order 
 afterwards, then play through them all all over again to get all of the achievements and re-live 
 (my personal favourite) We Don't Go To Ravenholm . On the topic of Portal and TF2 they are such 
 fun that you will want to play those all the time as well. Portal can't be described, you just 
 really need to play it to be baffled by it and then laugh at its dark humour. The same with Team 
 Fortress, superb fun, great looking and a little disturbing with cartoon arms and legs flying about 
 from exploding corpses and blood littering the walls. However currently (3rd November 07) there 
 are lag issues but when the game runs well it is sheer greatness.
  
  Now with there being 5 games on here don't expect 5000 gamerscore points on offer. There are 99 
 acheivements to be had on The Orange Box and some come easy, others not.
  
  So, The Orange Box. It's a truly superb disc that will keep FPS and Half Life fans twitching their 
 thumbs for some time.
  
  Thanks for reading TKQ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killered3
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  This is by far (I'm sorry Halo and Metroid) the MOST incredible series of first person shooter 
 I have ever played! I for one love Halo, Metroid Prime was... alright, but Half-Life 2 &amp; episode 
 1&amp;2 have done something that these two famous franchises have failed to have done. What's that 
 you may ask? Well let's start with Halo, beautiful graphics, great story, but not so great perspective 
 of a first person shooter. As we all enjoy playing as Master Chief, and for a while it makes it 
 look like you're him, same thing with Prime, but then they screw it by reminding you that you're 
 not really them by showing out of person cutscenes. But Half-Life on the other hand keeps you in 
 the game seeing nothing less than what Freeman sees.
  
  There is not a single time where they ever show out of body scenes in Half-Life, you remain Gordon 
 Freeman no matter what. That is what helps the story be so immersive. And that is what Halo should've 
 taken to consideration. The graphics for H-L 2 are still good even for today's standards, as far 
 length is concerned you're in for a looooooooong story mode. Especially if you count that all the 
 way to episode 2. The Orange Box is a must-have, for any fps lover and of course Half-Life lover. 
 This is the first time I have ever played Half-Life, but it left an amazing first impression on 
 me.
  
  Even if you never played any of the Half-Lifes before you should still get the Orange Box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vadicta
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  This game shows that people wont always be screwed out of thier money when buying games, and i 
 cant love this game any more than i do. The best part in this amazing package, though is that all 
 of the games are great. You get HL 2, and both of the current episodes for it. They'll take you 
 on an amazing journey that will alow you to play with out of this world weapons, and utilize probably 
 the best physics engine to date. The story is emersive, and the voice acting is of the highest 
 quality, and about three hours into the game you will say Halo what? Portal is a new game into 
 the pack, and it keeps just as exciting. It doesnt seem to have much of anything to actually do 
 with HL, but there are some clues that in the furture there may be a corealation in furure titles. 
 The game has amazing puzzles that will be sure to make you feel like a moron, and is probably the 
 funniest game ive ever played. The only real problem with it is that it is just too short, much 
 like HL episode one, but in this bundle you barely notice it. The online componant to the game 
 is Team Fortress 2, which is the most balanced class based online game of all time, and it does 
 it perfectly, although, youll always feel like your being screwed by the engineer. All of the classes 
 are fun to play as, and the quirky style to the game will leave you satisfied, but as of now it 
 is a little shallow, but so much fun you wont notice much. All in all, this is a game where you 
 most definately get MORE than you payed for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattc7691
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  This is a really good deal, you get of the Half Life 2 stories that are out so far, the really 
 fun and smart game Portal, and the awsome multiplayer Team Fortress 2, which adds up to hours and 
 hours of gameplay, I know I won't be betting it any time soon, but hey, this is a great deal, and 
 if you do not have these games, now is your chance to get them. This is probably the best deal 
 in gaming history. I don't see how it wouldn't be considered a great deal. The games have great 
 graphics, I love Team Fortress's cartoony feel, and you have to be really smart to be able to play 
 Portal, that game is really great, and you can't not like Half Life 2, it is just a great story 
 game that is worth trying out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carolynmichelle
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Just how much you get out of Valve's five-game compilation The Orange Box will depend a lot on 
 whether or not you've previously played 2004's Half-Life 2 and it's 2006 follow-up, Half-Life 2: 
 Episode One. The Orange Box includes the Xbox 360 debuts of those games, along with brand new content 
 in the form of Half-Life 2: Episode Two, the puzzle-shooter Portal, and the team-based multiplayer 
 game Team Fortress 2. The value isn't quite as great for those who have already experienced a lot 
 of what The Orange Box has to offer, but any way you slice it, these are five outstanding games 
 for the price of one.
  
  Half-Life 2 still holds up as a great shooter, three years after its original release. It's not 
 a perfect game, though. It has some pretty serious pacing problems, with a few sections that drag 
 on for way too long. But it also has a lot going for it. It's an effective piece of storytelling, 
 featuring heavy themes of oppression and struggle, outstanding voice acting and some of the most 
 expressive characters ever seen in a game. It's also got one of the most inventive and fun weapons 
 in shooter history, the gravity gun. And despite the pacing problems, there are a number of thrilling 
 moments in its campaign, which will probably take you around 15 hours to complete.
  
  As good as Half-Life 2 is, its 2006 follow-up, Episode One, improves on it considerably. For one, 
 unlike its intermittently exhilarating predecessor, it's pretty much a great ride from start to 
 finish, although considering the fact that it only lasts for 4 or 5 hours, maybe that's not such 
 a big deal. It also pairs you up with a character named Alyx Vance for a good long while, and she's 
 one of the more helpful and interesting AI companions provided by a game. You'll find yourself 
 in a number of situations that have you and Alyx working together in interesting ways, like areas 
 in which you can use yourself as bait to lure enemies out into the open to be picked off by her 
 sniper rifle, and dark places in which you have to illuminate monsters with your flashlight so 
 that Alyx can shoot them.
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode Two is available for the first time on The Orange Box, and it is one of the 
 best shooter experiences of the year. Perhaps just a smidge longer than Episode One, Episode Two 
 introduces a terrific new enemy to the series in the form of hunters, and has the best set pieces 
 in the series so far, including a siege at a rundown roadside inn and an inventive climactic battle 
 against overwhelming opposition that can be genuinely pulse-pounding. It also brings a few interesting 
 developments to the continuing story of the Half-Life games, and sets things up nicely for a strong 
 finish in Episode Three. Hopefully we wont be waiting too long for that installment.
  
  The fourth single-player game on The Orange Box is Portal. Portal is a really terrific mindbender 
 of a game in which you have a gun that shoots portals. Youre a test subject in a science lab who 
 must escape from a series of rooms using only your trusty portal gun. Basically you can shoot a 
 red portal and a blue portal, and anything that goes in one portal, including you, comes out the 
 other. The game gives you plenty of situations in which youll have to put this to good use, and 
 many of them allow for a considerable amount of freedom and creativity on your part. Portal is 
 also a darkly funny game. As you progress through the test chambers, a computerized voice will 
 say all kinds of strange and funny things. Portal is definitely quite different from the other 
 games on The Orange Box, and its more puzzle-oriented nature may mean that it will appeal to players 
 that have no interest in the other games, or conversely that players who dig the other games will 
 be left cold by Portal. But theres no denying that Portal, which most players will complete in 
 around three hours or less, is a fresh and innovative game that many players will really enjoy.
 
  
  And last but not least, The Orange Box contains Team Fortress 2. TF2 is an outstanding team-based, 
 objective-oriented multiplayer shooter. The game offers a total of nine classes, three offense, 
 three defense and three support. The variety means that everyone should be able to find a class 
 that suits their preferred style of play. There are tremendous differences in the strengths, weaknesses 
 and abilities of the different classes, and they all complement each other nicely. This, along 
 with the games six well-designed maps, results in a carefully balanced game that may not be the 
 most welcoming to new players, but can be really rewarding for those who find themselves being 
 an important part of a skilled and coordinated team. Team Fortress 2 also sets itself apart from 
 the other games on The Orange Box with its gorgeous cartoony visuals and its good-natured sense 
 of humor.
  
  Spread across these five games, The Orange Box includes a whopping 99 achievements, ranging from 
 the easy to the very hard to the borderline-absurd. My personal favorite is probably Little Rocket 
 Man, an achievement that asks you to carry a garden gnome with you throughout the entirety of Episode 
 Two and send him into space at the episodes conclusion. All in all, its one of the best sets 
 of achievements yet seen in a 360 game. If youre into achievements, the assortment of ways to 
 earn points The Orange Box offers up can add considerable value to this package. The game also 
 includes commentary tracks for each game but Half-Life 2, and for those who are interested in what 
 goes into designing great games like these, playing through them yet again to listen to the insights 
 the minds behind the games share is certainly worthwhile.
  
  If Half-Life 2 and Episode One are new to you, then The Orange Box is an amazing value. But even 
 if youve already played those two games, theres still enough great stuff here to warrant giving 
 The Orange Box a look. Episode Two is outstanding; Portal is unlike anything youve ever played; 
 and Team Fortress 2 is very rewarding if you have cool people to play with and are willing to put 
 in the time to get good at it. Simply put, The Orange Box brings five terrific games together on 
 one disc, and the new content here is exceptional enough to make this one of the best releases 
 of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klusps
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  If you haven't play Half Life series before then you are missing out. The Orange Box is developed 
 by Valve with 5 collections of games Half Life 2 (which was originally launched on the PC and Xbox) , 
 Half Life 2 Episode 1 (launched on the PC) , Half Life 2 Episode 2, a puzzle game called Portal, 
 and a team base multiplayer game called Team Fortress. All of these game is one disc and it is 
 only for $60.00. This is one of the best deal at all to hit the video game market!!! If you haven't 
 played Half Life 2 at all the starts you out in already concurred Earth by a alien race called 
 the Combine. You played as a scientist named Gordon Freedom and need to save Earth. The story might 
 seem simple but once you play through the game the story gets more complex, especially when you 
 have to play through Half Life 2 Episode 1 and Episode 2. What Half Life 2 is known for is the 
 realistic physics and the best facial expression and dialog ever seen in a video game. Also there 
 is no cutscenes at all through the entire game. All of the drama and action amerces all around 
 you as it take place in real time. The dialog and action has such a cinematic feel to it that it 
 feels like you're watching a movie. About the characters, for me, characters these days are hard 
 to capture the emotional bond that the player has on the character. Throughout Half Life 2 to Episode 
 2, they captured the character's personality, feelings, and voice just perfectly that the character 
 seems like a really person. Anyways besides all talking sequences there is plenty of action throughout 
 the games. There are some vehicle moments and epic battles that should be experienced. Also plenty 
 of the cool weapons in the game is and one of them is called the Gravity Gun. This is when the 
 physic engine kicks in the game because with the Gravity gun you can move, pick up, and launch 
 any objects that can be lifted. This gun will be your best friend throughout the game as you solve 
 complex puzzles, move stuff out of the way, or launch a barrel at an enemy. There is tons of stuff 
 to throw like barrels, crates, bottles, cans, and basically anything you can imagine lying one 
 the street. There is nothing like launching a gasoline gas on a enemy as you see him burn. There 
 is still other cool standard weapons like the shotgun, SMG, and of course a crowbar. One innovative 
 new game that is in the Orange Box is Portal, a first-person puzzle game. When you start out in 
 the game you find out that you're in a test chamber being advice by a mysterious voice , who is 
 of course watching you. The voice is the person testing you and you must go through each room to 
 advance on to another room. So basically a lab rat testing a new portal gun that lets you create 
 portals anywhere. The gun works like this: You shoot out a portal (right trigger) which is the entrance, 
 and then you shoot out another portal (left trigger) which is the exit. With this new portal gun 
 you need to solve complex puzzles and basically get from point A to point B. So this isn't your 
 adverage first-person shooter... in fact, it isn't even first-person shooter but a first-person 
 puzzle game. There isn't actually shooting in the game except for the portal you get to shoot and 
 some enemy turrets in the game. I also have to mention that the dialog that the mysterious voice 
 says in Portal is hilarious and brings a little charm in the game. There are some rude comments 
 and disturbing jokes but all of that shouldn't worried because the it is basically funny. The last 
 game is called Team Fortress, cartoony multiplayer team based game. The characters look really 
 cartoony and exagerated which is the style of Team Fortress. What is so cool about Team Fortress 
 is the many classes that you can choose. Each class has his own weakness and advantage which makes 
 the gameplay really balanced. An example is like the Heavy Weapon Guy (actual class name) , who has 
 a lot of health and strong, but slow. Or the Scout who is very fast but lack health. Some other 
 interesting classes is the Spy who can disguise himself to the enemy team and the Engineer who 
 can build turrets for defense. There is sadly only 6 maps and two gametype Capture the Flag and 
 Control Point but I predicting there would be a map pack soon later in the future. Despite the 
 lack of gametypes and maps the gameplay is still fun and addictive. Let me warned you that there 
 isn't any split-screen or anything, it just online and system link only. The graphics in Half Life 
 2 is the same of the PC version with no frame rate issues like what the original Xbox version had. 
 Everything run smooth and look really detailed. The graphic doesn't make a major improvement through 
 Half Life episode 1 and 2 but the texture does look a little better. The Portal graphic is shiny 
 360 graphic and have really good lighting on your portal gun. The Team Fortress graphic isn't detailed 
 graphics like Gears of War but still looks amazing because of the art direction that the developers 
 chose for Team Fortress. The graphic in Team Fortress isn't about the super detailed graphic but 
 more of style and that is what more people should pay attention to. The audio in this game is superb 
 with one of the best voice acting I've ever heard in a video game. The music comes at the right 
 moment but there really isn't that much music throughout the game. There is a tremendous amount 
 of replay value in this package! 5 games is all you need to keep you busy for a long time. Half 
 Life 2 is pretty long and should take you 10-15 hours to beat. Half Life 2 Episode 1 &amp; 2 should 
 take you around 5 hours in each of the game. Portal was disappointingly short for me and I finished 
 it in about 2-3 hours. Well after you're done with the campaign you can go back for achievements 
 or jump into Team Fortress. Also there is commentary in the campaign of Half Life 2 Episode 1 &amp; 
 2, so that should be worth checking out. in There is 99 achievements spread out through the games 
 all racking up to a total of 1000 points so that should keep you busy. I honestly don't know what 
 more to say then this is an amazing package. If you're a FPS fan or want to play the Half Life 
 2 series then this game is a must have. If you've already played Half Life 2 and Episode 1 then 
 this game should still be worth checking because of Episode 2, Portal, and Team Fortress. Best 
 deal in gaming history so go buy this now!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plasmidscarefun
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Half life two and episode 1 are old but still fun especially if you haven't played ether of them 
 yet. With as old as the graphics are there still better then some of the games out there know. 
 Episode 2 is long enough to be a sequel in of it's self and has great game play witch was expected. 
 Portal is one of the most innovative games of all time and combines great puzzles with great funny 
 characters ( if you can call the robots in the game that) . Team Fortress two is the weak link it 
 is fun and addictive but with only 6 maps and set game types it can be disappointing. In all the 
 Orange box is a great deal with 5 great games for only the price of one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Igorism22
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Look up Half-Life reviews if your interested in it but I bought this for Portal and, the best game 
 ever, Team Fortress 2.
  
  Portal - Pretty much a game you have to try once. It is a game in which you have a gun that lets 
 you open two portals on certain surfaces which has some funny commentary from the Computer-Lady 
 controlling the test. Physics are a big part of the game, some puzzles require you to jump off 
 high places so you pick up enough speed to make it to a certain place.
  
  9/10
  
  Team Fortress 2 - The best class based shooter ever. The classes are well balanced if you play 
 right but if nobody knows how to play (which is rare because it's fairly easy to figure out) then 
 you may have issues countering things like turrets or sticky grenades. Team Fortress 2's only true 
 problem is that many people on the 360 version try to host that just don't have a good enough connection. 
 I usually end up hosting and have a huge chunk of my friends list devoted to people who need a 
 good server to play on.
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellaStoned
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 and it's 2 episodic sequels:
  
  Some of the very best FPSing you've ever done. The gunplay in these Half-Life 2 games is top notch. 
 It just feels so gratifying when youre pumping the enemies full of lead. That's why I personally 
 really love the Half-Life 2 series. It has a perfect FEEL. Also, Half-Life 2 is surprisingly puzzle 
 oriented, which I like. Graphics and physics and sound are freakin sweet. So many hours upon hours 
 worth.
  
  Portal:
  
  If you are a gamer you owe it to yourself to play and beat this game. It is really something else. 
 The game is less than an hour to beat (if you know beforehand how to beat the puzzles) but still 
 gets critical acclaim? There is a reason for this. Play it.
  
  Team Fortress 2:
  
  I'll be honest, I haven't even gotten to this content yet! There's so much on this disc I haven't 
 even had time yet to try this top notch multiplayer shooter that I'm very excited about. I've been 
 too busy collecting the really well done acheivements from HL2 and Portal. Aperture Science, baby! 
 I'm on my way ;)
  
  This is a must-buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guitartod
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  First off lets get this one out of the way, in 2004 Vavle relased the most robust and revoultionary 
 game engines of its time Source. pre source action games had very little physics involved if any 
 at all. source changed all that by making a physics engine so grand that even puzzles were physics 
 based it was a revolution. i rember the first time i played HL2 way back in 2005 i couldnt keep 
 my jaw off the floor. Fast forward to 2007 almost 99.9% of all action games incorperate physics 
 in their games. source changed the face of gaming. Now its out for the xbox 360 and alot has changed, 
 while visualy its way way way not the best looking game ever but its still able to hold its own 
 up against the big dogs! and the fact they throw the whole HL2 saga your way and i know everyone 
 rags on ep 1 but i loved it myself and 2 other good games while not great their good i would of 
 prefered to see Counter Strike Source in the package over team fortress 2 but i guess their trying 
 to sell there new game wasnt a big fan of the first team fortress but the reason im throwing AAAA 
 at this game is that its 5 games and GS didnt give AAAA to hl2 ever and it really deserved it when 
 it came out in 2004. anyways great game must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomJarvis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  Ok Lets start at the beginning. The original Half Life was brilliant and sold as well as it deserved 
 to. They follow the brilliant story line up with Half Life 2. Half Life 2 is easily still one of 
 the best games on the PC. They followed up Half Life 2 with Episode 1 which compared wasn't as 
 good (this doesn't mean it's bad) . These also featured the characters all Half Life 2 fans came 
 to love. Meanwhile in Team Fortress 2 is being played online by loads of people aching for a sequel. 
 This was fine until it happened.
  
  Half Life 2 Episode 2 is released...
  Ok lets start by saying WOW! This game is phenominal. Much better than Episode 1 and a cliff hanger 
 ending (DONT WORRY I WONT SPOIL IT) leaves it open for another game to follow in its success.
 
  
  Also Team Fortress 2 is released...
  Ok WOW again this is probably the best way to follow up Team Fortress 2 as the game is so brilliantly 
 fun and charming. I'll be playing this for a while.
  
  And also Portal is released...
  Ok Valve you made my jaw drop (thats not nice too many amazing games at once) . This is without 
 a doubt the best looking puzzle game in the world. It the best to play and also the funniest to 
 play. Valve I take my hat off to you (If I was wearing one) .
  
  Ok all these games are brilliant and released on the same date. Not only that they are released 
 together in the same game along with the Half Life 2 prequels to Episode 2. Also released on Xbox 
 360 and PS3 ( I bought it for Xbox 360) . And only &pound;40-&pound;50.
  
  OMFG!
  
  OK now for some in depth look at each of the aspects.
  
  HALF LIFE 2 &amp; EPISODES
  
  
 GRAPHICS: Half Life 2 is approximately 3 years old and it still looks good even compared to other 
 newly released games. The facial animation of all of the characters in all the Half Life games 
 is the best around (easily) . Also they have brilliant scenery that can be seen for miles which 
 looks as good today as it did ages ago.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The controls are simple (which is all you can really ask for) . Easy enough to get the hang of really 
 quickly and continue using. They don't get frustrating even when you have the combine running towards 
 you thanks to great AI. The physics are as realistic as you can get as you can tell from the see-saw 
 puzzles in the game.
  
  SOUND:
  As all major game points are done through first person and not through cut scenes like many other 
 games oyu can see how good the sound is because if you walk away the characters voices get quieter. 
 Speaking of voices, the voice acting here is solid and helps you relate to the characters better 
 as they show emotion. All sound effects, grenades, vehicles etc., sound lifelike aswell. Background 
 music is also intergrated well into the background (I mean would Ravenholm be as freaky without 
 the eeirey music in the background) .
  
  Well thats Half Life. Now onto...
  
  PORTAL
  
  GRAPHICS:
  It's set in exactly same engine so not much else to say except everything that 
 applys on Half Life applys here too.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  You'd think a game that sounds complicated when you talk about it would be complicated. Well this 
 isn't the case for PORTAL. It's practically the same simple contols as Half Life (jump, crouch, 
 use) and each different portal is a differnt trigger so it's as easy as you think it should be.
 
  
  SOUND:
  Ok this is where it distinquishs itself. The voice acting here is still top noch but it is an annoying 
 robot thing talking. The thing is you get used to it. Not only is it brilliant but it's absolutely 
 hilarious. The first time you here COMPANION CUBE you think OMFG what were Valve smoking when they 
 thought of that and where can I get some.
  
  Portal done its time for...
  
  TEAM FORTRESS 2
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Ok this one stands out as the charming cartoon game evryone 
 will love. Wrong. It's awfully bloody for a cartoon game and a hell of a lot of fun to play (veterans 
 of Team Fortress will know what I'm on about) . They are unique and brilliant because of it.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Frantic and easy to control. That's all you can ask for isn't it.
  
  SOUND:
 
  Try taunting (Press X) .
  Go on try it I'll wait...
  ...
  ...
  How cool is that now we have a new teabagging on the Xbox.
  The voice acting is as stunning as 
 all of Valve's games and so are sound effects.
  
  Ok all of the things reviewed. Lets sum it all up.
  
  VALUE:
  This is the best deal in all 
 of gaming history and if you don't take Valve up on this magnificant offer then you are a fool.
 
  
  TILT:
  This is one of the games that you' ll be hearing about for a while as it's that good. So much for 
 so little money. BUY IT. It deserves the 9.5 I'm giving it. (I'm only putting it as 9.5 because 
 I bought it from my town's GAME the minute it came out, then I heard that my mate bought it an 
 hour later for &pound;5 less. I was punished for being eager. GUTTED. Ah well worth it still) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spectral_Snake
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  The orange box is a masterpiece. With 5 games in one package and the price for just one game all 
 these games are certainly worth the price and with the return of teamfortess this time even better 
 than ever with all new sell shaded graphics and humoress gameplay. Half Life 2 has a great story 
 behind it any player that has played the first game must play half 2 and the 2 episodes And with 
 the edition of portal a new interactive game where you make your own entrances in the game it is 
 the best idea valve has come up in years portal will change the way first person shooters are. Can't 
 wait to play half life 2 ep3. Overall anyone that loves the half life series or a is a new comer 
 this a must buy for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xFBCxkiller7
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  half life 2 is awesome i just finished half life and am currently working on half life 2 :episode 
 one and its just getting good and i hope it gets better and tf2 is amazing i like the 3d on the 
 charcters i personley like being a scot or a enginerr but yea portal was ok not very long but fun 
 and very diffucult to figure out Tf2 has an amzing onlie is kinda like shadowrun but its not completly 
 like it but i have to say that the orange box gets a 10.0 from me but am not sure about the rest 
 of u peppole out there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  The three Half-life 2 games are incredible.... I never played them before, held off for a good console 
 port and finally got it. Definitely one of the best sci-fi story's in a videogame.... the gameplay 
 is outstanding, its exciting and there are so many HOLY CRAP, did you see that?! moments. These 
 3 games alone are worth the price.
  
  Portal is fun but extremely short and unchallenging... its got some interesting concepts and fun 
 puzzles, and you can play advanced versions once you complete the game.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is the multiplayer game... i expected to like this more... its definitely fun but 
 wont keep my interest very long. There are tons of classes to choose from and the matches are quite 
 frantic, which is good. Worth a purchase for sure 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murisaki
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 5:17 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box is the latest package from Valve, including the latest episode of the Half-Life 
 2 series, the long-awaited Team Fortress 2 and the first-person puzzle game, Portal. The Orange 
 Box also contains the original Half-Life 2 and Half-Life 2: Episode 1 on a single DVD. All games 
 feature achievements (up to 99 between all five of them) and online for up to 16 players (Team 
 Fortress 2) .
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  + All games play smoothly and are very easy to pick up.
  + Combination of teleportation and gravity make many situations in Portal interesting.
  + All 
 classes in Team Fortress 2 are fun and well-balanced.
  + Frequent but brief loading times.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  + Half-Life 2 still looks great even after three years.
  + Brilliant art direction 
 on all five games, especially Team Fortress 2.
  + Simple but attractive menus.
  - Some rare but noticeable slowdown and clipping issues in Half-Life 2.
  
  SOUND:
  + Fantastic 
 voice acting and soundtracks.
  + Meaty sound effects.
  
  VALUE:
  + Five brilliant games into one whole package.
  + All the Half-Life 2 games tally up to 15 hours 
 of gameplay.
  + Tons of achievements, including some difficult, but creative ones.
  - Team Fortress 2 could of done with a few more levels and maps.
  - Portal only takes 2-4 hours 
 to complete.
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT:
  People thought that Halo 3 was going to be the shooter of the year, but then the Orange Box arrived 
 and changed everything. At the cost of a single game, the Orange Box delivers more value for money 
 then any other games out there, and is essential for any gamers out there, regardless if you play 
 shooters or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nedical
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is one of the best games to come out ever. This and 2 other games in one bundle make 
 this a must buy for those of you who havnt played HL2 at all. Also, Team Fortress 2 is highly addictive 
 and is necessary due to the lack of online for The Orange Box. I've beat HL2 alreadyand i am currently 
 working on Episode 1 and it is simply outstanding. I basically bought this game to lend to my friends 
 and play just when im bored, but the game has simply grown on me. it is easy to pick up and play. 
 Portal, the new addition, is perfect alongside HL2 and is the game with the best sense of humor 
 i have come across... Highly Recommended!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pocket-dragon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  VALVe's The Orange Box is bursting with Half-Life 2 goodness, as well as some new titles. The Orange 
 Box has something for everyone, whether your a fan of the puzzle genre, Half-Life, or some good 
 wholesome shoot em up fun. VALVe offers up Half-Life 2, Half-Life 2: episode one, the newly released 
 Half-Life 2: episode two, and also newly released, portal and the long awaited Team Fortress 2 
 in this delicious game package. At $60, which is pretty much 5 games for the price of 1, this game 
 irresistible. Portal is probably one of the funniest games you'll ever play, but i won't spoil 
 it for you. Portal is a very innovative in a hurts-your-head kind of way. It's basically a puzzle 
 (although it's nothing like Tetris) in first-person, and it brings new meaning to the puzzle genre. 
 Team Fortress to on the other hand with feed the the multiplayer fire deep down in your soul. It 
 offers nine classes to choose from: the spy, the demo man, the solider, the heavy, the scout, the 
 medic, the sniper, the engineer, and the pyro, each with their own specialties. And of course, 
 the Half-Life 2 games. The newly released episode two continues the story of Gordon Freeman and 
 Episode one. And we can't forget the classics, can we? Half-Life 2 and Episode one are waiting 
 for you. Answer there call. So, folks, get your butts down to your nearest game retailer, and shell 
 out every cent of that sixty dollars, and trust me, it'll be the best sixty dollars you ever spent. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolmankris
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  Whether this is your first time in City 17, or you're back again, this box has something for everybody. 
 I've already played Half-Life 2 and Episode 1 on the PC, so I'll assume you have as well and won't 
 spend too much time reviewing them, but some things need mentioning. The games still are a lot 
 of fun and translate to the console fairly well. They really mix things up a lot when it comes 
 to gameplay. Some moments have lots of shooting and blowing the hell out of everything, other times 
 have you racing down a canal in an airboat, dodging helicopters and machine-gunfire, and sometimes 
 you even do a biut of puzzle solving, thanks to the still-awesome gravity gun. The lighting effects 
 of both games have also improved, although the rest of the visuals aren't nearly as impressive 
 as they were in 2004. HD looks fairly nice though, especially at 1080p. There are also plenty of 
 Achievements to collect, so playing through again isn't completely pointless. But if you're like 
 me, you got this mainly for Episode 2, which is one of the best shooters this year. It is largely 
 like the predecessors, but it brings some of the best parts back. For one, there are a lot more 
 outdoor areas, and some good driving missions too. The story picks up just after Episode 1, respectively. 
 It opens with you escaping the city with Alyx, who has been gravely injured. Your Vortiguant friends 
 manage to save her life, although you still aren't out of trouble. A major part of the game is 
 just about evading the Combine while trying to deliver crucial info to a hidden resistance camp, 
 where Dr. Kleiner and Eli Vance wait. Getting there isn't the end however. Once there, you'll also 
 help fight off Combine raids, as well as fight alongside the resistance against a huge wave of 
 Striders, the massive tripod-like war machines that were partly responsible for leveling the city.
 
  The game ends like the last two, with a big cliffhanger that will leave you wanting to know what 
 happens next. It's hard to say if this is better than Half-Life 2, but it feels better than Episode 
 1 at least, which is impressive. The graphics are also a bit nicer. After getting out of the underground 
 area in the beginning and making it outside into the rural area, the view is very vast and impressive, 
 similar to what we've seen in games like Far Cry. However, the HDR lighting is very nice, but can 
 almost be too intense at times. The only thing that would've made it even better, to me, would 
 be if there was some sort of multiplayer co-op mode, like in the Halo series. Much of the game 
 has Alyx following, or one of the many resistance members, so it doesn't seem like a totally impossible 
 idea. Still, this is one game that should be in everybody's library, whether you like games like 
 Halo, OR Half-Life.
  ------------------------------------------
  Portal:
  Portal is the next game on the docket that goes with Orange Box. Half-Life 2 and its Episodes and 
 Team Fortress 2 play out like most FPS games you've played in the pass, but Portal takes a very 
 different turn. Sure it looks like a shooter, it kinda feels like a shooter, but it's completely 
 different. Those of you who want a fast, furious FPS are in for a surprise because Portal is more 
 of a puzzler than anything else. This offers up a nice change from fragging Combine and squishing 
 antlions however. You play the role of a nameless test-subject (or lab-rat, if you will) who has 
 been selected to test out the Portal Gun, an innovative and cool tool that can open portals just 
 about anywhere. These can be used for transporting yourself from one spot to another, but thankfully 
 there are more uses for it. The game consists of a nice handful of situations where you have to 
 get to the exit elevator and move on through the courses. But this is often much tougher than it 
 would seem. It starts out with you just opening portals to get past tall walls and over pits, but 
 later you may need to evade auto-turrets, or activate switches with a variety of tactics. You'll 
 learn and invent different ways to use your portal gun to solve problems. One such cool trick is 
 to place one end of the portal at the bottom of a long drop, and the other end on a wall or something. 
 Jump down the long hole and through the portal. As you fall, you gain velocity and momentum, which 
 spits you out the other portal like a cannon. It's a great and fun way to clear huge gaps that 
 would otherwise be impossible to cross. The graphics are similar to Hl2 but environments look nice 
 and detailed, and the portals look cool. Unlike previous HL2 portal mods, you can actually see 
 everything through the portals in real-time. It's nothing major but it's a nice effect that's only 
 ever really been successful in Prey. Audio, while sparse, is also good. You get tips and comments 
 from a disembodied AI voice that watches and monitors your progress. While the tone is usually 
 fairly serious, the dialog has some decidedly humorous moments. As well, the game itself can offer 
 up some laughs just because there is a lot of fun and crazy things to do with portals. One other 
 fun thing to do is place a portal on the floor and ceiling, and go into freefall. It makes a cool 
 illusion like you're plummeting through a super-huge tower or something. It's worth playing even 
 if this isn't quite your thing, because it'll also net you some achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chickener
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box is a really great deal as long as you like Half Life 2. If your not a fan of Half 
 Life and dont play it, then this is just not really a great deal. Episode Two, i thought, was a 
 very great game since previously i wasnt a fan of Half Life 2, i was surpised at how i liked it. 
 Its a game with quick learning curve and good FPS. The other included Half Life 2 games that come 
 with it i thought kinda blew and i dont care for em but still its a good deal for Episode Two. 
 Also included is Portal. Portal is an amazing game that includes you shooting your way through 
 and eventually to escape a labe with a portal gun that defines gravity and leaves you wanting more. 
 Easily you can beat portal in one sitting, but its story is still amazing despite its shortness 
 in length of the game. Also included is Team Fortress 2, an online only multiplayer game that is 
 pretty addicting but not a whole lot to see. Theres only a couple of maps or so and each map only 
 has one game mode available to it. The classes are nice although as they each have their own individual 
 personality and look. The Orange Box does a bad job of acheivments. If you someone who likes to 
 get hard acheviements for big points then this game is NOT for you. About 90% of the 99 acheivments 
 are only worth 5g, and most of them are very very very hard to get. Their is no structure in achievments 
 in this game and they did a poor job with it. But if you one who just likes to play games then 
 i think this is a prefect game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigBoyRoger93
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  If you ask me this game is cheap for all the stuff you get in it. It is alot of funny to play this. 
 Also the game has alot of achievments in it. It hass 99 in all. EA did a good game at making this 
 game really good. So if you got $60 than you might a well go buy this game because you will not 
 regreat geing this game. On the game Portal is kind of hard to do, but if you go on youtube they 
 can show you how to complete the leavels on gold. Half-Life 2 is a pretty good shooting game, but 
 is not that as fun on multiplayer. If you want mulitplayer than you need to play Team Fortress 2 
 on Xbox Live. Team Fortress 2 is really fun on Xbox Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RHCPfan24
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  I haven't loved a game this much since Resident Evil 4, a what a fine achievement that is. The 
 value and quality you are getting in this package is unheard of. As many reviewers have said, JUST 
 BUY IT!
  
  First off, Half-Life 2 and the two Episodes are the big part of this package. I won't go into much 
 detail about HL2 and the first episode; they have been around for awhile already, but are still 
 amazing games. Episode 2 is great as well (the first 20 minutes in the tunnels are annoying, but 
 tolerable after you realize how the rest of the game is) , and boasts the better graphics and physics 
 out of three. Next, Team Fortress 2 is, well... just plain fun. You choose from a variety of characters 
 and the action is awesome. All of the classes are even and offer their strengths and weaknesses. 
 I really love the Heavy, as he lumbers around with a minigun and blows all away in his path. This 
 game will be a good diversion from Halo 3, and the art style and graphics will appeal to many.
 
  
  Portal is probably the best part of this box. The gameplay is brilliant, where you are tasked with 
 shooting two portals to get from point a to b. The things it throws at you are brilliant and the 
 computer's voice is hilarious and you will be loving the end credits song. The game is just a masterpiece 
 and I won't give anything away, just be expected for stuff to change.
  
  Overall, The Orange Box is the best deal you can ask for, and all of the games add up to be some 
 of the best games I have played this year, some even ever. So, JUST BUY IT.
  
  Real Rating: 9.8 out of 10 (it still does deserve a 10 on GS's scale) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sammydageek
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  Orange Box is a collaboration of Half-life 2, Episode 1, 2, Portals and Team Fortress 2. The most 
 amazing thing about this is that you are getting 5 games, which, excluding Team Fortress 2, adds 
 up to around 25 + hours of gameplay for $60. Half Life 2 is, in length, the most substantial piece 
 of this package and, if played on normal, will give you around 15 hours of, quite frankly, stunning 
 gameplay. Once again you step into the shoes of Gordon Freeman and fight against the combine. During 
 this fight, you will experience some of the most exhilarating gameplay ever seen. From escaping 
 City 17 on the airboat to commanding hordes of Antlions against the Combine, it is full of moments 
 that will leave you gasping for air after you have been holding it for the last five minutes. Half-Life 
 2, which has been dubbed one of the greatest games ever made, is worthy of this title. If you have 
 not played it, then, it is a must. The most memberable aspect of HL2 that any fan would name has 
 to be the gravity gun. With this you can pickup objects and flinging them against enemies and use 
 is puzzles, with the full physics engine is a sight to be seen. Episode One is the next game and 
 sadly it seems the weakest part of the package, as it falls flat compared to the two parts. Whilst 
 there are thrills to be had, there is not that much new brought in coupled with the disappointing 
 length, which clocks in at about five hours and you soon realise there are no memorable bits compared 
 to HL2. Episode two is next and, thankfully, is a great instalment. It sees Gordon and Alyx, after 
 destroying the Citadel and escaping City 17 now fighting to meet with Kleiner and Alyxs father. 
 It is full of thrills, new characters and a fantastic story, which will see you through around 
 seven hours of gameplay. The Source engine is powering this and whilst it looks good for the most 
 part, with highly detailed and believable characters, it is certainly not going to blow you away. It 
 is nice, however, to see the progression in the graphics through the three games. The sound in 
 this game is fantastic, the most impressive aspect being the sound of all the different objects 
 colliding with one another, it is simply mind-blowing and is sadly overlooked. The speech is also 
 good and with the extremely impressive facial animations, if you do not engage with the characters 
 in this game then there is something wrong with you. The next game in this package is Portals. 
 Unfortunately for me this is a incredibly difficult game to explain and must be played to appreciate 
 it. It is a puzzle game where you use a Portal gun to shoot portals to achieve you goal. Weight 
 and velocity factor into this and makes you think. Couple this with witty dialogue and sound graphics 
 and you have something special. Team Fortress is the final part and is a class based, fast paced 
 multiplayer shooter. There are the usual games, consisting of a territories based game, Capture 
 the intelligence and straight up team-death match. Team Fortress is one of those you either love 
 it or hate it, while is does add new ideas to an aged formula either youve played this game formula 
 and decided you love it or turned away in disgust. All in all, this is a good package, in which 
 you are getting a huge amount of game content for a good price. Whilst some of the parts are weaker 
 than others, overall it all comes together and delivers. Even if you have played Half-life two 
 before, it deserves to be replayed with the following Episodes worthy also, buy it and enjoy.
 
  
  9.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chewy_Crunchy1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2007 12:13 am PT
Review:  Don't let any of the other reviews fool you, this game is the closest thing to perfection there 
 is. The Half-Life games have been viewed as some of the best and most revolutionary out there. 
 They create a unique experience by mixing intense shoot-outs with thoughtful puzzle solving. You 
 play as Gordan Freeman, originally a theoretical physicist for a group called Black Mesa, who is 
 out to save humanity from the grip of inter-dimensional beings collectively called The Combine. 
 During the three Half-Life 2 games, you will travel through urban concentration camps, zombie-infested 
 areas, and forests crawling with bio-engineered behemoths. There is enough game play here to keep 
 the average person contently occupied for about 40 hours or so. Portal expands upon the puzzle 
 elements of the Half-Life 2 games by putting you in the shoes of a lab rat for a company called 
 Aperture Science. The company has created a hand-held portal device for you to test the capabilities 
 of by completing various challenges. Although a grim fate seems to be in store at the end of the 
 testing, the computer AI, Glados, makes extremely humorous comments throughout the game. This brain-boggling 
 experience will net you another couple of hours of game play- depending on your puzzle solving 
 abilities- plus a few more thanks to additional advanced challenges after completing the game. 
 Team Fortress 2 has gotten some very bad publicity from numerous sources lately. Do not, and I 
 cannot stress this enough, listen to them. Team Fortress 2 is a treat to play, especially with 
 friends. The reason so many people deem TF2 unplayable is because they have become used to games 
 like Halo. Do not get me wrong, the Halo series is good, but the multi-player does not rely on 
 teamwork or having a balanced team as much as TF2 does. Because of this, people get frustrated 
 trying to go in Rambo /Master Chief style trying to kill everyone and repeatedly failing. Each 
 class out of the nine generally has a counter-class that they are designed to have conflicts with. 
 Because of this, your team must depend on each other in order to not be killed off one by one. 
 For example, the Spy class is designed to be a nuisance for Engineers. Instead of complaining and 
 giving up on the game, get someone on your team to be a pyro and flame anyone that comes near your 
 turrets in order to deter or identify any spies. On another note, the cartoon-like style of the 
 game do not depreciate game play at all (if anything, the game becomes humorous) . This simple style 
 of graphics gives textures an edged, finished, and HD look. Although there are only six maps, a 
 few of them are change each round by blocking certain paths in order to keep game play fresh. Also, 
 each one of the maps aside from 2Fort, in my opinion, are a joy to play over and over because it 
 is a new experience every time; every game you have a new team, a new strategy, and a new tactic 
 for combat. Overall, The Orange Box contains very eclectic game styles that will satisfy anyone 
 who is willing to give it a try. It offers a solid 50 hours of game play with the single player 
 games, not to mention any replaying one might do, and has a great multi-player game. This is a 
 must buy for any shooter fan and is destined to become a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brad1087
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  What can you say about the orange box? It is what it is. 5 games in one for the price of 1. Team 
 Fortress is an great multiplayer game. A game that once you get the hang of the objective, and 
 the right team is just amazing. It takes alot of thought on how your gonna get past those damn 
 sentry guns. LOL. Never played any of the Half Life series, and i started playin for about 3 hours, 
 and its awesome. Plus when your all done with HL 2. You got 2 more episodes to play through. Which 
 i heard were only about 2 or 3 hours a piece, but im tellin you if you never played Half Life 2, 
 that you cannot go wrong with this amazing box set by Valve. Then you have portal: One of the greatest 
 puzzle games, and it revolutionizes gaming. I would say for TF 2, or Portal that would be well 
 worth your 60 bucks. All the reviews that say its crap are just die hard halo fans. So of course 
 your gonna get that. They wont play anything but Halo. But oh well. If your looking for something 
 to play until the holiday game blowout, and beyond. Look no farther than the Orange Box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS360Fanboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box
  5 Games, 1 Disc, 1 Orange Box
  The Box includes Half-Life 2 &amp; Episodes 1 &amp; 2 also you get Team Fortress 2 and Portal
 
  
  Lets begin with Portal, Basically your a test subject who must solve puzzles with a Portal Gun, 
 you start off with this Computer voice guidung you through the tests, now these tests range from 
 getting from one side of the room to the other side or trying to solve how to get 3 floors up, 
 it is basically a brain game, quizing you at every level working out stuff, You fist get the Portal 
 Gun which allows you in the beginning a portal and when you get the upgrade portal gun later in 
 the game you can make unlimited Portals, one orange and one Blue.
  Some of these puzzles arnt safe, some are dangerous like getting from one side to another side 
 above you over toxic water or trying to get out of fire really quick, it does put your brain to 
 the test and if you dont like to use your brain while playing videogames, your done.
  You solve all these puzzles for a Slice of Cake, the voice says all of this will be done and then 
 you get Cake... but, Portal isnt what it seems, the world your in is not right, in a later level 
 you find a room with The cake is not safe on the wall and Photos of people with Pictires of Boxes 
 over there heads and The cake is Not safe, Portal if you play it to the end is A Conspiracy game, 
 it's not all what this lovely little world is.
  Portal is a very challenging game and is very rewarding in terms of gameplay, my only problem is 
 that it is to short and i would of liked it a little longer, but take everything in to account 
 and it makes up for it, Portal is Unique in every way, a Action/Adventure Game with a few twists 
 and turns a very very good game.
  9.0
  
  Team Fortress 2, TF2 is a online Multiplayer Game in where you pick your class and fight, Your 
 class can be a spy, Enginer, Soldier, Heavy, Scout and more, there are 6 maps and different types 
 of Modes, Attack/Defend, Capture the Flag and more, Now they have used a cartoony look whith TF2, 
 it might look silly but infact is really addictive, if you choose a engineer class just place a 
 turret outside the enemy base and let it open fire, you kill score will go up and up until it is 
 destroyed.....
  If you choose to play a Spy, disquise your self has a enemy and go into there base and use your 
 Knife to stab people in the Back, if you get an enemy Medic to heal you you will get an achievement, 
 sounds good?
  It is fun but not too fun, there is only six maps and it doesnt have the feel of a real Shooter 
 but still has i said before, really fun
  If your a fan of Online Shooters then you will enjoy this but if cartoony killing isnt your thing 
 you wont be has intrested.
  8.5
  
  Half Life 2, HL2 is simple, Aliens are taking over the world and you kill them, if only it was 
 that simple......
  HL2 is a physics game and like Portal you have to use your brain in some occasions to get through 
 a certain area's, now if you have allready have Played HL2 on the PC then this wont be nothing 
 new to you, the graphics have been slightly tweaked but nothing special, HL2 was Outstanding on 
 the PC and is even more outstanding on the XBOX 360, You Play Gordon Freeman, Who wakes up on a 
 train and is summoned to stop the alien invasion.
  HL2 is a great FPS and with it's little Puzzles, Driving Missions and Great Plot a really great 
 game
  9.5
  
  Half Life 2 Episode One &amp; Two
  Episodes One and Two give you an additional 12 levels (5 in Ep One, 7 in Ep Two) to HL2's 14 levels, 
 and the story is pretty good for an add-on. There's plenty of challenge and the games do take a 
 fair few hours to get through. No vehicles in Episode One though is a bit of a let-down, but not 
 the end of the world.
  A Great Package But with No Episode 3 you feel a little cheated in the HL2 Experience, though 5 
 games for the price of one is a mear barain and in rarlye known in the Videogame World.
  
  9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warhammer789
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  So the basic deal with half life is shooting some dudes and solving some puzzles. Thats what i 
 thought at first. But its more than that. Its strategically placing ur shots in an enemys face 
 or sack (u kno what i mean.) You also gotta figure out when to run and gun, and when to stay back 
 . When youre doing puzzles, theyre usually rreally deep and u gotta use ur brain, so if you dont 
 have one, then ur screwed. The deal with the episodes is kinda like sequels but at the same time 
 kinda like jimmy neutron movie then the show. So you do the same whole puzzle and kills thing. 
 IN portal, youre placed under the control of basically a test lab rat and ur beng forced to complete 
 tasks for ur survival. You start out cpompleting stuff like shoot a portal infront of a ball and 
 one in front of a ball recivere, then its like, fling ur self then shoot a nother portal to fling 
 farther, then place a portal on a wall across from a reciever. So its funly hard. Then team fortress 
 is a cross between a pixar moviean halo. I had so much fun watching peoples cartoony guts flying 
 all over. ITs team based ges that are really fun. I reccomend the orange box to anyoone who has 
 a mind, whih means everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R0b_3n_h00d
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  pure awesomeness
  
  the orange box opens up new doors to faming with 5 full games into one little package. Half life2 
 - half life 2 EP 1 - half life 2 EP 2 - Portal - Team fortress 2- . all in one box so let me start
 
  
  Half life 2/ EP 1/ EP 2/
  
  the world of half life 2 is immersive it will draw you in and make you listen.
  you are gordon 
 freeman AKA ''the free man'' lets just say he worked at area 51 or black mesa as he calls it well 
 in the last game half life (PC) something terrible happend there an outbreak.
  
  you proceed with the last game. from citys to slums to ocean side wastelands and more the whole 
 game is a fallout style feel
  
  Gameplay - the gameplay is PC like first person and dang does it feel good
  the shooting is pefect 
 each gun feel's just right and dang good not to mention the gravity gun. has every first person 
 shooter thing you could want cars sprinting good gun fights hard puzzles
  
  sound- Amazing sound you can really get deep into the game from the sound
  
  graphics- not 
 as good as some of the 360 games but what can you expect its from the PC and xbox but they have 
 been touched up a bit and belive me the gameplay is so good you dont notice.
  
  Online- there is no online but that is made up by TF2 ill be talking about that later after
  
 
  PORTAL-
  
  portal is an amazing game. mind blowing you really have to think outside of your mind to get thes 
 puzzles right. it involves just as the name implies portals. first you get the blue then the red 
 and you can warp between the two that you shoot out in a gun. the game isnt long well depending 
 on how smart you are but in the time you do play it. you will feel like a real school nerd after 
 beating this game
  
  gameplay- new masterpiece everybody wants more see abouve for details
  
  Sound- not the best 
 in gaming history but it does add a whole lab rat feel
  
  graphics- perfect for how this game is easy on the eyes
  
  online- no online that would be 
 insane
  
  TEAM FORTRESS 2
  
  team fortress 2 perfect for when you wanna get in there and down right get into some multiplayers 
 action. there are many classes to pick from. from big giant guys with chians guns to spys with 
 switchblades. you can be a support healer to a turret building engineer theres something for everybody
 
  
  gameplay- is quick action packed and always fun
  
  Sound- cartoony like sounds are just another touch of perfect
  
  graphics- hardcore cell shaded 
 graphics make this game a cartoony type fun mad house
  
  online- requires TEAM WORK cant do this game on ur own so get some bodys and do good!
  
  OVERALL- 
 the orange box is a buy no matter what. good games your bound to find one you will like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarrocco
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  i couldn't believe that they sold you 3 classic xbox games that in my mind were favs were they 
 give you achiement points and chance to play them all over again which is why i gave this game 
 a 9.5/10 there all good games put into a orange box that fell from heaven apon thy xbox and graced 
 it with its immersiveness... well i liked the game alittle toooo much what can i say im a nerd 
 lol its a must buy, you'll feel bad if you didnt go to the nearest gaming store and buy it buy 
 it proudly. ps from firsat to last are the best of the orange box 1. portal 2. half-life and i 
 think you now who gets the honorable mention ;) buy this game once again it's worth the time and 
 effort 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuscleCarMan
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  When half life 2 came out in 2004 i didnt have a good enough pc and never got to enjoy the experience 
 of playing it. So after 3 years a excellent port comes with all the extras.
  Half Life 2 is an old school shooter. Like i said in the title it takes us back to a time in FPS 
 games before you auto healed and before there were any cover systems. Youre a one man army (even 
 though that army is a scientist) who cuts down wave after wave of your enemies and still lives 
 on. Even though all the single player content clocks in at just a little over 20 hours on hard, 
 its still a blast to play. Its fast and chaotic with a fairly good story about the struggle for 
 humanity. At times though at least story wise, it seems like it takes cues from the halo universe. 
 I know half life fans wont agree with me and i did play the original so hear me out. The combine 
 and the Covenant are extremely similar in that they are both a vast joining of alien species hell 
 bent on taking over earth. Both have the main unstoppable hero with their female guardian angel 
 and both have the earth being invaded and under said alien species control. The weapons have all 
 come from whats expected from an FPS from shotguns to rocket launchers its all there. The gravity 
 gun is cool at first but later it just feels gimmicky. Out of all the parts of the orange box i 
 enjoyed portal the most and episode one the least. Even though it was short; Portal was unique, 
 funny, and at times chilling when you discover just how alone you are. Episode one however felt 
 like an after thought. In my opinion i think it should have just been part of half life 2 because 
 it barely clocks in at 3 hours on hard. That whole time youre just running from a big explosion 
 thats about to happen and thats it, theres no other story to it than that. I dont plan on checking 
 out TF2 because i dont have live, looks interesting, with i could give it a shot, but i just dont 
 have the time for online gaming right now. So all in all this is definitely worth the price of 
 admission but i wouldnt say its 5 games more like 3 and a half. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  the orange box doesn't make me scream, oh wow, i just can't stop, this is so much fun! At least 
 not like aiming for the elderly on the sidewalk does.
  
  truth be told, i'm not much of a half-life guy. yes, i'll struggle through gordon freeman's miopic 
 existence in this three game trail of goodness, but i won't have dreams about it like i sometimes 
 do about master chief and marcus fenix. (yeah i know, i'm discussing that with my therapist) . regardless 
 though, Half-life2, episode1, and episode2 are an amazing value alone for what valve is asking.
 
  
  team fortress 2 is a cartoony multiplayer romp of shooting goodness a decade in the making. which 
 might explain why i kept thinking, characters with different attributes, and skills? didn't COD 
 do this? I know timesplitters has done it twice now, and their cartoony character had hawt chicks 
 to choose from too! (again, i know... therapy) . point being if you're after innovation, team fortress 
 is not going spank you silly with it. in point of fact they won't even surprise you. but if you're 
 just in it for more fun like you've had in other games of it's ilk, then have at it. it -is- very 
 good multiplayer action on xbl.
  
  finally, i know everyone and their cousin loves portal's ingenius movement mechanic... and so do 
 i. the final game of five on this disc, portal makes you remember why you started gaming, least 
 it did me. challenges, and overcoming them. portal has oodles of that. unfortunately it's lacking 
 in the realm of the other main reason i started gaming; i really, really like to shoot stuff... and 
 summarily kill it. not so much, with portal. it's awfully good at making holes though.
  
  the bottom line is portal is too good for it's own good. even though it isn't it has the appearance 
 of being high brow pretentious. released on it's own portal would have become anothe ico or shadow 
 of the colussus.... a massive critical success that made the publishers a ttl net of 450$ in sales.
 
  
  Valve knew what they were doing bulking and packing this the way they did. 1 real game, 2 way short 
 episode games for follow up, a nifty long awaited cult classic sequel for the requisite online 
 element, and a niche title they really wanted to put out even though they knew it would fail.
 
  
  Now don't get me wrong, all of these games are actually very good, but joe gamer is very fickle 
 these days. he's got two very good next gen systems to choose from, and then the ps3 as well... i 
 guess. the busy game season has just started though and there are at least 30+ top tier titles 
 releasing before february next. The orange box is what it is so they can compete. It's a smart 
 move and a lot of fun content. and in conclusion, at the price of 1 game, it's easily the best 
 value you're gonna find this year. oh wait, i forgot halo 3 already came out... my bad. oh well 
 it's easily the second best value this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChestyMcGee
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  I could write a whole review about what fantastic value this fine collection of games is, but Im 
 not going to. Why? Because this is a fine collection of games. I dont believe for one second that 
 anyone should buy The Orange Box just because its &pound;45 for five games, people should buy 
 The Orange Box because its &pound;45 for the one of the most critically acclaimed and highest-rated 
 PC games of all time (earning over 40 Game of the Year awards) , Half-Life 2, its equally as good 
 expansion pack, Episode 1, a brand new Half-Life adventure, Episode 2, a fun, fast-paced action-packed 
 multiplayer game that is Team Fortress 2 and possibly one of the most innovative and interesting 
 games to ever be released; Portal.
  
  Putting Half-Life 2 and Episode 1 in The Orange Box was a great idea as it gives a great starting 
 point for all those who have never played Half-Life before, and despite Half-Life 2 being released 
 in 2004, with updates to the game engine as a whole its still up there competing with the big 
 boys graphically, and in terms of gameplay. Even for those whove played HL2 before on PC, or even 
 more so for those who played the dumbed-down version on the original XBOX, its really refreshing 
 to play through it again, either to a get a feel for it on the controller or to witness all the 
 technology changes that have taken place since 04. Sadly though, Episode 1 feels poor in comparison 
 to the other titles in the box, its incredibly short; being only 3 to 4 hours depending on your 
 skill at FPS games, its also lacking in the great vehicle sequences that set HL2 apart from other 
 games as almost all of it is indoors or confined to tight city streets.
  
  Episode 2, although a little short (but luckily not as short as Ep1) is easily the best Half-Life 
 adventure so far, what makes it so much better than Ep1 though, I feel, are the brand new enemies 
 to fight, of which there are only 3, but one of them makes up such a big part of the gameplay its 
 hard to imagine HL2 without it. Im talking about these infamous Hunters, who have taken up a lot 
 of the trailers of the game to show them off  and with good reason too. Huntershunt, believe 
 it or not; their AI is similar to that of pack-hunting dinosaurs and it makes for some terrific 
 fight sequences. Its incredibly exciting to come up against them, mainly because they are so damn 
 manoeuvrable, unlike their bigger friends the Striders, which look like something from War of the 
 Worlds, Hunters will jump through windows, smash down doors and run around indoors to get to you 
 with their formidable laser cannon and crippling close-quarters melee attacks.
  The brilliant driving sections are back for more in Ep2, which is a great breather from all the 
 on-foot action. What I like about the driving sections most is the way that theyre not so much 
 like a James Bond game, or something of that nature. They arent whole levels of driving with other 
 vehicles chasing you and explosions everywhere. Instead, theyre much more methodical and instead 
 of making wheeled fighting machines, the vehicles are much there for what vehicles are designed 
 for: transport. You drive from location to location, disembark and either fight or solve a puzzle 
 and I much prefer it this way.
  The achievements are really fun too, youve obviously got the standard ones for completing this 
 or that bit of the game or doing something without losing health or whatever, but there are some 
 really fun, long-winded ones too. Take for example, finishing Episode 1 while only firing one bullet, 
 everything else must be done with the crowbar or the gravity gun (grenades and rocket kills are 
 okay too) or on Ep2, putting a garden gnome in a space rocket  sounds easy enough but when the 
 gnome is on the first level and the rocket on the last, it isnt so easy!
  
  On to Portal, which, hopefully, needs no introduction. The one thing people need to understand 
 about Portal is, although it incredibly complex, it isnt actually very difficult at all, at least 
 the first run through. As well as being shockingly easy, considering how hard it looks, its as 
 short as Episode 1, assuming youre only going to do the story. But its what you unlock afterwards 
 which will keep you going for eternity. While the story is easy, the advanced challenges are not 
  in fact, theyre incredibly advanced. Youve also got other challenges to do, like completing 
 a level in the least time, least portals or least steps, which are also very difficult themselves. 
 Portal also boasts one of the funniest dialogues Ive ever experienced in a game as well as a brilliant 
 ending. There isnt much else to say about Portal, as its incredibly hard to describe, but, despite 
 how much I love HL2, Portal is probably the best game in The Box.
  
  Team Fortress 2 has the potential to be a wonderfully good multiplayer game, but I feel it falls 
 short in one huge place. The big fault is that almost every game Ive been in has been incredibly 
 laggy, much worse than the little MP Ive played on 360 and horrifically worse than the large amount 
 of online PC games Ive played. Now perhaps Ive just been unlucky and Im going to try and persevere 
 with it and see if it gets better. The game its self I can imagine is a lot of fun, and the few 
 minutes of bearable gameplay Ive got out of it is very good: the classes are balanced and the 
 graphical style is great. It also incorporates some more interesting classes and ideas, such as 
 the spy who can disguise himself as a member of the other team  with hilarious results and the 
 engineer who can rack up kills easily with his turrets as well as form an invaluable addition to 
 the force.
  
  So, overall, The Orange Box is something that no one, especially those who are fans of FPSs, should 
 miss out on. Go! Buy it! Buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zues3976
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 exceeded my expectations and the new chapters follow right along with the story. I've 
 put down Halo 3 for this box set. Portal is a fun strategy game and keeps me thinking and coming 
 back for more. Now on to Team Fortress 2, what a smooth running engine, I can get online and play 
 with others without a lot of lag, unlike Halo3 which I can't hardly find a game it will let me 
 into and even if I do get into a game in Halo3 its so laggie that its no fun, not with team fortress 
 2 I jump right into a game and start killing. All in all this is a 10 in my book. More producers 
 need to look at how Valve has made this game, er games and take notes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  It goes without saying that any game bearing the Half-Life 2 logo is worth buying. But as The Orange 
 Box includes the sublime Half-Life 2, its two follow-up episodes, a multiplayer blaster and a brand 
 new action-puzzle game based in the series bleak universe, this incredible compilation could be 
 the gaming deal of the century. Dont even bother reading the rest of this review - just go and 
 buy it.
  
  Still here? OK, if you want more background on what youre getting into, Half-Life 2 is one of 
 the most intense blasters ever unleashed, a dizzying blend of intelligent gunplay, scarily-intelligent 
 enemies and Orwellian imagery; Episodes 1 and 2 continue the story of accidental hero Gordon Freeman 
 and his battle against alien invaders, each semi-sequel refining the Half-Life experience and plugging 
 holes in the series elaborate plot; Portals, a new action-puzzler, sees players negotiating a 
 series of rooms and using inter-dimensional gateways to reach the exit, the games ingenious brain-ticklers 
 hooking players with its irresistible, just one more go appeal; and Team Fortress 2 is an ambitious 
 multiplayer mash-up featuring exaggerated, cartoon-style heroes that look like the stars of a Pixar 
 movie, but are thrust into hardcore combat where character classes attempt to outdo each other 
 by exploiting their **** paper-rock-scissors-style relationships.
  
  While any PC player worth their salt will have already cracked Half-Life 2 and Episode 1, The Orange 
 Box still represents tremendous value for money, especially as you can gift friends with the 
 bits and pieces of the compilation you already own. But no matter what platform you play this package 
 on, The Orange Box is a indisputable classic that no gamer should be without. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Triangels
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 4:35 am PT
Review:  1 DVD For Orange Box Is Amazing ! Have Powerfull Gameplay In Game And Beautiful Sound Effects And 
 The Best Physic (Just Look When The Striders Destroyd The Hous In Jungle-Ep 2) But Graphic Is Not 
 Standard For This Generation . You Play Bioshock And Halo And See A Powerfull Graphics But Half-Life 
 Graphic Is Not Complite. But Gameplay Of Half-Life IS Amazing. Portal Is Very Short But IS good 
 And Have Puzzles (About 3 Hours For Finish) Team Fortress Is Amazing Online Game But For Gold User 
 Of XBOXLives - Episode 2 Is Best Game Of The Orange Box And Half-Life 2 And Episode 1 Is Very Good 
 For Console But Not For PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrunkMario2500
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box , a title that hardly conveys its innards. Not only is it a great deal getting five 
 games for the price of one, but each one of them is a jewel of their own. This isn't one of those 
 bargain game packs you'd see for the Gamecube and such; it's far more. Merely the fact that it 
 contains such a variety ensures that everyone will be happy. Many people who haven't had the pleasure 
 of experiencing the game known as Half-Life2, now have an option to. The saying Quality over Quantity 
 cannot be used to describe this package, as it has many others that attempted to make a value pack 
 before this one. The quirky, dark sense of humor Portal contains is quite entertaining, and the 
 puzzles are very inventive. Team Fortress 2 has been anticipated for almost a decade, and while 
 the support for the game's internet capabilities (on the Xbox360 at least) are still choppy at 
 the moment, if you're looking for a tactical shooter, this by far, blows Halo 3 away completely. 
 Half-Life2 is one of those few Shooter games that have not only a very smooth and enjoyable gameplay, 
 but a grand storyline as well. The Orange Box contains something for everyone. After playing through 
 both Halo 3, and BioShock recently (and yes, they were both enjoyable experiences) , I'd still say 
 that if you're looking for value, and willing to sacrifice purchasing the big names this Fall, 
 The Orange Box is the way to go. More playtime, more achievements (99 to be exact) , and an excellent 
 tactical multiplayer game to boot, this completely blows them away in terms of value and gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yankeesmann45
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2007 4:52 am PT
Review:  i think this game game is worth buy 5 games for the price of 1. and its really fun more than some 
 people should agree a specialy TF2. this game is awsome with half life 2 episode 1 and 2. this is 
 a must buy people stop playing go on this that game is old gets boring and its over played give 
 this game a chance. And when GH3 comes out for this I'm playing that . and call of duty 4 THAT GAME 
 IS AWSOME RESERVE IT BECAUSE YOUR NOT GOING TO GET YOUR HANDS ON IT IF YOU DON'T. MUST BUY AND 
 MUST PLAY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fight8
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure as to how I'm going to set up this review considering I'm reviewing 5 games instead 
 of 1. So I'll just go in order from the main menu of the game. Ok?
  
  1) Half-Life 2 This game came out in 2004 for the pc. I was not aware of this game until about 
 2005 when i saw it for the xbox, I wasn't much of a PC gamer around that time. Nonetheless, I was 
 blown away when I played this game. Blown away enough to go out and buy a new computer, and buy 
 this game for my computer. It has pretty much everything a game needs to be perfect. To this day, 
 I have yet to find one game more impressive than this game, well besides episode 2 :D. This brings 
 me to the new and improved Xbox 360 version, despite what you may hear, on my lcd 720p hdtv, it 
 looks more impressive than it ever has, adding in the new particle effects and models from the 
 source2007 engine, even saw some motion blur. This game definitley has potential among current 
 games.
  
  2) Half-Life 2: episode 1 I also had this game on my PC, yet, I decided to play it again on the 
 orange box, of course I immediately noticed the new source engine graphics. The story line of episode 
 1 is great, slightly shorter than everyone hoped, but, it makes up for its shortness with its story. 
 With the use of several new game elements and new enemys. It was definitley worth the $20 bucks 
 for the pc. The length is forgivable considering its just an episode, in my opinion.
  
  3) Half-Life 2: episode 2 I thought of this as the icing on the cake, which wasn't a lie. After 
 being excited about this game since I first completed episode 1 and saw the trailer. It definitley 
 lives up to my expectations. This episode takes a turn from the previous games, and takes you outside 
 of the confines of city 17 and into the open countryside. Of course, you discover it isn't so safe 
 almost immediately after the game starts. This game also brings in the first driving sequences 
 since half-life 2, which are greatly done. I don't really want to ruin any of this game's epicness, 
 so i'm going to end this review segment here.
  
  4) Portal When I first heard about Portal, I thought it would be cool, but was not really excited 
 for it. Then, when I was playing it, I was simply amazed. It may be short, but as I heard valve 
 say in the commentarys, that portal is also pretty much a demo of things to come from them. So, 
 I eagerly await for the next game to use the Portal technology. This game also has a great puzzling 
 boss fight for a great puzzle game.
  
  5) Team Fortress 2 I wasn't really much of a Team fortress classic player until i heard about this 
 game, when I saw a couple of the previews, i went out and got the half-life 1 anthology, to play 
 tfc. I loved it, and i loved this installment even more. Every class seems so unique, feels like 
 im actually playing as someone else whenever i change classes. I LOVE THE TAUNTS. Having played 
 this on the PC as well, I have to say, I like the 360 version so much more, maybe just because 
 I find it easier to play fps's with control sticks instead of my tiny mouse. Hopefully that lag 
 patch will get out this week, Then i can seriously play this game D:
  
  To wrap up: The orange box. is one of the nicest gaming deals since, well i cant remember. To anyone 
 who asks if this game is worth buying, I laugh at you, and feel sad for you at the same time. 5/5 
 in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsoftmanic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  lets get straight into it. im going to be reviewing the orange box as a whole including HL2 and 
 episode one.
  
  Gameplay - absolutely brilliant. HL2 defined the first person shooter on PC, and its done it again 
 on the Xbox 360. episode 1 reinforces the storyline (of which i will not ruin) and adds a bit more 
 to the gameplay but not much. episode two gets a new lease of life from the fact that there are 
 new enemies to beat (i. e hunters) and new ways to kill the old ones. physics is obviously brilliant 
 but is overused. yes, you made a physics engine but its constant seesaw useage is wearing thin. 
 portal is the best singleplayer part of the box if a little hard at the end but overall the gameplay 
 is fantastic in singleplayer. team fortress 2 is my recommendation for online FPS as of this moment 
 until frontlines fuel of war comes out. its extremely balenced, every one will have their favourite 
 class, mine being engineer, and every class has two or three counter classes. for example a scout 
 is used for retrieving stuff or taking capture points. the engineer makes turrets which can stop 
 these nippy little buggers from nicking your stuff and the demoman also works well if you can time 
 it right. it seems that a popular choice is for you and your buddy to team up as heavy and medic 
 so while the heavy is mowing everyone down the medic stands behind him constantly healing him. 
 this makes for a fun challenge of who can kill the medic first without being cut in half with a 
 minigun.
  
  Graphics - also fantastic. HL2 graphics seemed to have been improved from the PC version with is 
 like adding a sugar top to the best cake in the world. just makes it better. portal graphics are 
 also good but thats not the point of portal, its the gameplay which is also fantastic. team fortress 
 2 though is the cherry on the cake for me as the cartooney graphics are humourous and great while 
 retaining the goryness of today's modern shooters (exclude halo) which makes a good game great.
 
  
  valuefor money - &pound;44 for 5 games? if that isnt the bargin of the century i dont know what 
 is. shame that it doesnt come with HL2 deathmatch or counterstrike but that would be asking too 
 much. overall - if this isnt in your collection, your missing out. not only to you get the center 
 piece, HL2 saga, but you also get icing and a cherry of a game on top. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gruug
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I bought and played through HL2 when it first came out some time ago. Thought it was a really good 
 game. So when The Orange Box was announced I was like great, maybe, but the only thing that I really 
 want is Episodes 1 and 2 . Then I had to decided if I wanted the PC or the 360 version. I am not 
 a big console shooter fan to start with. Well, I decided upon the console version. What did I think? 
 It looked about the same as my PC version of my origional HL2 but not quite. Not terrible but still 
 not great for a game that has been out for over a year. And, game play. Although the game is virtually 
 an exact port of the PC game it still had to contend with the poor shooter mechanics of the console's 
 controllers. Yes, they did dumb down the targeting and hit box so that the controllers would work 
 but they still felt sluggish. As to the other games included, they were a nice addition and probably 
 at least make it a worthwhile buy. Team Fortress, although not what I had hoped it would be was 
 somewhat enjoyable. But again, the control/targeting issue got in the way of me really getting 
 into any MP games with any great enjoyment. The shining light in all this though was Portal. I 
 rather enjoyed this innovated game. The controls were still not great but at least it was much 
 more playable. And who could resist this sort of alternative to a shooter. Physics were good and 
 the gameplay addictive. So, Portal was a winner in my book.
  
  Overall, The Orange Box is ok. Buy it but don't buy too much of the hype. The PC version is probably 
 better but I didn't buy that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sootster
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  What more could you ask for, 5 top class games which will span over 40 hours of game play. Team 
 Fortress 2 is setting a new standard for multi-players. Why should rubbish shooters shoot, why 
 not heal or spy, this is the quality we need in our gaming market. Portal is a short yet hilarious 
 puzzle based game, the ending is superb and all round it is a joy to play. Half life 2 and its 
 companions are an enjoyable set of three which all could be in a individual game, you don't know 
 the deal you are getting until you get it, in some places the game is very difficult and Youtube 
 has helped me past that. All these games are astounding so stop reading this review and buy THE 
 ORANGE BOX. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: udmatador
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  I LOVE HALF LIFE! LOVE IT! Was one of the best games of the decade! I played up to E1 on PC, and 
 was a bit leary when I picked up the Xbox copy. But I told myself I wouldn't judge until I spent 
 some time with it, and I'm glad I did. With all of the updates and the graphic enhancements done 
 to the game it indeed does justice to the series! It was good enough to go back and play from the 
 beginning. Portal is a great single-player experience. The puzzles are like nothing I've seen. 
 The puzzles are challenging and fun. Team fortress is some neat multiplayer though could use some 
 networking updates, at any rate its not enough to stop you from having a great time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bio_Sm0g
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  This games for anyone:
  
  Half Life 2
  
  The original game still holds up well today gameplay wise, and has a much better performance on 
 the 360, than on the original Xbox port which was kind of strained. However it has been three years 
 so the graphics are definitely starting to look dated; even with some lighting enhancements you 
 can tell that this isnt a 360 game. So if youve played the original there isnt really much reason 
 to come back, unless youre desperate for a few more achievement points.
  
  Episodes 1 &amp; 2
  
  The episodic accompaniment to the original game pick up immediately after 
 the credits in Half Life 2, following Gordon and Alyx as they make their way out of City 17 and 
 into the country. The graphics are noticeably sharper in the two episodes, and the wide open rural 
 environments of Episode 2 are pretty impressive. There may not be too many gameplay additions, 
 but the same great Half Life charm is there, and you want to see what happens next right? The two 
 episodes really arent all that long, and should only take a couple of days each to clear out, 
 but keep in mind that is the way they were designed. Portal
  
  This mind pending puzzle game is also set in the Half Life universe at Aperture Science, but Valve 
 has been silent on how it all fits into the other games in the series. The gameplay is very unique 
 and can be hard to wrap your head around at times. In order to complete the puzzles you have to 
 get into a different mindset and think about bending space in order to get things done, so think 
 outside the box, way outside. Also this game is just downright hilarious, especially towards the 
 end with the antics of a strange computerised voice that guides you through the experiments. While 
 it is incredibly short (3-4 hrs) Portal is definitely an innovation on how a player can navigate 
 through a 3D space. Team Fortress 2
  
  TF2 is the sequel to Valves classic multiplayer shooter that formally introduced class based gaming 
 to gamers, thats a pretty big contribution to shooters. The game has a very interesting visual 
 style, which is NOT cell shaded, but rather has a Pixar animation movie look to it, only with blood 
 and gore. Unfortunately this visual style doesnt look as good up close when youre looking at 
 your gun, so it may not be perfectly suited for an FPS given the players perspective. The class 
 systems, which contain all the regulars: medic, demolitions, sniper, all function very well and 
 have balanced abilities and drawbacks. No class is dominant. On a cautionary note the gameplay 
 is very unrealistic, so it may not appeal to Counter Strike or Halo fans; however it remains fun 
 and entertaining. Ive heard about some severe lagging problems online but apparently a patch has 
 been put out that fixes this problem. I found that the game has a very interesting style in character 
 design, as if TF2 is a parody of all the multiplayer shooters that we have come to know very well. 
 It doesnt take itself too seriously but manages to work. Sadly, due to the Halo 3 aftershock which 
 is still in effect, there arent that many people playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecrow_fan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  This box set of games is and intersting one. You have one of the best first person shooter of Alltime 
 and episode content you have a great eddtion to you xbox 360 collection. But portal is a very great 
 puzzle game that makes you think of where you put the portals and puts a very stamp on what a puzzle 
 game should be. If you have already played half life 2 you can play it agine and ir will be great. 
 And you can play the episode content it should take you about anywhere between 5 to 10 hours to 
 play all of them. But in closeing this a must buy for all first person shooter fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feet13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  Ok, so i have a habit of getting bored of games, even the great ones. I love the fact that if i 
 get bored of playing one of the games i can switch without prying myself out of my hard earned 
 couch groove. Portal is great - what can you compare it to??? I really enjoy the humor of it and 
 its a great mind bender... wish i had a portal gun. I'm making myself play the first Half Life even 
 though I played it through a while ago and its still fun and doesn't seem as dated as you might 
 think. A definite keeper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kyukikun999
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  so the half life 2 episode 2 is the must see and must buy game that never been before!
  
  5 in 1 is really sounds great becos example! 1 game worth 60 $ so if you buying 4 more games is 
 so expencesive! 240 $ wow!! so expensive its almost u buy one Console game! hehehe!
  
  this is really worthy becos! 5 games is 1 dvd DIsc is so RARE! item! hihi!
  
  and great games 
 too! so Worthy!
  
  so must buy! this game!
  
  i think this is the best of the best worthy game ever in history of game industry!
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  great game in value!! the best! ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: railszach
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Sooooo, if you're a shooter fan chances are you've heard of the uber-deal that is Orange Box. Consisting 
 of 5 games total this is one hell of a deal, consisting of Half Life 2 along with the first 2 episodes. 
 Portal and Team Fortress 2 round out the deal. By far the strongest title of the bunch is Portal, 
 offering an interesting story with excellent voice acting as well as some interesting gameplay, 
 using physics and dimensions to create puzzles on par with the Zelda series. The Half Life saga 
 remains to be the meat and potatoes of the game with a long story and interesting gameplay that 
 still holds up well years later. Team Fortress 2 is the weakest part of the package yet will fill 
 the multiplayer void if you are one of the 5 people that don't own Halo 3.. all and all it's a very 
 good game and great deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: football-lover2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  half life2, episode 1 and2: great as always but not much to say about it since it was already released. 
 very intense and funm with cool features and superb graphics. this game is defietly the strongest 
 link in the orange box. cool gadgets and guns!!! a true fps that any1 of any age would enjoy!! defiently 
 best part of orange box!!!
  
  portal: this game was very fun but at the same time very frutrasting. its a great game but is the 
 weakest link to the orange box. u mostly just shot portals through walls which was fun but not 
 as fun as the other 2 games. its worth playing and the best puzzle game ever made!!!!
  
  team fortress 2: once again a very fun game. even more fun when u play with freinds. it was addictive 
 and i enjoyed it alt. it had flwas but was still very awsome and a worthy addition to the orange 
 box!!! i could play this game 2 hours stragingt without getting bored. but id rather play football 
 and ride bikes. but still u could play this game a long timne without gettin bored.
  
  overall orange box was a great deal and worth ever cent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeLashmutt1980
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  I'm gonna get right to it... The problems. Team Fort 2 is missing some really important stuff (I 
 know there are fans that are gonna hate me for this but they are constructive comments) ... For 
 example, You can't just play AI bots in the even that you don't have XBOX LIVE (yeah, I'm old school) . 
 SO you have a game you can't play at all. But you also can't play your buddies on the same console 
 unless you have system links or XBOX LIVE. Thus, some people only got 4 games for the price of 
 1. Still not enough to bring the overall score down. Portal is perfect. A really great cutting 
 edge puzzle game with a fun sense of humor and a really good feel in terms of its playability. 
 Addicting. OH! play it before half-life ep. 2. There are a few lines mixed into Half-Life Ep. 2 
 dialogue from portal The three Half-Life installments are great. A really good series but not much 
 variation from game one to game three. Same weapons, with one or two new enemies. Not really complaining, 
 just pointing it out. Otherwise the story is top notch for a FPS. The environments are rich and 
 detailed. The character expressions and voice acting is stellar. The AI is a little stupid from 
 time to time... I had a few combines throw gernades which bounced off a wall and killed themselves. 
 They never seem to learn that if they run around that corner, like all their buddies before them 
 who are pinned to that wall, you are gonna get a bolt through your chest... Otherwise, the game 
 is a total blast. And the Dumb AI is kinda funny at times. Please don't comment back telling me 
 I'm retarded for not having XBOX LIVE (I have my reasons and they go beyond Dude, come on! You're 
 retarded. ) . Just be thankful I'm not writing a HALO 3 review. Stop reading my review, go buy it 
 already!
  
  Later kids, I'm off to finish episode two 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightstriker_Qc
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  Is it legal to get that much stuff for so little?
  
  Portal alone would sell great. Even if I was expecting more puzzle and less OMG, the floor kill! 
 It's still great. Really. So much I want a Portal 2. Right now.
  
  HL2 : Episode 2 is a full lenght FPS on itself, while not too deep, it's still great...
  Try 
 launching the garden gnome into space!
  
  Team Fortress 2 is proba... IS the best MP FPS out there. And I will do a sparta to anybody who 
 say otherwise.
  
  So I get HL2 and HL2 : Episode 1 on top?
  
  I feel like a theif... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanbrandowen
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2007 4:14 am PT
Review:  4 IN ONE IF You not on xbl as team fortress is a multi player I started with Half life 2 as it 
 was not on previous consoles and I am not into Pc gaming, WOW I could not put the control down for 
 2 solid hours. The best I have ever seen cant wait to finish and start with episode 1 and 2. and 
 portal
  
  I'm sure of one thing it's a massive improvement on Half life one I got that as my PC gamer buddies 
 said its the best and I got it on ps 2 ,never played it as the controls had no default setting 
 and ended up very frustrated.
  
  So I was reluctant to buy the Orange Box ,but man o man was I wrong this is what I've been waiting 
 for since I started next gen gaming.
  
  STORY 10
  GAME PLAY 10
  SOUND 10
  VALUE 10
  GRAPHICS 10
  
  WARNING......
  
  PLEASE READ HEALTH INSTRUCTIONS ON BOX AS YOU WILL PLAY 
 THIS ONE UNTIL YOUR EYES POP OUT. LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nears_puzzle
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  I had very little interest in picking up this game until I was in EB, pre-ordering Assasin's Creed. 
 Fortuantely, I asked if I should get "The Orange Box," after remembering how much fun I had playing 
 Half-Life on the PS2. I hadn't played the series ever since the very first Half-Life, and boy was 
 I happy with what I got. "The Orange Box" offers 360 owners five games for the price of one, automatically 
 that is an amazing deal. It offers all three Half-Life 2 games. I was so excited playing the first 
 Half-Life 2 and remembering how great the game feels on a system. The graphics definitely transitioned 
 well onto the 360 and combat feels amazing. After almost finishing through Half-Life, I went to 
 go explore the realm of Portal. Ultimately, Portal is the most mind-boggeling game ever invented 
 and definitely one of the most fun games I have ever played. The game has some relation to the 
 Half-Life series, but no point in spoiling. The barrier- breaking and whitty comedy is what makes 
 Portal such a replayable game. After Portal, I went to the best Multiplayer experience playing 
 Team Fortress 2. I had yet to play the first one, and I was stunned of how much fun I was having 
 when playing it. Team Fortress 2 has a very great design, being very cartoony, and it allows players 
 to choose from a variety of different classes. Basically, I was very shocked in how "The Orange 
 Box" would appeal to me, and I am so glad I had the chance to buy such an amazing set of games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sims_addict
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  It hasn't been long since I got the game but the orange box has truly amazed me! First, Half life2; 
 I have played this on my pc with alot of lag (my computer isn't great) and it was worth it, the 
 storylines as awesome as it's always been. I havn't played much of episode 2 but WOW... from what 
 I've seen i'm going to be in for one hell of a journey. Secondly, Portal; Now I'm not a bif fan 
 of the whole puzzle genre but this is one exception, the journey from one place to another has 
 never been as in depth as it is in this game. It nicely links some nie humour and some odd and 
 weird goings on. Some great boredom busting to be had here.
  Lastly, Team Fortress 2; I never knew an online multiplayer game could be so fun, this certainly 
 measures up to the greats like counter-strike and halo's multiplayer. With the classes better than 
 ever you'll certainly have your favourites and the ones you'd want to steer clear of which adds 
 a great sense of customisation.
  
  All in all your getting a great deal, and for one of these games i'd be happy to pay the full amount 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G13BONGWATER
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  Pros: 5 great games in one box. HL2 with the additional episodes is really incredible. I like that 
 I can play the whole story straight through with plenty of achievements to shoot for to add to 
 the replay value. Team Fortress really forces you to play as a team, so deathmatch fans will have 
 to look elsewhere. Portal is an innovative puzzle game that has tons of potential.
  
  Cons: TF2 needs about 6 more maps, and maybe another game mode or two. Lag is a bit of a problem 
 in TF2 at times, leading me to think M$ should provide LIVE users with access to dedicated game 
 servers instead of the peer to peer system they use currently. Portal is great fun, but far too 
 short. It needs like 90 more levels.
  
  Overall, I think this is still the best value ever offered in console gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jicrichton
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best packages I have see to date. Almost perfect as a matter of fact. The only 
 thing in my eyes that keeps it from being perfect is the poor laggy conditions in the multiplayer 
 play that you can get in matches with more than 8 people. I have played games with 12 that work 
 pretty well but never a 16 player game. I think this is because of the peer based hosting of multiplayer 
 games (No dedicated servers) , so the match is very reliant on the host having a robust internet 
 condition with little latency. I have heard on-line in matches that there are planned updates to 
 the game that may help with the lag issues but I have not seen any official announcement of this,
 
  
  One other tiny complaint is the fact that there are not that many maps. The ones that are there 
 are well balanced and fun. I noticed that the PC version already has free downloadable maps coming 
 out. I hope that the plan is not to make us pay, even though I think I already know the answer 
 to that...
  
  The one new game idea on the disk is PORTAL. I loved the game. I did not expect to like it and 
 when it ended, way too soon, I was wanting more. I think Valve has a future full title hit with 
 this game. Again, it is short and can be finished in 3 hours easy, so don't pay $60 just for Portal.
 
  
  I am not going to get into all of the details about the Orange Box. If you want that there are 
 far better reviews on this site to do that. I just thought that I would point out the weaknesses 
 and the new surprise hit.
  
  With a little more testing of the network code, and more FREE maps for TF2 and Portal, this collection 
 would have scored a 10 in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luke_Randazzo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 1:51 am PT
Review:  It was about two and a half years ago when I first picked up a copy of a valve package for the 
 PC. I was completely foreign to all things Half Life, but I was very interested in Counter Strike 
 Source. I was left to choose between a $30 Counter Strike Source DVD or a $50 package including 
 Half Life: Source, Half Life 2, Half Life 2: Deathmatch, and Counter Strike Source. I, wanting 
 the biggest bang for my buck, of course picked the latter package. I had gone in primarily thinking 
 of Counter Strike, but I soon grew weary of my head popping off every time I dared to stick it 
 out from behind a box, so I decided to go ahead and give Half Life: Source a try. I beat the game 
 very quickly, and found myself hungry for more, so I gave HL 2 a shot. To my surprise (primarily 
 enjoying multiplayer experiences) I found it to be quite enjoyable. After finishing the game, I 
 told everyone I knew of it's awesomeness, but for some reason I was never really in the mood to 
 play the game again. I couldn't figure out why something I enjoyed so thoroughly just didn't appeal 
 to me after I had completed it. About two years later is when I began seeing ads for Team Fortress 
 2, I had recently gotten into the battlefield games, and found myself surprisingly good at class 
 based multiplayer, and I've always been a nut for toon shading (a most humble disclosure of mine) . 
 So I became very excited, and seeing as how it would be coming to the 360 as well as several other 
 killer titles in the 07 fall (which we are experiencing now) , I bought a 360. Soon after this is 
 when I realized that I couldn't just buy TF2 for 360, I also needed to get Half Life 2, Episode 
 1, Episode 2, and Portal. As far as portal went, I was already excited for that game also, so that 
 was cool, but I still knew that I didn't have an incredible urge to play Half Life 2 through again, 
 and I hadn't heard great things of epidsode 1. All things considered, I went for it, and boy am 
 I glad I did. Just like when I bought the HL2 game of the year package, I was mostly looking forward 
 to the multiplayer, that being Team Fortress 2. But since I had bought my 360, I found that recieving 
 achievements gave an inner sense of self worth in some interesting and probably demonic way, so 
 I decided to try and play through Half Life 2 again while trying to get all the achievements, I 
 got most of them the first time through, but trying to locate the lamdas will certainly add additional 
 replay to the game. Playing it on the 360 I expected would be wierd, seeing as how valve has always 
 been on the PC, but I must say, they did an awesome job. From the way the cursor looks to little 
 tracking abilities added when you're operating a vehicle's weapon, the game feels tricked out to 
 be a console game. I was surprised at my enjoyment of my second playthrough of Half Life 2 and 
 I was immediately inspired to move on to Episode 1. It was not as good. This is not to say I didn't 
 enjoy it, quite the contrary, it featured loads of zombie and close quarters battling that was 
 done very well. It also had great memorable moments, such as trying to fight in pitch black with 
 Alyx, but there were just a few aspects in Episode 1 that just weren't quite with it. The enemies 
 were great, like the Zombines (I'll let you discover those) , and the head crabs are always fun, 
 but fighting antlions in enclosed spaces is annoying. They behave like real time strategy characters, 
 attacking in the same fashion over, and over, and over... They didn't seem to have any real intelligence. 
 I don't think they were any different in HL2, but in that game you had more space to fight them 
 in, and sometimes they were on your side. Overall, the main problem with Episode 1 was the lack 
 of memorable moments, which is what the fun in Half Life feeds on, without it, the game is nothing. 
 One a side note, of recorded playtime (this cuts out the time that you died, and spent solving 
 puzzles) , Half Life 2 took me 9 hours, Episode 1 took me 2 and 45 minutes, and Episode two took 
 me 4 hours and 30 minutes, so once Episode three is added in, it will equal (or be greater than) 
 the length of HL2. Now, I wanted to make an important side note here. Once I moved to Episode 2, 
 I have made an executive decision, Episode 2 is the best half life experience I've ever had. It's 
 so awesome. From the very beginning, that sense of memorable situations right out of HL2 is thrown 
 at you endlessly till you complete it. The environments are beautiful and let's not forget the 
 car. When I heard valve talking about the car, I assumed it was just going to be a little side 
 note in one part of gameplay, but this is not the case, It is involved in more than half of the 
 game, and while that may sound scary, I promise, it's awesome. The car evolves in very real ways 
 throughout the game. For instance, when you first get it, it's just a car. Then it recieves basic 
 radar, letting you know where caches are. Then, toward the end, it's given a beacon so you can 
 find it if you strayed from it, and the radar is updated so it shows where enemies are and allies 
 and supply points, which comes in handy for the huge battle at the end. It's also given a rack 
 for storing magnison devices (you'll understand later) , everything about the car just feels so 
 integrated into the experience, it almost makes me afraid of the thought of leaving it in Episode 
 3. The new enemies in episode 2 are really awesome, even though they don't do anything particularly 
 profound, they are introduced in a menacing fashion that gives them personality and the sounds 
 they make and the way they behave just enhance the experience, making them loads of fun to fight. 
 The most shocking thing is that now I realize why HL2 and episode 1 don't have much replay value: 
 they never change. It's not like in Episode 2 where a few of the battles can go totally differently 
 depending on how you approach them, I've already replayed several battles more than once. Last 
 but not least, the story. In E2, some things are finally starting to be explained, such as: WHO 
 IS THE G-MAN, CUZ I DON'T THINK HE WORKS FOR THE GOVERNMENT! Even though the first half of the 
 game doesn't delve much into the story, it gives great answers later on, and sets the stage for 
 E3. Now, Portal is a strange subject. Is the game awesome? Yes. Are the puzzles great? The last 
 few. Is there much replay? In my oppinion, no. The first 14 of 19 levels are tutorial, IMO, and 
 only the last 2 really challenged me. Afterwards, you've got a few really hard ones but they still 
 don't take long, and last comes the challenges. It's a really awesome game, but it's good that 
 it came in a package, because it can't stand by itself. It offered me about 4 hours of enjoyment. 
 Team Fortress? 2? It's awesome. Freakin' awesome. I think the cartoony approach was a good idea, 
 because then they went over the top with all the classes, so all of them are actually fun to play 
 *gasp*. It's true, the spy is quite commical but takes lots of skill to actually gain the trust 
 of your enemies. The Engineer actually has pretty good defensive weapons and, not to mention, can 
 build dispensers, teleporters, and sentries. It's really easy to end up on top as an engineer, 
 you just have to play on 2 Fort, have a sentry defending your flag, sneak into their base and put 
 the recieving end of a teleporter in there, and have a dispenser on the top level of your base. 
 Scouts are cool, they go fast and make great for games like Granary, which is like a progressive 
 form of what you see in battlefield, with no tickets. One time in a game of 6 on 6, me and one 
 other guy were scouts and we won the entire game in a minute and a half just by running to control 
 points. It's wierd, in this game it's actually fun to be a medic, you can get an ubercharge which 
 gives temporary invulnerability, and your healing gun can sneak around walls, so you can take cover 
 while you're healing a heavy, and you have a syringe shooting gun... sweet... One of my best classes 
 is the sniper, which is wierd for me because I'm not a great sniper in other titles, and characters 
 are speedy in this game, but I managed to pull off 11 headshots in one game as a sniper. The Heavy 
 is the most iconic class, IMO. It's my best class on record, with a 22 point streak. There's really 
 not much to be said there, big gun, big guy, beware of snipers. But it does feel great when the 
 medic that's healing you gets an ubercharge and you storm a base laying waste to all things you 
 see. The pyro is a funny character, but he is quite niche, don't get me wrong, he's fun to play 
 as, but that flame doesn't go far at all, if put it the right hands, a pyro will get loads of assists. 
 Soldiers are very basic, but fun nonetheless. They aren't creative, they just sport a weak rocketlauncher 
 and are pretty good for taking out gun emplacements. Last is the Demoman, he's cool, but I've not 
 had much success with him, there are people, however who seem to lay excessively good traps with 
 him and he's great against heavys. All the maps but one in TF2 are really good, and although it 
 is disappointing that you can only have one gametype on each map, it is sensible because all the 
 maps seem designed for that game mode. So though the experience isn't very deep in that reguard, 
 finding new ways to destroy your opponents is always fun. My only big complaint with TF2 is the 
 menu glitches on the 360... It happens alot to everyone, where the game will just up and freeze 
 on a load screen, and this can be a big turnoff for those who are impatient. In conclusion, the 
 Orange box is awesome, really awesome. I thoroughly enjoyed all the games, but I still find it 
 interesting how a games layout can be so simple, the multiplayer not have that much depth in customization, 
 and the singleplayer be so linear, but it is just so much fun. When you compare this next to, say, 
 Halo 3, which has the forge and save films, you wonder why you keep coming back for more, and it 
 is because it has what videogames were originally based on in the first place: basic, addictive 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablobasher
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 1:26 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box contains five games, Half - Life 2, Episode 1, and 2, Portal, and last but not least, 
 Team Fortress 2.
  
  Hslf - Life 2 was released some years ago to PC owners, and suffered a somewhat bunked port to 
 the original Xbox, but now appears on the 360 with almost a full deck of cards. The game takes 
 off where the original Half -Life ended, but for those of you who didnt play this cla. ss. ic, it 
 doesn't matter, you don't need to have to understand the plot.
  
  The game, and it's subsequent episodes, will see you as Gordon Freeman, the silent hero, make your 
 way through City 17, and the uprising of it's citizens against the oppressive combine regime. Although 
 short individually, the total campaign consisting of the 3 games will last you between 10 and 16 
 hours depending on how you play. Which, considering there is still 2 games left to play, is quite 
 a triumph when most games on the 360 can be finished in an evening.
  
  The transition of Half - Life 2 from PC to Xbox 360 has gone relatively well, graphically, the 
 game has been given a small overhaul, adding HDR and dynamic lighting effects, and other updates 
 such as the new particle system. However, this does not stop the controls from feeling slightly 
 off, you will likely not notice this if you have not played the PC version, but there is still 
 some feeling that the controls are over responsive in some areas, and over responsive in others, 
 giving a somewhat shaky feel to them.
  
  However, this doesn't even come close to spoiling the experience, and you will be happy to hear 
 that this control fiddlyness does not carry over to Portal of Team Fortress 2. They control very 
 smoothly, and very well with the controller.
  
  Portal introduces you to the world of Aperture Science, and is an eerie gaming experience to say 
 the least. Your character awakens with little memory, inside a sealed chamber, and you are then 
 introduced to GLaDOS, the operator who will be guiding you through the testing chambers ahead. 
 As the game progresses, you get the feeling that something is not quite right about the place, 
 from the mechanical malfunctions, to the stream of incoherency from your advisor, to the empty 
 observation windows.
  
  At it's heart, Portal is a traditional puzzle game, you are given an area, and your trusty portal 
 gun, with which you can create portals on particular surfaces. Portal has a huge amount of humor 
 and charm, and is quite honestyl, the greatest gaming experience i've ever had. Highly enjoyable, 
 frustratingly challenging in some places, and downright disorienting in others.
  
  Team Fortress 2, is a highly stylized look at team combat, while it is not a simple game to play, 
 given there are 9 character classes, each having a dramatically different role in combat, and the 
 games reliance on you working as a team. This can make playing with strangers quite frustrating, 
 luckily, the game is not too serious, and is very comical, packed with humor, making sometimes 
 frustrating team mates fade into the background while you enjoy the game.
  
  While there is no single player, and online can be quite laggy at times, and there is only six 
 maps, you will find a huge amount of variety within TF2, as each character class with view each 
 map differently because of their differing roles in combat. That said, some of the components appear 
 to be a little broken, achievements for example quite often either glitch out and are not awarded, 
 or the tracker just resets, this can be quite frustrating when you are on your way to 25 headshots, 
 only to be told you havn't made any. There seems to be a high chance of the game freezing during 
 the menus as well, usually when the game tries to load something, like a game list, or map. However, 
 this is a minor frustration and hopefully will be looked into by way of patching the game via Xbox 
 Live.
  
  Overall, The Orange Box is hands down, the best purchase an Xbox 360 owner can make at the moment, 
 and is an absolute joy to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 9:01 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box, may sound like some brand of soap or cleaning product, but it offers three brand 
 spanking new games as well as two older games in one tightly woven package.
  Inside this Box you will find Half-Life 2, as well as its successors episode one and two; Portal, 
 and Team Fortress 2. The combination of the puzzle masterpiece Portal, great multilplayer of Team 
 Fortress, and the ever popular Half-Life series creates an unbeatable value.
  Starting with Half-Life, fans of the series will like the much improved Episode Two. It picks up 
 were Episode One left off, as you escape from City 17. One major difference is that Alyx accompanies 
 you throughout the game, along with the addition of new enemies. The graphics get a minor overhaul.
 
  Moving on to Portal, which is the greatest thing about the Box, is a clever mix of first person 
 action with puzzle solving. It's also quite funny. It's rather simple, but also incredibly complicated. 
 You wake up as a female in some mysterious lab, and your only way to get around is manipulating 
 portals, to get around in this puzzle world. The difficultly ranges from rather simple to frustratingly 
 hard. But its a lot of fun.
  Last but not least is Team Fortress 2, a long awaited sequel of a mod from Quake. This is one, 
 like its predecessor is entirely multiplayer oriented, and is filled with fast paced fun. There 
 are a total of nine classes to choose from, and its an important decision indeed. They range from 
 fast, light characters to the heavy lumbering war machines, along with select support classes. 
 With these classes you battle out on 6 different maps with each of their own objectives.
  I myself, have never been trully impressed by the Half-Life series, but with the additions of Portal 
 and Team Fortress with the three Half-Life's, Orange Box is something taht chould not be missed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lanesade
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Yeah ... this is an amazing deal even if you have HL2 and HL2 ep1 already.
  HL2 ep2 is really really good! The action, the story, the acting, the audio and of course the graphics 
 all amazingly good.
  Portal is simply brilliant! My only problem with Portal is that it was too short for me. I wanted 
 more.
  
  If you don't have any of the HL2 games yet, then this is the time to get them. Half Life 2 single 
 player is one of the best games Ive ever played. Add episode One and two into that and you have 
 weeks of fun ahead. Then there is the multi player side of it all. Best for last ... Team Fortress 
 2 is kick ass! Action and humor in a stylized world with stylized characters that remind me of 
 The Incredibles .
  
  In my opinion this is the sweetest deal on a game package you are likely to see in a long time 
 IF EVER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hillelslovak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  I love the Half Life universe, so I knew I had to get this game. It's such a deal.
  
  Half Life 2- What a game. looks basically the same as the pc version from a couple years back, 
 but has been updated with some better looking textures, hdr lighting, and a motion blur effect. 
 But the game is the same and still great.
  
  Half Life 2 Episode 1- Definetly the weak link to the package. The gameplay is great, but the game 
 is just too short. The graphics after playing HL2, are amazing though.
  
  Half Life 2 Episode 2- Excellent expansion. longer than Episode 1, a dn the gameplay is awesome, 
 which is to be expected. Portal- An innovative, quirky, awesome puzzle game. The puzzles are so 
 mind bending, and it kinda actually has a story. Team Fortress 2- Great multiplayer game. Very 
 deep with amny classes to play as, and all play balanced witht he other classes, so its great. 
 Games can be laggy at random times though, which is a minor drawback. The Half Life 2 Orange Box 
 is one incredible package, buy it, period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chriso1322
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is almost perfect as you get 5 games on one disk, half-life2, episode1, episode2 , portal 
 and Team Fortress 2. i am quite far into Half life2 and i am finding everything fun about it like 
 the gravity gun but only downside is they have not updated any of the graphics but some of the 
 graphics are very good even compared to new games. i havnt played any of the episodes yet. portal 
 is quite a fun puzzle game, i think its ok but dont like puzzle games. TF2 is the only multiplayer 
 and its amazing. you pick from one of nine classes and battle for diffirent objectives including 
 capture the flag. i would buy this pack for just TF2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oneshotskye
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 1:07 am PT
Review:  You dont need me to recommend The Orange Box to you. Dont worry, I will, but you honestly dont 
 need to read a few glowing paragraphs to convince you to put a little of your paycheck aside for 
 this title. Because seriously, the name should speak for itself - I mean, Blue Shift aside, when 
 has the Half Life series ever let players down? We are dealing with a quality gaming franchise, 
 people, and if its reputation alone isnt enough to get you to run out to your nearest software 
 store to buy it, the price will. Sixty bucks. Five games. Were talking XBLA prices for a collection 
 that includes a 2004 Game of the Year. You do the math.
  
  So, were given Half-Life 2 (which is probably already sitting proudly on most gamers shelves 
 in one form or another) , Half-Life 2: Episode One, and three brand-new additions to Valves ever 
 expanding dystopian line-up: Half-Life 2: Episode Two, Portal, and Team Fortress 2. And as long 
 as you arent allergic to playing with the first-person perspective switched on, theres guaranteed 
 to be something in The Orange Box that will pique your interest. Coming down from a Halo 3 high? 
 Then Team Fortress 2 is just the ticket to get the blood pumping through those veins again. Live 
 for a puzzle-humor hybrid? Then check out Portal. And if you liked escaping the hellhole of City 
 17 in Half-Life 2, then hey, chances are that youll have fun continuing your mad escape in Episode 
 Two.
  
  The controller setup is something we are all used to at this point in time. You use the right trigger 
 to shoot, A button to jump, B to reload, X to interact - okay, okay, lets put it this way: If 
 you are currently playing, or in that case, if you have ever played an FPS title on your 360, youll 
 need approximately ten minutes to get used to this setup. And even that estimate is being generous; 
 basically, you will just need to blast your way through one or two rooms of Combine soldiers, and 
 youll be all set to take on the malevolent forces running City 17. One nice modification to the 
 standard shooter interface is the means by which you switch between your weapons. Rather than toggle 
 through your options with the left and right bumper, you have each weapon assigned to the directional 
 buttons, so there arent any of the annoying search breaks that might occur during a heated shootout. 
 Instead of strafing while toggling through your backpack (Pistol? No Submachine Gun? No Crowbar? 
 I wish.) , you can press up, or down, or wherever on your button pad and instantly whip out the 
 Gravity Gun. Lay physics-style waste to your enemies, go home happy. Its as simple as that.
  
  The graphics are on par with the PC release of Half-Life 2. Jagged edges that might have been 
 a problem with the Xbox version of the game have been smoothed over, frame rates no longer drop 
 to slideshow slow levels, and water effects play out much more realistically than they might have 
 three years ago on your older console. And although they use the same engine, Episode One and Episode 
 Two both show an overhaul in the graphical polish applied to both games, so that Dog shines just 
 a little bit more brilliantly as he bounds through the air. Terrain is more detailed and you can 
 literally count the bolts on a bridge you duck beneath. Its impressive to see how well the game 
 has aged over these past few years, and with the exception of a couple, very minor areas (like 
 the gray squares that appear around blood splatters underwater) , theres little separating Half-Life 
 2 from a game originally destined for the 360. Episode One looks better than a 360 launch title 
 and Episode 2, for its money, sports graphics as impressive as Halo 3.
  
  The game really shines graphically with Team Fortress 2. Giving a new, cartoonish coat of paint 
 to their 1996 Quake experience, the developers here have chosen to implement a retro feel to their 
 multiplayer battlezones. There are nine classes to pick from, each coming equipped with their own 
 strengths and weaknesses to cater to the individual players combat style. For those that love 
 to slip past enemy fire theres the Noo Yawker Scout (complete with baseball bat to bash any 
 medic or Yankee hater) , and theres the Heavy for those that want slow, stupid masses of unadulterated 
 power behind their gun. And while the game perfectly balances these different classes, it doesnt 
 give much else. There are a total of two different types of battles to choose from: Capture the 
 Flag and Control Point, with both requiring you to act as a part of a team rather than play through 
 deathmatch rounds that you might have grown accustomed to in some other shooters. And with only 
 a handful of maps at your disposal, you may become bored a bit more quickly than you expected. 
 With the occasional bouts of lag, you may become frustrated. However, between the vast array of 
 classes to choose from and the quirky humor imbedded within each character, like a breakable Scotch 
 bottle for the Demoman brogue or a syringe gun for the Medic, the game will have you coming back 
 sporadically for one more retro round. And if Valve adds a multiplayer map pack for download on 
 Live Arcade and were looking at another Counter Strike.
  
  Both Episode One and Two are on the short side, with each game clocking in at roughly six hours 
 apiece. Each episode is broken down into a few segments that you have to run through, literally, 
 as you race through the Citadel to cool the reactor in Episode One, all before helping refugees 
 out of City 17 and into the wilderness, where Episode Two takes place. Keep in mind that these 
 arent whole new games, and therefore weapons, characters, and story plot ideas are all a holdover 
 from the original game. Gameplay, too, for the most part, just follows in the footsteps of the 
 title that started it all. Both games have Alyx Vance tag along as your very competent sidekick 
 - by this I mean that rather than stand in your way as a human shield of stupidity, she actually 
 (gasp!) does something to help you out - and her AI is surprisingly advanced. Both episodes balance 
 puzzles and combat well, with an epic vehicular clash at the end of the second game, and the energy 
 ball puzzles in the first can prepare players for their Portal experience.
  
  Yes, Portal. Its quite the peculiar gem, with particular emphasis meant to be placed upon the 
 latter word. Honestly, this isnt a review unless we touch upon Portal, the puzzle game thats 
 generated the most buzz from the critics circles, and with good reason. Its weird. Its intelligent. 
 And it packs more fun in its three hours of gameplay than plenty of other games in their twenty 
 hours of dungeon crawling, zombie killing, ball-breaking beat em ups do. The scenario is bizarre: 
 Youre a test subject who is ground through a series of noggin-scratching tests (nineteen to be 
 exact) by the computer GLaDOS, who delivers both instructions and witty lines of conversation with 
 the same deadpan cadence. She promises cake upon completion of the tests, which, as you discover 
 about an hour into the game, is a promise the brat doesnt plan on keeping. The settings are split 
 between the clean and sterile testing chambers and the gritty, graffiti-laden backrooms where you 
 spend the second half of the game; both areas are nicely rendered, especially the latter, which 
 successfully unnerves the player as he guides the protagonist through cramped industrial spaces 
 and red rooms that have recently fallen into disarray. The voice acting, like in all the other 
 games packaged in The Orange Box, is superbly written and superbly delivered, though unlike the 
 more serious tone Half-Life and its Episodes take, Portal is a game that grows in humor as you 
 make your escape. Listen to the lines spouted in the final boss fight or, better yet, the song 
 that plays during the closing credits (written by the always hilarious Jonathan Coulton) and youll 
 be guaranteed to at least crack a smile at some point during those final five minutes. Trust me 
 on this one.
  
  There are ninety-nine achievements to obtain, and with both Portal and Team Fortress 2 touting 
 a replay factor that should engross players for an additional few hours, youre looking at quite 
 the time investment with this game. No, The Orange Box isnt perfect, but the problems the game 
 has, like few map choices in Team Fortress 2 and a little wear in Half-Life 2s graphics, are minimal. 
 Basically, your purchase comes down to this: Five games. Thirty hours of playtime. Sixty bucks. 
 Is it worth it? Oh yeah.
  
  Pros:
  - Comes packaged with five games that should appeal to a wide variety of gamers: the puzzle-solvers, 
 the trigger-happy, and those who like to jump into the Xbox Live arena.
  - Wonderfully dark storyline that will keep people entertained for twenty hours as they struggle 
 to escape City 17.
  - Emotionally responsive characters who move and express each other realistically.
  - Good balance 
 of puzzle solving and combat in the Half-Life saga to keep players from getting bored.
  - Physics engine is still one of the best out there, allowing the finest in rag-doll tosses and 
 weight-based puzzles.
  - Large levels with plenty of variety in terms of their environments.
  - Intelligent AI, both 
 in your allies and your enemies; theyll back each other up and retreat when their health begins 
 to get low.
  - Dialogue is fresh, witty, and well-delivered to allow for stronger bonds with the various characters.
 
  - Fantastic variety of weapons, the most unique of which being the Gravity Gun.
  - Plenty of classes and funny taunts available in Team Fortress 2.
  - Portal offers an original 
 gaming experience that should appeal to gamers with its combination of intelligence and charm.
 
  
  Cons:
  - Fans of the series probably own two of the five games already, and avid gamers should have played 
 through Half-Life 2 already, significantly reducing the value of the collection.
  - Half-Life 2 is beginning to show a little age in its graphics.
  - Too few maps and too much 
 lag in Team Fortress 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turkdaddy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  First of this i would like to give the team who made this game thumbs up for making such a good 
 game. This game had so many good things about it its hard to just describe a few. But i think ill 
 just touch up on the basics. The gameplay for hl2 was solid it looked really good and it was overall 
 enjoyable. The bad thing about it was it was kinda repetetive. This might not be a problem for 
 some but it was for me. Next we have portal. Portal was an amazing game with the best credit song 
 to boot. The gameplay was fantastic and at some points it made you think. The game like hl2 looked 
 amazing and the creators out did themselves. The bad part about portal was the length and the difficulty. 
 I beat the game without getting stumped for more than 5 min. it was not hard at all. Even on advanced 
 mode it was not hard at all. I beat the whole game incuding advanced in like 3 and a half hours. 
 I was really hoping to be on this for awhile. TF2 is somewhat depressing, and ill explain why. 
 If u get a game with a good host and people that dont quite its simply fantastic. But if u are 
 not the game is horrible the lag is makes the game unplayable. Now this might not just be me but 
 after EVERy game i have to restart my box. It makes me not wanna play it, but if they come out 
 with a patch this game will be amazing. Overall worth 60 bucks 5 games in one u cant go wrong 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaladinJoo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  As a gamer, you realize that you've pretty much invested (quite literally) in an expensive hobby. 
 With games not getting any cheaper, in fact, getting much more costly, the dance of trading in 
 games for a fraction of their original price, waiting for games to be put on discounted Greatest 
 Hits labels and/or settling for used copies that have more scratches then Samurai Jack after a 
 fight has always been one the gamer was forced to dance. Luckily, the fine folks at Valve games 
 have given us one hell of a deal here. In there new game (and I use the term lightly, because this 
 is a package, not just a single game) , The Orange Box, Valve gives us five games in one.
  
  And ev'ry valley shall be exalted!
  
  And no, this is not just one of those Arcade Hits or 
 Classics deals where the buyer gets a bunch of 15 year old games for about 2/3 the price of normal 
 retail. No, you'll be paying full price for The Orange Box, but that should hardly be a point of 
 contention, because for the price of one video game, you get...
  
  Half Life 2 Series (Thus Far) :
  
  I'll admit that I'm still coasting through the campaign of 
 the very first Half Life 2, but if it's any indication as to the episodes to come, it will be a 
 fantastic trip indeed. Half Life has already established itself at the pinnacle of first person 
 shooters, so to get three Half Life games in one package is a deal in and of itself. You'll take 
 control of scientist Gordon Freeman in a desperate struggle to pry what is left of humanity away 
 from a sinister alien Reich known as the Combine. Fantastic physics, excellent graphical style 
 and animations meet an eerie and engaging story in what is just a top notch component to this package.
 
  
  Portal:
  
  The game I had perhaps the least expectations to surprised the hell out of me. The premise is simple, 
 you shoot blue portal over here, you shoot orange portal over there. You walk through blue portal 
 there, you come out over there... through orange portal. However, the way that this is employed, 
 and all the wacky and just head spinning things you can do in this first person puzzler are both 
 awesome and disorienting. Throw in a hilarious storyline where you are essentially a rat in a maze, 
 chasing after a promised cake while a computerized female voice blares... encouragement (?) over 
 a loud speaker, and you have something that unless you've played it yourself... it might just be 
 too broad to understand. Terrific either way...
  
  Team Fortress 2:
  
  The multiplayer component of The Orange Box, you'll be choosing classes and charging the front 
 lines with your mates against a rival team in order to take down various objectives. Each class 
 has their own strengths and weaknesses which factor into how you'll play as them throughout your 
 action filled matches. This all sounds pretty standard fair, but what really sets the game apart 
 is the fact that not only is it uber addictive, but it just oozes this cartoony style that is just 
 a joy to look at, let alone play. Each character has their individual attitudes, and the game just 
 looks so beautiful that people should be coming back to this one again and again.
  
  So if you're a fan of shooters of any kind, or just games in general, and you've got sixty bucks 
 and a good amount of space to fill between the holidays other big releases, The Orange Box is an 
 absolute God send.
  
  Five games. One price. Nuff Said... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_avenger
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  Does anything need to be said? TEAM FORTRESS 2 ROCKS! yup... that's about enough
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time  you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your review, remember to keep the language 
 clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the 
 first time  you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback 
 associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, 
 save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wise_China
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  As The Orange Box Packs together 5 separate games, This Review will be divided into 5 sections. 
 First, Half-Life 2. This game is just as good as it was on PC, and quite a bit better than the 
 lack-luster Xbox Port. However, if you've played through it before (Which Many of Us have) , you'll 
 blow through the game in around 10 hours, a bit on the short side. Episode 1, although quite short, 
 is fun to play through, and for those experiencing it for the first time, it's an enjoyable experience, 
 and a relatively worthy continuation to the Half-Life 2 story. Episode 2 is fun to play, and nice 
 to look at. However, it too is quite short, but the quality of the content there makes up for it. 
 Fourth, we have Portal. Portal is fun, and its style of Play is very entertaining, making you think, 
 and giving you satisfying results. The Humour in the game is quite funny, and it adds a nice touch 
 of comic relief to the Orange Box. But, just like The Half-Life content in the Orange Box, it is 
 a bit too short.
  
  Finally, Team Fortress 2. In the current Halo 3 frenzy taking over Xbox Live, this game is a light-hearted, 
 entertaining break from all the chaos of Online Spartans killing each other. Instead, you've got 
 characters who look like they were ripped right out of a Pixar Film killing each other, and that's 
 not a bad thing. The art style, the Multiplayer Mechanics, and the overall fun will make sure the 
 game isn't forgotten anytime soon. All in all, The Orange Box is great. Despite my main gripe being 
 the length of Portal and the Half-Life 2 games, the Orange Box is a rare value that no Gamer should 
 ignore. It's simply too good a deal.
  Let's hope other developers that notice! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake_6483
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  The orange box stands out because it's not just a game... when you go to the store to get games 
 you say, hey, ima go pick up this game really quick. with this you say, ima go get the orange box, 
 which is 5 games for less than what you paid for halo 3 (BAM!!!!)
  for some of my friends saying, i havent played half life 2 or the first sequal thing... i cant 
 get this yet! well, it comes with those... and more!
  EP2 is absolutely amazing! its fast paced and the graphics updates are awesome! the way the lights 
 reflect off of surfaces and the shadows that the flashlight make are pretty cool. the enemies are 
 still very easy to defeat but thaisnt a bad thing... cuz since FEAR, there has been no enemy AI 
 in an FPS that has stood out as any sort of challenge (except some bosses, but they dont count)
 
  Portal is just wierd... its hard to explain it other than saying its very awesome and creative... 
 nothing like this really exists... PLAY IT AND SEE WHAT IM TALKING ABOUT!!!!!
  Team Fortress 2 is also awesome. i almost prefer it over counter-strike source, but CSS is too 
 perfect. TF2 isnt bad though, its way better than most other team based shooters out there (im 
 pointing my finger at BF2142)
  the whole box is amazing!! you get 5 games that will keep you wildly entertained until Crysis comes 
 out!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JC346
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box is a must buy. Everyone who has a 360 must buy this game.
  
  Portal- One of the best puzzle games in recent history. The objective is to get to the exit point. 
 Every level has its own destinct design. You have to do something different every level and thats 
 what make it fun. Portal is one of the best games in The Orange Box.
  
  Half Life 2, EP 1, EP 2- Half Life is a FPS with one of the best stories ever. The graphics arent 
 that bad considering it came out a few years ago. All of the Half Life games in the game are a 
 total 24 hours long. They are all great.
  
  Team Fortress 2- Team Fortress 2 is a class based xbox live multiplayer game. You can olny have 
 CTF and some sort of territories and thats it. There is only six maps which kinda sucks. It is 
 most of the time laggy but once you get into a game without lag the game is fun. Team Fortress 
 2 is kind of the sucky one in the Orange Box.
  
  All of this games make the Orange Box a must buy for anyone. Portal and all of the Half Lifes are 
 great. TF 2 isnt that great but is still worth a play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duffman0hy3a
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  First I would like to say yes Half-Life 2, Ep. 1, and Ep. 2 are all VERY good. But I was more impressed 
 by Portal and TFC 2. Portal will indeed suck you in, it is very short, took me about an hour, which 
 is a lil bit of a let down but other then that the game is great and has a very interesting and 
 dark story. TFC 2 is indeed the best Online Experience on the X360. Halo 3 is fun but we've been 
 playing Halo 3 for 6 years already in another known as Halo 2... So theres nothing new there, BUT 
 TFC WILL KNOCK YOUR SOCKS OFF. TFC=Team Fortress Classic. The only complaint from me on this game 
 is the problems with Freezing your game to the point where you HAVE to restart your system, and 
 the lack of maps in TFC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidj1091
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2007 5:36 am PT
Review:  is one of the best deals ever. I have been play little while now on Half Life 2
  and Portal, and Half Life is the same game you know and love from the previous iterations. Portal 
 on the other hand is extremely engrossing and fun, and just a great ride. The two Episodes (1 &amp; 
 2) do more to add on to the Half Life story arc and are kinda short, but that's what they're meant 
 to be. Little installments and not a full, blown out game. The last game, and only multiplayer 
 component of the Orange Box is Team Fortress 2. There are only 6 games modes/maps to play with, 
 which some people would harp over. But in my opinion, quality over quantiny. Team Fortress 2 is 
 a class based shooter with 9 different classes to choose from - from a fast as lightning scout; 
 to a slow, turret wielding Heavy. All in all, this game deserves to be in your collection and some 
 of these games could stand on their own legs in just a retail box, but you get all 5 for just $60. 
 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sc123456
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 4:05 am PT
Review:  A Halo lover will also loves this Orange Box. Especially, when you have finished the Halo 3 in 
 just a few days. And when you still wants to play FPS, play Orange Box. Fortress is also good in 
 its character design, sth like Disney's, Warner's,... interesting and you may want to try using 
 every characters. Online playing is a must...... and it is so smooth. The 5 games let OB much more 
 playable than any other games, but sometimes running through rooms are so routine and boring. Anyway, 
 I think FPS lovers will have to wait until the coming of Unreal Tournament 3 for shock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box includes 5 great games: Half-Life 2, Half-Life 2: Episode One, Half-Life 2: Episode 
 Two, Portal, and Team Fortress 2. I'll compact my reviews into the following: Half-Life 2 (this 
 includes EP 1 and 2) , Portal, and TF2.
  
  Half-Life 2 Bundle
  
  In Half-Life 2 you play as Gordon Freeman, a scientist who, in the first Half-Life, unleashed a 
 portal to Xen. In HL2 you face an alien race called the Combine, and throughout the game, as well 
 as the episodes, you battle them, among creatures of Xen as well as antlions towards your everchanging 
 objectives. The game is, for the most part, linear, but in a fun way. The scripted events are always 
 engrossing, as you never leave your FPS as Gordon; characters have one-sided conversations (since 
 Gordon never talks in any HL thus far) , and so on. The facial animations, as well as the voice 
 acting, is the best of any game I have ever played and is worth the $60 to experience, alone. The 
 controls are fairly simple, you can change weapons, jump, use a flashlight, reload, interact (i. e. 
 open doors, activate things, pick up objects) , a fire function as well as alt. fire. Half-Life 
 2 itself will lend you 11 hours or so of gameplay, EP1 is roughly 2 hours, and EP2 is approximately 
 5 to 6 hours. Don't let the times of the Half-Life games, as a whole, be underestimated as all 
 of the time spent playing each game is action-packed and fun; rarely does it ever get dull or boring.
 
  
  Portal
  
  In Portal you play as a woman in an experimental facility, and throughout 19 levels (as well as 
 6 advanced levels, and 18 medals to attain) you'll use portals to complete your tasks. One trigger 
 controls the blue, the other controls the orange, when both portals are present they interconnect 
 and you can go in one and come out the other. This provides a variety of different puzzles that 
 are fun in their own way. The 19 levels will last you 2 to 3 hours, but the advanced levels and 
 medals to obtain will add at least 5 to 10 more hours on top.
  
  Team Fortress 2
  
  TF2 is a class-based multiplayer game, where the game is balanced because one class may be great 
 against another, but is weak against a different one. It is all a lot of fun for up to 16 people, 
 especially when you have friends that work together. There are 6 maps with set game types, so 2Fort 
 has Capture the Flag while Granary has a territory type where if you stand in a set area, you will 
 eventually regain it and you must take all the territories to win. What comes together is a lot 
 of endless fun, as the controls are easy and the game is playable within minutes because of how 
 simple and engrossing it is, with more depth the more you play.
  
  Value
  
  That's 23 hours of gaming, with lots of replayability, and a multiplayer aspect. There are also 
 99 achievements to allocate, ranging from easy, to unavoidable (i. e. story achievements) , to downright 
 out-of-the-way, such as carrying a gnome to a space ship, through 3 hours of gameplay. For $60, 
 The Orange Box is a definite buy and I recommend you buy it at all costs. The graphics, controls, 
 story, and just everything comes together. Hit me up on Xbox Live and tell me how you liked my 
 review, because I sure love The Orange Box. Have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f4tb0i18
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Half life 2 and its sequels are just as great as youd expect them to be with cool stories great 
 dialogue and fun puzzles and immersive action.
  
  Portal and Team Fortress 2 is where this orange box shines. Portal is an awesome addition to the 
 valve series. With entertaining puzzles that keep you thinking. Even impressive visuals.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is just super fun multi-player action up to 16 people. The spy is just more fun 
 then ever and gotta love the pyro when you set people on fire and watch them run around. The only 
 problem i have with TF2 is that i feel left short with the amount of maps provided especially since 
 2fort is the most fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin449
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  good because it has good graphics but for me it diserves an 8.5 atleast it shudnt recieve a 9.5 
 just because its worth the money . the graphics are ok 8/10 the sound i think is great 8.5/10 and 
 the gameplay in all of them is 8/10 .. i thinkk its pretty funny at times makes u laugh so thats 
 good and the movement of the players are good .. in all i think its a great game worth playing 
 and worth the money ... so if u want to get a good game that includes games in it then but this 
 its worth the time and money. i rate this an 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Porting over Half Life is a stroke of genius; this series needed this as bad as I needed it to 
 be ported. The new-gen video consoles can do so much to an awesome series like this. Half Life 
 is one the top computer game series of all time. Lot of people dont know but the engine for a 
 lot if not most of their action games like this came from the Valve Half Life engine, the same 
 can be said about the Half Life 2 engine, ton of games use this engine. So to port this over is 
 a HUGE plus to the guys over at Valve. Valve didnt disappoint at all, this is an amazing omnibus 
 of goodies. To get Half Life, Episode One, Episode Two, Portal and Team Fortress all in one package 
 is an amazing value even if you had it already for the PC. You cant beat the convenience of having 
 all that without the need of installing all that software. The game is beautiful also, the port 
 over, to me, just made the game just that much better, I can now play Half Life on a 57 TV if 
 I want to. That is an awesome thing if you havent tried it yet. Now I also have the great sounds 
 of a good surround around system also.
  Half Life 2 Episode 2 continues with the story of Gordon Freeman, and his ummm partner Alyx. The 
 game really is just a continuation of the HL world. There are new creatures, and a few new people 
 you meet on the way. You get to face off with the same bad ass monsters from the other games, and 
 a few new ones. This time you are on the go a lot, and Alyx sticks with you most of the game this 
 time. She just doesnt disappear like she normally does. You also meet some new and usual friends 
 along the way. This game is very exciting and a ton of fun, the game play is a bit different on 
 the consoles, but any console rat will be up to speed very fast. This is a absolutely must have 
 for any Half Life fan.
  Portal is also included and its a pretty interesting game, where you use a portal gun to just 
 and fly through. Well portals to finish some pretty amazing puzzles. Its not very long but a 
 ton of fun. I havent played Team Fortress yet, but planning on it soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samiam15414
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  Game developers should take note from this game! A game that is actually worth the $60.00. A game 
 that actually last longer than 10 hours! A game were you can actually save at anytime in the game 
 and does not completely rely on check points! What great concepts! Go Figure! Great Game!
  
  Great story, can't wait to see were the story goes
  
  Will worth the money!
  
  Can't 
 wait until another expansion pack or Half Life 3 comes out.
  
  Only negative is that Portals was way to short!
  
  Gordon Freeman is the man!
  
  The G-Man 
 is creepy as heck. Reminds me of the Tall Man from the Phantasm movies. Your like whats the story 
 with that guy? It's one of the reason why the story is so good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiney50
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  Well.... needless to say Half Life 2 is one of the 5 best games ever made for any computer platform 
 including all game genres. This box is terrific and loaded with fun content. I thought Episode 
 1 was excellent and then I played Episode 2 and was blown away. Face it Half Life 2 has better 
 graphics than most games produced today. Only some of the new generation PC games can rival it 
 as far as I am concerned. Rating games is often subjective but In my opinion here are the top 5 
 0f all time I would include Oblivion, Halo 3 (primarily on the strength of the multiplayer component) , 
 Half Life 2, Bioshock, Gears of War) . The Half Life Story line is terrific all up and down the 
 line. One of the greatest moments in gaming history (single player) is driving the airboat through 
 the canals in Half - Life 2. The water looks more like water than water. The action is taught and 
 quite chilling. The combine could be what our government is becoming.... think of that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fighter_of_Foo
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2007 12:23 am PT
Review:  Having just finished Episode 2, I've now finished all the single player games on the disk with 
 practically no complaints. I've barely even tried Team Fortress though because I prefer to play 
 multiplayer games with friends, which I can't do because everyone is playing Halo for some reason. 
 About the graphics for the three Half-Life games... I must have something wrong with me because 
 I couldn't tell the difference in graphics between the three. Now, I'm not saying there is no difference, 
 only that I can't tell. Even if I could, it's incredibly shallow to give a this collection a dramatically 
 lower score just because one of them looks subtly different. Portal is incredible on its own, but 
 too short. Luckily you can play with the game mechanics enough to pass plenty of time. Or go back 
 and spend some time with Weighted Companion Cube and do some of the advanced levels after you've 
 finished. If you like games in general- casual or self-proclaimed hardcore - you have no reason 
 not to buy this insanely priced collection. Why spend $60 on a single game that's alright when 
 you could spend the same amount on five games that are fantastic on their own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rockmanneo12
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  The deals' a steal. Both the PC and 360 versions are sharp but let me back up a second. I've always 
 originally loved Valve's work on Half-life so I'm one of those people with steam and the entire 
 Half-life collection including Orange box on their computer, but I just loved it so much I felt 
 the need to go out and get the 360 version as well.
  
  Differences between the 360 and PC versions? For one thing most gamers that have played Half-life 
 2 and Episode 1 noticed in Episode 2 the new nicer looking graphical models for the vorts and of 
 course the Red Shotgun Combine! Well if you ever wanted to play the entire Half-life 2 adventure 
 again with those installments + some achievements to boost replay value then get the 360 version! 
 Especially if your computer can't play the games the way their supposed to.
  
  As of portal, wonderful game to say the least. I could play it over and over but not get the same 
 thrill I had the first time through. On both PC and 360 you'll love this game. If we look at Team 
 Fortress 2 however I was one of those preloaders on steam who played it before Orange box was released 
 and I can say it's addicting on both PC and xbox 360! Who touched my gun? 
  
  I've played Half-Life 2 itself numerous times on the PC and xbox but the way the 360 brings it 
 back with superior performance is remarkable. Face it if you don't have Orange Box your not a real 
 gamer. Regardless of which you get it's worth getting. I recommend the parents who got their kids 
 a 360 for Christmas or maybe a near Birthday to be sure and pick this up over Halo3. You probably 
 wondering why? Especially since Halo3 is such a big shot title? Well in my opinion keep them from 
 screaming at gamers like me over a mic from owning them in matchmaking by giving them a series 
 of Masterpiece games. Yes they may still scream in Team Fortress 2 but I prefer to play the pc 
 version so I would care. :P
  
  Just messin, it's a good title don't pass it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BongMonkey
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  This will be short, because there isn't much more to say than this is a great package. HL2 and 
 the Episodes are good, Portal is a great little bonus and TF2 is really fun.
  
  Most bad reviews for this are from moron's not reviewing the game, but the fact that they've already 
 purchased HL2 for the PC. Great, but your supposed to review the game itself. So for those that 
 didn't buy HL2 and the episodes this is simply fantastic. Anyone reviewing this package on the 
 games itself will undoubtedly give it a good mark... how could you not?
  
  I'm giving it my first 10. It's not perfect, no software is... but the package and the games as 
 a whole cannot be beat by anything else out there for value for your dollar. It's not worth it 
 for Portal and TF2 alone, well TF2 could be for some people... but as a whole package, it's huge, 
 and good enough for a 9.8 which we can't do anymore so it's rated a 10 by me.
  
  Your only reason not to buy is if you already own all HL2 had to offer on the PC. But that's no 
 reason to review the games badly. Unless your still brainwashed by the Halo 3 add campaign and 
 jealous that another game is taking away some spotlight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fifth_age
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 16, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  Very nice to see games like this arrive! The Orange Box is nostalgic and entertaining. Not something 
 that you will be obsessed about but it makes great filler while waiting a month for a highly anticipated 
 game to arrive in stores. Half-life is a great game resurrected. Portal is a short but awesome 
 mind blow. I still get dizzy after a couple of hours. Teamfortress2 is a wonderfully put together 
 and well thought out FPS. In short. This Orange Box is VERY recommended. It may only hold its 
 entertainment value for a short while but this is one game you will not be trading in for store 
 credit. A solid concept that we could only hope will start a trend of Multi-game packs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: postman777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 10:26 pm PT
Review:  By bundling the games in a package like this, they did a few things. First, it allowed a new user 
 like myself to get on the bandwagon. I was playing mainly on console, and wasn't till recently 
 that I updated my machine. After beating Portal in a few hours. I can honestly say that its is 
 truly unique. There is great humor in that game, smart remarks and a very 80 sci fi feel. Half 
 life 2 is one of the best atmospheric FPS out there. HL2 is the Halo3 for the PC. If you own a 
 PC that can run the game, and do not get motion sickness do check this game out and see what the 
 industry craze is all about. The good folks at Valve did a wonderful job with this Orange Box. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbriceno
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Sorry everyone, I know I'll probably get blasted for this but here it goes
  FAKK HALO, THE ORANGE BOX ROCKS. I can say without any hesitation that Halo bored me. The orange 
 box had me hooked and the fact that you get 5 freaking games is a great value. Not only did they 
 bring back a classic, they made me realize how big a Halflife fan I was. Go out and get this game. 
 Portal is great and I hope they make another game of its own. I still think Gamespot should have 
 given this game a 9.8 or greater. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irish8607
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 15, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Half life 2 / Ep1/ Ep2 : While all three offer a great single player experience you will learn 
 to appreciate how some developers were able to eliminate loading screens in the middle of levels. 
 As soon as the game starts to pick up momentum and gets intense it is halted by a loading bar. 
 While this may seem like a small complaint it really takes you out of the game and keeps you from 
 being immersed. Also lack of co-op stinks.
  
  Portal:
  Nothing new here from what you have already heard, Fun but Short.
  
  Team Fortress:
  My only 
 complaint is the lack of being able to have guests on Xbox Live (Meaning 2 players can't play on 
 the same box in an xbox live game) .
  
  Not enough to keep me from popping Halo 3 back in sooner than I would have hoped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dauragon
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  I've played these games just about everyday on my 360 since release on October 10th. Played Team 
 Fortress 2 on 12th for the first time and I have to say I find it more enjoyable than the multiplayer 
 on Halo 3, since half the time in halo 3 there's little kids playing. Portal might be too hard 
 for someone who doesn't like puzzles, but I'm a mathematics major and I found it pretty fun, especially 
 the advanced courses, and of course the cake which is a lie... Portal is actually surprisingly a 
 funny game when you listen to the computer talk. I'm working on beating Half-Life 2 right now, 
 never played it and I can see why people call it the best franchise ever. Go buy this bundle if 
 you own a 360 and would like to play some awesome FPSs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  The Good: Fantastic value for 5 fantastic games, Team Fortress 2 is a great online multiplayer 
 game, Portal is mind warping, all three Half-Life 2 games are excellent as well, graphics and sound 
 for the newer games are top notch.
  
  The Bad: Some slow load times for all of the games, Team Fortress 2 has some lag and glitch issues, 
 Half-Life 2 looks not much better than the Xbox port did, Portal is very short. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Half-Life 2, Episode 1, Episode 2, Portal and Team Fortress 2. What do all of these games have 
 in common? They are all on one disc and called The Orange Box. It is a collection of some of the 
 best first person action the gaming industry has to offer, and each game plays outstandingly. Valve 
 and EA surely outdid theirselves by giving us this fantastic collection to play and enjoy for hours 
 upon hours on end.
  
  Because this is a collection of full version games, I will give my first impressions of Team Fortress 
 2, Portal and Half-Life 2 separately, then review the entire collection as a whole for my final 
 score on The Orange Box. I'll start with Half-Life 2...
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Let me first state that I've never played the original Half-Life series. I did start playing Half-Life 
 2 last year for Xbox, but traded that in as soon as I heard about The Orange Box, so I never really 
 got to enjoy the adventures of Gordon Freeman until now. Half-Life 2 is an immersive world where 
 you start out as a regular joe wondering around City 17, a place unsafe for most people. After 
 you are given your trusty crowbar, it's time to go Rambo and kick some @$$. The gameplay is outstanding. 
 The world is a living, breathing world where you can interract with almost anything, the citizens 
 of City 17 appear to actually have their own agendas than just to talk to you or be there as a 
 destraction. The voice acting and character animation is still some of the best ever seen in a 
 video game. The graphics look as good as the Xbox port did, which isn't terrable, but it would 
 have been nice to see the new, updated Source Engine used to make Half-Life 2 look more next gen. 
 I haven't played that much of Half-Life 2, but from what I have played of it, it's one heck of 
 a ride. Expect full reviews of this, as well as episodes 1 and 2 after I complete them all.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Portal was a game that pretty much appeared out of nowhere when EA announced this compeliation. 
 The consept is very unique, combining puzzle elements with that of a first person action game. 
 It's pretty sweet. You play as a lab rat helping to test the portal gun at the Enrichment Center. 
 You do this by solving puzzles with portals. Sounds easy right? Not quite. The begining puzzles 
 are really easy, but once you hit some of the more advanced puzzles, you'll have to think a bit 
 before actually completing them. They can involve everything from making a portal after going through 
 one or jumping off a platform into a portal that should propell you past a ledge and onto another 
 platform. They get even more complecated than that later on. The tongue in cheek humor of the robotic 
 host and sheer insanity of your use of portals makes this a game that will not be easily forgotten. 
 It was originally just a tech demo to test out the capibilities of what the Source Engine could 
 do, and it definately does that as well as is a fun and unique puzzle game on it's own. It may 
 be only 2-3 hours long, but there are advanced puzzles to try and perfect after you beat the game, 
 so those will keep you coming back for more. The first thing most people strive to accomplish is 
 making an infinate wormhole for your character to fall into. This is a lot of fun, and it looks 
 cool, plus you get an achievement for falling 30,000 ft, which basically takes a half an hour of 
 falling into an infinate wormhole. It's fun. Now you're thinking with portals...
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Last, but certainly not least is Team Fortress 2, the long in development sequel to the classic 
 class-based team multiplayer shooter. With wonderfully colorful graphics and hilarious desmemberment, 
 Team Fortress is arguably the best part of this collection. Team Fortress 2 is entirely team based, 
 so no deathmatch or even team deathmatch modes here. Instead, it's all objective based, and working 
 with your team to select your class will help ensure victory. There are several different classes 
 to choose from. There is the scout, who is fast and perfect for capture the intellegence missions, 
 there is the pyro, who is good for burning up the competition. There is the soldier, who's rocket 
 launcher is always ready for battle. There's the demo man who has a grenade launcher, the heavy 
 gunner with a very powerful mini-gun for shredding up the opposing attackers and the sniper for, 
 well, sniping. The three support classes are by far the most interesting. The medic mostly heals, 
 but has a very powerful epidermic needle gun and a special ability that makes the medic and the 
 person the medic is healing temporarily invincible. Good stuff. The engineer can build a turret 
 as well as teleporters for easy intellegence captures and a station that automatically heals players. 
 The spy is probably the most interesting of the classes. They are able to assume the look of an 
 enemy character, so you can disguise yourself as an enemy medic if you want so you can get close 
 to an enemy and then stab them in the back with your butterfly knife. You can also turn invisible 
 for a short period of time, which is useful when escaping an enemy base with the intelegence. There 
 are only 6 maps to play on in Team Fortress 2, which is the biggest complaint, as well as the lag 
 issues, especially during launch day, but the gameplay itself is very unique and is a blast to 
 play online with friends. It's also drastically different from Halo 3, so bouncing between them 
 won't ruin the experience for either game. Overall, Team Fortress 2 is simply one of the best online 
 multiplayer games on the 360, or any platform for that matter.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  So there you have it. All three of the games I've played so far (not including Episodes 1 or 2) 
 are all outstanding. By themselves they would be awesome, but put on one disc together is just 
 too good to pass up. As far as the collection goes, I only have a few minor complaints. First, 
 the loading times are pretty lengthy, especially for Team Fortress 2. The graphics could have and 
 should have been improved for Half-Life 2 and episode 1, since they appear to be identical to the 
 original PC versions with no improvements. Dispite these minor issues, this collection is just 
 too good not to give a 10. It may be a collection of games you've played before, or you may be 
 completely new to, but there is something that everyone will love on this collection. If you enjoy 
 first person shooting, you will adore The Orange Box. It truely is the best value in gaming history.
 
  
  Gameplay: Half-Life 2, episodes 1 and 2 are all great single player adventures, Portal is a great 
 action/puzzle game and Team Fortress 2 is non-stop crazy online action.
  
  Graphics: Portal, Team Fortress 2 and Episode 2 all look fantastic and very different. The graphics 
 for Half-Life 2 and Episode 1 look a bit dated.
  
  Sound: Outstanding voice acting and sound effects accross all games.
  
  Value: Um, do I really 
 have say anything here?
  
  Final Thoughts: Who touched my gun? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xTheFallenGodx
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2007 1:32 am PT
Review:  After a horrible debut on the original Xbox, Half-life 2 is back on the consoles, only this time 
 it means business, and I do mean business. This is coming from someone who had over 13,000 ranked 
 Halo 2 matches, along with 4,000 custom matches. This package has swiped the FPS crown from Halo 
 franchise to return it to its original owner. Half-life. The FPS that reinvented the genre has 
 returned to do just the same. Half-life 2 is an amazing game, seamlessly integrating action, graphics, 
 atmosphere, and-most importantly- style into an amazing package. What's better, after you're done 
 with this heart-pounding, thrill-a-minute game, you get to play through not one, but TWO expansions, 
 all on one convenient disc. But what The Orange Box gives you is more than just a complete working 
 of Half-life 2; but a compilation of games that will suit any gamer, even if you aren't a fan of 
 the Half-life franchise. Also included in The Orange Box is Portal, and Team Fortress 2. Portal 
 is a puzzle game that deals with mind-bending and complex challenges all from a first-person perspective. 
 While the main goal in all the challenges is to get from point A to point B, it's far more immersive 
 and riveting. I usually have quite the distaste for puzzle games, I am one of the few who disliked 
 even Tetris. Yet, somehow, the mechanics of Portal blended together to provide a captivating expierence 
 that even I could enjoy and lose hours playing. Also, this game should not be confused with an 
 add-in. Portal could easily be marketed on its own, and many would buy it, no problem, especially 
 when you consider the amount of game-play in Portal when you factor in the main campaign so to 
 speak and all the challenges combined. Which would be roughly 12 hours, if you go for gold in the 
 challenges; that's also assuming you won't want to play through it twice. Which you will. The final 
 benefactor of The Orange Box is Team Fortress 2, in which the multiplayer portion of the package 
 is incorporated (it has everything doesn't it?) . I never played the orginal Team Fortress, and, 
 having played the second iteration, I regret not doing so. Rock solid game-play, delightfully unique 
 graphics, and a balanced class-based system makes this shooter-as with everything else in The Orange 
 Box- a blast to play; easily worth 100 hours of game-play on its own. All in all, Valve provided 
 us with quite the package. Inside The Orange Box is literally HUNDREDS of hours of enjoyment, in 
 many different areas, too, so that anyone can find something to love. Basically, buy this game, 
 do not rent it. You will not regret buying it. The game is good. Very good. Amazingly good. Go 
 now. You won't regret it. Buy. Now. lol. But seriously, everyone should have a chance to enjoy 
 and experience the hours of fun inside The Orange Box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinthorell
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 12:23 am PT
Review:  5 Games for $60? I'm sure that should be enough to buy it. Everything about this pack is great. 
 Portal is a short game with high replay value, and when you beat it for the first time you feel 
 great. Episode 1 and 2 combined are about as long as Half-Life 2 alone, but even that is included!
 
  
  When i first got the game i wasn't expecting the Episode 2 Technology to be implemented into Episode 
 1 and Half-Life 2, but when i realized it was, that was just a bonus. Although i've already beaten 
 Half-Life 2 several times, i found it even better on the 360. With great graphics, a smooth FPS, 
 and great game play, the HL2 pack is great. If anything, i'd recommend the 360 version over the 
 PC, because the Achievements make the games have even more of a replay value. With several hours 
 of game play just in Half-Life 2, there's 4 other games to play with that. I am a bit sad that 
 there isn't Co-op, but that's not much of a problem seeing as how i can easily get in a chat with 
 my friend and start at the same point. The only problems i had were some lag and menu issues in 
 Team-Fortress 2. Team Fortress 2 is great fun, but the lag in almost every single server makes 
 the Sniper a useless and frustrating class to play as, seeing as how it's nearly impossible to 
 hit anyone when you click to zoom in once and it zooms in and out 30 times in 1 second. If you 
 disconnect from a game early, the Menu screen will still be at the In-game menu, not the main menu. 
 It will have all the Change class; change team; etc. options there, but when you hit one it goes 
 back to the main menu again. At first it can get a bit confusing, but it should be a quick fix 
 for Valve. The only way i found to fix the lag issue was to play in your own server and try to 
 get as many people to join. All in all, this pack is for sure worth the $60, and i recommend it 
 to anyone who has a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: werc96
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  HALF LIFE 2:
  Having the original half life 2 for the pc back in 2004 its a pretty hard deal barking up 60 bucks 
 for it... AGAIN!
  But.... with updated textures/dynamic lighting... blah blah etc... It looks great on my 60 inch, 
 And its still a blast to play.
  
  HALF LIFE 2: EPISODE 1-
  MEH. NOT THE BEST IN THE SERIES. LOOKS GREAT THOUGH. WONT SAY MUCH DUE TO SPOILERS IN PLOT.
  
 
  EPISODE 2:
  LONGGGGGGGGG VEHICLEEEEEEEE SEQUENCESSSSS. AGAIN!!!!
  GIFT AND A CURSE.
  SWEET THE FIRST HOUR.
  TERRIBLE THE NEXT 2! LOL (MILD EXXAGERATION)
  
  PORTAL:
  ITS GREAT. 
 IT MESSED WITH YOUR HEAD. SOME ARE REALLY HEADACHE INDUCING... BUT THEN AGAIN... ITS A 3 HOUR HEADACHE... NOT 
 MUCH ON THE WHOLE I CANT TAKE IT ANYMORE DEAL. SO I'D SAY ITS JUST RIGHT. AND A TRUE STEP FORWARD 
 IN GAMING..... I THINK THIS WILL SPAWN A WHOLE NEW GENRE...
  
  TEAM FORTRESS 2:
  WOW. THIS LOOKS GREAT.... IT PLAYS GREAT. NERDS LOVE IT... AND SO DO I. ;)
  BUT.
  THIS GAME IS 
 BUGGED THE EFF OUT!!!!!
  IT FREEZES EVERY 2 OR 3 GAMES. IT LAGS ON 16 PLAYER MATCHES LIKE THERE IS NO TOMMORROW! ONLY ONE 
 MAP HAS CAPTURE THE FLAG....
  BUT... IM SURE THE PATCH IS UP AND RUNNING.... AND COMING....
  SO I HAVE FAITH IN VALVE.
  
  OVERALL:
  AWESOME FOR ONLY $60.
  GET IT NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keiner
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Every now and then a game developer comes around and says, Hey there, you've paid well over $300 
 in the span of 2 months. Now its time for us to help you. The orange box, packed with 5 titles 
 making for 3 very intense games all unique to their own genre's. I'll go over each one and say 
 someting short and give it a small breakdown.
  
  First is, Half-life 2. (And episode's one and two) Crowbar + science = Gordin F*$king Freeman.... 
 'Nuff said.
  
  Graphics: Semi reworked and polished graphics improve the game visually and the smarter a. i. makes 
 for a more realistic feel.
  
  Gameplay: Its great very interactive and the world is almost fully explorable.
  
  Sound: Revamped 
 sounds make for a great port over game.
  
  Replay value: moderately high.
  
  Second is, Portal
  
  Right from the get go this game is mind blowing in the sense of you have 
 to solve puzzles by creating portals in a solid wall making it a very interesting and unique game.
 
  
  Graphics- great, for a next gen title it could of had a little more pizzaz but it looked great 
 never the less.
  
  Gameplay- Just straight puzzling here folks, teasting your brain to see if you can think outside 
 of the box.
  
  Sound- The whips and zoops are where they should be so no complaints here.
  
  Replay value- 
 Moderately low, only because once you complete the mission theres no real point in going back.
 
  
  Last but not least, Team Fortress 2
  
  Team fortress brings home fun filled team action with the zany aspect of characters with extreme 
 personalities. Full of crazy antics and fun cellshading cartooniness, Team fortress 2 is great 
 for people who want to fool around in crazy team based multiplayer online action.
  
  Graphics- as I've said, cartoony feel and silly abilities as well as humorous taunts will let you 
 have a good time.
  
  Gameplay- Standard shooter and team goals , capture the bag, territories, etc etc..
  
  Sound- 
 explosions, taunts and the screams of your fallen foes will lighten even the angriest of gamers.
 
  
  Replay value- Depends. It depends on what kind of team you join up with. It could either be very 
 enjoyable or... it will result in someone (if not the whole team) to drop out of the match. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jessi_dusen
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Some will say that Valve is trying to rehash their same old software without putting any real new 
 stuff forward for half life. Some will say it's the best dang game ever made... I think it falls 
 somewhere in the middle... It doesn't have that little x factor that halo has but still it has 
 a great premise that's original... Most people who will pick this up have already played ep 1 and 
 or 2 and most likely played every online incarnation of this title. If your new to the series WELCOME! 
 this awesome package will entertain you for as many hours as a final fantasy game. There are still 
 hints of the original xbox programming but there are nice touch ups and you really will not even 
 notice. The quality of Half life games has always been first rate. It may not be my number 1 game 
 of all time but it takes the cake in my number 1 compilation game and also sits right up there 
 on my shelf of best games like HALO and GRAW and GOW.... If you want to see a half life 3 or something 
 else come out of Valve with this quality of work then make sure you show em by picking up this 
 title... you will not be disappointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paullywog
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Half Life has been a long-running series with many offshoots such as Counter Strike, Team Fortress, 
 and Day of Defeat. It's clear that the engine that runs all these masterpieces is versatile and 
 dependant enough to make several games on it, which means that when it comes to The Orange Box, 
 it's not surprising that you find a superb blend of games.
  
  Half-Life 2, Episode 1, and Episode 2 will give you a lot of play time. Continue the story of Gordon 
 Freeman and hit a few snags along the way. The single-player value is tremendous is this package.
 
  
  Adding more single player goodness is Portal. The revolutionary shooter/puzzle blend will make 
 you think, and sometimes also a bit angry. Slowly releasing more abilities and puzzles to you, 
 you'll be zipping through walls in no time. The way this game is made means that there may be multiple 
 ways to solve each puzzle, which lets everyone think for themself. Add that to the great ending 
 and you've got a new classic.
  
  Possibly the main reason some bought The Orange Box at all, and certainly the most artistic part 
 of the package, is Team Fortress 2. It has beautiful cartoony graphics, a dark sense of humor, 
 many classes to choose from, and overall great production values, making this multiplayer-only 
 game a good competitior to Halo 3. With tremendous value, some great graphics, originality, and 
 overall staying power, The Orange Box is the best option if you're looking for a first-person shooter. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metal_gear269
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  BUY IT NOW.
  
  Seriously, you need to buy this. It is imperative. Whether you buy it on PC, Xbox 360, or PS3, 
 I don't care, but you need to buy it.
  
  Now, many people are complaining about how HL2 and HL2: Ep. 1 weren't updated at all and whatever, 
 and they're still the same games they were when they first released. But for me, this package is 
 great because I never got to play them on PC. Apparently, Steam hates my computer and it would 
 make it lock up until I ended the process, and it was just an all-around headache. With this package, 
 I get the best game Steam has to offer on what I think is the best system of this generation.
 
  
  Like I said before, the Box is greater than the sum of its individual games. If each one were released 
 separately for $40-$60, I'd immediately pass them by. But the fact that you get 5 games, albeit 
 either outdated or incomplete ones, for the price of one is too great an offer to pass up. Sure, 
 the old stuff may be the same, but the new stuff more than makes up for it. Portal is an absolutely 
 brilliant game, even if it feels a bit too short. The puzzles are the type that you have to be 
 quick on your feet, and while you're stumped by them you may feel stupid, but once you solve them 
 you feel like a fricking genius.
  
  Team Fortress 2, in my opinion, is only good for a quick distraction. It seems like they threw 
 it in without much thought on the amount of content. The one thing it pulls off with aplomb, though, 
 is the Pixar-esque art style and the diverse character classes. The quirky cartoon art style is 
 offset by the gore and dismemberment that abounds, and while the classes are diverse, the devs 
 made it so you could get out of any situation by just using a strategy appropriate to your class.
 
  
  Finally, I haven't played Episode 2 yet, but from the looks of it, it will be a great continuation 
 of the epic HL2 story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaxon
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 13, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  But still great gameplay and story, as usual. even with the old low res graphics/textures, it's 
 still one of the most enjoyable and immersive games ever. ep2 is worth the price alone in my opinion. 
 There are great Humorous moments throughout the game and some very fun puzzles to break up the 
 shooting action. The new hunters are awesome looking and sounding. I really didn't like the voice 
 acting during the big strider battle, very corny and out of character for the game. Haven't played 
 Portal and Team Fortress much yet. Portal feels just irritating at first look but I will give a 
 chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elzzato
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  The Orange box is easy one of the top 3 games out there in any console, for me is the best game 
 that I ever played, 3 years ago I pass that game in my alienware and for that time the game already 
 have next-gen graphics before xbox 360 and playstation 3 came, superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
 superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HBOMB29
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  LISTEN the voice acting is great story line is great but LETS BE REAL now i havent played the mulitplayer 
 portion but the graphics on halflife couldve have been updated they are TERRIBLE i dont want to 
 pay 60 for a game that looks worse than saints row, common if your gonna re release something for 
 a next gen system ATLEAST GIVE IT A GRAPHICAL OVERHALL. now imma go play more but i will say that 
 it LOOKS terrible and episode 1 and 2 look NORMAL i read on ign. com saying episode 1 and 2 step 
 it up compared to hf2 I HOPE SO hf2 graphically belongs on xbox for real ps2 graphics people get 
 out of what you USED TO THINK 3 YEARS ago, graphics alone, it cant be rated a 9.5 let alone a 10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xiaphas917
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  The orange box, when you say it you think of some sort of cleaner but it actually doesnt contain 
 a floor polish it actually contains probably one of the best games of 2007. This box holds 5 games, 
 half life 2/ episode 1/ episode 2, portal, and team fortress. Lets start with the three half lifes. 
 Well being a huge fan of the half life games being able to play the old half life 2 and half life 
 episode 1 were great. This is great playing them on another console other then the pc. And for 
 people who haven't played the half life series, they can play it and understand whats going on 
 in episode 2. Episode 2 is probably the best of all the half life games. Its quite lengthy, pretty 
 good story, and some nice combat. ALl of this adds to make all three half lifes a must have part 
 of the game, which will contain hours apon hours of fun. Team fortress: This game is all about 
 the online multiplayer. Can only be played on xbox live, so those who dont have xbox live will 
 be disappointed. But the game is great. Its a shooter with about 6 maps which doesnt really sound 
 like much but ull find that each map is very addicting and you will want to play the same 6 maps 
 over and over. What makes this game cool is the class usage. During each game you get to select 
 a class to play as. There are 9 in total each which fit in a group. Defensive, offensive, and support. 
 Defenisve is the more used for defending certain points like engineers can make turrents to protect 
 flags or other important postions. Offensive is more for assaulting. The solider for instance has 
 a rocket launcher which is good for clearing out big groups of enemies quickly, and the scout has 
 a ability which decreases the time it takes for them to capture nodes so they are great for grabing 
 areas quickly. Supportive is more to help out everyone else. For example the medic heals his allies 
 around him, while the sniper can pick enemies off so thier allies can have an easier time moving 
 forward. This game will have you playing hours on end, and is just palin fun to have. Portal is 
 a puzzle game where you use a device that creates portals in walls to solve puzzles. You use this 
 gun to create a portal on a wall and you can go threw that portal to get to other areas of the 
 map so you can complete objectives. It is quite tricky but in a way oddly addicting. I have always 
 hated puzzle games but when i gave portal a try i found i actually found it interesting, and quite 
 unique. It is great for those who like a challenge or just want to try something very different. 
 When you put all this together you create a game that will have you playing hours on end. Has something 
 for every type of gamer. The puzzle player, the FPS, the person who likes a good story, the player 
 who loves multiplayer. This is a must have for all xbox 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeanReuben
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box rocks because:
  -There are three single player games
  -There are extra puzzle and multiplayer games
  
  Half-Life 2 is a major improvement to the 
 FPS. The graphics rock, the environments are fully interactive and the use of physics is brilliant. 
 You can pick up items and use barrels as shields against the Combine forces. You move flammable 
 barrels and cause them to be picked up by ceiling enemies. The music is pumping, the atmosphere 
 is engaing. The underwater and ripple effects are brilliant. The puzzle gameplay is retained and 
 is effectively executed to the FPS. The new story is interesting, you're trapped in a city full 
 of hostile Combine and under dictatorship of some evil man. there are new driving sequences. The 
 jumping raw chickens are back and they look more twisted and hilarious than ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gws898
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Is really a great game, I must say.
  
  Yesterday I just finish Portal and now playing Half-Life 2.
  
  I really don't believe that 
 all 5 games can put into one Xbox360 disc. This is a Must Buy games. It includes:
  
  HL 2
  HL 2 Ep 1
  HL 2 Ep 2
  Portal
  TF 2
  
  Darn, Now I really want to play this game 
 NOW!!!
  
  For those of you wants to play HL 2 but not enough money, this is the time. It includes all 3 HL 
 2 series, a puzzle game and a multiplayer game just to spend some hours. I just finished Portal 
 and find that Portal is a bit short but the voice acting are great especally at the end credits 
 which singing Still Alive . Is funny.
  
  HF 2 is great too, I must say. I haven't played before, so I must play from the start.
  
  TF 
 2 is a crazy multiplayer game that I ever played. It can change classes. but there are only 5 maps 
 to play.
  
  Afterall, this is a must have for the gamers. That's why the brand called Valve because this game 
 is value for money. haha!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasuke_Ninja21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  I walked into EB games with a wallet full of cash saying to myself this game is gonna cost me a 
 freaking fortune living in canada the price is always higher usually, went to the front desk with 
 my bad (only being 15) got the game and the total price came to $67.89 which was outstanding to 
 me now i was saying.... this is the best valued game i have ever gotten in my life and it is true 
 you get 5 COUNT THEM 5 outstanding games that you will keep you coming back for more for months 
 and months.
  
  This game was appealling to me for many reasons and this could be the same for all of you that 
 read this. If you look at it this game holds 4 fantastic single player games which have some the 
 most outstanding graphics and weapon uses i have ever used and then you have the funny cartoony 
 BUT great Xbox live multiplayer Team Fortress 2 that i hardly doubt will get old any time soon.
 
  
  Ill start talking about Half Life (sorry if i skip out on portal for your puzzle freaks but i dont 
 have the time or attention span to write a freaking huge review)
  
  Half life has been one of those stories where you want to know what happens and always and usually 
 leaves you with a clifhanger at the end of each game, Half life 2 Episode 2 the next installment 
 in the Half Life episode triology makes Half Life 2 Episode 1 feel like nothing.... Half Life 2 
 Episode 2 has outstanding graphics and a great use of weapons and control.
  
  The new scenary is also an eye candy especially just watching the blue portal thingy spiral up 
 into the air and looking at all the carnage around it... ahh... so beautiful...
  
  You also get Half Life 2 the regular one will keep you a decent story of whats happening around 
 the world but in episode 2 it refers alot to Half life 1 so if you dont really know whats going 
 on just go too Half Life 2 for refrence.
  
  Of course this is a game and its handled with care as you gun down zombies, take out helicopters, 
 blow up combine soilders and my favorite bringing out the supper shotgun and letting a hunter get 
 a full taste of power.
  
  This brings me to the next game Team Fortress 2 this game has RAW power its absoloutly incredible 
 the way that they have set it up, you would think that the corny cartoonish graphics wouldent make 
 the game anymore interesting and you felt like it was a real joke..... wrong.... this game is funny 
 in the best ways possible you dont see very many games that make you laugh and have fun as much 
 as this game does, the cartoon graphics of this game fit perfectly as you disguse yourself as one 
 of your enemys then stab them in the back or take out a huge machine gun and just mow down enimes 
 using the heavy weapons, this game has EVERYTHING you would want to do in a game with a impressive 
 over look and nice graphics even if it is a cartoonish look this will keep you on your tip toes 
 as you just have fun and destroy everything.
  
  
  Overall this orange box has the best value i have ever had in my life with 5 amazing games (even 
 though i didnt mention portal) with the total cost to $67.85 or somthing i forget now this game 
 will keep you away from Halo 3 if your already finished it and kinda bored of the multiplayer even 
 thought its doubtful you will have lots of fun and months full of gaming in The Orange Box
  
  PS: if you think this game has alot of acheivement points having 5 games inside of it actually 
 all the acheivements are small and total up to just 1000, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ldavidtw2000
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  I've finished Portal, yes I did.
  My thoughts?
  This is the first game which I sit in front of computer and wander for 30 min, then when I figured 
 it out, I yell. Literally yell OH MY GOD, YOU GOT TO BE KIDDING ME! NO WAY! THIS IS THE SMARTEST 
 GAME I'VE EVER PLAYED! 
  
  I yelled a lot of times throughout the game, many stuff are confusing, and hard.
  I can assure 
 you, even though Valve don't necessarily have the best game designer, they are the SMARTEST people 
 in the world, I swear after you figure all of these stuff out you'll say the same thing.
  
  Storyline was way beyond what I expected, I thought it would just be a few experiment and puzzel 
 solving stuff in a lab, but end up... it's not, it actually have a storyline when you get to the 
 end, and you'll realize this is not only a game, it's a darn human intelligent masterpiece, seriously.
 
  
  there's just so many way to solve all those problems, some even require you to go back and forth 
 the map to achieve it, sometimes you gotta stop and think for a long long time, but at the end 
 of the game you'll be really well trained in these kind of brain-twisting logics.
  
  I love this game, with passion, although short, but it's really, really really innovative and I 
 bet they spent lots of time on this game.
  
  and the last level... not gonna tell you, but remember: the computer might be lying sometimes... 
 
  
  I guarantee you you'll have true Fun in this game, it really opens your brain and you'll love it.
 
  
  
  
  now go to HL2 EP2.
  
  I haven't finish it yet, as i spent most of the time playing portal, but as far as graphics, gameplay 
 and so on they really improved a lot.
  blurs, effects, smokes, and most importantly the shadow improvement, etc, beautiful enough to name 
 it with latest games.
  Just turn on flashlight and walk around Alex and you'll see what i mean.
  
  there's lots of 
 new stuff and environment, although the antlion hole scares me...
  The storyline and gameplay in story is just as innovative as ever, with lots of new tweaks, tricks, 
 and so on.
  
  Overall this is a game that doesn't only kill stuff, you don't just use your mouse and keyboard 
 to play, but your brain, and the enjoyment that comes with getting through and get all the tricks 
 is just indescribably amazing.
  Try this game, I guarantee you you will have a true smile, this is more then just a game, it's 
 truly a masterpiece of human innovation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KomboChameleon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  So last night at work my buddie calls me up and ask me to use his store creds to pick up The Orange 
 Box for him. After work I get to his place and we open up The Box and awe at its amazingness. First 
 game we try: Portal. Right from the very first moment this game is done loading you can tell you're 
 in for something special. The voice acting is the best written stuff I have ever encountered in 
 a game. The only other time I have been around stuff that out there and creative was with a group 
 of drunks. Now great voice acting aside the actual game play was great! the puzzles were mind-bending. 
 I might as go as far as saying a real mind-f*ck at some parts, witch I personally think is great. 
 This game really makes you think outside the Box . Even better, after you compleat the game there 
 are challenges that you can take advantage of to make those levels you just completed harder and 
 more challenging, as well as unlocking some gamer score points along the way. I'm sorry to say 
 that i have not yet tried any of the other Orange Box games yet besides Portal. I am VERY excited 
 to play Episode 2 along with trying out Team Fortress 2. I am give this game a 9.5. I would honestly 
 like to have seen a longer game here witch is why I didn't give it a full 10. But seriously... 
 Go get the game The Orange Box! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBrainSquid
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  I read in some places that some people are complaining about re-buying Half Life 2 and Episode 
 1 over again but even if you already have those games, Episode 2, Portal, and Team Fortress 2 are 
 easily worth the $60 Xbox 360 owners have to shell out and even more so worth just the $50 PC gamers 
 get to pay for it. Yes, I said GET to pay for, because buying this pack is really a privilege rarely 
 seen in video games.
  
  To start off you have Half Life 2 which is already a classic that is hard to think it has already 
 been nearly 3 years since it was released. The same game as it was before so there's no need to 
 expand upon it here. The only problem I have is that the game does look a little (just a small 
 bit) dated but thats no reason to not play it.
  
  Then there's Half Life 2: Episode 1 which is also nothing new but it, just as HL2, is there for 
 people who haven't gotten to play the games yet and to catch them up on the story for when they 
 play Episode 2.
  
  I can't review Episode 2 at this point in time because I haven't had a chance to play it yet but 
 from what I'm hearing is that it is probably the best installment of the Half Life 2 series thus 
 far and is making us only more eager to see what Episode 3 will have in store.
  
  Here's where I'm going to really start reviewing. Portal is the 4th game on the disc and I was 
 skeptical as to how fun it would actually be. Before I played it I had the idea that it was maybe 
 $5 worth of fun, like an XBLA title but it really holds its own here. The puzzles here are pretty 
 easy at first; just simple getting from one end of the room to the other, but after the first few 
 levels the difficulty will ramp up and force you to actually think about how you're going to solve 
 the puzzle. Later stages also involve timing as an element as well as opening new Portals while 
 falling in order to gain momentum for reaching areas not readily accessable. The game also includes 
 very well written and executed humor that I had hoped would never end. Most games try humor and 
 fail... hard. But Portal is one of those rare gems that does it not only right, but great and it 
 shows. From the companion cube to the talking turrets and GLaDS obsession of offering you cake, 
 you'll laugh out loud at least once while playing the game. The only problem I have with this game 
 is that its short. It can be beaten in an hour and a half to two hours your first time through. 
 Had they made the game about 6 or 7 hours longer I would have gladly paid $60 for this game alone, 
 outside The Orange Box.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is the last of the 5 games included on the disc and it has already beaten the Halo 
 3 multiplayer for me. The game is class-based team game (if you haven't already guessed by the 
 word TEAM in the title) that was announced 9 years ago and they haven't wasted any time making 
 this game the best it could possibly be. The classes are all balanced and forces teams to be diverse. 
 It also lets you play how you want to play. If you don't like shooting that much you can be an 
 engineer and build gun turrets and/or health dispensers. Or you can be a spy and disguise yourself 
 as the other team, disable enemy turrets, sneak around while invisible, and stab enemies in the 
 back for instant kills. If you don't even want to do that there's also the medic which can heal 
 and power up their team. Of course if you want to run and gun there are classes for that as well. 
 The game offers 6 maps, which may seem small, and it might look even more limited that you can 
 only a certain game type per map but trust me, it was the best route. They built each map specific 
 to the game type and with designs built so that you don't know exactly what you're going to do 
 when you spawn. You have no idea exactly where you'll spawn (except maybe at the start of the game) 
 and you'll have no idea exactly what the enemies are going to do either. Most of the maps are built 
 so that there is at least 2 entrances to nearly everything. I do hope that they'll add maps later 
 though, and once again built specifically for the game type. I'm having fun with it but seeing 
 as I can only play Capture the Flag on one map, I'd rather it be at least 2 different maps, just 
 to change it up a little bit. But other than that the game is great. I'd say I'd buy it for $60 
 alone, outside The Orange Box, if they had a few more maps on it.
  
  This is a great collection of games and it's giving the most value for your dollar of any game 
 this year. If I were to compare this collection to anything, just to put it into perspective, I'd 
 say that Half Life 2 and both its episodes have a far better story than Halo 3 (or any Halo game 
 for that matter) and Team Fortress 2 is so deep, balanced, and just plain fun that I'll clock more 
 hours into that than Halo 3's multiplayer... not to mention it isn't set ups as horribly as Halo 
 3's multiplayer (matchmaker is retarded, push to talk is annoying, and there are so many racists 
 &gt;_ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scambune
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  Absolutely brilliant gameplay and level design, wonderful physics and graphics, engaging story, 
 totally awesome weapons, very challenging and thought-provoking missions, so much on one disk, 
 can't believe this game isn't getting hyped like Halo 3, because it blows it away. Even the menu 
 design is gorgeous. Oh yeah, GREAT sound too...
  
  I have a copy of Half-Life 2 from the original Xbox and to play this version is a revelation compared 
 to that. Smooth gameplay, no hiccups, polished and detailed graphics. As everyone knows, the physics 
 are a huge star of this game and deservedly so, they enrich the game with a necessary realism that 
 supports the bleak world in the story.
  
  I just can't rave enough about it. I find myself every five minutes praising the ingenuity of the 
 game designers. They have created a FPS that can't be touched even a three full years after its 
 initial release. There's an amazing sense of urgency I've never felt playing a game, like you really 
 have to go and move quick for a reason, not just because all hell's breaking loose in other games. 
 The enemy is actually looking for you, there's no time to waste, excellent.
  
  My only and extremely minimal criticisms of the game (s) are the zoom feature should be able to 
 be toggled, rather than having to hold down the right control stick. The loading is a bit of an 
 interruption to the flow of the game, they should have integrated into the game like Halo, it takes 
 you out of the game a little too much because there are a lot of them. Like I said, very minimal 
 issues.
  
  BUY IT NOW! (See you in a looong time when you're done)
  
  PS
  Portal is absolute genius and extremely challenging too, really fun so far
  Team Shooter seems 
 to be the weakest part but I haven't really played it yet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaisons
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  Portal rocks.... simply put. The style, graphics, music and voice are what you would expect from 
 the HalfLife2 engine. It is very addicting and leaves you wanting more. The puzzles start out easy 
 and get very difficult towards the end.... I don't want to give away too much, but I could easily 
 see this game becoming something online. It would be great if players could create their own puzzles 
 or levels with some sort of SDK.... or level creator. Team Fortress (from my experience) seems to 
 be very smooth online, with a good frame rate and lots of people to join already. The choice of 
 characters and weapons makes this fun from the start.... It is just the high quality of game that 
 'Valve' maintains throughout all their games that makes this Orange Box worth so much... Team Fortress 
 has only six maps, but they are so fun and easy to navigate - the game is more about the player 
 vs player aspect anyway.... so I have enjoyed it. I have not reviewed the HL2 Episode I and II.... they 
 look like a lot of fun. The question will be whether the playability will last on this set of games. 
 Whereas the first day the Orange Box was addicting and hell of a lot of fun... will it last for 
 a couple months... or will the effect wear off? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkfield
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  Yes, no - maybe. Maybe the graphics aren't as how the sexy Gears of War looked. Maybe a bit difficult 
 for Halo lovers (thank God I'm not one of them) . But one thing is for certain, You enjoy every 
 second of it. Even for those who -- like me -- played it over and over again on their PC, still 
 Half-Life 2 360 version is a new enjoyable game. Yes as hardcore PC gamer I blame Valve for releasing 
 their franchise for consoles, on the other hand I thank them for releasing The Orange box on Xbox 
 360 so all 360 gamers finally can understand their beloved Master chief have nothing to offer them 
 comparing what a Scientist named Doctor Freeman provides. Lets skip to Episode Two, which supposedly 
 is the best chapter in Half-Life series. The gameplay is smooth as it is on PC, though it lacks 
 'fastswitch' function and 'previously used weapon' which by default it was 'Q' button on our beloved 
 keyboards while playing it on PC. And also for duckjumping we had better options playing on PC, 
 but wait a second we better not forget this is a console game and we should ever compare it for 
 what we believe is the best way. Xbox 360 controller still offers the comfort you seek while fighting 
 or driving your vehicle. You can also modify and remap the controls the way makes your feel more 
 comfortable. Speaking of fighting you'll enjoy battling your new enemies, the hunters. And remember 
 they offer no mercy. Since there are not much to complain in this game I have to make funny complains. 
 I really miss the original Vortigon voice from HL2. Their new voice does not pleases me.
  
  An other noticeable thing you'll see as you play through the game is how Physics interact with 
 gameplay, I mean it's way better than original HL2. And you'll see lots of cool explosions that 
 tears environment apart, that's awesome, isn't it? Specially the damages caused by Striders which 
 pomp your blood pressure up, so make sure put your First Aid-kit somewhere close. One thing I do 
 complain is the lack of new weapons. Only one new weapon, The Strier Buster , which is a sticky 
 weapon used by gravity gun to grab and throw. but it's effective, very effective but only against 
 the striders. One thing you'll enjoy this time is the Strider battle, oh man that's awesomely done. 
 Helluva fight. Specially while you can move over the hunters and pay them back for all the suffering 
 they caused for you.
  
  But enough said with HL2: EP2, now it's time to give Portal a lot of credits. It's the first FPS 
 game that not challenges your shooting skills, but your Intelligence and the gray cells of your 
 brain. For the first time in your gaming life you start to doubt yourself when you get stuck in 
 a puzzle, it makes you worry, you even may fear your IQ level is low, you even feel you need to 
 do an IQ test sometimes. But no fear, cause the Aperture Science Handheld Portal Device (simply 
 known as Portal Gun) is here. If I had that, I'd never stuck anywhere at all. Portal Also happens 
 in Half-Life world, so you bet your arse it's something to do with original storyline sooner or 
 later. As the puzzles get harder you get more upset when you stuck at it, but once you solve it 
 you start to praise your level of intelligence and being proud of yourself. I warn you it's not 
 easy specially if you suck at you physic lessons back in school days or still suck as you take 
 them. The Orange Box is Valve's Ultimate package, 5 games One Box. Isn't all that single player 
 missions enough for you? So you'll never quit playing Team Fortress 2. I wont talk about that, 
 I'm still waiting for my PC Orange Box pack to arrive so I can give it a try with my fellow friends 
 on Steam, but I let you know that this game makes you forget about all other Multiplayer games 
 you have for a while. Remember my favorite class is Spy, Spy is the coolest character in the game 
 if you're like me and love to surprise people the way that they'll never know what hit'em.... The 
 Bad: as before I said there are not much to complain unless you're like me, don't like any sort 
 or kind of AIM ASSISTANCE during the gameplay. I hate auto-aim thing and it seems there's no option 
 for changing that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antor1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2007 12:06 am PT
Review:  Guys this is an awesome set of games if you've never owned or played HL2 or any of it's episodes 
 before. Even if you have played them, there is still a lot to find in the Box. HL2 Review:
  
  This deal is awesome for me because I tried to play HL2 on my pc but my PC is crap and outdated 
 so I could barely run the thing on low-med graphics and even on low settings it would still have 
 trouble. Now that it is out for the 360 I can finally enjoy the game in all it's glory and more, 
 not only is HL2 ported well onto the 360, it actually has a few upgrades from it's pc counterpart 
 like HDR lighting and such. The controls may feel a little awkward at first going from mouse and 
 keyboard to the game pad. After awhile though, you get used to it and it's not really all that 
 bad in my opinion. That is just HL2 alone, there is also H2 ep 1 and 2, I haven't played those 
 yet so I can't really say much on them but if they are as good as HL2, then they ought to be great 
 as well. 2 thumbs up
  
  Portal Review:
  
  Portal is all around a fun, innovative puzzle game. The beginning puzzles aren't so hard but the 
 last couple puzzles will test what you've learned. The humor in the game is great, the ending is 
 perfect and don't forget about the ending credits song. Overall portal gets 1.5 thumbs up just 
 because it was a bit on the short end the first time through. I haven't had the chance to play 
 through again yet so it might be different next time around. Portal on it's own is a nice little 
 fun game to play and I enjoyed every minute of it.
  
  Finally Team Fortress 2 Review:
  
  From what I've played of TF2, I can say it is all around a fun multi-player game, the different 
 class all have their own unique weapons and skills and all serve their own special purpose in this 
 game. They are all pretty fun to use and no one class seems too over powered. Right now the only 
 problem I can see with this game is the fact that it can lag pretty bad sometimes and other times 
 you will be dropped out of the game. This is my only gripe with this game, everything else like 
 the art style and game play are all great. When you finally find a lag free game, this game really 
 shines and is a ton of fun to play. 1.5 thumbs up
  
  Overall I've had a lot of fun with The Orange Box so far, and I can safely say that it was worth 
 every penny to me, and if you've never had the chance to experience HL2 then this package is a 
 definite recommended buy and is an excellent addition to anyones 360 game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeroforme
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2007 11:57 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best thing to happen for console games in a long while . Frankly I cannot see 
 why a person could deny the value of such a great package deal . But value issues aside the games 
 themselves stand amongst the finest productions . Half Life 2 plays, looks and runs better than 
 a fair number of so called next gen games . Portal is an ingenious puzzle game with an outstanding 
 presentation and a seriously wicked sense of humor . The gem of this treasure chest is Team Fortress 
 2 which I would have to say will probably revolutionize first person shooters in not only its graphics 
 scheme but its application of classes and map specific game types . So did I forget anything ? 
 Probably . But there is just so much to say in regards to the greatness of all of these titles 
 and so little that could count against them . Hopefully we'll see other developers follow suit 
 and release quality products with revolutionary designs and incredible value . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daruga
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Al final de cuentas Valve nos sorprende de nuevo y ademas nos deleita con este paquete que lleva 
 5 juegos en un solo disco y siendo unos de los mejores juegos del a&ntilde; o ,&iquest; competencia 
 para halo 3? pues The orange box lo ha demostrado. Siendo por mucho un paquete de ensue&ntilde; o 
 , a pesar de no tener la misma propaganda monumental como lo ha tenido la ultima joya de microsoft, 
 a pesar que el sistema del HL2 no ha cambiado mucho , ademas los graficos tampoco tienen un nivel 
 de ensue&ntilde; o pero la historia , las escenas y el sistema te haran poco a poco , ademas de 
 llevar la continuacion llamada HL2 :episodio 2 , portal un juego muy imaginativo y el team fortress 
 2 el cual es un muy entretenido multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spencdiamonds
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Quiet simply those people who dislike this game are stupid flat-out. This game is a master piece 
 and with all half-life 2 up to episode two whats the problem and portal and team fortess two are 
 even better. I love this and all other games of this Companys series I. E. Valve I pre-ordered this 
 game and I got it and I am not disappointed I chose to get this for the 360 since I already have 
 the same games on xbox and PC so I got it for 360 EP2 is way better than any game out there including 
 halo which I also pre-ordered rather than say some good things about Orange box I will say some 
 negative things which are pretty much nothing and gamespot agrees. Valve themselves put commentary 
 INTO the game and ASK YOU to write to them about what YOU though and the people who think its just 
 for portal and challenged because Valve purpously put that game in there to test it like the gravity 
 gun its all for testing. I would tell anyone to get this game without any regrets and if someone 
 actually came to me with a legit reason to why it was crap I would refund them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waskallywabbit
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  This is great, because even if you have played through two-thirds of this game before (HL2 and 
 Ep. 1) there is still plenty to get into and love. For the 360 (the version I own) its all on one 
 disk, and the whole thing just shines. All of the great story and excellent gameplay from both 
 Half Life 2 and Episode One are here, with Episode Two rounding out the Freeman package. Add to 
 it Portal and Team Fortress 2, and you have a package that no fan or newbie should pass up, because 
 this is more game for your buck than you have seen so far on the 'box. Half Life 2 and Ep. 1 are 
 great, with Ep. 2 showing that the whole thing still has legs today. Even if you've played through 
 most of it before, you should give it a second go, as it plays like a dream on the 360. Aside from 
 some dated textures and models in the first two installments (and load times that break up the 
 flow of the game from time to time) the whole package still shows what all the hype was about in 
 2004, and still shows what other shooter developers need to learn about telling a story and giving 
 great imagination and playability in an action packed package. Portal is so slick, it has to be 
 played. The puzzles are great, and the art direction is amazing. The computer voice that guides 
 you through the game is well versed, and that game can be so amazingly funny and horrific at the 
 same time. There are few games that can match Portal for pure cerebral fun. All the way to the 
 end (that comes too quickly in some respects) you are chuckling while you wrap your brain around 
 time-space puzzles. Team Fortress 2 is a great multiplayer game to round out the package, with 
 awesome strategic team based battles and role-based gameplay. All the characters have something 
 to offer, and a style to match your own. Speaking of style, the animation-style graphics will please 
 everyone's eyes and the animation and sound is superb. (The sound is superb throughout the entire 
 package, in fact. Portal's audio is definitely the star of the show!) With a game that looks like 
 a Pixar setting gone military, its good to see the shooter basics are covered as well as you would 
 suspect from TF1 and Counterstrike alum. All I can say is pacing. This game has it in spades, and 
 all of the classes of character's abilities were well thought out and balanced. All of this for 
 $60! A big deal is being made about value on the Orange Box, and the hype is real here. With something 
 for almost anybody, this is the box to buy, even if you are still screaming at Halo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KreepLX
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Ever since playing Half Life 2 on PC, I awaited Half Life Orange box for a console release just 
 so I can exploit the benefits of my new home video and stereo equipment. I picked the game up at 
 Game Stop and rushed home after my day at work to try out the game that I pre-ordered back in summer 
 2006. My first impression was surprisingly negative. Half Life 2 and Episode I looked bland and 
 dated I did notice the dynamic lighting in this version though, Portal was a little odd for my 
 taste and lacked substance, and Team Fortress 2 had lag that reminded me of the worthless online 
 mode that was in Darkness. The next day a played Half Life 2 for an hour and when I reached the 
 boat and scooted along the water, the dynamic lighting really made this old engine look great. 
 After playing for a couple hours, I was once again drawn into the game play and story telling that 
 I loved back in 2004. My friend called me and wanted to play Team Fortress 2 and the lag seemed 
 to stabilize since people in the West Coast seemed to be picking up copies, leaving the Canada 
 players to people in their own region. I decided to play Portal and give it a chance. It was impressive 
 and innovative when we compared other titles that had similar concepts but lacked the actual functionality 
 of portal use; Prey for example. Overall, I think this was an awesome purchase choice that will 
 entertain for 20-40 plus hours. Before you people start judging and talking negative people never 
 say anything nice on Game Spot since they somehow think they can get a rise out of people because 
 they are anonymous. I have played many games and either the story was not very good, the campaign 
 takes 6 hours to go through, or the games are incomplete by lacking frame rate or polish. Half 
 Life Orange Box is a polished, complete, and intriguing set of games that will entertain you for 
 a long period of time. I refuse to touch Episode II but other reviews say the cinematic experience 
 blows the previous ones out of the water. I am sure Mass Effect will blow everything out of the 
 water but we have to give credit to Valve for making strides in the FPS gaming experience by adding 
 physics and innovative story telling that will leave you craving for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batosaims
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  and i gotta say this is a mighty fine package
  the thing about the orange box is that its such a great value
  
  except portal which i wanted 
 to kill myself after playing for an hour
  
  the games are great
  half life 2 and episode 1 and 2 are great games and the visuals are amaziing team fortress i have 
 a feeling is going to be one of halo 3 biggest rivals for xbl domination this year
  
  overall if u loved half life 1 and never played 2 this is a great package which includes a puzzle 
 game not to my liking but to some and a highly addictive multiplayer
  
  overall great game and fantastic package
  
  9/10
  
  halo 3
  looks like u got competition 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dashizy666
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  Half life is one of the greatest franchises to ever grace gaming greatness. The first Half life 
 was overwhelming, the second was even better. Now the Orange Box 360 version of Half life 2 looks 
 better then ever. I loved the xbox version. It was awesome but not as good as the pc (so I've heard) . 
 Now the 360 makes a three year game look like a brand new release. I'll go as far to say that I 
 looks better then Halo 3 and that is saying something. The only gripe is very mild clipping on 
 the hovercraft level. The selling point with this game the the amount of game content that you 
 get on one DVD. It makes you wonder how the hell did they get five games on one DVD? First off 
 half life 2 alone is a 9.5. I would have been perfectly happy with just that. But no. They added 
 episodes 1&amp;2. That would have been a 10. But hey we need multi player, so valve added team 
 fortress 2. a cell shaded multi player masterpiece with a great sense of humor. That would have 
 been more then your money's worth. Holy **** they added a puzzle game called portal? When you add 
 it all up your getting over $150 worth of game content for the amazing price of $59.99. This game 
 is like a ****ing infomercial. All kidding aside The orange box just plain rocks. Too bad the ps3 
 owners got left out of the mix until December which sucks for them. All I have to say is NA NA 
 NA NA NA NA Ha Ha Ha Ha Ha Ha Ps3 sux. And I'm no fanboy but I wil say this, if the ps3 version 
 scores below a 9.5, I'll laugh my ass off. as for my rating it goes beyond a ten. This would be 
 the uncontested game of the year if it weren't for Halo 3 and Bioshock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rugbygod
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Having 3 Halflife titles, Portal puzzler and Team Fortress all for $60 buck is extreme value.
 
  
  The Halflife series is a classic for so many reasons that it speaks for itself. Halflife 2 even 
 holds up well graphically, even though episode 2 is definately superior in the visuals department.
 
  
  Portal is pretty short, however, challenging at later levels almost to the point of frustration, 
 but it delivers brain bending fun.... if of course you like that kind of game.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is very slick looking, almost to the point of a Pixar movie.... very cool modes 
 and a complete online shooter with very cool character models..... and it's greatest strength is 
 that it is very well balanced.
  
  This title is a must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RockToTheLed
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  So Orange Box is finaly here. Some hyped it to be a true masterpiece, some didn't hype it at all. 
 either or, the game definetly lives up to all it's great praises it's earned so far. Now to start 
 you off, you get 5, yes 5 games. and you only pay the price of what a single Xbox 360 game goes 
 for, $60. there's a catch right? wrong! no strings attached, it's just an amazing deal. This review 
 will be quite lengthy, only because i'll give a short review on all 5 games.
  
  **Half Life 2.
  
  The name should say it all. one of the best PC games ever made. Now majpr 
 point, it is a PC native game, so it does feel a bit better on the PC, but it's still a great port. 
 Control's are seamless for fittng it all onto a controller. It feels very comfortable, and any 
 fan of a FPS will feel right at home.
  
  The game definetly looks pretty. Obviously it looks better on the PC, but since when has that been 
 different. The texttures are very lively and enrich the world and cause the immersion to be that 
 much greater.
  
  The sound is awesome. Voice acting is really good, keeps you into the game at all times, perfectly 
 qeud sharp noises and bangs at a suspenseful portion will keep you on your toes. Very well done.
 
  
  Over all, if you played it on PC, you may or may not want to play this again, but it still is great. 
 and if you never played Half Life 2, this should be a big reason for you to buy Orange Box.
  
  I'll condense Episode 1 and Lost Coast into a single review, considering i haven't beat either 
 of them yet, just put time into them to get a feel. **Half Life 2 Episode One, Half Life 2 Lost 
 Coast
  
  In HLE2 you'll kick off from where you finished in HL2. It's really an astounding game, and, remarkably 
 holds up to it's Original. And Lost Coast, though i'm unsure of the story so far, really does a 
 great job of holding you in for the entire ride.
  
  The graphics are a step up from HL2. Though HL2 looked great on the 360, it was more of a top notch 
 Xbox graded style. But Episode 2 and Lost Coast are completely rerendered for HD and look amazing. 
 Textutres, models, effects, everything just looks great.
  
  The sound is basicaly at the same level a HL2, but in a good way. Voice Acting is remarkable, ambient 
 sounds throughout the cities, and the enemies chatter is really great. the game does an excellent 
 job of immersing you.
  
  Gameplay doesn't really need a section, considering it'll feel perfect after playing HL2.
  
 
  **Portal
  
  At first glance, you might assume this is more of a test game for a new engine made into an interesting 
 single player experience. That assumption is completely wrong.
  
  To be honest, i've had more fun on this that anything else. It's truly remarkable. The Physics 
 and Momentum deserve thier own section. Going through a wall and coming out from a cieling really 
 alters your perception and does a great way of making you feel like you actualy did that. Jumping 
 from a high ground into a portal and coming out of a wall really gives you a kick. the speed and 
 you have when going through a portal completely effects your exit as well. enter at high speeds 
 and expect to go flying out the other end.
  
  The controls are perfect. simple, but perfect. only about 5 buttons are used.
  
  Graphics are 
 great. the portal effects and textures are amazing.
  
  Sound is great. Awesome mix of music, the announcer, who reminds me of a femal Big Brother is eerie 
 and really immerses you into the odd setting you're thrown into.
  
  All in all, this game is astounding. This and TF2 could be sold as stand alone games and still 
 be worth the money,
  
  **Team Fortress 2
  
  Did i save the best for last?
  One could only say.
  
  TF2 is probably the most anticipated game on the Orange Box, and defiently 
 worth the hype. It's a bit hard to make a complete decision on how gerat it is, considering the 
 community isn't that large yet, and the larger fanbase is on PC. but all in all, this is a fantastic 
 game.
  
  The gameplay is set up very nicely. controlls are fitted well on the controller and feel very comfortable. 
 the difference in speed and gravity depending on your class also help the immersion factor and 
 really tune you with your character.
  
  The graphics are awesome. it's like an episode of Happy Tree Friends in 3d. why? because it does 
 look animated, but it's gory. awesome combo if you ask me. and the goofy little effects also help. 
 such as when a spy is in disguise, to the other team it obviously looks like what he's disguised 
 as, but to his own team, it's nothing more than a paper mask with a face drawn on it. i thought 
 it was hilariously clever. and also, the menu's are awesome. to pick your team, there's two bathrooms. 
 a red door and a blue door. pretty explanitory. after entering the door, the character select screen 
 is awesome. complete overview of the class and his capabalities. and also, before every map, there's 
 a short video introducing the map, your objective, and some helpful advice.
  
  Sound is great. the witty lines your character spill out, the over the top gun sound effects, AMAZING 
 theme song. all help's with the immersion and feel for the game's style of humor.
  
  Class system is very balanced. everyone with thier own strenght and weakness. you'll have to experiment 
 to find the one that suits your style, but they are all incredibly fun. and they all have thier 
 own victory dance all at the simple press of the X button. it's another hilariously clever input 
 into the game.
  
  All in all, Orange Box is one of the best purchases you can make. Five fantastic games all for 
 the Extremely reasonable price of $60. Great single player experiences await, and an amazing and 
 unforgettable multiplayer extravaganza is waiting to be played. A definite purchase for any 360 
 owner!
  
  i do hope this review helped. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Random1992
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  It goes without saying that this is the most valuable deal on the gaming market right now. For 
 the price of just one game, you get all together FIVE different games. This package deal comes 
 with one of the most prominent gaming series of all time. Half Life 2 on it's own delivres a massive 
 punch with it's groundbreaking (for it's time) graphics, facial expressions, detail, etc. Not to 
 mention the fact that every level in HL2 is unique and memorable giving it high replay value. HL2 
 is a lengthy game and should take 10-20, maybe 30 hours to beat. Half Life 2 was and still is one 
 of the greatest games of all time.
  
  The Orange Box also comes with the sequels of Half Life 2. It comes with Episodes One and Two which 
 are great games on their own. Both games have some upgrades from Half Life 2 graphically and gameplay-wise. 
 Each have their own unique setting and they both continue the story of Half Life surprisingly well. 
 Despite the fact that it took Valve such a long time to make these games, it was worth the wait, 
 since these sequels are very fun and immersive.
  
  Portal is a funny little puzzle game for when you're bored. If you're tired of Hexic 3D, go play 
 Portal. It's challenging and humorous at some moments. You can spend quite some time on just one 
 level in Portal.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is a fun action packed multiplayer which you can get into quite easily.
  
  
 
  Graphically, these games are based on the Source engine which is a phenomenal engine with great 
 physics, lighting, texture quality, etc. It even has bouyancy and gravity which most games don't 
 have.
  
  All of these games have excellent sounds and sound quality which makes them easier to get immersed 
 into.
  
  Basically, in conclusion, The Orange Box in total provides a gameplay experience just as good if 
 not better than Halo 3. It's a must-buy so if you see it in a store and you have the money, pick 
 it up for you will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Warbuff
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  I have seen sooo many people saying that this is such a GREAT deal for $60. That you get 5 games 
 for the current price of 1. Well, I guess I look at it a little differently.
  
  IMO you get 3 games for the price of 1, which is still a great deal. I consider HL2 with the expansion 
 packs Episode 1 &amp; 2 to be ONE game. Portal and TF2 finish off the pack of 3.
  
  Any way, what you get with HL2 and expansions is ONE HECK OF A GREAT GAME! Yes, it is a few years 
 old now, but if you never played it on the PC before then this is a nice treat following Halo 3. 
 The graphics are top notch and rival the way the game looked on a high end PC. I know I am about 
 to open myself up to abuse, but I feel the lighting effects, textures and the killer physics make 
 this truley one of the best games of all time. And that does not even bring into play one of the 
 best story lines ever found in a game. To me, every other FPS out there is just a poor attempt 
 to catch up to the HL series..... yes, even HALO! The controls are solid, the audio is KICK A$$, 
 add all of the above together and you just get sucked into the HL World. The only negative thing 
 I can find, and it does not even hurt the game are the many load times you run into. They are not 
 very long, just lots of them.
  
  Portal : Not sure what to say about this, it's a complete MIND F! Now maybe I might be a little 
 slow when it comes to this great little puzzle game, but man, it freaks me out! A great addition 
 to the disc and it has NOTHING to do with HL2 so no spoilers.
  
  TF2: Talk about a revamp of a classic game! The new cell shading graphics are killer, and the revamp 
 of classic maps and classes make this a great flash from the past. When I first started playing, 
 it took me all of about 2 minutes to flash back to about 1998 when I first started playing it. 
 It's brings tears to my eyes to see body parts flying all over the map again!
  
  Over all I give everything in the Orange Box two thumbs up! with a -.5 for the load times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marionette_Lime
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  This is quite simply the best deal of the year, FIVE games... no, make that Five GREAT games for 
 the price of one, honestly where can you go wrong with this!! These games have superb graphics, 
 intense multiplayer, deep and involving single player, great story line, incredible audio and you'll 
 get a good laugh while playing (well, portal is funny anyway :P)
  
  There is just no downside to this great deal. A MUST have for all gamers!!
  
  Portal is an 
 incredibly interesting game, I've only played for a couple hours coz I was busy with TF2, but it's 
 a great addition to this package and it and be quite funny at times.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is one of the best multiplayer experiences of the year, with so many different 
 and unique classes to play, no 2 characters play the same.
  
  and Half-Life, well we all know how great the story in Half-Life is, and with episode 2, this only 
 adds to the already incredibly storyline 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orionthescorpio
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  I had Half Life 2 for the PC, but didn't finish it. I bought this game for the 360 to finish it 
 AND get some achievements on top of it. The real reason this games is good is the amount of content 
 to play with. If you want a game with an excellent story, play the Half-Life portions, if you want 
 a puzzle game play Portal, or if you want a fun multiplayer shooter play Team Fortress. This game 
 has a little something for everyone. It's not a must-have if you already have the games for the 
 PC but it is highly recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 5:38 am PT
Review:  What you get for $59.99:
  
  Half-Life 2 Half-Life 2: Episode 1 Half-Life 2: Episode 2 Team Fortress 2 Portal
  
  The Half-Life 
 franchise started in 1998 for the PC. There were many expansion packs for this game and eventually 
 the popular title made its way to the PS2. Half-Life 2 released for the PC in 2003 and the new 
 Source engine was ground breaking. With the success of the first Half-Life being released on the 
 PS2, HL2 made its way to the Xbox. Unfortunately the power of the Xbox was not enough to translate 
 this game properly to the console. Well Half-Life 2 is back for the latest generation Xbox system 
 and it certainly doesnt miss a beat this time. Time for the review!
  
  GRAPHICS 9.5/10
  
  The Source engine looks just as good as it ever has and this time the power of the Xbox is 
 more than enough to do this game justice. Some of the best textures, shadows, and models to ever 
 grace this console. The graphics only get better as you progress through the expansion games. This 
 is easily one of the best looking games on the Xbox 360.
  
  SOUND 9.5/10
  
  Like always the voice acting is top-notch! The explosions and chaos sound amazing in surround sound. 
 The music in all 3 HL2 games are fantastic and really set the mood.
  
  VALUE 10/10
  
  Not only are you getting Half-Life 2 and both expansions but you are also getting Team Fortress 
 2 and Portal. Thats 5 games for the price of 1!
  
  Portal - Portal is a very clever puzzle solving game with 19 levels. In some cases you need to 
 figure out how to gain momentum by placing portals in the proper spots. You are also guided by 
 a female voice that supervises your tests. Team Fortress 2 - This is a game that took 10 years 
 to make its way to the public. This multiplayer puts the red team vs the blue team with six maps 
 to play on and many gametypes to choose from. The graphics arent like HL2 but are very nice on 
 the eyes with its cartoonish looking style.
  
  OVERALL 9.75/10
  
  The replay value with this purchase is insane. Most games give you 8-15hrs of solid gameplay but 
 Orange Box offers well over 25+ hours not counting mulitplayer. Plus all these games for only $60 
 is a deal that nobody should miss out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: migstar
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2007 11:58 pm PT
Review:  It's been about 10 years since the first half-life. Half-Life 1 is probably the best game ever 
 made. Orange Box is what time, innovation, and not having $ as motivation can turn a game into. 
 Bungie took only 6 years to make all three Halo games, and it shows. Halo is an example how people 
 can easily get caught up in the hype they are sold... HALO HALO HALO.... go buy it and call it the 
 best game all you suckers. Does anybody else notice it's the same damn game in all three? It just 
 goes to show you how this world has ADD, people want it delivered fast no matter what the quality. People 
 need to stop making pop punk a top 40 genre, stop hating on single player campaigns, and stop being 
 little brats over xbox live. Until more people acknowledge the epic immersion of games like Half-Life 
 and Bioshock, and stop buying into massive hype they are fed, the push from publishers will be 
 quantity not quality. Shame on you gamespot for Halo 3 getting a 9.5 for doing the same damn thing 
 the other two did. Kudos to you gamespot for Orange Box getting a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendofYaslint
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 11:44 pm PT
Review:  like Half life 2? Of course you do. If you haven't played it yet, it's one of the best shooters 
 of all time. It's a little over 10 hours of pure joy in terms of gameplay as well as a great story 
 in an epic world.
  
  The graphics are dated but nothing too bad to hurt the experience, especially if you are playing 
 on a smaller monitor. I played it on a fifty inch tv but it still looked pretty good. episode one 
 is fun but not as good as HL2, but episode two is amazingly fun with great story elements.
  
  the gameplay is top notch as well. You'll be hard pressed to find a weapon more fun and satisfying 
 than the grav gun.
  
  then, there is portal. It only takes about three hours to beat but it is very fun and very funny 
 as well. anyone who likes puzzles will really enjoy this game and find reasons to keep coming back.
 
  
  last, but not least, is Team Fortress 2. it's an excellent team oriented multiplayer game that 
 forces teams to work together in order to do good. If you don't you'll get beat pretty bad. It's 
 nice to see a MP game try to hard to force players to cooperate and use more tactics.
  
  all together, the orange box is an amazing deal and should not be missed by anyone who loves Halo 
 and/or puzzle games.
  
  it's going to be a long time before anyone will get tired of all the great content to be found 
 in the orange box.
  
  now go buy this and see what all the hype is about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joefatty2x4
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  This package is no less than perfect. You got the whole HL2 series (both episodes) , TF2 and Portal 
 (kind of annoying, but gives you a challenge) . I give this a perfect 10 because there is nothing 
 more you can ask for. Great things come to those who wait. I never actually played half-life 2 
 before The Orange Box. I played the first hour of the game and that's it. Now that I've waited, 
 I got this whole bundle of HL2 &amp; extras to keep me occupied for quite some time. No more Halo 
 3 for a while. Finally a deal to keep me going and going without getting bored or pissed off and 
 the price is GREAT. This is the BEST $55 I've ever spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrimeLazarus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Sit down and play ALL the games in the package. Minus HL2 and HL2 Episode 1, this is all NEW content 
 here. For most without relatively recent PCs or just those who have missed on out on the first 
 person classic Half-Life 2, even the HL2 and HL2 Episode One will be astoundingly new games. Some 
 of the best first-person single-player action to some of the best in puzzle and multiplayer -- all 
 in one package. Anyone who marks this below an 8 is overlooking some of the major draws and just 
 pushing their own negative attitude. I can't imagine how people think that a $60 package that includes 
 5 games (classics, no less) could even be fathomed as not worthy of the standard retail price for 
 ONE new game. Those that dish out on this deal are only begging for less content I can imagine. 
 There are 5 games here. You think it's not worth $60 because there isn't what...6 games? Give me 
 a break. Avoid the negative reviews. People who knew what they were getting going in and then complaining 
 because they already own some of this collection on PC is just a feeble attempt to bring down what 
 is an excellent package of classic gameplay and story as well as new twists on an excellent engine 
 and franchise. Those that would force this gem into darkness, they have yet to truly 'explore' 
 the Orange box... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Netnik
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  I only bought this for Team Fortress 2, my review is only on TF2. Freezes every 2 or 3 games. The 
 Good: 1. Game looks great. 2. Funny as hell and equally fun to play on a smooth host. 3. Wide variety 
 of balanced classes.
  
  The Bad: 1. Lots of laggy matches. It's not me because I have 15mbs down 2mbs up and the right 
 ports open/NAT is good. 2. Freezes my Xbox every 2 or 3 games. This problem isn't new to the 360, 
 always seems to be a caching problem so I think Valve and MS share this con. 3. Limited maps, for 
 now at least. No news on Marketplace map pack plans.
  
  I would feel alot better if TF2 was released separate since I have more faith in a game that takes 
 up a entire disk. It makes me feel that more work went into it. I just think if it was tested harder 
 and included more maps this title could stand on its own.
  
  My advice, buy it but buy it for the PC since Steam updates well.
  
  For now I'll pray for 
 a patch... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camaro9307
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  ya a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a aa aa a a a a a a a aa  
 a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the best packages available on the 360 thus far since the Xbox360 has been 
 released. If you pick up the Orange box you will not be disappointed with what you're going out 
 of this game. Let me just start by mentioning the games that are packed in. Those games are Half 
 Life 2, HL2: Episode One, HL2: Episode 2, Portal, and Team Fortress 2. You're getting your money's 
 worth here.
  
  If you've played Half Life 2 for the PC and Xbox than you know what to expect from this version 
 of the game is high resolution graphics running on the 360 on 1080i/1080p. For those that don't 
 know about the story you play as this Dr. name Gordon Freeman who use to work for this Research 
 facility that unlocked this portal that unleashed these aliens that have infested the world you 
 live in. You were that hero that saved the world from these infested creatures. You would put away 
 in your sleep until the Earth needed you again. Well guess what Gordon Freeman is back and he's 
 back to save the world again kind of like Master Cheif in Halo.
  
  Now one thing about Gordon Freeman is that he never talk in the game. You don't even get to see 
 him in third person. But you have some remarkable supporting cast in the game that bring this game 
 alive and gives certain characters in the game like Alyx your partner in crime some emotionally 
 attachment and feeling to the game. As you play through the first Half Life 2 and play Episode 
 One and Two. You will see the graphically updates there are between the three games. It's great 
 to play all of these games one after the other. For those that have played Half Life 2 for the 
 Xbox and PC you and everyone else has the choice to jump into any of the games you want. Once you 
 boot up the disc you have access to all five games on the disc. So you don't have to play them 
 in order.
  
  Now the other game we have packed in the Orange box is Portal. Portal is a puzzle game that will 
 take you maye 2 - 3 hours to finished depending how good are you in solving these puzzles in the 
 game. Portal is based on a world in Half Life and you'll see a direct link between the 2 games 
 in one of the 3 games. So the game takes place in this facility in Half Life and you'll job is 
 to figure out how to get from point A to point B. Once you complete a task that's given to you. 
 You will move on to the next stage in the game. You have about about 19+ levels to beat and as 
 you get further in the game it gets tougher for you to beat.
  
  Now on to the MP part of the disc which is the only multi player game out of the other 4 games 
 Team Fortress 2. One thing I will say if you're looking for a death match game you won't find it 
 here. This is a team based game and you'll be playing in two teams. The only modes they have are 
 capture the flag, attack and defend, Control Points, or Territory Control. You'll have 6 maps to 
 choose from and you can host games, make custom games, and play rank games online. There a lot 
 to do here in this game. Play 3 single player games (HL2, HL2: E1, HL2: E2) , or play a puzzle game 
 or play a Online Mutli player game only. Either way you're getting a lot for $60 bucks. If you 
 buy this game you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcfitness1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  I have the PC version and now I have the 360 version. The PC is much better, that is, if you have 
 a powerful PC to run them. I run TF2 and all the other Valve games on my new 24'' iMac 2.8 GHz 
 using Vista on top of Bootcamp. I'm getting about 150 frame per second. On the 360 my eyes started 
 to hurt because of the lower frames per second. My only other complaint is 16 player max on the 
 TF2 servers. With that said, I still love the game play like no other game out there. You have 
 a choice of 9 classes all with their own skill sets. That to me is incredible. Oh, one more thing, 
 we need more CTF maps. Just 2fort is NOT going to cut it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyleinator
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Five games. one box. only $59.99 and its amazing must buy. better than halo 3 better than gears 
 of war and better than any other game great multi-player great campaign great everything just go 
 buy it already. You will be amazed dont like one game play the other theres five! Your bounded 
 to like one. It has half life, half life episode one, episode two, team fortress two, and portal 
 there all really good. its so good the graphics arent the best but still good and it dosent make 
 the game bad YOU WILL LIKE THIS GAME unless you dont like shooters but ther is portal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Expo_Smacko
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  I love this. This is probably the best deal you will ever find for 5 great games.
  Half Life 2
  Half Life Episode one
  Half Life Episode Two
  Portal
  and
  Team Fortress 
 2
  What can you possibly go wrong with all of that? I payed 54$ for all of that.
  *gasp*
  It's a great deal and all games are FANTASTIC.
  Portal is amazing but can get annoying after 
 a while. But some games do.
  
  Team Fortress 2. Wow..
  The best game and so old skool. Can't go wrong there. The graphics are amazing on all games. TF2 
 is just cartoon because all of what you can do is complete fake. Why they make it in such a fun 
 way. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  What do you get when you put one of the best shooters ever, a mind bending puzzle game, and an 
 addictive and amazingly fun multiplayer game all in one package? Well you get The Orange Box from 
 Valve (and EA.) If you haven't heard, the Orange Box comes with Half Life 2 (w/ Episode 1 and 2,) 
 Portal, and Team Fortress 2. The value of this set is just one huge plus. So overall besides the 
 the awful box art, this game has got it all.
  
  Half Life 2, what can I say about it? Its been called one of the best games ever made for a few 
 years now. Compared to the Xbox version graphics, the 360's graphics are upped a lot to the point 
 of a high end PC. The gameplay is true to the PC version, just some players may not be as used 
 to it with the controller instead of the keyboard and mouse. The newest part to the series is Episode 
 2 which has the best graphics of all three parts and the best facial animations of all three. Next 
 is Portal, some may find it slow but if you're a big fan of puzzles and want to take the puzzles 
 they gave you in Half Life 2 to the next level, this game is for you. You basically take what part 
 of the hype of Prey was and a gravity gun, and solve puzzles by trying to get to the end of each 
 level with the use of two portals. At some points, this is one of the trippiest games ever. You 
 can get so turned around by going upside down left to right and up and down with all the possible 
 portal combinations. There isn't a whole lot of variety, but if you like puzzle games and want 
 an interesting first person twist to it, you will find Portal to be an amazingly fun game.
  
  Last is Team Fortress 2, the sequel to Team Fortress Classic, one of the original Half Life 
 mods. You have pretty much the same concept with new levels and some abilities, but this time they're 
 using an extremely modified version of the Source engine to have a hilariously cartoony cell shaded 
 imagery. Honestly thats why I love the game so much, the art direction of the game is one of the 
 best this years and rivals my love for Eternal Sonata. This is the generation where Cellshading 
 can really shine with brilliance. As far as the controls go, it translates well to the 360's controller 
 pad. Though it would be a lot better with a keyboard and mouse, but the upside is that everyone 
 is going to be using a controller so no one will have an advantage over you.
  
  Over all, the Orange Box is just great. You cant argue against Half Life 2 and Team Fortress (Portal 
 can be an acquired taste) and the value of all this for just $60. If you are a FPS fan and don't 
 have a gaming PC, just buy The Orange Box, simple as that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lynch03
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  I'm surprised to see how many people are whining about the price. Yes you get HL2 and EP1 which 
 YOU may already have, you still get 3 games for 60, one of those games being a multi-player game 
 that is completely different from Half life.
  
  This box is a great value, Portal is a very fun and innovative puzzle game. You have a came that 
 creates portals to solve various puzzles. Half life Ep2 expands the story of of Ep1, and I'm surprised 
 people are saying it's not different enough from HL. It's part of the same series! Episode 2 probably 
 is the most exciting of the HL2 series in terms of storytelling. There are new enemies and environments 
 to discover.
  
  TF2 IMO is the best part of the package, very fun, easy to pick up, yet tough to master multiplayer 
 game. It's class based and the classes range from a Pyro who sets things on fire to a Spy who can 
 go invisible and wear an enemies to disguise and kill enemies in one backstab. Then you have your 
 big fat slow yet extremely power Heavy who can take a ton of shots and dish out the damage. The 
 soldier is not as strong as the heavy but is also not as slow and has a rocket launcher. The scout 
 is extremely weak but can zip past enemies to get to a control point/flag. Medic is an available 
 class which most people are likely familiar with. And the last 2 classes are the engineer who can 
 build power turrets to defend a control point or a flag, and the demolition guy who can blow things 
 up.
  
  TF2 is very easy to pick up, just pick whatever class you want and if you find you don't like it 
 you can switch right after you die. Fun and fast paced game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IllReadIt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Well, after playing Half-Life 1 and 2 on computer I already knew the HL franchise was waaaay better 
 than Halo, it was just a matter of how the graphics would port over. The graphics are not high 
 end computer, but daaaaaamn close, and are equitable to the best graphics on Xbox 360. If you never 
 played HL-1/2, you are missing a great story line, SMART AI, and adventurous gaming, that is for 
 computer what Halo is for Xbox, and if you think Halo is better, just compare the review scores 
 down the line with each games successor, case closed. Plus Half Life is welcomed and well received 
 on either systems, Halo was and still is poorly received on computer, and get's reviews below Half 
 Life series, so cry all you want, the facts and scores are public record, and all your crying can't 
 change it.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is the reason I bought the Orange Box, although I will enjoy replaying HL-2, and 
 playing Episodes 1 and 2, which I also look forward too. I never played TF 1, but after playing 
 TF 2, I can only say it is a TOTAL blast, I enjoy it so much better than the glitch ridden jammed 
 Gears of War, and I also enjoy it more than the been there, done that uninspiring Halo 3. Yes Halo 
 has Forge, but it is no fun looking for cameras, I want to play against and enemy, not a hiding 
 little ball, yes, I admit it was cool and fun the first few times, but now all everybody does is 
 turn into a camera and fly around constantly, so fun over, let's get back to real gaming, and TF 
 2 is real gaming, for those who know the difference between real gaming and gaming eye candy and 
 massive marketing name dropping and brain washing.
  
  Getting a little off the subject here, some people say they seen very minor jagginess in lines 
 on TF 2, I see none, the whole Orange Box is graphically excellent on my TV. So those of youl ooking 
 for the best a low budget gamer can afford TV wise, I am EXTREMELY impressed and happy with my 
 recent TV purchase. I went to Walmart and paid $1699 + tax, and bougtht a Philips 47 inch, LCD 
 HDTV with 1080P, 5ms refresh rate, 3 HDMI's ect... and gaming has never been so fun and great to 
 watch. Now some of you with scoff with bigger better TV's, I know you paid more so they have to 
 be better, however, besides the bigger screen owners whose will be better because of size, not 
 necessarily picture quality, graphically, I'll put up mine against the high end TV's and my eyes 
 won't be able to tell the difference, and neither will yours.
  
  Portal I haven't played yet, but for puzzle people, I heard it'll work you bad, I am not a puzzle 
 person.
  
  You can not miss with this package, Half Life 2, Episode 1 nd 2, AND Team Fortress 2 are worth 
 the price of a single game alone, let alone all in one package, let's do the math, 5 great, HIGH 
 quality gaming experiences, for the price of one, duuuuuuuh ! Way to go Valve, you once again have 
 outdone Bungie, and didn't need the advertising campaighn either, just went by your reputation 
 for gaming excellence and whispered the title Half Life ...... coming soon, no demo required.
 
  
  GRAPHICS 9.0 HL 2 10.0 TF 2
  
  SOUND 9.0 VOICE ACTING 10
  
  GAMEPLAY 10
  
  REPLAY VALUE 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red47
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  This is a perfect chance to experience HL2 if you couldnt or havent before (like me) . So you get 
 HL2 and episodes 1 and 2 and you are also getting Portal which is pretty good. On top of that you 
 get TF2 which is a blast to play. All that for 60 dollar, and you got a bargain my friend. For 
 the people that already experienced HL2 and all the episodes on PC you might want to wait for a 
 price cut. Everybody else should go out and get this game right now. I couldnt experience HL2 because 
 of my computer but now is my perfect chance. Thanks alot for all the folks who made this happen. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ali_g_84uk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  The other reader reviews are ridiculous, they're complaining about the value of this game when 
 you get 5 excellent products. Even with the new products alone (ep2, tf2 and portal) , $60 would 
 have been about right in comparison to other games. Moaning about the inclusion of one of the greatest 
 games of all time (hl2) and its expansion is a bizarre arguement, considering console owners haven't 
 really seen a good version of half life 2. These should be seen as a bonus rather than an attempt 
 to cash in on old products, comparing hl2 to re-releasing mario bros on disc is the dumbest arguement 
 i have heard in a while. You clearly can't please some people!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AllGameSystems
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  I was hoping for a whole new Half Life experience, I was wrong. I have the opportunity to play 
 my old half life games anytime and dont anymore, Portal is just an irritation for those looking 
 for a fun shooter.
  
  Half life is a fun game in off itself but to rate it again with such high marks makes no sense. 
 I give this product less than rave reviews because getting the same game over again with a puzzle 
 game isnt what I bought my system for. You cant release the same game over with the same reviews......
 
  
  .I got bored very fast and cant see the thinking behind charging $60 except to make money off of 
 hype of an old game.
  
  EA seems to do this all the time,, can you say Madden..
  
  Rent it or buy it on sale so you can have the games in one place but dont pay full price. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
