-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Outfit
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/theoutfit/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good multiplayer modes.
 &quot;Destruction on demand&quot; makes deploying gear easy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Shooting guns isn't fun.
 Graphically underwhelming.
 Single-player game gets predictable and repetitive quickly.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 13, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 7.0, 63 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 2,274 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Relic
Genre: Historic Tactical Shooter
Date: Mar 13, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Outfit's aim for a bold blend of action and strategy gets sabotaged by a repetitious campaign, 
 but it is redeemed somewhat by its multiplayer. 

  Neither a teeth-rattling action game, nor a highly cerebral strategy game, The Outfit tries to 
 split the difference, effectively putting you in the role of both front-line grunt and field commander 
 as you march across WWII-torn France. Cross-pollinating genres like this is tricky, and though 
 it puts in a good effort, The Outfit doesn't quite pull it off, leaving both the action and strategy 
 elements compromised. The multiplayer game copes with The Outfit's shortcomings much more ably 
 than the single-player campaign, but it remains a game difficult to wholeheartedly recommend, regardless. 

          It's like GI Joe meets the A-Team, except that people actually get shot and die.     

 
  The titular Outfit is initially comprised of J. D. Tyler, Deuce Williams, and Tommy Mac, three 
 "tough as nails" soldiers doing their part in the European Theater to quash the Nazi threat. They've 
 each got their specialties -- J. D. is good with a rifle and has a knack for detonating enemy vehicles, 
 Deuce packs a bazooka (along with some sweet aviator sunglasses) and is proficient in hand-to-hand 
 combat, and Tommy packs a flamethrower and can use tear gas to flush out enemies. Physically speaking, 
 they're all striking figures, but they're all pretty much just salty, battle-hardened, Sgt. Rock 
 types without many unique personality traits to differentiate them. Their story sees them hunting 
 down blood-thirsty German generals and traitorous clergymen, as well as allying with Le Resistance 
 and some unexpected German sympathizers, all the while proving their worth as practitioners of 
 wanton destruction. The story itself is completely unremarkable, with its ability to fill time 
 between missions being its greatest strength.  

  As a mission starts, you'll be given your choice of characters. At first, you'll be picking from 
 J. D., Deuce, and Tommy, though your choice of playable characters varies as you play through the 
 12 missions that make up the single-player campaign. Each character is armed with two weapons and 
 a limitless supply of grenades, but more importantly, they also command a four-soldier squad and 
 can call in equipment reinforcements as is necessary. Your squad isn't particularly bright and 
 can only be given a handful of very broad commands under pretty specific conditions. On top of 
 these handicaps, you have to wait for a meter to recharge before issuing new commands, which can 
 take a good minute to refresh. Still, when you tell them to provide cover fire, they generally 
 do what they're told, and they do it well enough.  

  You'll immediately understand the necessity of the additional backup the first time you squeeze 
 off a round -- the characters' weapons are weak, overheat quickly, and have consistently poor aim. 
 The effectiveness of your characters' weapons can improve over time, but since the game heavily 
 conditions you to rely on your squad and air-dropped equipment, the weapon upgrades are of minor 
 consequence. The vehicles you'll have access to, which range from a wheelbarrow (no, seriously) 
 to a ferocious, rocket-mounted tank, are great for providing your character with improved durability, 
 but whether you're on foot, manning a turret, or playing tank commander, you'll undoubtedly find 
 yourself frustrated by the erratic aiming, inconsistent bounding boxes for pieces of the environment, 
 and a notable lack of splash damage.  

          Underwhelming firepower and bad aim conspire against the actual action in The Outfit.  
    

  Save for the crosshairs on the sniper rifle, most of the weapons use somewhat archaic aiming reticules 
 that take a while to adjust to, partially because reloading on most of the heavy weapons takes 
  forever , but also because they've been purposely imbued with enough imperfections that it's hard 
 to tell if the problem is your aiming or the equipment. Bounding boxes, the invisible geometry 
 that decides the physical space an in-game object will take up, is another source of grief. You'll 
 find yourself in some pretty war-torn areas that are filled with debris and obstacles, but unfortunately, 
 you can't always shoot through empty space in The Outfit, and it is supremely frustrating when 
 your 75mm cannon shell happens to catch an invisible edge. Almost more frustrating is the game's 
 model for splash damage. Vehicle explosions will regularly take out soldiers that are standing 
 right next to them, but shots from a bazooka or a tank's main cannon have almost zero effect if 
 they don't bull's-eye the desired target. You'll realize just how ridiculous this is when you're 
 sniping off a row of Nazis one at a time with a gigantic antitank cannon.  

  Though the game prefers to word things a little differently, the core objective in every single-player 
 mission is to get from one area to another -- a straightforward task, thanks to the game's extremely 
 linear level design. Your path will twist and turn, going from narrow valleys to open plains, and 
 on a few rare occasions, you'll have to backtrack, but the game always makes it quite clear where 
 you're to go next. As you bring your scorched-earth campaign through beachfronts, quaint French 
 villages, and heavily fortified Nazi bases, you'll regularly happen upon small, Nazi-military installments, 
 which you can capture for your own ends. Some are simply "strategic objectives," which serve as 
 spawn points for when you die -- and you will die a lot. Your fighters are pretty fragile creatures, 
 and the enemy is often a frustratingly good shot, capable of seeing you through a brick wall. Punishment 
 for death is light, forcing you to hoof it back to where the action is from a spawn point of your 
 choosing.     

   

  The other types of bases include a motor pool, an armory, and a radio tower, which serve as spawn 
 points, and when captured, also give you access to additional firepower. The motor pool gives you 
 the keys to a variety of tanks and heavily armored vehicles; the armory lets you deploy machine-gun 
 nests and antitank cannons; and the radio tower lets you call down artillery and air strikes. Your 
 ability to deploy anything, however, is contingent upon how many field units (or FUs) you have. 
 Field units are currency that you get for completing midmission objectives, capturing bases, and 
 killing enemies. Spending FUs is as easy as hitting the Y button, which brings up an on-screen 
 "destruction on demand" menu that lets you quickly, and rather easily, purchase new hardware, choose 
 a position for it, and have it air-dropped in seconds later.  

          As hard as we tried, we couldn't come up with anything funny to say about the FUs.     
 

  The destruction-on-demand system is the only thing that really makes The Outfit strategic at all, 
 but even then it's not a particularly deep or nuanced system. If you happen upon a base fortified 
 with turrets and tanks, you find a good position, drop down some turrets and antitank guns of your 
 own, and watch the mayhem unfold. Overspending at one point in a mission can make it difficult 
 to proceed at another, but even then you're punished so sparingly for death that it's still possible 
 to grind your way through.  

  On top of all the general Nazi killing, each level contains at least a few secret mission objectives, 
 usually revolving around destroying a number of Nazi objects -- statues, spotlights, artillery, bombers, 
 and so on -- or defending a number of Allied forces. Save for a good number of bonus FUs, completing 
 these objectives is mostly only good for unlocking Xbox 360 achievements. There are literally dozens 
 of these scattered throughout the game, each generally earning you 20 or 25 points, and they are 
 the only good reason to go back and replay missions you've already completed.  

  If you don't take the time to ferret out every last hidden mission objective, you'll probably breeze 
 through the story in less than 10 hours. Luckily, The Outfit features some multiplayer modes, which 
 make better use of the gameplay model than the single-player campaign. There's basic deathmatch, 
 as well as a capture-the-flag variant where you have to hold down a number of strategic objectives 
 before your enemy does, and both can be played either head-to-head, two-on-two, or three-on-three. 
 The modes are pretty straightforward, and though the controls are identical to the single-player 
 game, it's a much different game to play against other opponents that have the same objective as 
 you do, and the dozen multiplayer maps included are far more interesting. Though some poor design 
 choices muck up the single-player game, the multiplayer proves to be pretty engaging and a unique 
 online experience on the Xbox 360. You can play through the single-player game in online co-op, 
 which can add a bit more strategy to the proceedings.  

  The Outfit favors wide-spread ruin over finesse, which comes across in the game's presentation. 
 The world of The Outfit, while not terribly expansive, is highly destructible. Tanks and other 
 military hardware explode satisfyingly enough, and with a little effort, you can knock down trees, 
 level buildings, and bust right through defensive walls. If you're rolling in something with a 
 little heft, you can roll over soldiers, smaller pieces of military hardware, low walls, and various 
 barriers. You can get a good "bull in a china shop" thing going, but as with any game that touts 
 destructible environments as a bullet point, it only makes the indestructible parts of the environment 
 stand out that much more. There are some other nice little touches, such as the way a tank will 
 rock on its suspension a little when it is initially air-dropped, the way cannon-fire will briefly 
 bathe the immediate area in a flash of light, or the cloud of dust and smoke that will waft out 
 of the back of an antitank cannon, but these highlights are overshadowed by other shortcomings. 
 Character models are chunky and feature some stiff, repetitive animations. Textures are wildly 
 inconsistent, going from crystal clear to "what the heck is that even supposed to be... a briefcase?" 
 Funny-looking rag-doll deaths abound, though soldiers shot with a cannon or flamethrower crumble 
 into weird Sarah Connor-style logs of ash, which is actually even weirder than watching your guy's 
 limbs flop around like some kind of epileptic marionette. The game takes on a different kind of 
 taint depending on whether you're playing it in HD or standard definition. HD makes the game's 
 level-of-detail and shadow-mapping issues more prominent, while standard definition makes all the 
 textures look a bit more crudded up.  

          Everything explodes in The Outfit. Well, almost everything.     

  The soundtrack features 
 a somewhat predictable blend of military marches, driving guitars, and electronic beats -- derivative, 
 yes, but still quite effective. The voice acting sees the three main characters playing perfectly 
 into their tough-guy archetypes -- J. D. sounds gruff and stern, Deuce sounds gravely and stern, and 
 Tommy sounds almost exactly like John Wayne. The supporting cast features a cattle call of fake 
 French and fake German accents that go between awkward and really bad. Some of the explosive effects 
 pack a punch, and there are occasionally some great 5.1 moments, such as when you're defending 
 a position against wave after wave of Nazi fighter planes, but a lot of the in-game effects ring 
 hollow.  

  The Outfit's multiplayer game goes quite a ways to redeeming the monotonous single-player campaign, 
 but it still doesn't fully excuse the game's myriad of other faults. An action strategy hybrid 
 of this kind has been done before, and done better by games such as Battalion Wars or Kingdom Under 
 Fire: The Crusaders, but still, it's a one of a kind on the Xbox 360, at least for now.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (207 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: pamplinas322
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 9:35 pm PT
Review:  When you first put the game the intro shows you this amazing cut scene of soldiers killing people 
 in cool ways, smoking cigars while shooting and driving drunk. Awesome so far until you get a gun 
 and you are like WTF! The guns feel like an air pistol, the rocket launcher is so underpowered 
 that it doesn't even have splash damage.
  
  This alone just sucks, is a war game and the guns cant back you up? lol
  It has is cool things 
 like buying jeeps, artillery, more soldiers, guns and more guns. Then it drops ner you in a box kind 
 of like mercenaries. But then you get to ride the the tank and naturally you want to run over everything 
 especially soldiers and when you run over them they get up like nothing happen??? lol. It takes 
 like 4 run overs with a tank to kill them, that is just lame. Try and fire the turrent It takes 
 5 to 7 point blank shots to kill them, even lamer!!!
  
  This game made killing things so worthless is not even funny besides it feels like your playing 
 a mercenaries rip off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weekendrockstar
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 14, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  I've thoroughly enjoyed the game in single player. It was one of my first romps through the Xbox360 
 world. After I made it through the singleplayer campaign I'd found myself going back through individual 
 levels to complete achievement tasks from which I might have been too distracted to complete. Such 
 as the prototype jet in the Iron Zeppelin mission. Once I got around the entrance to that area 
 I was taking fire from the next AA gun area and forgot to go down that way. But I simply went back 
 to the mission, fought my way to the corridor to the section, destroyed the prototype for the achievement 
 and then left the game and got back in to go to the next mission where I missed an achievement.
 
  
  Personally I felt that the difficulty was just about right but certain achievements (such as protecting 
 the bunker) was proving to be quite difficult. But overall, in the game itself, I found about the 
 right amount of challenge and unlike some games the difficulty seemed to escalate appropriately 
 as the game progressed.
  
  The first of a few complaints which seems to be noticed by everyone was the accuracy of weapons. 
 I would zoom in and I am definitely aiming at them and should hit them with no obstacles in the 
 way. Yet I could hold onto the trigger for a minute straight and that one solitary soldier is still 
 standing and someone picking off the other four in my squad one-by-one. But I got enough out of 
 the gameplay to overlook that despite getting a little agitated here and there. And the other primary 
 concern is the lack of splash damage. I've hit to Nazi soldiers while I was in a tank and the shell 
 would send them flying only to have them get back up. I would hit them again with the same result. 
 A few shells did little more than to soften them up for the tank's machine gun. That is... if aiming 
 at the enemy soldiers and firing right at them actually killed them. And lastly driving vehicles 
 could be a royal pain. The camera would zoom in to the point where you can no longer see the vehicle 
 (this is mostly with tanks and the Calliope) and while you are still pushing the joystick to go 
 straight.. you end up going up the side of a mountain on an angle.
  
  I enjoy the fact that it is a shooter game but there's also strategy in where, which and how many 
 emplacements to put down... if any. Some tactics such as placing a machine gun nest next to an anti-armor 
 can help both of them survive. The Anti-armor can help try to blow up enemy vehicles which would 
 attempt to run over and destroy gun nests and the machine gunner can help destroy enemy infantry 
 that would try to overpower the soldier manning the anti-armor cannon since he cannot hit multiple 
 targets... especially ones that are spread out.
  
  The game had some wit and humor which I found amusing. I enjoyed most of the maps and I thought 
 most of the graphics were quite decent.
  
  I selected the "pick it up in your bargain bin" option as I bought the game used for only $10 at 
 Blockbuster Video and honestly, I feel that I got way more than what I would consider to be $10 
 worth of entertainment out of it. I can't rate the multi-player yet but it looks as if some other 
 gamers will start picking up the MP with me which of course is helpful if one is every going to 
 earn the MP achievements for the game. But I feel that this game was definitely worth every penny 
 that I put into it and honestly, I'd have been satisfied with having paid more if I hadn't found 
 it there for that price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slash-lou-tom
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 28, 2008 1:30 am PT
Review:  this is the worst gamer ive ever in my entire life campaighn mode o so ever sucky well me my freinds 
 and family could not ever think of a word that can describe such crappyness o theres one cant actually 
 think of a word that can explain how bad it is i tried to sell it i would not even get 50 cents 
 for it it is that bad if u agree contact toxicbut on xboxlive anytime and i will get back to you 
 when i get a chance
  
  this is the worst gamer ive ever in my entire life campaighn mode o so ever sucky well me my freinds 
 and family could not ever think of a word that can describe such crappyness o theres one cant actually 
 think of a word that can explain how bad it is i tried to sell it i would not even get 50 cents 
 for it it is that bad if u agree contact toxicbut on xboxlive anytime and i will get back to you 
 when i get a chance
  
  this is the worst gamer ive ever in my entire life campaighn mode o so ever sucky well me my freinds 
 and family could not ever think of a word that can describe such crappyness o theres one cant actually 
 think of a word that can explain how bad it is i tried to sell it i would not even get 50 cents 
 for it it is that bad if u agree contact toxicbut on xboxlive anytime and i will get back to you 
 when i get a chance
  
  this is the worst gamer ive ever in my entire life campaighn mode o so ever sucky well me my freinds 
 and family could not ever think of a word that can describe such crappyness o theres one cant actually 
 think of a word that can explain how bad it is i tried to sell it i would not even get 50 cents 
 for it it is that bad if u agree contact toxicbut on xboxlive anytime and i will get back to you 
 when i get a chance
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sierra_Cosworth
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  The Outfit is a game set during World War 2. This should make it entertaining enough... but it 
 doesn't. It is a deeply boring slog through war ravaged France. It is neither exciting nor fun.
 
  
  Graphics : 5.5
  
  To sum the graphics up inone word : Average. The graphics are so poor. For a next generation game, 
 the graphics are something of abject horror. This game could be released for Playstaion 2. It's 
 a shame that Relic didn't release it for PS2, where the graphics could have been touted as 'Good'.
 
  
  Controls : 7.0
  
  The controls are quite solid. Hold RB to sprint, Press RT to fire and so on. The controls are easy 
 to implement, and soon everyone will be able to play like a pro.
  
  Story : 2.5
  
  There is no real story in this game, believe it or not. Oh yes, there's a cut scene at the start 
 and end of every mission, but all they do is tell you why you need to shoot at Axis forces. The 
 game is set in war torn France, when the war was at full peak. You fight as one of the three members 
 of the elite Outfit.
  
  Characters : 5.0
  
  The characters in this game are very stereotypical. You have the cigar smoking leader, the guy 
 who can withstand a tank blast and the guy who can snipe from afar. Well, that was the plan anyway. 
 In reality, they're all near invincible. You can take SO much damage before you die. You can actually 
 throw your own grenade at your feet about 8 times before you nearly die. Thanks to the epically 
 stupid health regen system, where your health entirely regens in about 15 seconds.
  
  AI : 1.5
  
  If there is AI in The Outfit, it is incredibly well hidden. You have to lead a 
 squad of 4 soldiers through enemy lines until the next mission, where you do the same thing again. 
 Your soldiers will stand there and take a hail of bullets. Then they'll die and you can carry on 
 yourself. The enemies are even stupider. They will stay on a cannon or machine gun nest while you 
 are behind them. If you charge over and begin a melee with the enemies, you can melee them. The 
 only problem is that they have a delay before they fall down dead. I'm not joking, you hit them 
 in the skull with your gun, and after the melee animation they're still standing there. Frequently 
 they fire off a shot and then drop.
  
  Weaponry : 4.5
  
  The weaponry is the one point that this game could have redeemed itself. Unfortunately, like everything 
 else, this game makes an an epic fail of it. There isn't even a difference in each weapon's damage! 
 All the machine guns cause the same damage, be they a Thompson SMG or an MP44! The strangest part 
 of this is that you never run out of ammo. You have infinite ammo, and cannot choose to reload 
 your gun. The game does that for you. All you have to do is avoid letting your gun overheat.
  
  Multiplayer : 0.0
  
  I can't actually rate the multiplayer in this game, mainly because 
 I have never found a match. For a game that prides itself on its multiplayer, the server is dead.
 
  
  Final Verdict 
  
  Don't bother buying this mediocre game. If you're looking a good WWII game, hunt down Call Of Duty 
 2 or Call Of Duty 3. If you're really desperate to see the worst game the Xbox 360 can offer you, 
 here it is. It's this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliSucks
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is a lil tweaky, but it's nonetheless fun.... I wouldn't say it's the best game I've 
 ever played.... Nor is it the worst..... The Outfit is extremely fun and addicting.... I never got 
 a chance to play online but I am guessing that the multiplayer would have been quite fun and worth 
 trying..... I love the fact that you can call in air strikes and friendly reinforcements along with 
 other weapons such as tanks, cannons and the like.... I thought that was a brilliant idea to implement 
 those few extras into the game..... More games need to take that stand so the gameplay is more realistic 
 and challenging..... The game seemed to take forever and a day to complete and it was very difficult 
 in many areas... I wanted this game ever since I knew it came out.... Even though the graphics are 
 a bit cheesy, I think they do the trick for the type of game it is.... What people don't seem to 
 understand is that it's supposed to look and feel like an arcade game thus lacking the true graphics 
 of a war game such as Call of duty 4..... I loved The Outfit, I had a load of fun playing it and 
 would do so again when the time is right..... I wish they would make a second Outfit..... I really 
 liked this game....
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MNRaven
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2008 12:26 am PT
Review:  This is not Halo. This is not Call of Duty. We weren't bombarded with television commercials and 
 magazine advertisements. The Outfit is a solid third person game that came out pretty close to 
 the entrance of the XBOX 360. It tells a decent storyline with great sound and easy controls. The 
 tutorial is brief but within 15 minutes your ready to invest your quality game time. The Outfit 
 is a great weekend game for instant action. The difficulty level is low and I find this to be a 
 great first game for people knew to shooters. The low sticker price makes this an option when you 
 don't have $60 dollars to spend on a newer game. The Outfit is very under-rated and THQ and Relic 
 really put something out there that is worth investing in. Hopefully we will see a sequel to this 
 highly entertaining shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Going into The Outfit I was super psyched to play the game. THe game was described as basically 
 a nonsense third person shooter set in World War Two. Needless to say it seems these days that 
 World War Two games are kind of hit and miss, especially on the home consoles. I however took a 
 chance with The Outfit, and I came out very, very disappointed in the overall experience of the 
 game. 
  
  Although the overall concept of The Outfit seems somewhat novel, once you start playing the game 
 you realize that it is in fact not. The game is basically as fun as playing Battlefield 1942 single 
 player on a crappy computer. Because that is essentially what this game is, all you do is go around 
 and capture enemy flags and raise American flags. If this sounds framiliar well then thats because 
 it should because it is the exact same thing that we have been doing in the Battlefield series, 
 only EA actually does those games right, this game is just a pathetic excuse for a World War Two 
 game.
  
  The game's signature is Destruction on Demand. This allows you to have planes drop in things like 
 artillary guns on the fly so you can use them against tanks and things that stand in your way. 
 Destruction is a poorly chosen word however. Its more like small boring weapons on demand. The 
 guns in this game feel like they do absolutely no damage, and you are best off just shooting in 
 random spots because the game lacks any type of precision aiming. This really does bring the game 
 down quite a bit, because there are three characters to choose from, but since all the weapons 
 are just plain old boring to fire you never really feel like one character is essential for a certain 
 mission, and the amount of weapons available is quite sad.
  
  The game has decent graphics at best. I honestly could not tell the difference between playing 
 on a regular TV and on a HDTV at the highest setting. The games environments are boing as they 
 almost all look like they are recylced from previous World War Two games and the maps are essentially 
 empty. When there are enemies on the map they run at you all in one clump, just like this were 
 a side scrolling beat em up from the early ninties. The character models are nothing that we havent 
 seen before.
  
  The sounds of THe Outfit are probably the best thing about the game, because even though the weapons 
 are super ineffective they sound like they are getting the job done, which is good because the 
 sound seriously saves this game from being a complete flop. I do however have one complaint about 
 the sound. Have you played Call of Duty 2? Well if you have than chances are you will recognize 
 the song that plays at the main menu, because it is practically identical to the one found in Call 
 of Duty 2 which may I mention is a much better game than The Outfit.
  
  The controls, what is there to say besides that the character feels like a tank and the tanks feel 
 like swimming through molases or however you spell it.
  
  Long story short, The Outfit is not worth your time. If you are a World War Two buff with an Xbox 
 360 than Call of Duty 2 is definatley the way to go. If you have already played Call of Duty 2 
 than move onto Call of Duty 3, if you have played both of those, I strongly reccomend going back 
 and playing them again as you will have way more fun playing through those a second time than you 
 will playing through this disaster for the first time.
  
  Concept: 7/10 
  Graphics: 6/10 
  Controls: 6/10 
  Sound: 8/10 
  Replay Value: 6/10 
  Worth what you pay 
 (based off purchase agreement) : 7/10 
  
  Overall: 6.8/10 
  
  Purchase Agreement: Rental at best 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  I was in my mall a couple days ago and i stopped at one of the game shops to see what i could get 
 with 15 bucks and well i got the outfit silent hill 2 and jak and daxter PL... but thats beside 
 the point. The out fit is a sqaud based third person shooter which take the style of an RTS and 
 fuse's it with a run and gun shooter. The mix is a bitter sweet combo on one hand you get a great 
 RTS mechanic called destruction on demand and the weak lackluster shooting of a dull third person 
 shooter. The single player in the outfit is made up of 12 missions and sadly the story and overall 
 combat in the single player kills all hope for a fun mission mode. However, the multi player in 
 the outfit is the games saving grace, at least somewhat of a saving grace. Though insanely fun 
 it still carries the problems that the single player has, minus the boring. the graphic's are laughable 
 at best the only good part of the graphics are some nice looking scenery. The sound is about the 
 same as the graphic's. The outfit is a game that you should at least try for multi player and if 
 you can get it for 15 bucks in a buy two get one free deal then it's worth a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanSniper1
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 24, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  I love THQ games. This one was fun because it was like a mix between a 3rd person shooter and a 
 real time strategy. I had hours of fun playing on coop mode. I love how you can go into the vehicles 
 and blast away at nazis. The story line is accurate and there is even some historical events in 
 the game that they depict well such as the failing of hitlers asassination. 
  I got very upset because i played this gaMe all night on coop and almost beat it. When i woke the 
 next day to play some more there it wouldnt allow me to play any of the levels i did on coop! it 
 just allowed me to start all over again! but in solo it let me load the save for where we were 
 at. That dissapointed me because the game was great and i wanted to finish it but had to bring 
 it back to blockbuster. I suggest renting it with and playingt it through it with your gAMe buddy 
 on a weekend. Great for people who love RTS's and shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GunnyNoland
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2007 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Probably one of the most GREATEST third person shooters EVER!!! The single player campaign keeps 
 you on the edge as you try to take over a german CP or if you are ordered t hold a position! The 
 destruction on demand makes it even better you can call in tanks mgs at guns jeeps you name it 
 it is awesome you have to try it! Play as Deuce Williams JD and Tommy Mac... MP is awesome even 
 though consiering there isnt people on much it is good when you finally get on a server so if your 
 a fan of company of heroes you will want to try this it is like a coh for XBOX360 its a really 
 great game trust me!
  
  Cm on..... Try this game you wont regret it if you dont like send me a gamespot message and ill 
 reply to it! If your not sure rent it first.... Best Buy dosnt carry it anymore but dont let that 
 down go to amazon and order it! So trust me.... dont let relic and thq down for their hard work 
 on Company of heroes these are the guys who brought you one of the greatest RTS games of all so 
 trust me if you like COH youll love this game it is revoulutionary just give it a try believe me! 
 Dont let THQ and Relic down. If you did like COH you will love The Outfit trust me once again try 
 this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  While i've never been a fan of strategy games, I chose to check it out. For a $10 game it's not 
 bad, but has some issues.
  
  The strategy and action gameplay are pretty much split down the middle and plays like a mix of 
 3rd person shooter, with elements of highjacking vehicles and placing gun emplacments. The core 
 of this works well, but some weird issues mar the fun. Why does your gun overheat? It's annoying, and 
 through the second half of the game, you'll rely of vehicles more than running around on foot. Aiming 
 in the game isn't precise, meaning lots of wasted ammo trying to hit a small target.
  
  The game looks decent, but you can tell it was one of the first 360 games.
  
  The game is more 
 of a pick up and play for an hour at a time then anything else. However for the price tag, you really 
 can't go wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dork_assailent
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  The Outfit is an absolutely abysmal game. Right from the moment I put the CD into my CD drive, 
 the game did not appeal to me at ALL. The graphics are mediocre, the sound/voice acting are crap, 
 and the gameplay is overly arcady.
  
  I don't know what the makers of the Outfit were striving towards, but anything that they tried 
 did not work. The only reason why I have this game is because it came as a freebee from buying 
 my X-Box 360, and I can see why they would want to get these games off their hands as soon as they 
 could. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strategyman567
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 27, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  As me, a new Xbox360 gamer, only got mine a month ago, so I picked up this game to start. So I 
 opened it and put it in the Disc tray. I went to the selection screen, picked campaign. Single 
 Player: 5.5
  
  It's puts you on a beachhead first. So it says to capture one of the points. This may sound like 
 a cool task at first, but later it's become annoying as every mission requires to capture the same 
 buildings. The only cool thing about these buildings is when you capture them you get toys. Big 
 toys. Such as the Calliope (Sherman mounted with rocket launcher) Crocodile (Flame Sherman) , or 
 the normal Sherman. But these toys cost points.
  But don't worry, points are achieved by killing soldiers, even your own men. You will meet countless 
 hordes of SS, and Werchmacht trying to kill you. To wrap single player into 7 words. Fun at first, 
 then tedious and boring.
  
  Multiplayer: 7.0
  
  I have played about 20 games of MP, and I have to say I liked it. I made my first live buddy on 
 this game. So multiplayer allows you to play as the Germans. You get on the German side the best 
 tank in the game, the panther. Multiplayer is just like single player, capture, kill, get toys. 
 Multiplayer is a good feature. Let me shortly talk about one feature.
  Wire tap: It's lets you hear what the enemy is saying over teamspeak. If they don't use teamspeak, 
 you just wasted 300 points. But like I said, points fly.
  But multiplayer offers a pretty fun experience.
  
  Factors: I have my stats: Infamous, Terrible, 
 ok. good, great, awesome, O-- M-- G. These are not taken 100% seriously, but I post the Factors such 
 as realism just for your reading enjoyment of the review.
  
  Gameplay: singleplayer is boring but multiplayer offers a good time.: Good Graphics: The graphics 
 I find really nice but, I'm new to 360. So what do you think?: Great Realism: Well, if lf planes 
 can drop panthers with 1 parachute out of the sky, well....: Terrible
  
  Characters: You can control one of the three elite members one at a time. You get to play as one 
 of German generals later. Or in multi, you can play the three German leaders as well. They each 
 have a strong point. :Great
  
  Overall: A good game that shines nicely in it's MP. :Good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hermitkermit
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 10, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: In all in all, Outfit, is a game meant to be played online, there is a campagin and such, 
 and 2 player co-op for the single player and also a 2 player deathmatch mode..... The game is like 
 battle field, you choose from 3 heros, (Bazooka guy, Sniper, assault) And pick a spawn point. Now 
 you can deploy anything from machine guns to tanks to even foot soldiers, airstrikes etc. However 
 you need the right building to purchase them. Munitions factory to buy the most powerful cannons, 
 and even a tank factory to well you know.... TANKS! The game lets you shoot, drive and blow stuff, 
 up.... but there is the little thing with if you get near water you die.....
  
  Graphics: Great, explosions look nice, the detail on the soldiers and tanks are very well designed...
 
  
  Sound: Good sound effects! Funny lines from both sides...
  
  Replay Value: Multiplayer and COOP...
  
  Summary: A game that has you build and command a squad 
 of soldiers in a classic take and hold game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobrax80
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  The Outfit would have been just an average shooter if it was not for a very fun multiplayer mode. 
 The game has a single player mode but it's just an average one and they might as well should have 
 left it out. The multiplayer mode is highly competitive and fun. The maps are nicely designed and 
 you have to capture as many checkpoints as you can before the other guy. You can choose the weapons 
 you have. The weapons are actually pretty well balance but if you are good with a sniper rifle 
 then the game feels a little unbalance since you can easily kill your opponents with just a few 
 shots from a great distance. You can call down tanks, bomb strikers, new artillery, ect. This makes 
 the game feel very fast paced and action heavy. The graphics are pretty good and so is the sound. 
 Overall if you like a good strategy based shooter and have an online connection then you should 
 definitely pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamereviewer371
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  The Outfit is an overall good game, but not a great game. Its campaign mode really is kind of terrible, 
 but it is somewhat redeemed by its multiplayer mode. The multiplayer mode is really fun. The key 
 to at all enjoying this game is to have a friend to play it with. I would classify this game as 
 almost, but not quite. The creators of this game did a really nice job creating the multiplayer 
 mode, but a rather bad job creating the campaign mode. When I first got this game and tried the 
 campaign mode, I was really frustrated and thought I had wasted my money, but then I tried multiplayer 
 mode with a friend, and it was amazing and highly addictive. Don't judge this game by its campaign 
 mode. Judge this game by its multiplayer mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Havoc1353
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  The Outfit is a great game with several problems. The most obvious (and most used to demote this 
 game) is its single player campaign. I love this game but now that i play it a second time, it 
 does seem a bit slow and boring. I suggest playing the campaign only for practice or achievements. 
 On hard, its okay but impossible at others. Multiplayer is awesome though. Combining strategy with 
 fast paced action it completely makes up for the campaign. You can earn upgraded weapons with your 
 achievments, not very important but useful when you fight another player. My personal favorite 
 is the melle attack, simply hit A at the right time and you beat up your target for an instant 
 kill, and hijacking. theres nothing better then reading that _________ was meleed by Old Tiger 
 or that ________ was hijacked (hijacking is an instant kill) . I wrote this review to (maybe) help 
 you decide whether to buy this game or not. Its my favorite despite its flaws, and you should at 
 least try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nymets819
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 31, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  It's not the best WWII game, but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, but its not the 
 wost. It's not the best WWII game, but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, but its not 
 the wost. It's not the best WWII game, but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, but its 
 not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, but 
 its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, 
 but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, 
 but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, 
 but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, 
 but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, 
 but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, 
 but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, 
 but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, 
 but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, 
 but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, 
 but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, 
 but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, 
 but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, 
 but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, 
 but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, 
 but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, 
 but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, 
 but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, 
 but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, 
 but its not the wost. It's not the best WWII game, but its not the wost. v 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danbouk
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 31, 2007 2:54 am PT
Review:  The Outfit, is a cartoony TPS version of WW II which could have been a very good game.
  Graphics, sound and control are all quite good, but its the levels that really let The Outfit down, 
 they all feel the same.
  Basically you start at on end and run to he other, capturing spawn points along the way, the gameplay 
 doesn't really allow you to take cover, its just run and gun or choose whatever weapon you feel 
 is good for the job.
  In the game you have three players to choose from, which is ok, but sometimes you need one player 
 for a section of the game where apon after completing that section you'd need another, so you'd 
 rather die.
  A Co-op mode is in the game, which is the single and it actually plays ok as does the Multi-player 
 and both offer some fun and are good for a laugh.
  The Outfit isn't really that good as a single player game and it can be quite annoying at times, 
 if you see it cheap pick it up other than that you wouldn't really miss much.
  Its a shame really, because given the material, they could have made a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodhawk_DX
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 20, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Outfit is a more unique game in my opinion, it's not a good as it's rival Call of Duty. Of course, 
 it has some very satisfying moments in of itself. The story line is somewhat entertaining, while 
 not the most original it still has it's moments. The good: Outfit is graphically alright it's not 
 the most stunning game but it's not atrociously ugly. The controls are quite responsive, I personally 
 can't complain. You can ride vehicles, order in turrets and call in soldiers, basically take one 
 man and call in your reserves to fight along side of you. The single player is alright, and the 
 multiplayer is very tactical and worthwhile if you can find the right people to play with. For 
 me the game really shined playing in co-op. I enjoyed that immensely, excellent game now that it's 
 inexpensive, XBox Live compatible and looking to rip things up with a friend. The bad: As I said 
 before, the graphics are Alright they're not stunning, suffes from some muddy textures and ugly 
 character model variety. You'll find yourself more satisfied with the feeling of just crushing 
 your enemy rather than the sight of it exploding. There is plenty of variety as far as vehicles 
 and such go, but it's not always very tactical in the single player. You just use whatever seems 
 fitting for the moment. Multiplayer however offers some very unique gameplay in head to head and 
 is a lot of fun to play with friends but not so much on the hardcore competitive level. There are 
 some minor imbalances that killed it for me. As I said before, the co-op was the most rewarding 
 for me and at it's current price, it's worth shelling out the money if you have nothing else to 
 play. This game is about experiences, when played with friends it really shines. By itself it's 
 nothing too impressive. Achievements are straight forward, some are easy to get while others (multiplayer 
 wise) can be frustrating and time consuming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cookiedogg
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jul 17, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  The xbox 360 has the capabiliy of having way better graphics than the outfit shows. After beating 
 mission 2 I just said this game sucks. And is not nearly worth the price that they charged me. I 
 do not know if it is just me but, I hate this game and I know other probably love this game. But 
 honestly this is the worst game ive ever wasted my money and time on. I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krikri93
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 1, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The campaign is pretty repetitive, and ur squad sucks so much they can get beaten to death 
 by one soldier, its almost lie u have to do everything around, although u need the squad if u want 
 to man a tank or any vehicle with its real power
  although iv had some fun online, its pretty much 6 heroes,3 on each team, and u need strategy to 
 win, better if u have a mic to comunicate with ur team mates
  Storyline: its quite unrealistic for a actual WW2 game, lik the big fat giant fortress in the last 
 mission where the evil bad guy stays in the top of the tower
  Graphics: They are pretty good but not great, just good.
  
  so if ur a fan of strategy war games, u 
 might enjoy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Capone970
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 23, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  The Outfit is an action strategy game in the vein of Mercenaries. It has a system where you can 
 order various armament at the press of a button, call in vehicles etc. However, where it differs 
 from Mercenaries is that this time you are not in a Playground of Destruction , and you are not 
 alone. In The Outfit, you need to think before you act, because unlike Mercenaries, if you get 
 in a jam, you aren't able to just run up and hijack the nearest vehicle from the enemy just like 
 that, these guys are a little more relentless than that. In most shooters you can just blindly 
 charge in and take out all the guys in a single blow, but here, especially in the higher difficulty 
 settings, you have to make sure you have a battle plan. All that said, this is also an easily accessible 
 game, and if the strategy sounds like it will be hard to pick up on, its not. After a half hour 
 or so, you'll begin to think almost instinctively about where you should place emplacements in 
 case of an enemy attack. Before you know it, you'll be a regular Eisenhower, quickly placing machine 
 guns, anti-take cannons, anti-air guns, calling in artillery and driving various vehicles, from 
 jeeps to the fire spouting tanks. The presentation here is pretty good, their is solid voice work, 
 a pretty run-of-the-mill story that works well with this game. The sound effects and music are 
 all done very well. The gun shots sound good and the music always seems to fit the battle you are 
 in. The graphics are pretty, but not mind blowing. The multi player, which is probably the highpoint 
 of the game is addictive, and the game sports some great co-op. All in all, this is a great game, 
 and you should definitely pick it up if you like army games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarryClub
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 23, 2007 1:19 am PT
Review:  Very good game if you into the WW2 experience, if can be found for like 15 dollars it is a great 
 deal and you minus well give it a shot. Achievements parts are very good and well put. On line 
 play is fun and you; ll love it like i did. I will not wanna play COD 4 after this!!!!!! i like 
 it very very very very much. Like i said it would be great to buy if very cheap. I played for hours 
 and just could not let go of it and i through away G R A W. It is very much good i like, very much. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutta27
Rating: 1.1
Date: Jun 4, 2007 5:04 am PT
Review:  STORY: They story takes place in the middle of WWII, with Hitler's army rolling through France. 
 There are two factions of the Nazi War Machine trying to make the push across the country. One 
 front is led by the maniacal but cunning SS General Viktor Morder. The other is led by General 
 Hans Von Beck, who isn't really in lockstep with the SS, but his love for Germany and his sense 
 of duty tempers his cynicism. The Outfit is charged with finding and taking out Von Beck and Morder 
 and helping get France away from Hitler's grasp.
  
  Nice story but many aspects are fictionalized so may not appeal to WWII fans
  
  GAMEPLAY: The 
 game is pretty poor, its another WWII shooter and not exactly a great one, This is a 3rd person 
 shooter in opposed to the normal 1st person shooters like Call of duty and medal of honor, what 
 also seems cool at the start is it has rts elements of being able to call in tanks and gun emplacements 
 and even air strikes and as this does sound cool it rarely is. Doing these things is hardly exciting 
 and as a whole the game just rolls along and never shocks throughout.
  
  Just the same old 3rd person shooter nothing new to see and it doesn't even do the old things very 
 good.
  
  GRAPHICS: This is supposed to be a XBOX 360, but looks more like it is from the xbox, i know it 
 is an early game in the 360's life but many others games that came out at the same time look alot 
 prettier.
  
  Not great, not even good.
  
  This game is very disappointing not as much fun as i thought 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jefferson1964
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 23, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  This game is much more fun than most reviewers lead it out to be. I have enjoyed this game sooo 
 much and attaining the medals is a real challenge. The weapons are realistic imo and the On demand 
 point system is fun. Online is where this game shines and ive been in very heated battles for over 
 an hour with 4 on 4 and is one of the most entertaining games on xbox 360. The driving of vehicles 
 seems to be the most difficult to learn. It took me time but now im pretty good and even my 4 year 
 old has mastered the vehicles. The story line is kinda corny but the one liners are funny. The 
 co-op play is fun and lets players tackle different parts of the map while not being confined to 
 a specific section while waiting for the 2nd player to catch up which is a very nice featur. If 
 your into a shooter game give this one a try especially now that it can be picked up for around 
 $10 used. Just pick it up and give it a try for the price its hard to go wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidbusters
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 17, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay, environment and simplicity of controls is reminiscent of olde-school arcade classics. 
 If you liked the destruction games of old, you'll like this one. Easy to respawn and continue to 
 go through levels without worrying about save games. All-in-all, doesn't take much brains to play 
 and is pretty fun as it lends a break from the plethora of first-person shooters out there that 
 are all variations on nearly the same type of game in terms of feel, control, etc.
  
  When I'm talking olde shool btw, I also mean things like unlimited ammo! You can also call-in vehicles 
 and large guns at will (given you have enough points, but this is really easy) and you can blow 
 up and destroy just about everything.
  
  Sort of like a good re-run on the weekend - when you are in the right mood, its perfect. If you 
 are expecting the latest action-thriller with the best in special effects, this isn't it, but don't 
 overlook it, especially for the 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 70x7
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 4, 2007 3:45 am PT
Review:  The game if played alone, can indeed cause tantrums, caused if by nothing else than the utter repetitiveness 
 of its singleplayer. Co-op is the way to go if you want to just play through the story, and since 
 the game is so short, you shouldn't have to waste too much of you or your friends time on it. The 
 best part of the game is by far its destruction-on-demand feature, where you can parachute an assortment 
 of goodies in within a second. Controlling points on the map that grant access to each thing, Vehicles, 
 More Troops, Machine Gun Nests and AT-Cannons, as well as bombing runs to clear debree from paths 
 or just to take out a tedious installment of enemies penning you down.
  
  Basically the games physics go along with your characters appearances. You look like GI Joe's in 
 short. And while that might be entertaining in another sort of game, in this hybrid attempt, it 
 just doesnt work. If they had added more realism and less arcade style gameplay, the game might 
 be 10 times better, but that is only speculating that it would make up for all of the other shortcomings 
 the game has. Such as a bland and predictable non-storyline, bad voice acting, and mid-level graphics. 
 And while the game is large, it doesn't quit meet the requirements for me to feel like it's truely 
 immersive . I blow a hole in a building, and while its a pretty accurate representation of such, 
 I shoot at a certain part of the wall, the whole appears in the general area I shot at, but I there 
 isn't a single building you can enter, and whats cooler than blowing a whole in a wall, then hopping 
 in and taking cover in it? Nothing. But unfortunately thats not an option.
  
  At any rate, the multiplay, whether it be true online play, or just you and a friend playing Co-op 
 or DM, its still twice as a good, and less boring. While the game is formidable in that aspect, 
 I wouldn't purchase this game. Rent it, check out its multiplayer see just how addicted you are 
 to it, then buy or don't buy accordingly. To me this is a passable title, not worth more than a 
 week or so worth of regular play, if that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wmcgee353
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  If you ask me this game has as much strageic value as it does destruction value. To me it's not 
 just a shoot 'em up game. One of the only reasons I wouldn't give this game a ten is probably what 
 everyone else says the campaign is short and easy. However the multiplayer is worth way more than 
 a $19.99 game. To start with there are six different characters that can be used in multiplayer 
 each of them to me, are like a chess piece. Some of them are capable of destroying vehicles some 
 are capable of long range accuracy kills and some are good at close combat. There are eighteen 
 combat vehicles, twelve different emplacements, and two different kinds of airstrikes. Each of 
 these have different attributes, strengths and weakness's. But before you can utilize most of these 
 tools you have to control and defend objectives on the battelfield. So it's not just skill it's 
 stradegy that's required if you want to win in multiplayer. The only other reason I wouldn't give 
 this game a ten is the online multiplayer can lag pretty bad if you have 6 - 8 players in one game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 15, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  Just finished the single player mode on The Outfit. I dont know how much success Ill have with 
 the multiplayer portion because its an old game and not too popular to begin with. Anyways, The 
 Outfit is a blend of a World War II shooter, Mercenaries and a strategy game. Sounds interesting?
 
  
  It really isnt
  Its a shame too because the game had promise. As Ive stated, the story takes place in France 
 during World War II. This game isnt factual by any means like games such as Call of Duty or Medal 
 of Honor claim to be. However, t he story is fairly interesting; atrocities, betrayal, heroism, 
 a little romance and good old fashioned American bravado are the general tones of this game. Unfortunately 
 the game doesnt tread on any new grounds and relies on average story telling and poor dialogue 
 to get its point across during cutscenes.
  
  As for the gameplay category, for some strange reason the developers thought it would be a good 
 idea to let you die as many times as you want without any penalty. This destroys any form of strategy 
 needed in the game because you can just keep rushing the Nazis until you succeed. Sure that may 
 take a while but by the end of the game, youll probably be tired of playing it like I was. The 
 game plays out pretty much the same way through each level. Capturing strategic places is the order 
 of the day in this game. A motor pool, the armory and the radio tower will allow you to call upon 
 vehicles, artillery and air strikes respectively and capturing checkpoints will help you along 
 the way. The game does throw in a little of variety in side missions that unlock achievements and 
 every once in a while you have to defend places but even these are overused and become the norm.
 
  
  I did mention that the strategy portion is deluded because of the infinite lives but thats only 
 half of it. The AI on the enemy only knows two tactics; rush and retreat. Tanks will rush all the 
 time and when the damage gets too much for the crew to handle, they bail and retreat for cover. 
 Foes will stay in machine gun nests until they are either flanked or theyre dead. Foot soldiers 
 only rush when theres a group of them together
  
  The game hands out a decent amount of vehicles and weapons to destroy the Nazis. From machine gun 
 toting jeeps, machine gun nests, anti-tank guns and tanks themselves, theres always a way to effectively 
 destroy your enemy. Actually I should take out the word effectively because all weapons feel 
 very underpowered in this game. Unless you score a direct hit with a tank shell, you can expect 
 a Nazi soldier to flop around the landscape 2-4 times before doing you the favor of dying. The 
 .50 cal bullets are equally ineffective, being just eaten up like pac pellets by the soldiers and 
 tank battles can last 8-9 volleys before a side is destroyed.
  
  The Havok physics engine is displayed on the case but doesnt look like it was effectively used 
 at all. Dying soldiers appear to be scripted to die in a certain way, whether they are gunned down 
 or blown up. The vehicles do display some sort of physics although its not as perfect as Id like 
 it to be. Vehicles can shrug of tank shots that tilt them to a side and keep driving like it was 
 just a speed bump. In fact, debris is the only thing that looks like its genuinely effected by 
 gravity. The graphics during cutscenes look like high resolution Xbox graphic but the actual gameplay 
 looks pretty good through out. There was some slowdown on the later levels for no apparent reason 
 and now that I think about it, the collision detection was a little unforgiving. You could strafe 
 away from the side of a building to get a clear shot at your enemy but chances are, unless you 
 were a good 10 away from the building, your bullets would hit an invisible barrier. In the end 
 the game had a lot of promise to it. A friend and I spent a few hours testing out the different 
 strategies and was surprised at the amount of depth and tactics one could use to kill the other 
 person. Unfortunately its ruined by poor AI, feeble weapons and unlimited lives. In the beginning, 
 The Outfit was interesting to play, but it never expands on that and just falls flat at the end. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HyperMetaDragon
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 15, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  The Outfit is a very... different game. The game looks to be a funny, third-person shooter with 
 a lot of humor in the storyline, but the game actually might be more than you expected.
  
  The storyline is surprisingly immersive. The campaign is a meaty 12 missions, each ranging from 
 an hour to two hours, depending on how fast you want to blow through the game. The storyline actually 
 takes a real event from WWII (the attempt at assassinating Adolf Hitler and then morphs the storyline 
 to take place around your three heroes, Deuce Williams, Tommy Macintyre and J. D. Tyler. There are 
 numerous twists in the plot, although sometimes you'll scratch your head wondering Why didn't they 
 realize that? or Why didn't they just do this? 
  
  The game's not so serious, after all. You are given unlimited ammo for all guns and there is no 
 reload button, however, this provides some freedom for people who don't want this in a third-person 
 shooter like this. The game is a clear mix of Real-Time Strategy and Third-Person Shooter, seeing 
 how you must capture command posts, get money to buy vehicles and emplacements, buy armor, buy 
 turrets, buy vehicles, buy AI bots to help you, etc. and how you must also shoot things.
  
  A nice addition to the game are medals. Medals are basically objectives that earn you Achievements 
 (95 % of the game's achievements are secret, and 100 % of them are medals that you must earn in 
 both singleplayer and multiplayer) . An example of a medal would be a ship appearing on a shore 
 suddenly, and a message would pop up saying MEDAL OPPORTUNITY: Destroy that ship before it gets 
 away! and you must destroy the ship in a minute with an anti-tank rocket emplacement.
  
  The multiplayer is where the replay value is, though. The game's multiplayer includes co-op for 
 the Campaign with one friend (a very nice addition) and online multiplayer for up to 8 people. 
 The multiplayer is definitely unforgettable, seeing how nearly all of the environment is destructive 
 and you can order multiple vehicles and turrets while capturing objectives and killing people. 
 The only problem with the multiplayer is that nobody plays it anymore, so you'll have to phone 
 up a friend and tell him to get on for a 1-on-1. The game does boast maps to download for free, 
 however, but like previously stated, you won't get to actually play them because no one plays this 
 game.
  
  The graphics are very surprising. Playing the game in 720p gives you sharp, crisp graphics and 
 considering that this game was released March 13th, 2006 (a year and a day ago :P) , the graphics 
 are impressive. Frame rate drops are a bit of a problem, but they should only occur for a couple 
 seconds about once a mission when a lot of action is going on (this excludes one mission, in which 
 the frame rate retains its 30 fps, but the game slows down to a 10 fps...) .
  
  The sound is pretty annoying in this game. The entire time, all you are going to hear is bullets 
 smacking metal, over and over and over and over again. You're going to have to play this game in 
 low volume because the sounds are very repetitive and noisy. Definitely a letdown.
  
  All-in-all, The Outfit is a decent, innovative game worth renting, but the lack of effort to render 
 the singleplayer less repetitive and the fact that no one ever plays the multiplayer brings the 
 game down to a short disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimreaper20001
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 22, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome from everything from the opening movie to the gameplay. Its so much fun with 
 the campaign thats impossible to lose (to my knowledge) and is definetely worth playing due to 
 the DESTRUCTION ON DEMAND button where if you need stuff its accesible by the touch of the Y button 
 (default controls) Ive had so many memorable moments with the multiplayer versus mode where you 
 try your best to build a giant line of anti tank and AA guns across the center of the level and 
 blow up anything and everything in my path to victory. Playing this game is also a big confidence 
 booster to some of my friends that suck at games. They just play campaign where you cant lose and 
 when they win it still manages to give them hope to be a gamer. Thats inspirational 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HCMF-
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 22, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  Some games are not worth the $60 price tag, some are. Some are best suited to be bargain bin games. 
 The outfit, is just that, at $20 bones you can't go wrong. Graphicly, it's nothing special, but 
 thats not to say the graphics are bad - just not over the top. The game is fun to watch. Sound 
 is also on par, for a WWII game, nothing new here. The singleplayer game is, well, lacking at best, 
 and seams to be more of an afterthought than a focus. Where this game shines is in it's multiplayer. 
 I felt like I was playing with my plastic army men in a giant distructable sand box. There is more 
 going on in multi player than meats they eye, and this debth is nice. You can also just pick it 
 up and play. The only thing missing is naval, and air combat. This is a great party game, and should 
 not be missed in the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MCCHA
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 9, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: lackluster in many respects, the only past of the game that it seems they put any effort 
 into is the multiplayer which is bogged down by useless buddies and Godly hero characters (by Godly 
 I mean stupidly powerful)
  
  graphics: really bad and poorly made, am I being redundant?, oh well, they are bad, the destrcutive 
 scenery good actually have worked if there was any reason to destroy stuff to get to your enemy
 
  
  sound: good explosions, but it is hard to mess up an explosion sound, dull music works better than 
 a lullaby
  
  value: what is this? I am supposed to assess this games value? Well, if I put it on a scale from 
 one to ten, it scores about a not so great
  
  tilt: lame! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jan 29, 2007 5:33 am PT
Review:  GOOD- Shiny graphics
  
  BAD- Story is overall rubbish; Tanks drop from no were; graphics are rushed; Very linear; basic 
 aim and shoot, no think nor tatics involved
  
  GAMEPLAY-
  The Outfit is set in the World War and you get to play as 1 out of 3 soulders to win the war, each 
 one has different weapons and stats so depending on how you want to play depends on the characture 
 you choosed.
  The gameplay is very linear as all you do is make it from one end of the map to the other with 
 Enemies blocking your way, and to stop them you need to shoot them.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K1LLR3175
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 26, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  Ok lets get all of the bad out first. Of first of all the graphics are not as good as they could 
 have been they kinda fo look like xbox graphics and even worst in the cutscene. Also the game play 
 can get kinda of repetitive over time and get boring. Ok thats the bad the good is that it is filled 
 with destruction any thing you see most likely can be destroyed. The best part for me was the secret 
 achivement s you can earn but even better the game presents them to you like they are medals. All 
 in all if you liked mercenarys and you like WWII games ten you will love the outfit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 11, 2007 10:30 pm PT
Review:  I liked it because I like Real time Strategies games and First Person Shooting, but thats just 
 me, Rise &amp; fall: Civilizations at war never did it for me, So I went to buy this game, and 
 I never looked back on my choice, this was the best 30 bucks I spent since Gears (69 bucks) .
  
  Graphics are pretty good for a game of this type, but they obviously could have done alot better, 
 mainly due to the fact that it couldv'e used the far cry engine, also known as the CryEngine, which 
 as a huge draw distance.
  
  Sound is not bad, Can't say its good though, I liked it but sometimes it would drop in and out 
 at times, but thats just me, sometimes it would sound weak and underpowered.
  
  The game ending result is an action packed game filled with strategy goodness, there is no reason 
 for fans of rts/fps games to pick up this game, its great, and filled with alot of great ideas, 
 pick it up now if you have to!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haeden_Boy6
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 7, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  The Game is fun to play, but the singer-player campain is very.... boring, and the gameplay doesnt 
 not make it any better. However, having two player co-op makes the game much more injoyable with 
 a friend, that aspect of the game really boosted the game for me. The versus mode of multiplayer 
 could use some work, but it is also quite fun to play when with a friend.
  
  I think the gamplay could have been made better with a bit more controll over you player. It seems 
 like there are only a few things to do with your soilder. However, the abilty to purchase different 
 items is very cool.
  
  A tiny aspect of the game that really makes it harder is just the small distance you can throw 
 a granade. It can only go a few feet infront of you. However, if this grandade hits a enemy soilder, 
 it will do a hell of a lot of damage.
  
  Overall, i dont think this game is next-gen material. I would expect this game from XBox or PS2. 
 But still, a decent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eaglefan831
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 4, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  gameplay-well this game to start off is better than what gamespot says the 1 player mode will not 
 take you long to beat but it sure is a heak of a lot fun the story consists of a guy captin deuce 
 and his two fellow men sergent thomas and lieutenant john as they fight through the world war in 
 this game as the enemy is the nazis, you start off at a checkpoint or a flag of your country. in 
 one player mode their are 12 missions that aren't long but they will be fun to most people. the 
 fun of this game comes in the multiplayer mode where you can be either the americans or the nazisand 
 you can play co-op mission mode and go through the mission together they also have vs matches to 
 see which one of you are the best generals. this game is also fun because when you die it is not 
 game over you could die 10 times and they'd just put you at the last check point. in this game their 
 are many things to buy for your army like tanks to soldiers to artillery and air strikes and much 
 more. in this game the single player mode is fun but multiplayer mode is a blast so the gameplay 
 is very good.
  
  graphics-well this is probably the worst part of the game if you are one that only likes the games 
 with superp graphics then this game is not for you but if your like me it won't matter, but as i 
 say this the graphics aren't totally bad i mean they aren't what you would find on the xbox but 
 they are still fair. the vehicals look pretty good and when they blow they stay their for a little 
 and then they blow up and dissapear. in this game the graphics are okay but to me they could of 
 been a little better.
  
  sound-the sound in this game is great you can hear the characters and what they say (although i 
 won't say any thing they say because it is really bad sometimes) . but you can hear every gun shot 
 and wher it is on the map and hear the vehicals and their motors going and you can hear the explosions 
 on contact. to me the sound is great.
  
  value-well if you go to the store you can probably fin it for 30 dollars new and thats chep considering 
 the price of some of the games for the 360. and this game once ypu beat the single player mode you 
 have multiplayer and that will keep you and your friends playing for a long time. so this games 
 value is pretty good.
  
  tilt-well over all this game has a good single player mode and it has a very good multiplayer mode. its 
 graphics may not be up to par on the 360 but their still fair. the sound in the game is real good 
 to hear all the voices and explosions. it has a good value. and if you have a 360 i reccomend that 
 you pick this game up it is really fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Truth_Hurts_U
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 3:52 am PT
Review:  I ordered this game new off Amazon. com before X-mas. I received it two days ago. Beat it on day 
 one. Sound is horrible... It pops and cracks... It also drops out. The AI is bad... Rush and shoot. 
 Try to recruit and they most of the time run right back to where they were. Shooting into walls 
 where enemies are hiding. Not targeting closest enemy... Therefore letting them over run the position.
 
  
  Aiming... Some of the guns in the game shoot no where near there cone of fire... Some shots go 
 way off and others are dead on. Your army is very bad at aiming... They miss so much that they 
 will get ripped apart if the enemy is not coming strait at them. You will find many times that 
 enemies can see you and you can't see them... They will shoot you the entire range of the map.
 
  
  Major bugs... If you hide behind rocks troops will warp through them. Also when you are driving 
 or walking around there will be times you will be squashed by your own or the enemies drops. If 
 your vehicle is heavily damage and you need to jump out in a battle... You will 90% of the time 
 instantly die before you get out. Leaving your vehicle in tacked. Things you repair some times 
 do not fully repair. Ect.
  
  Co-op is the only good thing about this game... Nothing else.
  
  This game is so poorly made 
 that it crashed my Xbox 360 giving it the red ring of death... But a reboot fixed it. I played 
 for 8 or so more hours with out any issues. I thought I would never see this happen... But with 
 a game of this poor quality... It was bound to happen.
  
  Verdict - Pass this sucker... Unless you want to play Co-op and Co-Op only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skitchrick
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 28, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  Short and sweet- it's fun to play. It got a full 2 point bump due to OFFLINE COOPERATIVE MULTIPLYER- 
 Yeah!!! . I wish game designers would realize that I will actually buy a game I can play with my 
 friends, not some stranger online. (YES, some of us have real-life friends - Myspace friends don't 
 count folks!)
  
  Split-screen play against a common enemy is fun as hell and I can even con my wife into playing 
 it. Plus it's cheaper than other 360 games- you can probably pick it up for $30 - check Gamefly 
 for a used copy.
  
  Similar Games? I'd have to compare it to Mercenaries in gameplay but more linear. PS. it's NOTHING 
 like Gears of War! Seriously Gamespot, I don't think I've ever seen that be correct for ANY game.
 
  
  Sure, it has it's drawbacks: the graphics are ok at best, but the goons who want cutting edge graphics 
 end up with boring but beautiful like Gears of War. I'll take +fun to play+ ANY day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llTylerll
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 3, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  its alright for a strategy type game its alright for a strategits alright for a strategy type game 
 y type game its alright for a strategy its alright for a strategy type game type game its alright 
 for a strategy type game its alright for a strategy type game its alright for a strategy type game 
 its alright for a strategy type game its alright for a strategy type gaits alright for a strategy 
 type game its alright for a strategy type game its alright for a strategy type game its alright 
 for a strategy **** alright for a strategy type game ype game its alright for a strategy type game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofan1314
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  With other third-person shooters out there (like Gears Of War) The Outfit is pushed aside and isn't 
 played or like many do traded in. I don't know why some many people trashed this game it's fun ,but 
 lacks some things. The gameplay is GREAT! Capturing zones on the map is very stratgetic and fun 
 at points especially when defending a zone. At many points you'll need to order things and that's 
 when you'll need to be smart and notice that you need reinforcements or you need an extra tank 
 for cover. The only thing this game lacks is the weapons. They don't let youy respawn with a very 
 big choice of weapons ,don't get me wrong there's always oredering machine guns or flak guns ,but 
 it'd be nice to respawn with something more than the usual choice of a bazooka, sub-machine gun 
 ,or rifle. The sound is good. You can hear the groans of people when they die and hear the bullets 
 flying throught the sky. The best sound is when a bazooka or tank bullet hits an enemy or the ground 
 because it sounds like a real explosion! The value isn't at the highest ,but it's good. With Gears 
 Of War out there who needs another third-person shooter? Well it's always nice to take a break from 
 Gears and play The Outfit. Overall this game is for sure fun WWII shhoter that I really enjoyed. That's 
 I give The Outfit for the Xbox 360 9 exploding Natzis out 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silicon_requiem
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 12, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  First of all, it would be fallacious to compare this game with other WWII shooters, since they 
 are (in general) attempts at accurately reproducing the intensity of wartime action. This game 
 is in no ways attempting that goal, rather, it seems to be a sort of 3rd person shooter/RTS in 
 many ways. While at first it may seem that the game is non-intuitive and clunky, if you give it 
 its due and play for a while, you will find yourself sucked into The Outfit's too short campaign. 
 The Good
  ________________________
  1) The action is pretty solid, there is very little lull in combat, and the weaponry makes lots 
 of stuff 'go boom'. 2) Everything in the world is destructible, something that has gained lots 
 of play in games recently, but more than just this, the damage is correspondant to the weaponry 
 used. For instance, if you fire a tank's cannon at the side of a house, it will carve a huge jagged 
 hole out of the wall, sometimes even blow through the other side so that you can see straight through 
 it (this is real helpful when attacking infantry who hide behind such buildings) , or if you use 
 a flamethrower (whether mounted or not) on the same buidling it will actually light on fire and 
 begin to burn. Ultimately, the damage that you inflict will be very satisfying, and tactically 
 helpful to boot. 3) The most unique aspect of this game is its seamless utilization of Destruction 
 on Demand a nice way of saying you have the ability to call in everything from reinforcement infantry 
 to gun positions to tanks to air strikes. The way that you pay for all these toys (besides the 
 tax-payers back home) is by killing enemy units and otherwise getting stuff done, like conquering 
 spawn points or critical locations. You are given certain DoD items all the time, but most require 
 the aquisition of a special building: armory for bigger guns, motor pool for mobile units such 
 as tanks, and radio towers for air strikes and naval bombardments. What this aspect contributes 
 to the game is critical in its overall success. Essentially, you will find yourself using three 
 basic skills in the game, and all are needed to get really good at combat- a. Infantry combat: 
 this amounts to running around, shooting badguys (nazis) , throwing grenades and the like. Basic 
 stuff. b. Armor combat: this is still pretty basic, and is the type of fighting that you will be 
 doing most of the time, since you are hidden behind a few inches of steel it makes killing you 
 a lot harder. As an infantry soldier you are slightly effective (sometimes you can't get armor 
 into a section, so you have to hit it on foot) but as a tank commander you've got real power. Armor 
 is the king of the battlefield, and The Outfit does a good job of getting this across. Whether 
 you are machinegunning infantry on the back of a half-track, bombarding enemy positions as a tank, 
 or flamethrowing squads and buildings with a 'gator', getting yourself in heavy armor is often 
 essential to missions. c. Field commander: This is the most unique part, and this amounts to calling 
 in reinforcements, placing various gun positions (whether anti-infantry such as a .30 or .50 calibur 
 machine gun nest, anti-tank like the 37mm cannon, or anti-aircraft gun emplacements) , and calling 
 in air-strikes. The gun emplacement part is what makes it most like an RTS, since as you take locations 
 the nazis don't just give up, often they respond in like and call in heavy waves of infantry and 
 armor to take back what you just took. The only way to hold your location is as soon as you get 
 in there you have to defend it by dropping in various emplacements. The great part of this is it 
 has the benefit of giving you that thrill of building a base camp that noone wants to mess with 
 (the defender approach in RTS games) while also actively participating in battle by fighting and 
 even grabbing guns as their gunners get shot (or you can always call in a reinforcement soldier 
 to man it again) . 4) The game itself is well coded, and in all the time that I have played it has 
 remained smooth, which makes up for its mediocre (for the 360) graphics. 5) The cartoony feel of 
 the game may make some stay away, but here's my thing... games that attempt to reproduce the 'great 
 battles' while being historically intriguing are at the same time painful, and this is why. Our 
 fathers and grandfathers who fought against the nazis experienced total hell, especially fighting 
 on the shores of Normandy, and it seems a disservice to them to make it 'fun'. This game does not 
 at all try to be realistic, from the graphics to the story (although the part about the Wermacht 
 and the SS having differences of opinion is true, and a nice reminder that not all Germans were 
 nazi scum) to the fact that you call in for reinforcements and they immediately (within 10 secs 
 or so) drop in to the fact that in real life we have never been able to produce airborne heavy 
 armor units. Overall, the game is just that, a game, and it doesn't try to be a simulator or anything 
 of the like, and I think that's a nice trend in WWII era gaming. 6) The missions themselves, while 
 reminiscent at first of Batllefield 1942 setup, are actually quite different, each one having distinct 
 goals (along with the usual kill and push forward) and furthermore there are semi-hidden objectives 
 that you aren't told about until you do them, like blowing up the aircraft at the airfield or destroying 
 the V-2 prototype or the V-1's that are revving their engines. These are great for replayability 
 (since the campaign is so short!) if you like to get achievements, as they are all over the place. 
 ________________________
  
  The Bad
  ________________________
  1) Not enough playable characters: although the (SPOILER) addition of a German general near the 
 end of the single player campaign is nice, he is basically the same as his American counterpart, 
 only allowing for German vehicles (which is great!) . So really, there are 3 1/2 playable characters, 
 and the differences between them are not enough. It would have been nice to really see some differences 
 in gameplay as well as in statistics. 2) Not long enough: the single player campaign has only 12 
 missions, and while each one is pretty immersive (the later ones at least are) this is just not 
 enough. Basically, you are looking at about 10-15 hours of single player gameplay, which isn't 
 terrible, but it sure isn't good either.
  3) You can't (to my knowledge) 'pick and play' missions once you have defeated the campaign. Essentially, 
 either you have to go back to in-game saves or start over if you want to replay, which is tedious 
 but I found it fun to start over since I was so much better at it when I went back through. Neither 
 is there a way to get into instant action unless you have 2 players, which is really frustrating 
 if you don't want to play the campaign and just want some action without having others around to 
 play with. 4) The variety of weaponry is good, but it could have been better, there could have 
 been more kinds of guns, but in all honesty this would have made the DoD interface too complex, 
 so this is a half-bad. ________________________
  
  The Ugly
  ________________________
  
  1) The AI can get silly at times, the behavior is in general pretty good and overall very aggressive, 
 but sometimes its like a certain tank is just told to sit and not move and the like, so at times 
 it becomes silly. Also, the friendly AI can be annoying, as sometimes a gunner will just get off 
 his gun and run towards the enemy, and friendly fire can become an issue at times too.
  2) The fact that you can jump out of your tank, real quick tell it to fix (assuming you can afford 
 to fix it) and jump back in is pushing even the cartoony feel of the game. It does, however, make 
 it easier and more effective to pilot tanks, especially ones (like the German Panther) that take 
 a lot to kill, because as soon as the action lulls for a moment you can hop out and fix it no prob. 
 Not good or bad, just weird.
  3) There appears to be no penalty for dying, except that you lose a little momentum. While this 
 lowered dramatically the difficulty of the game (making it more accessible and less hair pulling) 
 there was, as far as I could tell, absolutely no penalty for dying. Again, just weird. 4) There 
 is also, keeping I guess with the totally unreal feel of the game, no ammunition. Players have 
 set gun types per their character, and no ammo, not even grenades, is tallied, nor are gun emplacements 
 or armor having to worry about ammo, the only worry is heat and reload time. This can be good or 
 bad, depending entirely what you want out of the experience. I thought it silly at first, but later 
 came to appreciate that it didn't bog down the action having to worry about bullets and shells. 
 ________________________
  
  In conclusion, this is a worthwhile game, not for those interested in a serious simulation game, 
 but instead should be seen for what it is: a clean, fun, well put together game that will give 
 you at least a few hours of entertainment, and, if you are like me, you might find yourself wanting 
 more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haz_4x4
Rating: 6.6
Date: Dec 10, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  i Bought this game for just &pound;15 to grab myself just a cheap bargain to keep me entertained 
 for a bit until i get gears of war for xmas... and i have read other reviews saying that it is 
 truly awful i wouldent agree with that actually.. i happen to actually like some things about the 
 game.. its very similar to like mercaneries accept in world war 2 you can drive lots of vehicles 
 and run around and do a lot... a bad thing is you can only play as 3 characters with limited weapons 
 and another thing is the gameplay is very slow indeed. i mean the graphics arent too bad... so 
 thats not a down side.... im not really into these type of games and i quite liked it for a bit 
 but it just got hard and bored and no one ever seemed to go on xbox live on it plus i do just find 
 the acheivments annoying since they are all mainly online and secret baring in mind it does tell 
 you that you will be able to get a medal (acheivment)
  To sum up... nice little game.... ok graphics.... ok gameplay... could of been improved greatly however... before 
 considering buying i would rent this game for a little bit before you do consider to buy... but 
 for &pound;15 it is a bargain 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hells_zargon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 6, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  The game has been described as an RTS from a soliders perspective , a summary which I think is 
 a very accurate one indeed.
  
  There are plenty of big explosions within The Outfit, mainly because almost all of the scenery 
 is destructable in some way. Many mission objectives rely on this by asking the next player to 
 destroy Nazi HQs or simply to blow up the nearest bridge to delay Nazi reinforcements. Other missions 
 rely on the player blasting their way through Nazi front lines or capturing a new base or enemy 
 weaponry. Then again the rather basic AI resorts to swarming the player to make itself prove to 
 be a challenge.
  
  Controlling the vehicles is a little difficult at first due to a strange control scheme, but once 
 you have eventually got used to the one-stick system it works surprisingly well. The main problem 
 however comes from the camera. As you zoom into the screen to gain accuracy for those longer shots 
 you can't see either side of your vehicle or character, making navigating and avoiding semi-camoflauged 
 rocket troopers a nightmare to avoid.
  
  The Outfit makes an enjoyable romp if you feel like some brainless fun, but due to a lack of depth 
 and some camera issues it isn't quite the game it tries to be. With a cracking Live mode though, 
 in some ways it makes up for the faults. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZachBdude
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 29, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  this game rocks, and i had a lot of fun playing it, although it could have been longer, if you 
 have xbox live and can find this game cheap, GET IT! and its best to play with someone that has 
 a mic, this game requires a lot of comunicating online. One of the drawbacks is that just about 
 all of the online achievements can be done without actually doing them in a fare game, for example 
 the 250 vehicle kills achievement can be done with your friends by having all of them on one team 
 except for you. Have all of them continually by 4X4 and get in them, instantly you blow them up. 
 do this repeatedly in a long match and you can get the achievement very quickly. so if you do decide 
 to get this game and see that some one has all of the achievements, they might not be as good as 
 they look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjlars
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 26, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  I just picked up this game, I was reluctant due to the scores given, but I am entertained by the 
 game and that is what is most important. so far the controls are what limit the score from being 
 any higher. I found the vehicle controls to be a bit difficult, it would have been nice if they 
 had been able to mimic Halo's a bit. The targeting system is OK but I would have liked to see them 
 institute a Scope of some sort for long range sniping. but over all I think it is definitely a 
 decent game, especially at the new reduced price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sean4566
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 22, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  I have been a really big fan of Relics previous PC RTS games (40K, CoH.) And so I had to try this 
 game out. This game is very addictive. Me and my friend played Co-op for about 2 hours the first 
 time we played it. The RTS, TPS combination is amazing and makes for really fun gameplay. Outfit 
 has to be one of the most addictive and innovated game i've ever played. The only complaints I 
 have is that in the 1st mission I couldnt find the Anti-Air gun, and that the Graphics arent that 
 great for a Xbox360 game. If you can find this game for cheap like i did, i suggest you pick it 
 up. The outfit is a great game and one of the best ones you can get on the Xbox360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NonStop-Warrior
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 16, 2006 5:17 pm PT
Review:  To get started, me and a friend rented The Outfit one day, and spent about 10 hours playing it. 
 The game is fairly immersing, and has a decent length and enjoyable campaign. But there were quite 
 a few problems, or so I found.
  
  So let's start with the good. The destruction on demand was an excellent addition to game play, 
 making it easy and fun to drop vehicles, weapon emplacements, support troops, air or artillery 
 strikes, even sometimes bridges. This makes up to a good, fun part of the game. Also, the controls 
 are fairly easy, and it won't take you very long to get used to them. The effects and audio are 
 pretty good, and stuff blows up with a nice, satisfying explosion. Another positive, a wide variety 
 of vehicles makes it easy to kill people in any way you like.
  
  Now, onto the bad. Starting with the graphics. Don't get me wrong, I think they're good, but nowhere 
 near what they could be on the 360, and sometimes the game play suffers. It can get hard to see 
 and identify enemies at times, which can leave you madly spinning in circles looking for one enemy 
 who's nickel-and-dime-ing you to death. Another thing, there is very little variety of weapons. 
 You get to choose from three characters, each with a different set of weapons. One with a rifle 
 and shotgun, one with a submachine gun and flamethrower, and the last with a revolver and bazooka. 
 I mostly preferred the bazooka guy because of the tons of armor you'd face throughout the game. 
 But that brings us up to our next problem. This game almost completely lacks splash damage. It's 
 annoying when you're shooting a 108mm howitzer at a huge group of German soldiers, and only one 
 or two goes down with each shot in a cheesy crumble to ashes effect. Also, the game play seemed 
 to get a bit boring and repetitive, with fairly linear levels and predictable objectives. As for 
 the value, I find almost no Xbox 360 game has a lot of value due to the $60-70 price tags. Overall, 
 this was a fairly decent game. Fun and enjoyable for the first little while, but after a bit, it 
 begins to get repetitive and even frustrating at times. I would say rent it first, and if you really 
 like it, go ahead and buy it. But be forewarned, this game does have many flaws, and the experience 
 definitely suffers greatly from them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sparkonator
Rating: 2.6
Date: Nov 14, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  In this game you are in world war 2 killing nasties (the best part about the game) . In this game 
 you are warheros trying to win the war. You have to survive and try to capture outposts. I thought 
 the graphics and the sound were O. K. but the tilt was over sensitive and the value sucked and the 
 gameplay wasen`t much better. I thought this game would be better but it was crap and a wast of 
 my money. If you are looking for a good war game don`t buy The Outfit buy Gears of War or Call 
 of Duty 3 when it comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuthorLex54
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 12, 2006 8:54 pm PT
Review:  The Outfit is just another WWII game almost like any other. It does have some interesting things 
 about it, but not a lot.
  
  Gameplay: The weapons are rather weak and you can't really destroy everything on the map like it 
 advertises. Oh well.
  
  The graphics are okay, nothing revolutionary.
  
  The sound is okay. No great music tracks and the Voice acting dosen't fit some of the characters.
 
  
  The Outfit isn't a bad game nor a good game. In a way it's kinda in between. Could have been a 
 lot more added to the effect of weapon damage, but it makes up with the Destruction on Demand . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iam360fan
Rating: 4.4
Date: Nov 12, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  The Outfit was a strategy/ 3rd person shooter. It was fun but at the same time you could tell it 
 was made on a low budget. The way you play the game is you pick your character and kill the natsies. 
 That is the only fun part of the game! LOL... I would personaly not buy the game I would go buy 
 Gears of War (GOW) GOW is 10 out of 10 so buy it foo's Back to topic.. sorry i got off topic there 
 but back to the review. I thought it was sort of fun and it came with a free faceplate wene i bought 
 it so that  buy  is a waste 
 of $50.00............. Go to future shop and buy Gears of War and it will come with a free copy 
 of The  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chriso1322
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 5, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  I think this game is really good cause great multiplayer but i dont like the singleplayer as much. 
 I think the destruction on demand feature is really good because it adds strategy gameplay to it. 
 You can virtually destroy anything on the battlefield. you might think its a small amount of players 
 on the multiplayer but all player hav a small army helping u so its actually about 20 players. 
 The single player is not bad but quite a small amount of levels but playing co-op is alot better. 
 Its an easy game to get gamer points i got 190 on the hour i played it. overall the best part of 
 the game is the multiplayer and its a really fun game, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Abandon
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 30, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  This game had lots of potenal to be a great game, but it was realy fun but not for long. The Single 
 player Sucked realy bad, i found my self forcing myself to play it. But the mutiplayer was where 
 the real fun was, u could play it for hours and it wood get borning. The game is way to repetive 
 and the graphis are to plain. I rushed out to buy this game and in the end it was one big letdown. 
 waste of time and money, unless u r getting it for the mutiplayer but it still isnt worth the price 
 tag. This game could have been good but in the end it wasnt it. Good multiplayer modes; destruction 
 on demand makes deploying gear easy. Shooting guns isn't fun; graphically underwhelming; single-player 
 game gets predictable and repetitive quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lions24
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 28, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  this game is underrated it might not be the best shoting game one the 360 but it makes up for what 
 it doesnt have. There is a lot of action in this game there is never a time in the game where theres 
 nothing going on. the multiplayer is really cool because the game knows that theres two players 
 playing the game and it relates to that and adds up to double of the nazi troops which on a harder 
 level makes the game great. Look out for Call of Duty 3. November 7, 2006. so before you judge 
 this game get up go out side look at how you look at yourself and then you can come back and decide 
 if this game is good and if you still think this game is crap your crap. i know it needs some improvements 
 but its only the first game in the series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragon904
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 22, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  I just wish there were more games like this one. The singleplayer and multiplayer are both egually 
 good. I have collected and played over 300+ computer games since 199l and many have been WWII RTS. 
 This by far is the most fun. If you want historical accuracy/realistic play then this is not for 
 you. If this kind of game works so well on 360 then why dont they convert Company of Heroes to 
 Xbox? I would never sleep again if they did. The game play in The Outfit is so competitive that 
 you can spend hours watching others play the multiplayer or singleplayer campaign. If you like 
 WWII RTS games with a lot of action then this is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmostein77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  As entertaining as Dead Rising and Saints Row have been for me over the last few weeks I knew there 
 would be a point where pimpin' and killing zombies may grow tired for a day or so and I would need 
 to look elsewhere.
  
  The problem with the first year of a new gaming generation is once you have finished all the A 
 list titles for the new console, you enter a dry period where you can go back and play all your 
 last gen consoles as one last hurra, but after burning through my pile of PS2 RPG's I found myself 
 looking for something. After a few hours of thumbing through reviews I came across the Outfit, 
 which was voiced by Ron Perlman (Hellboy) and Robert Patrick (T1000) and at 29.99 even if it was 
 terrible its a small investment. I am a very hardsell when it comes to Military style games, I 
 enjoyed COD2 but just to get an understanding of me as a gamer, it hardly recieved 10 hours of 
 single player play before it was put aside as a multiplayer game. I tossed in the Outfit expecting 
 this game to be nothing more then a bus wreck that would kill my time for an hour before I started 
 on the multiplayer aspect which most reviewers agreed was by far its best function, yet after four 
 hours I found myself really enjoying the game, the fact that most of the enviroment can be destroyed 
 means that you cannot hide behind the wall of a building for cover for too long while you formulate 
 what you are going to do about the two Nazi tanks on the ridge which found to be really entertaining. 
 There is nothing like standing behind the wall of a stone building with bullets and shells zipping 
 by as you try to figure out the best way to beat these guys and all of a sudden the building starts 
 to shake and you have to run for you life to assure it will not fall on you. As for the gameplay, 
 I found the storyline to be interesting. Nothing that is too deep, and nothing you really need 
 to think on. You are a team of Americans who want to kick Nazi Butt and take out an evil general 
 who keeps moving around France. It did its job to keep me interesting and justified why I was doing 
 whatever I was asked to do within each mission but was not a Shakespearean masterpiece in terms 
 of plotline and depth of story, and for this sort of game I am more then fine with that.
  
  The controls themselves are simple, at any given time you will be in control of yourself directly, 
 and in indirect control of the troops with you. You have the means to issue the troops orders, 
 but normally all you want them to do is lay down fire while you figure out what you want to do 
 so your position is not overrun, over the course of the first 5 mission I issued them a command 
 once, so they generally do not become a high maintence item when it comes to gameplay. Where the 
 gameplay really impressed me is the DOD (Destruction on Demand) basically as you kill the enemy 
 you build up FU points (Yes FU I get it very funny) and then press Y to select from any number 
 of units that you can have air dropped into your battle field which pretty well ranges from a stationary 
 machine gun unit, to anti-tank canons, to a full out airstrike. You can also order yourself up 
 a jeep, tank, or Bazzoka truck that you and your troops can load into as you gun it through enemy 
 lines. There is no limit to how many troops you can have on the field (at least I have not run 
 into one) and your only limiting factor is the FU points which you get anytime you kill the enemy. 
 A word of advice, anytime you take an enemy armory, air tower, etc you add it as a respawn point 
 in the event that you die, now the tricky aspect is that the Nazi's will try and take back these 
 buildings and if they do you can no longer respawn there meaning you have to spawn earlier on the 
 map, so my best advice is to leave a few stationary machine gun troops positioned around these 
 buildings just incase, this way if you are informed the Nazi's are trying to take it back your 
 troops will normally hold down the fort while you make your way back. Another upside to this is 
 that if one of your earlier respawn points is guarded and you lose it its not a huge deal because 
 you can respawn further, but if you leave troops around the buildings they will continue to fight 
 and get you FU points for their efforts, a nice bonus. The maps have their twists and turns and 
 generally are interesting, there are a lot of unique items for you to hide behind, and a pretty 
 large selection of Nazi tanks and trucks you can repair and steal if you are in a pinch. It should 
 be noted that Nazi Armored trucks are excellent to provide cover from enemy fire. The old stone 
 buildings of French Villages adds a very nice artistic flare to the layout and really does make 
 the levels pretty to look at. When we discuss the graphics it should be noted that if you are looking 
 for a beautiful GRAW style of presentation this is not for you. It still looks excellent, but it 
 is not by any means a benchmark in terms of graphic beauty. The units all look good, the buildings, 
 ridges and marks in the ground when a shell explodes look next gen no question, but I could see 
 some gamers taking issue with most of your soliders all looking the same, one gunner looks just 
 like the next, one anti-tank gunner looks just like the next, and the same can be said for the 
 enemies its generally just re-runs of the same looking soliders over and over, but I am fine with 
 it because normally you are killing them from 80m's away and I really am indifferent to what they 
 look like on the ground. The units themselves look very good, except for the plane that comes in 
 and drops the units off which looks almost like an after thought, but more often then not you eyes 
 will be on the prize and not on the sky looking at the delivery plane. I almost find that some 
 of the Nazi equipment looks better, it has less of that brand new look to it, and that makes it 
 seem a little more true to life of war, or at least thats what I take away from it. The surroundings 
 and the levels look wonderful, full points should be award to that, it does however lack the subtle 
 details of some other military games, but I have a hard time holding that against The Outfit. The 
 sound aspect really is the tale of two games, when you are being fired at it normally requires 
 you to rely on the on screen indicator to tell you from where fire is coming from, the game makes 
 no use of the 5.1 surround feature in the sense that the you cannot narrow down from which direction 
 gunfire is coming from which is something that really forces you to look all around before you 
 enter a new area so there are no suprises. It should be noted that buildings exploding sound better 
 within this game on 5.1 then any other game I have played, the loud booms really come off very 
 well. There have been some complaints from other reviews that your main weapon sounds underwealming 
 as do those of your support troops, I guess I can understand that complaint, but it seems like 
 such a nit pick especially when more often then not the majority of your weapons fire is drowned 
 out by the larger weapons of your DOD weapons which are usually on screen. Where this game truly 
 has its sound bread and butter is distance in relation to sound, as you move closer to weapons 
 fire it really is something that sounds true to life in terms of the increase in the sound, as 
 well as the sound being muffled when you are behind a rock, or building. The soundtrack is pretty 
 good for a game of this sort, Military themed in some places and sort of a tecnhoish blend at other 
 times it works really well within this gaming enviroment.
  
  As for the Value of the game, as in all my other reviews I try to break it down in terms of play 
 value and replay value . From a Play Value stance, the storyline is good and good enough to make 
 you want to play through the whole game, its hard enough to challenge you but not to a point where 
 you want to put your controller through the TV in rage. The Achievement system is normally tied 
 into Medal oppertunities within the levels, meaning you don't get freebies for beating level one, 
 you need to work to get those points. Its normally tied into things like destroying Nazi statues 
 or blowing up search lights etc, its enough to keep you playing the level a few times over if you 
 are a points junkie and entertaining enough otherwise to make you want to play it again. As for 
 Replay Value: This may be one of the most fun games I have played online in the last few years 
 because everyone seems to have their own system when it comes to battling online, so you cannot 
 walk into battle with a standard game plan you really need to think on what you want to do which 
 makes every battle very challenging and very fun. There is nothing more annoying then trying to 
 take out all the enemies DOD weapons to find out that he snuck up and planted a machine gun right 
 to you left. Couple that with the in level achievements and you have yourself a few hours if not 
 days of gameplay left once you have seen the credits roll for the first time. Overall much like 
 DeathRow was for the original Xbox this is one of the better titles that no one will play because 
 it was release around the same time period as a game like Oblivion which assured that this game 
 simply became an overlooked underview title that liters EB's Shelves as the price drops more and 
 more so they can get rid of it. Simply said, if you want to be entertained in single player and 
 online mode, rather then simply sitting back and enjoying the fact that graphics in game X are 
 so detailed you can see a crack in the sidewalk then this is the way to go, and at 29.99 its a 
 pretty low risk high reward situation. -Z 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ballistica
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 16, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  The game is repetative - but if what you are doing is fun - then there is nothing wrong with repetition! 
 The vehicles are a blast, the maps are large, the cut scenes are great, and the strategy of setting 
 up defenses as you move through a level is an added bonus. It's first-gen so give it a bit of a 
 reak on the visuals (which are great, but not nearly next-gen) . The controls are super, each charcter 
 has it's own pluses and minuses, and the length of the game never gets excessive. I hope they are 
 doing a sequel. Go get this, it's price has probably been slashed so the value for entertainment 
 ratio is quite high. Christ, how can people complain about all the destruction you can create. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroithardcore
Rating: 1.8
Date: Oct 14, 2006 9:57 pm PT
Review:  I honestly think it would be easier and faster to tell you the things i do like about it. One, 
 it is a 360 game and it does work when you put it in the system, this much is true. Two it is possible 
 to get achievments, the question is will you waste the time it takes to get them? This game is 
 so lackluster in every department that i cant believe it actually was released as a 360 game.
 
  
  In my honest opinion ive seen better out of the N64, its graphics are smoother than the N64 could 
 produce but the playability, tactics and everything are quite comparable to ARMY MEN. I borrowed 
 this game from a friend and only played up to the second level before i decided to put it down 
 and question whether or not it was real. He seems to love it but if i were you id rent it or borrow 
 it and never waste the money to purchase it, unless you want a $60 coaster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKretinousQ
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 7, 2006 1:02 am PT
Review:  The Outfit really is quite an awful game, it bears no resemblance to real combat, there are no 
 real tactics. You just continuously respawn and try to kill off as many Nazis as you can!
  
  Destruction on demand is crap when playing especially in the heat of battle and your AI team 
 mates can't do much.
  
  However you do get to shoot the hell outta anything on the landscape and that counts for something!
 
  
  All in all don't buy. I didn't someone gave it to me because they hated it. It's only ever any 
 good when you're really angry and need to shoot something, legally. Oh and the fact you can shoot 
 a German with an anti tank rifle is really quite fun especially the way they seem to spontaneously 
 combust!
  
  Thanks TKQ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth_brett
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 6, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  First things first, The Outfit is not a bad game by any means. In fact, it is a very fun game to 
 play online and even though it's sometimes tedious, also a very good time on the single player 
 campaign mode. If you picke up The Outifit and only played it for a few minutes, that is not long 
 enough to warrant an actual opinion on the game. My first impression of the game was one of disdain. 
 I didn't enjoy it whatsoever. However, I re-rented it months later and found myself wanting to 
 actually play through all of the levels. I am glad I did, for I actually seemed to be amused by 
 the romp I had blowing away things in all kinds of locales in France during WWII. The game grows 
 on you, at least it did for me. I recommend renting it and seeing for yourself if you can peregrinate 
 all the way to Stage 12 and conquor the Germans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aurelien48
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 3, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Need help and have money? Press Y button and get up to four men that will fight next to you and 
 get in a vhecule with you. buy tanks, heavy jeeps, jeeps, machine gun, canon, or air and altilery 
 help!!! the game is pretty long is the almost the same as mercenairy but mercenary is better!!! 
 outfit is still a good game and fun too play, its get boring and when I finish the campaign I did 
 it harder or went and play multiplayer!!! this game is great if you liek mercenary or any of that 
 type!!! The graphic and alright. the sound is weak but ok., value are good and ill give it a 8 
 out of 10 because its worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cod2expert
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 22, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  The outfit for the Xbox 360 is a third person shooter that takes place during world war 2. At first 
 i herd nothing good about this game, but i went out and renteed it anyway to see what i thought 
 of this so called waste of money game.
  
  Graphics 8/10
  The graphics for the outfit are pretty damn good! The scenery in this game is also pretty good. 
 The only thing that i truely love about this game is the bombs and explosions they look absoulty 
 real. The character models are ok not the greatest you can have your own opinon on them.
  
  Sound 8/10
  The sound in this game is better than i thought. The germans actualy sound german 
 now thats pretty cool. Also, the explosions and gunfire sound so unbelivibly real. If i can remember 
 the mouths do move and it looks like they are really speaking.
  
  Gameplay 6/10
  I have a few complaints about the gameplay. First off the aiming system reallly is crap. Second 
 there is no splash damage. Third it just flat out sucks and is crap, crap, and more crap. I mean 
 you aim at the damn germans and it takes about one whole ammo clip its bull!!
  
  Overall 7/10 This game is not the best game out there for the 360, but for 40 or 50 bucks you should 
 add it to your collection, but i wouldnt recommend this game at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shanemarshall
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 16, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  if you are looking for a 360 game to buy, you should buy this one because it has a great contrast 
 of real and cartoon. it has the reality of world war two nut also has that cartoony, comady aspect. 
 it has a good range of things to do in the game, like building your base for defencive perposes 
 or ordering a panzer tank and blowing your enamys away. this is one of the best 360 games i have 
 and i have 25. i think the multiplayer is the best because there are lots of different game types 
 and not one round is the same so it dosent get boring. i would rate this game 9.7 out of ten witch 
 is superb, so if you are into world war 2 and comedy you will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packersfan4gbay
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 7, 2006 9:32 pm PT
Review:  The outfit is an Xbox 360 exclusive, and it was worth the money. This game was the most challenging 
 game for the 360 that i own (next to Perfect Dark Zero) i spent more than three days working on 
 beating the story mode. its about three soldiers in WW2 fighting the nazi's. you play along with 
 one of three characters, sergeant Thomas 'Mac' Macintyre, Captain Deuce Williams, or Lieutenant 
 John Davis Tyler. All have an assortment of weapons including sniper rifle, bazooka, Thomson, grease 
 gun, pistols, grenades, etc. Although the game was on the 360 it didnt quite bring on the graphics 
 as expected. During the game you can order many things: Half -tracks, Tanks, Machine gun placements, 
 Anti-tank placements, Air strikes, Reinforcements, Wire taps, and much more. The multi-player is 
 pretty fun, my brothers and I play it a lot. Overall, i would say this is a great game but if your 
 not into WW2 I would consider renting before buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gijohn69
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 4, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  The outfit supplies endless amounts of both germans and other destructable items to both destroy, 
 commandeer and use against the enemy which makes this a great ww2 shooter as well as having a mercaneries 
 touch with the destruction on demand menu which adds a fun element to the killing of dozens of 
 germans as u progress through the game making it a overall fun and exiting game to play for people 
 who like to shoot random germans and also prat around with tanks.
  
  A word of warning though before buying this game it is pittifly short with under twenty levels, 
 but the rewards you get collect for completing the bonus objectives unlocks excellent abilitys 
 for the characters including new weapons and cheats to use ingame.
  
  By getting these bonus also the satisfaction of completing the game when u find a huge menu page 
 full of shiny medals that u have achieved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 5.6
Date: May 12, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  The TV advertising commercial really made me pumped about this game, but once you pop it in and 
 get going you find out how good advertising can persuade you into buying poor quality material. 
 The Outfit is an open battlefield type game kind of like Mercenaries, not nearly as good, &amp; 
 adds Co-Op in which really is what led to me picking the game up. Here is what totally shoots this 
 game down, I hook up with a friend and we sit down to play this game. Go through 2 or 3 missions 
 and want to play something else. Well, there isn't anyway possible to save your game. Wow, how 
 in the hell did they miss this. Surely they didn't really intend to force you to play through the 
 entire campaign at once. I didn't believe it at first, got on here and asked and sure enough it 
 was true. Sold it a week later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdrillnfill
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 28, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Thats how I felt when I bought this instead of renting it. Gameplay is so linear that it becomes 
 boring. Your typical run and gun game with nothing new that makes this game next gen. I play about 
 10 hours of this game and sold it on ebay. Believe me, rent this game first, do not buy it. Online 
 is ehhh so so, nothing to right home to mom about. Graphics are a C, Gameplay a C, Sound C-, Mulitplayer 
 B-, Overall C - C-. Dont do what I did and buy this game by reading a few reviews on here and getting 
 all pumped up, because many of you will be let down after a couple of hours of playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vivalafarside2
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 13, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  The Outfit is a WW2 themed action strategy that combines Freedom fighters. A little bit of mercenaries, 
 and the over the top attitude of the A Team. The gameplay in The Outfit isn't the greatest, but 
 it gets the job done. Driving can be more of a chore than an enjoyment for newer players and the 
 AI isn't state of the art, but do put up a good fight against you and your team.
  
  Graphically this game isn't completely next as it should more like a last generation high end title. 
 Character models are nothing to brag about and the difference in HD and standard TV aren't all 
 that different. 
  
  The single player campaign tosses you about a dozen missions to go through the over the top story 
 of a three man company killing machine who coulda had our boys home for Christmas back in the real 
 WW2. The campaign consists of you buying units, vehicles, emplacements, and heavy support mercenaries 
 style. The game is like one big version of capture the flag or flags I should say since that is 
 all you will be doing on a linear path. The game does a good job making you put up fight to each 
 flag point, but really don't give you too much in the way of a military strategy to take out the 
 enemy. You can tell by the single player presentation that this game is made for a straight out 
 Xbox Live experience.
  
  Multiplayer is where this game truly shines and I will admit is this games strongest point. The 
 strategy in this open and vast maps that give you a bit more of an idea of strategy to hold your 
 enemy back or have to be funneled a certain way and away from your strategic points. Out of the 
 10 hours of online play I will say that it does hold its own and can be a really fun solid game. 
 If you are looking for a Live game for online play this is a good title.
  
  Overall I will say despite the non-next gen graphics, the linear single player campaign, and the 
 excellent online experience that this title is a good purchase sometime down the line. If you are 
 looking for a mind blowing exp. then this may not be the game for you, but is a worthy budget buy 
 when the price drops. There is a solid title in this franchise somewhere, but just hasn't been 
 found. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathmetalgod
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 11, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun. You run from point A to point B with a few team mates, you order a 
 tank/gun implacement to be dropped on your position every now and again, and you just slaughter 
 anyone who gets in your way. There are loads of save/spawn points, you have infinite lives and 
 you don't lose any progress at all when you die. You just re-spawn, run back to the exact spot 
 you died and carry on the battle from where you left off.
  It's pretty short and easy because of the previously mentioned spawning, but it is fun while it 
 lasts and is worth replaying thru again a few more times.
  
  The "action on demand" thing doesn't really add any strategic elements to the game. I tend to run 
 and gun thru the levels until I get to a point where there's a big-assed tank in my way, then I 
 call for my own vehicle to be dropped on my position and use that to take out the tank then carry 
 on my merry way.
  You can also use the AOD to replace any of your team-mates who die on the battlefield at any given 
 time for a very small price.
  
  It's worth mentioning that the storyline is pretty engrossing and easy to follow too.
  
  Can't 
 comment on the multi-player cos I've not got a Gold Membership. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cow1107
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 9, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  The Outfit is a third person ww2 shooter which places you in the shoes of 3 US Soldiers. The singleplayer 
 is ok and short the, but multiplayer is where the fun really starts. The multiplayer is obviously 
 the best part of the game and can get downright addictive. The main essence of multiplayer is basically 
 capturing capturing strategic objectives to get better weapons and vehicles and to earn Field Units 
 which you use to purchase items. The destruction on demand feature, which is basically a menu of 
 orderable items is accesed by pressing Y . You can order anything you want anywhere. This DonD 
 is the core feature of the gameplay and is a pretty easy to use and an ingenious feature. If you 
 want fun hectic multiplayer this game is for you and at a 40$ price it is definitely woth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gray_E_Gray
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 3, 2006 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this is probably my favorite game on the 360 so far. The gameplay is definately the best aspect 
 of the entire deal. You can destroy almost everything and can wage as much war as you want. I don't 
 know why people didn't love this game as much as most should. You are able to call in the heavy 
 artillary, machine gun emplacements, cannons, jeeps, tanks airstrikes, and reinforcements. It's 
 you versus the nazi in a new kind of world war two enviroment. Better war title than ever. There 
 are many weapons including rifles, automatic weapons, flame throwers, and rocket in all shapes 
 and sizes. The online play is intense and puts you at the edge of your seat to the full expirience 
 of a battle in your living room. Any type of gamer could tell you tactics are the biggest part 
 of surviving battles. For example, if you put all cannons up in the direction of the nazi's base 
 and they have a tank, it could destroy the walls around you to come up on your blindspot. This 
 is definately a next-gen game. It is worth buying and playing again and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: albanatter
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 1, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  ok this game is way under rated idk y people hate if single player to easy play online u can still 
 unlock acheivements and stuff its fun game if u play online or with freind single player coulda 
 beeen better but its still decent its loads of fun and theirs alot u can buy and u can basicly 
 drive everything and destroy every thing 1 of the only down sides is dying in water also theirs 
 a tonn of metals u can collct in this game online and off line which leads to new weapons getting 
 all medals is pretty chalenging and will keep u occupied for a good time and its only 40 dolllars 
 now way worth buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TinXan360
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 31, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  When I first picked up this game, I wasn't expecting much. I rented the game. When I rented it, 
 I thought it was preety good. I then went to buy the full game. The story is preety intresting, 
 and its easy to understand. The game play isn't that fun, but its not bad. The level designs do 
 seem like they are the same thing, but it's not a big deal. You can pick from three different characters. 
 All three have different weapons. One might run faster then the other, or have more health. Those 
 are basically the only differecnes. You can command your team to Assault and stuff like that, But 
 once you do it, you have to wait a minute to do it agian, and you can't do it everywhere. The game 
 has the destruction menu, thats preety fun to use. It has Air Stike, Bring More Troops, Tanks. 
 It has a nice variety. The graphics are okay. It's not bad, but for the Xbox 360 you would expect 
 more. Also this game isn't very long. This game might have a lot of minor flaws, but it's still 
 a preety good game to rent, and at 39.99$ it might be better to buy it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: daveku27
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 31, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  Imagine playing as G. I. Joe fighting the good fight, only this time the good fight is against the 
 Nazis. And just like in G. I. Joe, you cant die! When I bought this game I was thinking the 360 
 had put out a kick@$$ version of the great ps2 classic, Mercenaries.... well.... I was wrong. This 
 game has a few similarities to that game, such as: good destruction, the ability to call on firepower, 
 and three over the top playable characters. But thats pretty much where the similarities end. Mercenaries 
 was a more serious game with actual goals and strategy. The Outfit has no strategy to it at all 
 and there is nothing overly serious about this game. You basically run into an area with Nazis 
 and you kill them and blow stuff up... and you die.... but like I said before, you dont really die 
 because guess what....... you respawn in three seconds!! Being able to respawn really kills any 
 strategy to this game... theres just no point in hiding or taking cover, just call in the tank and 
 kill as many Nazis as you can before they get you... and then respawn and do it again. This leads 
 me to me complaints about this game. It is repetative, kill Nazis, blow up a tank, die, respawn, 
 kill some more. My major problem with this game is the controls and the basic gameplay itself. 
 Shooting is near impossible from long range, you basically have to be standing right in front of 
 your target for it to go down, and even then it doesnt always work. Second is the vehicle controls.... 
 which are HORRIBLE!! Tanks are so frustrating to control that they almost arent worth driving. 
 But on the positive side. This game can be fun and is quite comical. I know my review may have 
 seemed like I dont like this game, but surprisingly, I do! If you are looking for a game to pass 
 the time and not take too seriously, then this is your game. So check your bargin-bin and enjoy 
 this GI Joe - like romp with the Germans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DroppemDead
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 20, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  People are mainly stating all the flaws in this game like repetitive single player and bad vehicle 
 controls but its still a very fun game. The ablility to call in supply and vehicle drops adds a 
 huge layer of strategy to the game in both aspects. The single player although your doing the same 
 main things there are some unique objectives but the achievements are very fun to get. You get 
 them for doing medal challenges such as saving an allied paratrooper drop or destroying a specialty 
 jet or searchlights to cripple the nazi night squads. The multiplayer is very fun and although 
 it can be frusterating at some times but what game isn't it is truely a good experience especially 
 when you are on a team and planning attacks on bases. The game is realistically balanced and is 
 truelly worth a shot especially at its low price tag. Most shooter and strategy fans will enjoy 
 this one just give it a shot. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doonbuggy17
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jul 19, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  I actualy waited for this game to find out it was terrible. I mean seriously this game was realy 
 bad it wasnt fun at all . I dont want to be mean to anyone who likes this game but i was really 
 dissapointed. The graphics were bad the single player sucked. The multiplayer was barely any better. 
 The sound effects were bad. And worst of all It was boring i mean realy boring and not like walk 
 around and do nothing boring . there was plenty of action in it lots of killing it just wasnt satisfying. 
 It wasnt fun to kill the Nazis and that isnt easy to do and in this game they managed to do it. 
 If i am the only one that thought this game blew royaly then shame on me if not then im glad im 
 not alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 17, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  I stayed clear away from the Outift for awile due to the reviews I read. Finally the price dropped 
 and I said "What the hell" and bought it for $38.50. And you know what? I would've been happy with 
 this game even if I had bought it for $59.99. The Outfit as I said is a relief from all the more 
 real and serious war sims and offers you fictional characters that can get a brand new tank simply 
 by putting a flare down and seeing it drop in on parachutes two seconds later. Thats what really 
 mkes this game more different and unique, which is the whole "Destruction on Demand" deal. This 
 feature lets you call in air strikes, vehicles, turrets, and reinforcement at any time at the expense 
 of FUs. FUs are points you recieve when you kill enemies or blow up s***. The single player mode 
 is damn fun but I do wish they had stages that were in snow or in a more different environment 
 than the last. And the graphics are nice no doubt, but they do not live up to the 360's standards 
 even with all the destruction going on. The game is easy to complete, but the most fun you'll get 
 from this game is from multiplayer. Its addicting, and more strategic than the single player due 
 to the fact you gotta know what to spend your FUs on. For the budget price of $39.99 I honestly 
 think we are getting a bargain. The game is pure fun and is easy to get into with awesome multiplayer 
 backing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themtman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 16, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  The game has great multiplayer but not so great single player. This game did not get all the good 
 grades it deserves. If you play online co-op with a friend you can beat the whole single player 
 and get all the achievements which is a fun ride and worth riding. The way the vehicles blow up 
 in the game is amazing and the game gets repetitive but getting achievements is always fun. The 
 game is great but gets repetiitive. Everyone should check this game out. It is one of those games 
 which not everyone gets to check out but needs to be seen and played with. It is fun for everyone 
 who likes to blow up everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpttemplar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 13, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The Outfit was filled with many good gameplay ideas. (None of which were very well executed) 
 The guns you are given when you are not in a vehicle seem to have no power whatsoever. When you 
 are able to get in to a vehicle with some kick, the driving controls tend to be pretty bad. Also, 
 when you have some type of explosive weapon, you should plan on using it jsut as you would a sniper 
 rifle. The explosions have like no area, so you have to pick of one person at a time with a tank. 
 Don't even try to shoot into a large group of people because when the smoke clears you will notice 
 that not a single one seemed to take any type of damage whatsoever. Also, sometimes you will notice 
 that when you shoot from cover you will be shooting your cover itself even if the cross hairs are 
 far from being aimed at the cover. This is because of the faulty cutoffs on the rocks physics.
 
  
  Graphics: Ehh... the backgrounds are nice looking, not exactly what i would say are "next-gen" but 
 they aren't a disfigured beast at least. The people don't look amazing. Some of the ARE disfigured 
 beasts.
  
  Sound: The voice acting is, for lack of a better word, atrocious. They try to make the characters 
 sound to m uch like a tough guy then anything. The sounds of your weapons are okay i guess, but 
 surely not amazing. The soundtrack is okay as well, but I've heard better.
  
  Value: The game is short enough to beat in the time that you would have it as a rental, and I found 
 the online play to be somewhat empty and boring. I would say this is just one of those games that 
 you should rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colegallop
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 13, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  The Outfit was a all around good game. After playing an intense game like Call of duty 2 it fun 
 to play a humours story. The idea of the game is new and fresh and the graphics nice but all games 
 by now (at least shooting ones) should have online game play. The story is rich and near the end 
 will stun you but the game gets boring sometimes and there's are a few glitch they need to fix. 
 The Outfit has a neat command system where if you want a tank you can order it and it fly down 
 to you. The cut scenes could get corny some times but you can't watch them and not laugh once. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lutinantsland
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 11, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  This game is a lot better than a 6.7. I spent 3 days playing this game. The story is kind of weak 
 and it may be repetitive, but being able to order weapons and vehicles and place them in strategic 
 positions gave me the feelings of a commander. The first few levels are very easy but it gets pretty 
 hard near the end because of the lack of vehicles when you start levels. I suggest that you rent 
 it because the single campaign is short and online isn't very good. This game deserves better than 
 what it got. I recommend this to players who liked Mercenaries because the gameplay is similar. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revil2
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 5, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  In THQ's The Outfit, you play as one of three main characters. You can choose from Captain Deuce 
 Williams, Sergeant Thomas "Mac" Macintyre, or Lieutenant John Davis "J. D." Tyler. Each squad leader 
 has a specific fighting style and weapon of choice. 
  
  Deuce utilizes the Bazooka and has the ability to give his team the order for deadly hand-to-hand 
 combat, Mac lets loose with his grease gun and can order his squad to release choking amounts of 
 tear gas, while J. D. can tell his men to assault vehicles and as they do, he hones in on the enemy 
 with his trusty sniper rifle.
  
  The actual story falls between a B and C movie. The script is fairly cheesy due to the laughable 
 yet lovable voice acting (Ron Perlman plays Tommy Mac and Robert T-1000 Patrick plays Captain 
 Deuce Williams) . The Germans speak English (with a German accent) , but the script makes them a 
 clich and foolhardy. The sound design is exceptionally good with gunfire and explosions rocking 
 the speakers. Hopefully you own a good surround sound system. 
  
  The game play works like a combination of Star Wars: Battlefront and Freedom Fighters. You enter 
 a level from a third-person/first-person perspective and have to control certain command points 
 on the map until you dominate the entire map and complete your objectives. 
  
  Now, while you are attacking the enemy on foot or in a vehicle, youll need to protect your flanks 
 by laying down emplacements (including an assortment of machine gun nests and artillery guns) . 
 However, if you want these things you have to purchase them from your amazing Destruction On Demand 
 menu, which you do by pressing down the Y button. In the heat of battle this can get a little 
 difficult, but its fun aswell, you know.
  
  Graphically, this game doesnt look outstanding; however, it looks really good being a 360 game 
 (it looks much cleaner on HDTVs) . Explosions and gunfire are nicely done. Vehicles look quite 
 detailed and sometimes menacing, especially when theyre chasing you! It is a real treat ordering 
 a howitzer, looking up, watching it fall from the sky and slamming down into the spot you placed 
 it. Its even better that most of the map is destructible! 
  
  Overall, Id give The Outfit an 8.5 out of 10. You might enjoy it, too. Give it a try. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dylsdad
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 2, 2006 12:47 am PT
Review:  The outfit made it's way into my X-box 360 a while ago, looking at all the bad reveiws it's gotten 
 from the user's made me want to clarify something. 
  
  This is not a bad game.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are good, but not the best on the system. The style does what it wants to 
 and does a decent job doing it. One user I read, complained about the character models looking 
 like action figures. Yes, I think the developers wanted to make you feel that way? I say that in 
 the best way possible, of course. 
  Sound: The sound is nothing to yip about. It does what it wants to and fills some generic war music 
 into the gameplay, which can easily be overlooked. The gunfire sound as it should but doesn't give 
 you the oomf it should from a WW2 weapon. In other words, the sound comes up short unlike the rest 
 of the game.
  Gameplay: This is where the game gets great. The 'capture point move on' in this game is basic, 
 but works well. Most of the missions have achievments you can unlock via secondary objectives such 
 as shooting down so many planes, destroying Nazi statues, and keeping alive paratroopers. Destruction 
 on Demand is where the game gets it's strategic flare. You press a button and a menu pops up, (it 
 does not pause the game) showing you your buyable things such as Reinforcements, tanks, jeeps, 
 gun turrets, ect. Now, other users complained about how easy the game is. They obviously didn't 
 play the game on the hardest difficulty, or anywhere near it for that matter... I recomend, for 
 co-op with a friend, to play it on the hardest setting, that is if you are good at the game, for 
 the funnest experience. With this harder difficulty you'll find yourself using alot of strategy, 
 you'll turn a corner only to get brutally gunned down by a Nazi machine gun, all your troops are 
 dead (your squad is of 4 or 5 guys, i don't recall) you duck behind a fence post, bullets whizzing 
 past your head. You open up destruction on demand, call reinforcements and two machine gun placements. 
 Immediately the tables are turned and you press the attack with your newly recruited squadmates, 
 friendly machine gun fire speeding past you and making their new home in the Nazi gunner's chest. 
 
  
  The multiplayer is, in my opinion, the game's strongest area. You'll have many many hours of fun 
 online, battling against other players, be it one on one, two on two, or three on three. There 
 are different achievements online that unlock usable weapons (for online) as well as buff up your 
 gamer score! Sometimes, you'll get matched up with a player with many of the weapon upgrades which 
 makes the match a little one sided, but not completely.
  The basic premise of the multiplayer is to capture strategic points. The more strategic points 
 you have, the faster your opponents pts go down. Each player starts with 150 pts, sometimes more 
 on different maps. For example, the match starts and there are 3 strategic points on the map, you 
 each have 150 pts, they go down very slowly. The match progresses and now you have all 3 strategic 
 points highly protected. Your opponent's pts go down very quickly!
  
  In short, The Outfit does all that it wanted to, of course some more time developing the game would've 
 made it better. I give The Outfit, 9.4 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jake9123
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 28, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  This game was basically my dream game because i always wanted a staratagy game that you could build 
 bases and units and fight along side with them. And the outfit brings me very close to that experiance. 
 Only main sugestion before you get it is that make shure you have xbox live or a friend or brother 
 who will play with you because the campain sucks but MultiPlayer is just like battle field but 
 YOU have total control so no more waighting for a tank to spawn. like if you need artilery support 
 find a hill and set up some 75mm howitzers. or if you need to launch an infantry charge. hide some 
 were and constantly call them in and order them to assult. or even if u want to call in a small 
 30cal u can do that too so weather its a solder armed with an M1 grand or a masive Panzer V (Panther) 
 you can do it all.
  so i highly recomand buying it used at game stop for 35$ (i dont think its worth the 40 or 50$) 
 so get ready commander and go and fight with your men!!!!!!!!!!
  
  my favorit things to use 
  U. S.
  M8 (grey hound)
  M4 sherman (Tank)
  35mm anti tank
  75mm 
 howitzer
  quad AA gun
  
  Axis
  cannon car
  panzer IV (panzer)
  panzer V ( panther)
  35mm anti tank
  quad AA gun
  stuka dive bombers (Air strike)
  
  
 oh and the sound is great ( i love it when you hear those stukas coming in.. **** BOOOOM 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fredred7825
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jun 24, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I understand what they where trying to do but it just wasnt done right.
  
  What I've played it seems to be a multiplayer game made into a single player game.
  
  I was 
 expecting to play a sort of tactical game utilize all 3 commandos in the game with open battlefields 
 and commanding units from tanks to troops while getting stuck in the action with them.
  
  Unfortunately its not and its more of a run and gun game then a tactical shooter. The single player 
 is very liner "one path one way" to attack an objective. There are deviations but it ends up in 
 a dead end with a special building you can capture.
  
  The multi play is pretty good but not worth the 30 quid or 40 bucks for it
  
  If you still 
 curious rent this game and give it a go. 
  
  If relic made this a fully fledge third person RTS it could of been a better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 24, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  The Oufit is a decent WWII game, good shooting, good bombing, good kraut killing and good voice 
 acting, notice I'm saying "good" not "great".
  The Oufit is underachieving when pitted against Call of Duty 2, but in all fairness The Oufit deserves 
 recognition for Destruction on Demend (similar to Mercenaries) .
  The Oufit's graphics are slightly below standard for a next gen console, and the sound is too gratuitous, 
 but that adds to the feel of war, well not really.
  Although The Oufit isn't that great, I play it at my friends all the time (along with Condemned) 
 and it pleases me all the time.
  THQ obviously had a budget on this game (one reason I say this is because sometimes when you die 
 your body just dismembers, no gore or anything) .
  Each character has there own selection of weapons (if 2 can be classed as a collection) , the black 
 guy has two rifles, Tommy Mac (the heavy duty guy) has a machine gun and a flamethrower, and Deuce 
 (the guy who's just there for the glory) has a revolver and a rocket launcher. Not bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chi-You-Man
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 20, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  The outfit is overall and pretty good game. I happen to be a fan off WW2 shooters, and this is a 
 nice edition to the genre.
  The reason it did't get a brilliant write up is because people do not give it time to work on you. They 
 play the single player, and then discard it.
  The single player may not be where this game emerges victorious, showing slightly repeptitive gameplay 
 and lacking the the AI department.
  However, the sound is pretty good with solid explosions and intense music, and characters are well 
 modeled. Graphics are good and you can clearly define this as a next gen game.
  But now for the best bit, multiplayer. There is nothing like killing your mates in split screen, or 
 taking on others online, the explosive action and fast pace gameplay here is sure to keep you hooked. 
 Imagine Mercinaries meets Battlefield 1942.
  All in all this is a pretty good game with some cool features and an awesome multiplayer, however 
 the single player may not be as fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capin131
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 19, 2006 1:18 am PT
Review:  The Outfit is a WWII third person action shooter/strategy game published by THQ and developed by 
 Relic Entertainment and was released for the Xbox 360 in mid-March, 2006. While The Outfit does 
 have some interesting gameplay ideas and a solid foundation for a good story, it falls short of 
 being a game that is recommendable to most.
  
  The game is set in France during WWII, and it is up to The Outfit, three bad asses to take down 
 a rogue Nazi general. The three main characters in the story are Deuce Williams, the cigar smoking, 
 pistol wielding leader of the group. Next is J. D. Tyler, who carries a scope rifle and a shotgun. 
 Lastly, there is Tommy Mac, who equips an automatic weapon along with a flamethrower. None of these 
 characters are the least bit interesting. They are all pretty clichd characters with no personality, 
 no real likeable qualities and no attachment once so ever.
  
  Now, despite the horrible main characters, The Outfit actually features a story that could have 
 been good. It has love interests, revenge, betrayal, feuds, etc. But the story is never really 
 fleshed out that much. You get very quick cut-scenes at the beginning and end of most missions 
 and thats it. It tries to just throw all these different story elements at the player without 
 any sort of attention to developing the plot lines or making me care about any of the characters. 
 In the end, youll end up laughing at just how horrendous the story is.
  
  The presentation in The Outfit isnt too great. It tries to force this cheesy badditude with 
 your kills earning Field-Units, which they abbreviate to FUs. The problem with it isnt that 
 it is there, necessarily, it is just that the characters dont seem all that bad-ass. Their weapons 
 are extremely underwhelming and inaccurate; also, for someone that is supposed to be heroic, they 
 move incredibly slow and cannot run for more than 15 to 20 seconds at a time, depending on the 
 character you get. They can, however, take a lot of damage, especially from just regular Nazi grunts, 
 before they die. That is about the extent of their toughness.
  
  The main attraction on the gameplay is the Destruction on Demand feature. Basically, you spend 
 the aforementioned field-units on machine gun nests, anti-air and anti-tank weapons, air strikes, 
 etc., and you can place them in strategic spots where you need some help taking care of the bad 
 guys. The system works quite well and the NPCs generally do a good job manning the weapons you 
 deploy, and adds a small element of strategy. I do wish, though, they could have made the system 
 on the fly, so you dont have to stand still to deploy weapons.
  
  One of the major issues in terms of gameplay that I found was that the vehicles were, at times, 
 particularly frustrating to control. The controls were jerky and sometimes the camera would obstruct 
 your view as to which way your vehicle was turned, resulting in going the opposite way you wanted 
 it to. Vehicles are very big part of this game and because they are such a necessary part of the 
 Outfit, the game just tends to get very annoying.
  
  Another issue I found troubling with the gameplay is inaccuracy of the weapons. The reticules for 
 tanks and Deuces bazooka are just really awkward. The reticule will turn red, seemingly saying 
 that you are right on, but in reality youre off by a good margin.
  
  Lastly, this game features some downright unrealistic health for enemy grunts. They arent overly 
 difficult, but it takes a good seven to eight rounds to take them down with Tommy Macs automatic 
 gun. Also, when you are in a tank or have a bazooka and shoot at these grunts and they all go flying, 
 but only one dies is just terribly unrealistic.
  
  Graphically, The Outfit doesnt really look all that great. There are a lot of things in the environments, 
 but none of them are too impressive. The character models for the three main characters look alright, 
 but the actual grunts dont look to great. There isnt much variation in the death animations and 
 the ones that they do have arent terribly satisfying. The explosions look fairly good, though, 
 with freshly smoked tanks, anti-tank weapons, etc., splintering quite well. The Outfit doesnt 
 look too much better than an Xbox game.
  
  The voice acting in the Outfit is pretty bad. They have two celebrity voice actors, Robert Patrick, 
 the bad guy in Terminator 2, and Ron Perlman, who was Hellboy, and neither of them do a good job. 
 Their dialogue was forced and uninspired. Also, as Ryan Davis mentioned in his review, the French 
 and German accents are awful to the point that it is humorous.
  
  The online in the Outfit is the main attraction for this title, and the multiplayer is actually 
 quite good. It features head-to-head, two-on-two and three-on-three. One of the gameplay types 
 is a Battlefield 2 like system, where both teams start off with 150 command points and they go 
 down when you lose control of strategic objectives. There are some balancing issues in regards 
 to the maps, but on the whole, the multiplayer is the meat of the game and can be pretty fun, although 
 it still suffers from the same gameplay problems that plagued the single player.
  
  Another thing that The Outfit does really well is in the games achievements. There are two achievements 
 to get in each of the twelve levels in the game, and all of them are somewhat hidden, so you could 
 miss a lot of these achievements if you dont look out for them. There are 16 online achievements, 
 and some of them range to the very difficult to just playing the game long enough online to reach 
 them. Overall, you still have to work for these achievements, although, on the whole, they arent 
 impossible by any stretch of the imagination.
  
  The overall package of the Outfit, though, just doesnt make sense for Xbox 360 owners to pay for, 
 even at the discounted $39.99 price. The gameplay is severely lacking, the graphics do not showcase 
 what the 360 is capable of and the story, while having the ground work for a solid story, just 
 never pans out. If youre still not sick of the WWII genre, The Outfit might give you a bit of 
 fun over a weekend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackcrews
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  When i first started playing this game i was just about ready to take it back to the store. I felt 
 i was playing crash fall out poor the ps2 rather than an xbox 360 game. But like all game i gave 
 it a chance and i found that it was quite a fun game. The destruction on demand is a lot of fun 
 when you are pinned down by a load of Germans you can order a tank to be dropped on them. When 
 i first started playing this game i was just about ready to take it back to the store. I felt i 
 was playing crash bandicoot poor the ps2 rather than an xbox 360 game. But like all game i gave 
 it a chance and i found that it was quite a fun game. The destruction on demand is a lot of fun 
 when you are pinned down by a load of Germans you can order a tank to be dropped on them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reaper2491
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jun 17, 2006 2:21 am PT
Review:  When i first started playing this game i was just about ready to take it back to the store. I felt 
 i was playing crash bandicoot poor the ps2 rather than an xbox 360 game. But like all game i gave 
 it a chance and i found that it was quite a fun game. The destruction on demand is a lot of fun 
 when you are pinned down by a load of Germans you can order a tank to be dropped on them. 
  
  It is a bit basic but it is a fun game with a good multiplayer. But i do advise a rental first 
 because it may not be everyones cup of Tea. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1STURBED1
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 15, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  The Outfit was a surprise to me. I first heard about this game when a friend and I were on Xbox 
 Marketplace looking for some new multiplayer demos to try out. He had downloaded this demo the 
 night before and told me I had to play it and that I would definitely get hooked on it. I downloaded 
 it and loaded it up. My first impression was utter confusion as to what was going on. Before I 
 knew it all the flags were taken and the game was over. I immediately started criticizing the game 
 at this point but my friend kept telling me to hang in there and get the hang of it before I start 
 to judge it too harshly. It took a good hour to two before I really started to get the hang of 
 it and what do you know my friend was right. 
  The multiplayer really becomes action packed when playing 2 vs. 2 matches online (not a fan of 
 the death match though always been a strategy fan) . Even better are full rooms of 4 vs. 4 (if 
 you can manage those without any lag which is a tuff one) . The combination of trying to defend 
 your bases while still trying to capture others makes for intense game play at times. Theres nothing 
 like watching your enemy spend all their money setting up turrets to defend a base and then simply 
 wiping them out with an amazingly placed air strike. I still find myself on the edge of my chair 
 screaming at my TV (especially during melee sequences which are extremely annoying if you arent 
 doing the attack) . Needless to say I went out and bought the game the next day and was disappointed 
 in the performance of the single player campaign. I can honestly say that I dont plan on ever 
 getting past the second or third level. 
  Even with the second-rate single player the game is definitely worth purchasing for its multiplayer 
 alone. I do however strongly suggest downloading the demo first and really learning how to play 
 the game. If you start to play the game with a bad outlook on it most likely you are going to hate 
 it. Be open minded, play it, and enjoy it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zweihanderhero
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 14, 2006 8:15 am PT
Review:  
  Having never heard of The Outfit prior to only a few weeks to its release, I sure didnt have any 
 expectations for the title. Its heard it being compared to the explosively fun Mercenaries and 
 even labeled as a poor mans Ghost Recon. After playing the game for a good bit, I can honestly 
 say that the above is true.
  
  The Outfit is kinda like the A-Team, without Mr T. Youre a special forces team thats participating 
 in World War II with the main mission being to kill a special German general. The Outfit is pure 
 action and the only strategy youll need to be thinking of is where to deploy your guns and what 
 kinda mayhem you want to cause. The Outfit gives you the ability to call in reinforcements at anytime 
 you want to support you. Be it tanks, guns, more soldiers or even air strikes, as long as you have 
 enough points pay for it, you can call them in. Soldiers are the most essential resource you can 
 ask for as they significantly add to your firepower. Sadly though, the AI for the allied soldiers 
 under your command are iffy at best. Theyll stand in the open, get shot at and even charge headlong 
 into the enemy without any thought. While they do soak up the damage, youll find that youll continuously 
 need to replenish your dead allies as they keep dying to stupid mistakes. Hell, I think I kill 
 more of my men than the enemyI used Deuce most of the time and since his primary weapon is a Bazooka, 
 anybody that steps in front of me when I fire is done for. 90% of the time, itll be a friendly 
 soldier. Its not that Im a bad shot, its just that they have an uncanny knack to stand in front 
 of me right as I fire.
  
  Gameplay in The Outfit is mainly a single player capture the flag game. You and your allies run 
 across the map (most are linear) and capture various buildings like a radio tower or an armory. 
 The buildings you capture will in turn grant you benefits that you can use your radio to call in. 
 For example, a capture radio tower allows you to call in air strikes to nuke your enemies. It has 
 to be said though that the allied bombers are lousy shots and rarely accurately hit what you want
 
  
  For the first few missions, I was genuinely enjoying myself. After awhile though, I realized that 
 the game didnt seem to change. Mission after mission, all you do is kill all the germans in said 
 area, move from Point A to Point B, capture all the resource points and sometimes defend your captured 
 areas from counterattacks. Thats all there is to the game. Its fun, yes, but without the gameplay 
 evolving, playing soon becomes a chore. The only thing that kept me going from mission to mission 
 is a curious desire to see what kinda stuff the later missions give me to fool around with. Ill 
 be honest though, the game does have its momentsDefending a town from an unrelenting nazi counterattack 
 is exhilarating as is charging headlong into a Nazi occupied town with the whole Allied force in 
 tow behind you.
  
  Vehicles in the game, while cool and numerous, are a pain in the ass to control. Theyre big, making 
 them unwieldy to drive around in most of the cramp levels. Tanks and other heavy tracked vehicles 
 are a major pain as turning them takes a ton of effort and they rarely go where you want them to 
 thanks to the game not showing you where the front is facing. As a result, you may want to go 
 forward but after all the turret swiveling you did to gun down those poor Nazis, you may end up 
 going backwards instead because you got turned around so badly. 
  
  The vehicles also unbalance the game, particularly the armored ones. As Deuce is the only one of 
 the three selectable characters who carries a Bazooka (the others carry rifles, machine guns and 
 a flamethrower) , its a no brainer to use him to take out the vehicles. That makes the other two 
 characters useless. You dont even need to bother if you die in the game. As long as you have a 
 stronghold under your command, you can always respawn there with no penalties. Yup, youll never 
 run out of lives in the game. Die? Simple respawn and fight on. It ruins the challenge of the game 
 but then again, maybe this is to offset the severely overpowered enemy vehicles. YOUR tanks though 
 are comparatively neutered when compared to the enemys. Unless you land a direct hit on the enemies, 
 even a tank shell will barely faze a soldier. Ive had soldiers flying all over the place with 
 a near miss from a tank shell or a bazooka round and then pick themselves up in a second with no 
 aftereffects at all.
  
  One BIG issue I have with the game is its insanely SMALL fonts. Ive playing on a 32 inch TV and 
 I can barely make out whats written. I sure as hell dont need my glasses checked, although having 
 played the game and squinting for a godly amount of time, Ive serious considering it
  
  Its no secret that the game isnt a looker. Apart from some visual tricks that Ive seen only 
 in 360 games, the rest of the visuals look as if they belong in a PS2 or Xbox game. Yeah, the character 
 models are beefier than normal but when youre ingame, you rarely even notice details like that. 
 Explosion and dust effects look cool thoughat least SOME of the extra horsepower of the 360 gets 
 some useAt least the sounds pick up some of the slack. It gets pretty crazy when all hell breaks 
 loose, making it at least seem as if youre fighting a war.
  
  The Outfit isnt exactly a bad game, having done nothing terribly wrong. Then again, that doesnt 
 make it a good game either, as its potential is totally untapped. If youre itching for a semi-mindless 
 action game though, look no further than The Outfit. Just dont expect much depth to it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sargine_Qui
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jun 12, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  i was all excited , going to my friends house and he had a 360 . when i got over there i was like 
 hey lets play your 360 . i looked at his games , saw the outfit , and immediatly put it in . i 
 had heard about this game and it looked good.... dont judge a book by it cover i guess
  
  Good: Graphics.... and... er..... thats it
  
  Bad: Bad storyline blahhhhhhhhh
  
  Overall: 
 this game isnt even worth a rental i hate this game so much i dont even feel like reviewing it.... dont 
 buy it , rent it , or sell it... wait ok u can sell it if u have it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Melted_UFO
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 12, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  If you have xbox live prepare to skip work. Ignore your family and lose all your friends. This 
 game is one of the best multiplayer games if seen in a while! I can't understand why they gave 
 it such a low score. The multiplayer is a lot of fun........ if you didn't play multiplayer yet. 
 You will not finish the campaign if u play multiplayer first . It's that good. And at 40 bucks 
 there is no reason to pass this up. Get to the store. I'll see you online. 
  
  Still not 100 words yet huh? hum dee dum dee dum wickety wickety wham wham. There we go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedStarStrife
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 4, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  gameplay- The game is real fun for the first hour or 2 of gameplay but then you notice its get 
 highly repetitive, capture that, secure this, protect them... over and over again. However the game 
 gets saved from its multiplayer aspect, giving quite a few different game modes and plenty of different 
 maps, however not very many people are playing so it might take a little bit to get the game going 
 on multiplayer. 6/10
  
  graphics- meh there good for current gen but not a next gen at all so a 7/10
  
  sound- I thought 
 the sound was real well done, lot of explosions, gunfire, tanks, trucks, cars, and flying planes 
 make this game have a very immersive enviromental sound. 10/10
  
  value- xbox 360 expensive !!! 60 bucks!!!! 7/10
  
  tilt- 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXDagameXx
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 4, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  I wouldn't recomend buying this game right now since its 60 bucks. Since this game will feel like 
 a 20 dollar deel 2 u. its fun at some times. but it can get boring after awhile since in mainly 
 nothing but strajedy. the idea of calling for men, weapons, and veichels out of the sky is a pretty 
 neat idea. but i wouldn't think this idea fits right in a wwII game. this game is completely unrealistic. 
 come on the war world II didnt have all that **** falling out of the sky. this game is completly 
 a disgrace to the war world ii games. and whats with the veichal controls. its tough to drive around.
 
  and the the aim and shootings is ricualios. the grpahpics and sound r pretty good. yes it has 
 multiplayer and co op wich should be pretty fun to try out. multiplayer suports up to 8 players 
 and co op 2. 
  
  In short simple sentences. dont spend 60 right now on this game. u should have all your fun in 
 1 simple rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _raymaster
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 4, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  The Outfit is hard to discribe, I personaly hated the game, for these reasaons, graphics suck, 
 gameplay is lame, sound isn't that great even with 5.1 surround sound dolby digital. Bad draw distance 
 even on my plasma. Story sucks and is uninspired, The multiplayer is gay, A. I. sucks, the only 
 kinda cool thing about this game is the destrution on demend that is pretty cool. It lets blow the 
 hell out of anything u want. Whenever u want. So all in all stay away from this inless u like gay, 
 lame trying to be WW2 shooters. And trust me this one is really really really a gay game the Xbox360 
 game yet trust me!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJCNUT
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jun 3, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Mycousin bought a 360 and he was here for a whole week and we beat like 4 games on the 360. This 
 was one of them. This game seemed cool but it wasnt. The missions took forever to get through. 
 I felt like i was going to take a gun and shoot myself forrenting it. Cutting to the Point The 
 gameplay was alright the characters guns wereent any good at all. The only good gun was the flamethrower. 
 The Graphics were good not the best but good. This game felt like a rushed X-BOX game the first 
 xbox not the 360. I would not recommend this game to anyone witha 360. So thats about it see you 
 later everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XBOX_360_PLAYER
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 1, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  This game was one of my hopes of a better game then it is. Too much focused on the destruction 
 they forgot about everything else! Multiplayer is okay but lagging alot and alot of things missing. 
 Cool desruction on demand system with weapons, soliders, and vehicles. But overall a game that 
 you're gonna wanna pass up for the 360. 
  
  This game was one of my hopes of a better game then it is. Too much focused on the destruction 
 they forgot about everything else! Multiplayer is okay but lagging alot and alot of things missing. 
 Cool desruction on demand system with weapons, soliders, and vehicles. But overall a game that 
 you're gonna wanna pass up for the 360.
  
  This game was one of my hopes of a better game then it is. Too much focused on the destruction 
 they forgot about everything else! Multiplayer is okay but lagging alot and alot of things missing. 
 Cool desruction on demand system with weapons, soliders, and vehicles. But overall a game that 
 you're gonna wanna pass up for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gogandontas07
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 31, 2006 10:18 pm PT
Review:  I only played this game for 2 hours. i have played three other games for my 360, DOA4, COD2, and 
 Oblivion. when I first put this game in, I expected something to the affect of a new age mercenaries 
 (lucus arts, you remember "playground of destruction") , but I was rudely slapped in the face by 
 this game. I'm not one to see REAL good graphics, unless there is some sort of very drastic change 
 from my norm, so looking at it didnt really do much for me either way, but when me and my friend 
 Keith fired up this bad (literally) baby, we were sorely disapointed, the Hit detection sucks, the 
 weapon selection sucks, the infantry Vehicle balance (?) sucks, and oh yeah, the split screen camera 
 sucked so much that I actually returned that game that day and rerented oblivion instead, do the 
 right thing, dont bother with this lump of crap. just buy mercenaries: playground of destruction, 
 its cheaper, and allround better. 
  
  p. s., the voice acting wasnt bad, the dialogue was just so bad that it really didnt matter anymore, 
 just incase your wondering. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warhawklee
Rating: 7
Date: May 30, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is good but bad in a way.
  
  Good: Nice models of the figures, ragdoll physics, EXPLOSIONS, playing your music while playing 
 the game, and the gun models.
  
  Bad: Levels are quite easy, like every level keeps repeating itself, and for crying out loud the 
 freaking vehicles. (controlling them is just like riding a bull.)
  
  Ugly: The buildings... I mean when you shoot them down they like dissapear (where is the freaking 
 building at?) , head shots... they dont die from one, and when you blow up an enemy they look like 
 big pieces of rock candy.
  
  (In case if you dont know how to play your music while playing it... press the circle of light... 
 as in the big green and grey X button.) (I listen to AC/DC while playing it... best band ever) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plumbervspirate
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 29, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  You'd think for a game that's slogan isWar is hell, but blowing stuff up is damn fun" the developers 
 wouldn't really take themselves seriously. But once you see the first in game cinematic you will 
 be astounded. It seems as if they think they are a history channel original program, showing us 
 the behind the lines story of three short super human soldiers. 
  The Outfit plays as a Battlefield replica, where there are certain checkpoints or locations that 
 you need to capture such as a motor pool, or an armory. Each location gives you a different advantage, 
 such as when you gain the motor pool you get the tank, 4x4 jeep, and the Hallitrack. 
  The Outfits feature that sets it apart from the other games of the genre is its "destruction on 
 demand" feature. Which lets the player drop in from above a large assortment of weapons, vehicles, 
 and even soldiers. This mechancic is seamless and wonderfully mapped into the game. This gives 
 the game a strategic feel at times, when you have to defend a location and you need to place machince 
 gun nests and anti-tank weapons around a town. 
  It's all pretty fun, for a while... once you get past the skin deep experience of blowing the waves 
 of Nazi attackers up you realize your playing basically a broken mash up of Armed and Dangerous/ 
 Battlefield/ Mercenaries. With iffy controls, sub par graphics, and one horrible plot line.
  Overall its a mindless romp that will entertain you for a weekend. Rent it, dont buy it. ( Unless 
 you Tommy Tallarico, then this game is heaven ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 28, 2006 12:01 am PT
Review:  Oh, is it Mercenaries maybe. Well I can honestly say I played the story mode twice. Once for the 
 Achievements and once because I missed some. But I did enjoy it a little. The game didn't really 
 give me that felling that I just experienced an awesome game feeling but I did play it twice. I 
 didn't play Blazing Angels twice. NOPE
  
  With a little WWII battle background the game did offer some cool gadgets to use to complete your 
 missions. The Online is a little more different but challengeing at times.
  
  In the single player campaign you get to play as 3 soldiers with different weaponary types. If 
 you die during the mission you may respawn and choose a different character and proceed till your 
 choose to use another. During the game you will gain points as you kill off germans and destroy 
 vehicles and weapons and capture areas of the map. You can use these points to purchase weapons 
 on-the-fly to help you with finishing your quest.
  
  There are Tanks, Half tracks, AA guns, 40mm cannons, Recruits and many other tools you can buy. 
 Very fun getting a Tank dropped on you head.
  
  The Online lets you battle another player for territory over the map while being able to use you 
 On-the-Fly purchasing system. 
  
  In total this game was a fun rental, and I just don't see any reason to purchase this title, sorry.
 
  
  Thanks for reading my review, and please check out my others. Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RogueBerserker
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 24, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  Many reviews have shown that this game isn't all that it was cracked up to be. Which in a way is 
 true. The single player is kind of repetitive but can still be enjoyable at moments. One of the 
 best levels, in my opinion, is where you have to protect a village and this really utilises the 
 RTS technique as here you have to place machine gun turrets, anti-tank guns, tanks and you really 
 have to use your wholelist of Destruction On Demand items. One of my problems with the single player 
 is that sometimes it can seem like the odds are against as you can' get past a tank or other vehicle 
 and the majority of the time it feels like you are just being led down a narrow road to victory 
 rather than a free roaming, action packed romp.
  
  The control scheme is really easy to get used to and within minutes of starting the game you'll 
 be searching through your Destruction On Demand list looking for the items you need and commanding 
 troops. One problem with the control scheme is the vehicles. They are only controlled by the left 
 stick and you'll more than often find yourself going in the wrong direction or steering your vehicle 
 up a hill by accident. This does get quite irritating but after you get used to it, it gets alot 
 easier.
  
  Now to the part of the game which really stands out. Multiplayer. The multiplayer is excellent 
 within The Outfit and really shows the reason people have Xbox Live. It's extremely fun and really 
 makes you feel as if you're part of a team as, the majority of the time, everyone is working together 
 for the same goal. It makes you feel as if you're really helping not just the other team members, 
 but the AI as well and leading them to victory. I would say that the mutiplayer is better than 
 GRAW as it is alot more fun to play, alot faster paced and action filled.
  
  For those of you that are looking for a pure single player experience I would honestly say look 
 elsewhere unless of course you just want some quick mindless fun. For those who want a frantic 
 mutiplayer this is the game for you as it is very team based and so fun and action packed that 
 you just have to have that "one more game". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: studerlevik
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 23, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  A game that is broken. To start we should examine the single player story mode. The irritating 
 cheesy voice acting, characters that would be found in the like of bad WWII movie, game play though 
 original is just repetitive, and a story well that is bland. Now that we got that out of the way 
 lets us examine the good. 
  The real hook to the game is DOD (destruction on demand) a command menu brought up buy tapping 
 the Y button on the controller, with this feature you will be able to bring mass destruction to 
 your enemies and pain and anguish to your friend. To uses DOD you must have FUs (Field Units) translation 
 CASH, you earn FUs by destroying your enemies and anything they own. This aspect of the game is 
 good because really encourages the uses of DOD to call in Arties and Air Strikes or even purchase 
 a tank to once again bring pain to you enemies and earn more FUs. 
  Multiplayer is the really redeeming feature to the game which has four modes of play strategic 
 victory, destruction, deathmatch and co-op (lame story mode) , while multiplayer shines and reminds 
 you of times past in were you grind away at your friends in Twisted Metal 2 there is still problems, 
 as me and my friends quickly found out there is really no good way to protect your self and soon 
 you realize that no mater the amount of FUs you have it is never enough, especially when the player 
 has no control over buildings which allows the player to use the more powerful items in DOD queue. 
 Which makes the game quickly turn into a game of cat and mouse of you and your opponents racing 
 around with the fastest vehicles to capture those buildings so you can call the air strike or get 
 the big tank, and by the time youve gotten them you are to slow to capture the other points so 
 you go to the next point loose the point you just captured to you opponent and after one death 
 you are back to square one where you have no buildings to begin with or because of lack of FUs 
 no ability to pay for them. And as for Xbox Live well the community is none existent. Yes there 
 is a community of players out there but I cant seem to find them.
  So in the end do your self a favor and rent this broken game before you buy it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentDeath777
Rating: 5.1
Date: May 17, 2006 7:49 am PT
Review:  Everyone thought this game would be like "Mercenaries". Lets get our fact straight here, "Mercenaries" 
 blows this game out of the water so if you where hoping to have the same amount of fun, your out 
 of luck. "The Outfit" is one a straight path and the stages are not that big or long. Sure you 
 call in more troops, tanks, jeeps, ect but it gets boring fast. There is also no real challenge to 
 the game. You can not die, at all! When all your health is gone you just go to your last base you 
 captured. Which makes this game way to easy. Why go through the trouble to earn points for troops 
 if you can just to it all yourself?
  
  Once you finish the game is single player what else is there to do? Well you could play all of 
 it again in co-op! Have a friend come over or find someone on LIVE. It plays better in co-op and 
 doesn't seem as boring. Friends always make boring games better. Lets face it single player is 
 a chore. Go do this, take that base, blow this up. Over and over and over. The tag line is "Destruction 
 on Demand", really well please so me, and yes I am demanding! Oh yes there is a story, you plays 
 as three Americans out to stop a evil German, where do they get their ideas?
  
  The game as some nice graphics but that is all you will get. If you must own all WW2 games, please 
 do not let me stop you. If you want a good WW2 why not pick up "Call of Duty 2"? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukewind
Rating: 7
Date: May 14, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  The Outfit is one of those games you play that you think you could have designed better. I don't 
 like thinking I am smarter then the game developers because I know I'm not, but The Outfit does 
 this time and time again during the game. 
  
  THE CAMPAIGN: The story mode is a typical derivate of evil Nazis fighting with each other. Nothing 
 new or interesting here. The game is fun for the first 3 missions but after that you would hope 
 they throw you some new type of mission or at least a BOSS. This does not happen, each level runs 
 the same way - Spawn, take territory, take next territory, kill Nazis, take territory. This is 
 80% of the single player. The other 20% is doing tiny side quests that unlock the single player 
 achievements. If you want to boost your gamer score its good enough to go through once but skip 
 buying it for the single player.
  
  MULTIPLAYER: This is where the game redeems itself somewhat. The linear gameplay that makes the 
 campaign terribly boring actually works for the MP because humans still are smarter then computer 
 AI. You still kill and take territories but in MP it is fun. The only problem I had with MP was 
 the fact that even after months after launch not many people were online in ranked matches. Finding 
 3 on 3 or 2 on 2 takes forever to get a game going.
  
  GRAPICS: After seeing what the 360 can do at E3 it is fairly obvious that The Outfit was scaled 
 up from the original xbox. The graphics are not bad but they are nowhere near what they should 
 be given the hardware they are on.
  
  SOUND: Not much to say. They sound is good but nothing mind blowing.
  
  OVERALL: If you like 
 the WWII games and want a different kind of WWII shooter then you should check this game out, just 
 dont get your hopes up to high.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fivestar24
Rating: 3.8
Date: May 14, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Note: The following is opinioned based on the OXM June Addition Demo.
  
  The graphics of the game are fair. When shots are fired you can't trace the bullets, it seems more 
 like a fireball is coming out of your gun. I fail to see a way to reload; the only restriction 
 on holding down the trigger is the heat meter. Grenades don't seem to go anywhere, especially potato-mashers. 
 You have a sense of invulnerability in the game. You can simply walk up to most enemies having 
 them shoot at you, yet miss you. You don't even see bullets hit objects around you. The game is 
 too futuristic to have anything to do with Nazis in my book. 
  
  On another note, you can do efficient damage with grenades, if you like that sort of thing.
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paradoxliar
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 8, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  I have a beef with companies that say "everything in this game in totally destructable" because 
 it simply highlights how many things in the game actually aren't destructable.
  
  We were told that everything in "The Outfit" was destructable and it doesn't really seem to be. 
 When you shoot an anti-tank round into a building a hole does appear, but it often doesn't appear 
 where the anti-tank round actually went into the building. 
  
  The single player mission is absolutely boring. I got tired of it within the first 2 levels because 
 it is so repetitive.
  
  The multiplayer battles are quite fun. These battle can be challenging as battle for control of 
 sites that allow you to call in airstrikes or build tanks, or even build better machine gun nests. 
 This aspect of the game is interesting and I found it to be fun for many hours.
  
  In short if you don't have any friends and don't have Xbox live than this game is a waste. You'll 
 be bored fast. If you do have friends and Xbox live than this game is pretty good. I wouldn't buy 
 it, but it's a good rental.
  
  The interesting thing about this game is that I want to a sequel to come out because I want the 
 developers to work out all the problems that made this one stink. If those problems were sorted 
 out this could make for a great sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Catistrophic
Rating: 6
Date: May 6, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  DO NOT BUY THIS GAME... unless you're obsessed with thirdperson shooters. The Outfit is an okay 
 game, the graphics are splendid and detailed. The gameplay is uh... iffy, some may like this game 
 and some may not. The sound from this game is incredible, the cutscenes will give you a migrane 
 each time you watch it. The simplicity of the plot is just too planned out. Some plot twists are 
 expected while others not. The characters each have 3 different weapons, the enemies have normal 
 A. I. and they may become a problem in several moments in the game. All in all, I have to say that 
 if you want to buy this game, don't, unless you are a fan of thirdperson shooters. My best choice 
 to try this game is to rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTfan1883
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 5, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Let me start out my review of The Outfit by saying I had no idea what to expect renting this game. That 
 being said, let me also say this game blows more than Paris Hilton.
  The graphics are nothing better than X-Box graphics.
  The AI is totally retarded. You could probably 
 kill 15 people every life with your flamethrower. This connects with my beef with the gameplay. The 
 fact that everyone is stupid in this game makes the gameplay boring.
  The sound is what you'd expect out of a war game. Nothing impresses you though just like everything 
 else in the game.
  The controls are confusing at first, but if you can stand to play this game half an hour, you will 
 probably get the hang of it.
  All in all, don't even bother. They hyped this up only to slam you down. Don't even waste your money 
 renting this. This is just a wanna be Mercenaries. So if you're into playing mediocre war games.... play 
 Mercenaries. At least Mercenaries it somewhat good.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sergiosissylala
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 4, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  This game was really fun to me. The destruction on demand actually made tactical possibilities, 
 well possible. I could order .50 cal. Machine guns to cover a pass and not have to go through a 
 hassle to do it. I also thought the multiplayer was really fun. Me and my brother played for hours 
 on end. The different ways we could do things just made it enjoyable. I would definately say it 
 could have been better but it was a fun game. Shooting wasn't fun and the lack of realism in you 
 never have to reload. As long as you dont over hear yuor fine. Overall very fun and entertaining. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unreal_007
Rating: 7
Date: May 3, 2006 12:33 am PT
Review:  This is a game that has been waited for with much anticipation from may gamers for some time. After 
 being delayed this anticipation grew. i must say that i do like this game but i do feel that good 
 idea have not come out as good in practice. Many of the poorly designed controls such as the use 
 of only one analog stick for driving have severly limited this games potential for being a great 
 WW2 game.
  
  Upon beginning the game (that is the single player campaign) you will introduced to an far less 
 than inteseting story and even worse gameplay and cut scene visuals you will probably find this 
 gameplay rather interesting although at times difficult and the linear level design all add up 
 to a rather uninteresting and low achievement attaining single player campaign.
  
  Most of your time will be spent on the still flawed but fun multiplayer section of the game, online 
 or off, much of the fun in the multiplayer section of this game can be attributed to the fact that 
 the only reason this game is entertaining is you are able to blow up stuff and kill Nazis. In multiplayer 
 you are able to o this without the interuption of the story as well as the annoyance of having 
 to unlock more powerful weapons and artillery.
  
  Although I do enjoy playing this game i do find it hard to reccomend as although many may like 
 this game butmany hate it. This is a game that deserves a rental not a purchase and give it a good 
 play, beat the single player campaign milk all of the achievements and if you like it then buy 
 it.
  
  I do enjoy this game but I feel a great deal of dissapointment just like star wars battlefront 
 1 it is a great game but all who play it must acknowledge there is such a abundance of issues with 
 this game whch in many ways taint the overall experience. So overall i deem this game solid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seebeeman
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 29, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  this game is a good game. it is suspenseful and well.... its really just one of the best games 
 i have ever played. it has a great multi player but the single player isn't as good. there are 
 some harder levels and some of the levels are just simple. the thing i found different about it 
 was that you can blow up ANYTHING. one of my favorite parts is when you have a flamethrower and 
 you set a guy on fire he turns into ashes. one of the other good things is that you can get out 
 of your car, tank, etc. and heal it and it looks as if it were never touched. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTAG-daver999
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 27, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  To start off this game offline sucks and if you don't have xbox live there's no way you should 
 get it. But online is really fun, a bit childish but enjoyable. If your thinking of buying this 
 game I really don't think it's worth it for the price. The reason is it really isn't a next gen 
 game and only worth about $40.00 and you probably could find a better original xbox game. For those 
 of you who expect a lot from your 360 and want to play next gen games don't buy this you will be 
 diasappoited or at least try out the demo first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: almostevil
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 25, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Very Good! storyline goes a little deeper than your average game. With your search for the Nazi 
 who burned "Frenchies" alive, the death of a comrade, and an unexpected ally. The destruction on 
 demand is just like the game "Mercenaries" with the vehicles and airstrikes. Plus you can call 
 in more squad members. Also in this game you get to select your charater unlike Halo or the Medal 
 of Honor series. Your soldiers actually help too!! SURPRISE! SURPRISE! In Halo, the marines just 
 fire until they get killed (which is very quick!) . These soldiers move with you and you can tell 
 them to assault emplacements or vehicles. An array of vehicles that range from American Shermans 
 and Nazi Panthers, to American 4X4s (which are built with Amercan pride! quote: Tommy Mac, The 
 Outfit) . There are even wheelbarrows! You push while one of your soldiers get in the cart and wave 
 their hands as you push them! You can drive civilian cars. All in all this is like taking Medal 
 of Honor: Frontline, Mercenaries, and Star Wars Battlefront and smushing them into one game. I 
 highly recommend renting this game if not buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colkilller
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 24, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is a really great game online. I have to agree though that the single player game is 
 pretty boring, but playing with friends adds to the fun factor. Single player is pretty much the 
 same game online but more with bots than actual players. The great way to play the game would be 
 to get a lot of achievements so you can activate the cheats. 
  This game is not really graphically advanced, like other games (GRAW) . Even in high definition 
 I did not really notice a difference. Sound wise, nothing really exciting here neither. The game 
 is pretty easy to play. The controls of the game are pretty easy to get into, except the driving. 
 The driving in this game is freaking horrible. Takes a while to get used to, but then this game 
 really does get that good. 
  The place where this game really shines is online. This game is absolutely amazing online. Doesn't 
 kick you out of every match you want to join like GRAW. Quickmatch onilne is almost the same as 
 the Halo 2 quickmatch. But the only difference is that you can't join with a party. Quickmatch 
 is where you unlock all the achievements, play the great online matches, and actually have a good 
 time. 
  Do yourself a favor and go download the demo. If you're still not convinced to get this game, go 
 rent it. If you still don't like it, then sorry to hear that you won't be playin this great game 
 online. I play this game more than that disconnect server fest GRAW. One great original game for 
 the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: organic_oreo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 23, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  When i first played this game, i was completely pumped up for a great WWII experiance. Then, i 
 switch to the rocket launcher and granades... wow... i was more than dissapointed, i was dumbstruck. 
 to kill somebody with an explosion, it NEEDS to be a direct hit. there is no use for explosion 
 barrels if they do nothing but look pretty. Yes, the explosions do look nice, the graphics look 
 very, very awful in the cutscenes though, but in-game, it's nothing to cry about. The single player 
 is basically a Battlefront type of game that comes inculuded with the super-addictive "Destruction 
 on Demand" menu. Unfortunitly, you need Field Units (FU's) to order the gun emplacements, tanks, 
 4x4's, and anything else that can cause destruction. While the developers say EVERYTHING is destructible, 
 i have seen a large quantity of objects that don't blow up. Oh, and when a building collapses, 
 it looks like it just sinks into the ground, very last-gen. The multiplayer is a bit more exciting 
 though, DoD works the same -awarded for blowing stuff up- which is agreat thing! All in all, this 
 game is more of a rental than a buy. but if purchased, it's best to stick with the machine guns 
 and rifles than bazookas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vinnie222
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 23, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Don't expect to find a deep game with a story that will win 70 awards and the shooting in this 
 game is well it feals like the shots arnt powerful or something. but The multiplayer is a little 
 like freedom fighters with a stragaty and does a pretty good job with it. Online is where it really 
 shines it has the co-op which is a bit more fun than the single player because it adds a little 
 more ummphh to the single-player campagin (same co-op missions as single) . The other multiplayer 
 modes are pretty solid and id recomend this game to any one who likes multi-player games. All in 
 all this game is fun and a buy if you have friends to play it with lol or at least xbox live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElitesIgnorance
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 21, 2006 9:35 pm PT
Review:  I have written many, many reviews from the past month. I know when I rent a game and knows what's 
 wrong with a game. I'm a typical teenager that goes to the local renting store and rent some games 
 for the weekend after a long week of work. After renting The Outfit, it seems that that game did 
 more work to me than the work at school. You know, being the Nazi's is a bad thing in reality, 
 but when I played Call of Duty 2, I just kept on using that no scope k89 thing weapon. Man, one 
 shot kill anywhere was cheap! Now in this game, it was actually fair. The only problem was in the 
 game was, I already rented a game like this, Star Wars: Battlefront II. 
  
  The gameplay was similar to Battlefront, but was a little more less responsive. Times, when you 
 actually press your Y button and you were in selective Vehicle mode, that got me frustrated. Your 
 squad as some good AI for some tactics, but all they do is complain, WAH! WAH! And don't be the 
 Nazis! They are annoying as you can be with Adam Sessler! Still, gameplay is pretty there and here.
 
  
  The sound is just unbelievable for that type of game. You will hear the thundering of the explosions 
 going off your ear drums! You gotta experience the bombing in the game. The guns and everything 
 is top notch, and is ready as usual.
  
  I really don't know about the storyline, but I bet it is a typical WW II story that has both sides 
 of the war. Better check, because I wasn't paying attention.
  
  The graphics are still there, but wasn't good for a Xbox 360. The graphics would be good on a Xbox, 
 but I thought they could of put more work in the graphics. Still, graphics are alright for a battle!
 
  
  You should rent this game, then buy it for a used game. If I were you, buy it for twenty bucks! 
 It's almost worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mutan123
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your localWhen writing 
 your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage 
 you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by 
 doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write 
 your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste 
 it into the posting box below. disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: re4leon22
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 19, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  PRO: cool melle attacks, lots and lots of vehicles, sometimes comedic,
  good multiplayer, supports offline multiplayer, very chaotic
  CON: shooting people isnt as fun 
 as it should be, not a ton of weapons,
  bad story, repetitive single player, a fe gkitches when melleing
  
  sound
  PRO: lots of good 
 sounding gunfire, enimies and allies talk frequantly (usually comedic) , vehicles sound pretty good
 
  CON: hardly any music, cheesey voice acting
  
  graphics
  PRO: the enviroment looks good, exploisions are also good
  CON: characters look like ps2 standard 
 graphics and so do the vehicles
  
  Overall: I think that the outfit is a very fun game to play. they put cool melle moves in it witch 
 i use frequently plus there is lots of vehicles even a tank with a flamethrower on it. very good 
 multiplayer. the only problems were that the graphics didnt impress me, the enemies usually act 
 like there not getting shot, there is a few glitches when melleing people, and it has a repetitive 
 single player but overall i think this game is very fun and any fan of mercinaries or ww2 shoters 
 should pick this up. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tina661
Rating: 4.4
Date: Apr 19, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  This game was nearly as good as I thought it would be. The controls are soo awkward its laughable. 
 Clumsy set up. Graphics are mediocore. I hate the gameplay of the vehicles. They're so awkard to 
 manuver its ridiculous. Sound track reminds me of the A-team. (thats not a good thing) Story isnt 
 very exciting. All in all it is just a BIG let down. I'd have more fun playing Return to Castle 
 Wolfenstein on XBOX 1 than here. Heck I think I'd have more fun watching paint dry! Maybe worthy 
 of a rent but even then I found myself bored with it. Definately do NOT buy. You've been warned!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xerxes5678
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 19, 2006 4:39 am PT
Review:  Relic has been known for games like Homeworld and DoW, which were addictive strategy games, but 
 now it's proven that it can do shooters just as well. The game puts you in control of the Outfit, 
 a team of 3 soldiers in World War 2 who get the job to hunt down a German General. The leader of 
 the team is Deuce, who sports a bazooka and can purchase equipment and vehicles at a discount. 
 Then there's Tommy, who has a machine gun, a giant zippo, and a lot of health. Then last, but certainly 
 not least, is JD, the team's resident Mr. T and sniper. Armed with a sniper and trench gun, he 
 is also the fastest of the group. Each soldier also has a unique command, such as Melee Attack, 
 Tear Gas, and Vehicle Attack. The game play great, and the story feels like the Rambo of World 
 War 2, which isn't a bad thing with all these "realistic" WWII shooters out there. The game blends 
 action and strategy almost perfectly, but there are couple of gripes. First, the vehicles handle 
 strange, but practice makes perfect. An the weapons are a little underpowered, since it takes a 
 ton rocket rounds to frag a tank. But at the end of the day, this game is a must buy, with its 
 not-too-serious story and great MP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawnm00
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 18, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  Being a big fan of WWII games, I had some decent hopes for The Outfit. Although, I think I had 
 pretty realistic expectations about it after seeing the trailers. And while I wasn't expecting 
 it to become my new favorite game, I certainly thought it would be more excitind than it turned 
 out to be.
  
  It's a little hard to describe exactly what kind of game The Outfit really is. It's kind of a combination 
 shooter, squad-based, and strategy game. As a shooter, I think it falls pretty short. As GS correctly 
 noted in their review, accuracy is pathetic in this game. I imagine 1 out of every 10 shots actually 
 lands on a target. No matter how close you are. The risidual damage from explosions is also realistic. 
 Firing a tank cannon into a crows of three guys should kill all three, not just the one it happen 
 to hit square in the chest. That's extremely annoying.
  
  On the flip side, some things make the game more tolerable. For one, dying certainly doesn't seem 
 to be a big problem. I had trouble with one level, getting killed over and over again in a span 
 of 5 minutes, and it didn't set me back or make me start over at the beginning or anything. I did 
 have to repeat a few things, but I wasn't completely frustrated like I've been in other games. 
 The overall light-hearted nature of the game makes it fun as well. While it's a WWII game, which 
 was anything but light-hearted, this game does make it feel a little less heavy, which makes it 
 a more relaxed playing experience.
  
  As far as graphics go, the game is pretty darn good. The details are nicely done, as is the lighting. 
 I didn't run into any scenes that were not interesting to look at. The explosions are nice, as 
 are the vehicles and terrain. The buidlings are also pretty well done, although the idea of destroying 
 anything you want to isn't exactly true. Certain things never show damage, and others will be damaged, 
 but won't exactly disintegrate. But, overall it's a very nice looking game.
  
  The sounds are pretty good too. The music is appropriate and not really a problem or a real element 
 to the game. The explosions and weapons sounds are also very nicely done. It's a very good overall 
 sound quality. The acting talent is good, too, but the variety of comments is limited. It does 
 get a little annoying to hear the same things over and over again. I will say that the cutscenes 
 are very well done. The overall look and sound as well as the acting make them fun to watch.
  
  In my opinion, the game play is where The Outfit really falls short. As I mentioned, the pathetic 
 accuracy in shooting is extremely annoying. Also, the single player missions are so redundant it's 
 pathetic. Only the scenery and bonuses change, everything else is the same. The game really lacks 
 that engaging feel to it which really detracts from the pleasure of playing it. There are some 
 gameplay elements that are positive, however. I like the Destruction on Demand. Getting weapons 
 and vehicles within seconds is a nice feature, even if it is unrealistic. Your squad is decently 
 helpful, but not very good at protecting themselves.
  
  For me, The Outfit is something to rent, but I wouldn't bother owning it. It just doesn't last 
 long enough and isn't interesting enough to play for a long period of time. I didn't get into the 
 multiplayer aspect very much at all. So, that may be it's redeeming quality, but I really can't 
 comment on it. It was a nice try, but wasn't completely well executed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrpieper17comet
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 18, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo and fell in love with the games multiplayplayer. Its really fast paced and competitive. 
 BUT its only fun if your winning. Losing sucks. This game has the saddest excuse for 360 graphics. 
 It looks like an average xbox 1 game. The dialogue is **** and kinda goofy. But the voice acting 
 is so good and funny it makes up for it. the single player consists of 12 missions. By mission 
 8 you bored as hell and playin for the 35 achievment points you get for beating it. The single 
 player is capture this defend that kill him over and over. IT SUCKS. I would reccomend renting 
 it first and if you like it like i do then buy it. If you love the demo then just save yourself 
 the ridiculous $8's that blockbuster charges and buy it right away. But i cant emphasis how awesome 
 and intense the online is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 24, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  The good: Good graphics, sound, fun game, destruction on demand makes this game unique.
  
  The bad: weapons tend to be inaccurate at times (take tank guns) , can't kill three men at once 
 with tank guns or artillery, short campaighn.
  
  This is a good game, don't get me wrong, but it could've been a lot better with some changes.
 
  
  But i still like this game. It's very unique, characters have a good mixture of personality, and 
 destruction on demand is cool. It never seems to get old or boring.
  
  The graphics aren't the best but do make it to X360 standards. There are some cool weapons in this 
 game and fighting is pretty fun. This WWII shooter is a very fun one, but not as fun as COD 2. 
 Its not as fast-paced.
  
  One kindof stupid thing is that they kill of Deuce. THey do have a replacement i think. That priest 
 sure is a murderur. Oh well, Deuce wasn't a great character, except when it comes to tanks.
  
  Overall, I like this game, although it could be al ittle better, it will draw andy gamer who 
 likes WWII shooters or any fan of tactical shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitsel
Rating: 3.8
Date: Apr 16, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  This is the only game to date that I could not stand to play for more than five minutes. As I said... 
 "Whats Worse, The Story or The Gameplay???" ... Well, probobly the creators. Seriously, who puts 
 heavy metal music on the menu screen!? WWII people, not modern warfare were talking about here. 
 You can actually run around the enemy directly to your objectives in this game, you will get shot 
 a billion times and still be able to walk around and pick flowers. And the so-called "Fully-Destructible 
 Enviorments" arent that great. They were better in black. Here, you shoot in the corner of a building 
 and bricks dont crumble down and dust fly around, no instead, a mis-shaped hole just appears in 
 the development-selected area of the house, in other words, sometimes the damage will appear were 
 you shot a rocket at it, other times it will be ten feet away. And its not fully-destructable, 
 tank traps, barbwire, rocks, mountain sides, the very ground you walk on has no reaction AT-ALL 
 to tank fire or grenade fire. Do not rent it, do not download the demo, just see it and walk away, 
 skip the first part of that if possible! THQ has officially brought dishonor to wargames! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowplayinghalo
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  strategy and action. hmmm. but his is one game that is really good. it hink you have to like strategy 
 games, shooters, and action games, as well as open and big leveled games like far cry ,to like 
 this game. this is like a superhero  
 game, and you are almost invincible to regular bullets and you have infinite ammo, but it just 
 makes this game better. the destruction on demand is the best system i ahve ever seen in a game, 
 letting you call down troops, turrets, artillery, tanks, apcs, and jeeps (not to mention awsome 
 air strikes) , all at the cost of some easy earned credits for blowing stuff up. you can place your 
 "units" anywhere close to you and rotate them any angle you want. 3 enemy tanks coming down that 
 road? call in a piece of artillery right at your feet and blow em up. or use an air strike. or 
 call in a tank of you own to kill them. out of time srry this is an awsome game tho you should 
 rent it to see if u like it first
  solid 9 for me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadeyedan75
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 12, 2006 6:09 am PT
Review:  Have any of these reviewers who gave it a below average score actually played it? Or maybe they 
 have played it and got stuck at a certain point and instead of saying it was to hard, have just 
 brushed it off as being cr*p? 
  
  Outfit is superb fun both on and offline, the attention to detail in the maps is superb, the sounds 
 are spot on, the gameplay is fast and frantic and once it has you it rarely lets up :) 
  The ability to destroy absolutely anything in the game thats not a mission point is also very good. 
 Reminds me off a sort of crossbred between Wolfenstien and Mercenaries, which is a bloddy good 
 thing in my eyes.
  Please, dont let this game pass you by just because of a few self opinated veiws, it is far better 
 then most of the other so called next gen games on the 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBiohazard
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 11, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  This game isn't worth paying money for.. I went into a Game store this weekend to trade it in (because 
 it wouldn't run in PAL60 mode) and the guy in the store said I was the only person he'd ever seen 
 you'd bought the game!! - Looks good in the movies and in pictures, but it's a waste of time buying 
 it.. I reckon you're better off saving your money for Battlefield 2 ! That will be out by the time 
 you read this! ;-)
  
  I'm glad that the Game guy gave me a straight swap as I managed to get Tomb Raider instead... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rasgueado
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 10, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  The Outfit is the new action/strategy title from Relic & THQ. The game boasts a massive level 
 of destructibility to the game world and the ability to set up an elaborate set of defenses on 
 the fly in 3D. Despite having a few problems with the game play, The Outfit still manages to be 
 fun, especially on Xbox Live. 
  
  The story in The Outfit takes place during World War II (yet again) and follows the caveats of 
 an elite group of operatives that specialize in doing the impossible. The characters of J. D. Tyler, 
 Tommy Mac, and Deuce Williams are all over-the-top caricatures of old war movie heroes. The story 
 involves some renegade generals from the German Army and the SS, and really just serves as a backdrop 
 for blowing up a lot of the French countryside. Despite having decent voice acting, complete with 
 campy accents, the story fails at being all that compelling.
  
  The actual game play of The Outfit fares a little better than the story in the single player mode. 
 Once a map begins you are offered a choice of selecting one of the three heroes to take command 
 of and a point on the map to spawn at. Players familiar with the multiplayer style of Wolfenstein 
 or the Battlefield series will recognize the series of flagged checkpoints that dot the map. Once 
 spawned the player is free to roam the map looking for Germans to annihilate with all manner of 
 nifty tools and weapons. 
  
  The Destruction on Demand system is the buzzword given to the menu used to call in military hardware 
 and reinforcements to use. Using a single button press and a radial menu the player can select 
 from different types of emplacements, vehicles, and remote strikes to call in from HQ. Once the 
 order is placed, the delivery is usually made via parachute unless its an artillery strike. The 
 system relies on having enough field units in order to purchase the requisite hardware. These points 
 are generally easy to obtain and frugal players will have no trouble efficiently using them without 
 worrying about running out. The actual placement of gun pillboxes and anti-tank guns is performed 
 in real time on the game map and is very easy to do. It isnt the fastest 3D strategy system around 
 but it works well in allowing the player to quickly set-up a proper defense when taking strategic 
 points.
  
  In addition to the strategic points on the map that allow you to re-spawn after dying, there are 
 also some tactical buildings that add more advanced weaponry and vehicles to the destruction on 
 demand system. There are three types of building capture points that appear on basically every 
 map in the single player game: Radio Tower, Armory, and Motor Pool. The Radio Tower allows you 
 to call in air strikes, the Armory is for bigger gun emplacements, and the Motor Pool is for the 
 meaner vehicles in the game like tanks.
  
  If all of this so far sounds very much like a real-time strategy game than youre absolutely right. 
 The game clearly uses a version of Relics in development Company of Heroes engine. (The development 
 team has a special thanks in the credits) In fact, comparing screenshots of the two games might 
 make it hard for some people to be able to tell the difference between the two. That being said, 
 the games' graphics look pretty good... though some of the models could use more detail as could 
 some of the textures covering the world. This won't be a game to show off the graphical prowess 
 of the xbox 360, but it doesn't also look *that* bad either.
  
  After playing through the entire single player campaign and several hours of multiplayer it seems 
 somewhat evident that this title was made quickly alongside of Company of Heroes but more like 
 an action oriented light version of that game. The multiplayer aspect of the game seems to be 
 where the strength of this title lies, and this shows in the single player campaign. Everything 
 about the single player campaign feels tacked on the individual maps that are played seem like 
 scripted versions of the multiplayer maps with bots instead of humans. The interface itself seems 
 to be stripped out of the multiplayer mode and awkwardly tacked in. The campaign also isnt very 
 difficult as its impossible to actually lose in the single player game. You can re-spawn as many 
 times as you need to.
  
  The multiplayer part of the game however is where this title shines. The multiplayer matches are 
 fun and hectic and really show off how this game is supposed to be played. A fully loaded team 
 based match isnt just fun, its VERY fun. The maps generally all have a nice design with some 
 greatly positioned check points for intense firefights. (Usually centered on one of the tactical 
 buildings) In order to win these multiplayer matches you have to think quickly and act even quicker 
 in order to stay one step ahead of your opponents. One of my favorite details is centered on the 
 Radio Tower in multiplayer, which not calls in air strikes, but also allows you to listen to what 
 the enemy team member in your line of sight is saying to his team. 
  
  Should you be able to get your hands on the motor pool long enough in multiplayer to call up a 
 tank, youll be treated to another small problem with the game. The vehicle controls, while sensible 
 in theory, are somewhat awkward in practice. Players experienced with Battlefield are likely used 
 to the idea of moving the turret independently of the body what is strange about the outfit is 
 that the turret is linked with the camera which will not move unless the player moves it. What 
 this means is that in order to effectively drive ANY vehicle (cars use the same system strangely 
 enough) you must use both sticks in order to drive without colliding with walls or even worse 
 a steep incline. 
  
  The Outfit definitely has some problems. The single player game feels like a series of scripted 
 bot matches tied together with cutscenes and isnt anywhere near as fun as this game COULD be. 
 The multiplayer game on the other hand *is* very fun, though you will have to play it on Xbox live 
 hopefully you have friends that also own this game. The game might be a little pricey for those 
 people looking for a great action/strategy multiplayer game to play. Should you find this title 
 at a cheaper price its definitely a great game to pick up *if* youre actually going to play the 
 multiplayer mode.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killocity
Rating: 4.9
Date: Apr 8, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  I picked up The Outfit knowing that it was a game to be taken pretty much lightly. I expected to 
 have a fun experience, nothing sim-based or anything, but still enjoyable and I expected to blow 
 stuff up. The good news is, the game pretty much offers that. The bad news is that's all it offers, 
 and it wears thin quickly. The breakdown on this one is as follows:
  
  Graphics: Not bad, but not good either. I'd say you could compare it with some of the late titles 
 for the original Xbox. Character models are passable, as are vehicles. Environments are pretty 
 well done. Because it's third person, you don't really see the guns much. Explosions are the game's 
 redeeming quality. A certain satisfaction comes from blowing up an enemy tank and watching it explode 
 into a million pieces.
  
  Sound: Some funny dialogue, but repetitive mostly. Guns sound alright. Everything here is basically 
 average. Voice acting is just kinda.. there. Not good, not bad.
  
  Control: Complex at first, with all the troop commands and calling in support that goes on. After 
 a while, you can sort of get used to it. But you never get used to driving the vehicles, especially 
 tanks. How hard is it to put in good vehicle controls ffs? 
  
  Entertainment: The ability of being able to blow the crap out of everything makes me think "The 
 Ownage" would have been a better name for this game. If you can see it, you can not just destroy 
 it, but smash it into little pieces. The first time I drove a half track right through a sandbag 
 barricade, smashing the enemy soldiers who were firing the machine guns at me was quite satisfying. 
 However, that's the big achilles heel for this game: the enemy. You can run over an enemy soldier, 
 and watch him get back up like it was nothing. No joke. One time I ran a soldier over with the 
 tank, he got up, I shot him in the face with the main tank cannon, he got up, I got out the tank 
 and popped him again in the face with my pistol and he finally died. WTF is up with that? And since 
 capturing buildings means ensuring that there are no enemy soldiers whatsoever around, this can 
 be a MAJOR pain in the neck and make the game feel more like work than fun. The game is pretty 
 tough at points, and can cause you to play through some sections alot more than once. Multiplayer 
 is "eh" in my opinion, and the single player campaign is extremely repititious, packed full of 
 "Capture this building. Ok, now capture that building. Oh no, the first building is under attack! 
 Go save it!" missions.
  
  All in all, if you just want to blow s#@$ up, then this game could be for you. If you want depth, 
 you won't find it here. The multiplayer may help you burn a few hours though. Bottom line, I'm 
 going to say a rental for this one at most, unless you just absolutely fall in love with the multiplayer. 
 You more than likely will not with the single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jabberywocky
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 8, 2006 6:12 am PT
Review:  From the moment you first put in the disc until the very final level its clear that THQs World 
 War II shooter, The Outfit, is aiming not for historical representation or accuracy but rather 
 attempting to combine over-the-top cinematic action with a liberal dose of artistic licence to 
 its much revered source material. Its this notion that offers the games main strengths and, sadly, 
 weaknesses as the game opts a unique and welcome idea of inserting real-time-strategy elements 
 to an otherwise clichd game model, that of a third-person run-and-gun blaster, with its unique 
 selling point; cleverly named Destruction on Demand, a feature that supposedly provides the player 
 tactical freedom while in the field with support units and munitions. What this boils down to is 
 having to accrue field unit points by slaughtering adversaries which can then, contrastingly, be 
 traded in for back-up and supplies at your discretion. 
  
  At the beginning the player is provided very little scope or freedom with which to use the DoD 
 system and, despite an intuitive ring-based interface using the Y button, the monotony and linearity 
 of the levels becomes abundantly clear as, while there are differing enemies to kill and obstacles 
 to navigate, the principal of each level remains identical throughout. Each level issues specific 
 mission-based objectives, be they capturing radio towers or motor pools, and once captured these 
 provide the player the right to purchase upgraded supplies, armour and vehicles through the DoD 
 menu. Its as though the games been designed with attention deficit players in mind as the player 
 is never provided much room for thought and, instead, is thrown wave after wave of enemies with 
 which to indulge their masochistic fantasies and, with each subsequent battle and support unit, 
 the more chaotic and visceral the damage becomes. 
  
  Your squad, a muscle-bound team off three clichs ripped straight from the pages of G. I. Joe, each 
 have their own unique commands and weapon selections to enable a little variety and player specific 
 tactical choices but, on the whole, each one plays much the same with a growing dependency on basic 
 squad commands as the carnage erupts. With each area and objective conquered you can increase your 
 firepower with tanks, air strikes and so on but this system offers little involvement or strategy 
 when planning an attach and, instead, offers much more use and opportunity when defending yourself 
 from the attacking German horde. 
  
  Multiplayer provides a much more interesting dose of much-needed action with the DoD system becoming 
 a necessity, rather than an option, during bouts. The games play mechanics make for an involving 
 battle between players that tests not only their skills with a weapon but also their ability to 
 make crucial tactical decisions on the fly. Live, split-screen and system link are all supported 
 with two game modes, Deathmatch (the atypical multiplayer mode) and Strategic Victory (a battle 
 relying on the capture of mission sensitive objectives, ala Capture The Flag) . 
  
  While the concept is sound and the elements undoubtedly strong theres something that doesnt quite 
 feel right while playing The Outfit, the vehicles are clumsy and inaccurate to control, aiming 
 can sometimes feel more like an judge of luck than skill, misbalanced weapon statistics than allow 
 foot soldiers to withstand a point-blank blast from tank shells and, despite its claim to feature 
 fully interactive and destroyable arenas, the battlefields are bland and lacklustre; buildings 
 noticeably collapse in a neat downward motion rather than explode catastrophically outwards in 
 a hail of brick and mortar. 
  
  In summary, The Outfit has a solid and honest concept at its heart but its one lacking consistency 
 and is instead wrapped up in frivolous ideas and pointless fluff. Considering the games attempts 
 to boil down the action genre to instant gratifying basics its a shame it didnt maintain that 
 ideology throughout, as it would have been a far better game for it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefycake
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 4, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  We seem to know or heard all about ww2. Probably youve studied ww2
  in good old history class or maybe your goodold grandpappy might have told you stories about the 
 war. And also weve seen films and documentary aswell. But one thing for certain, War aint fun at 
 all.. unless you put a little twist to it.
  the war game genre is becoming a huge trend in gaming, such as Medal of Honor, Call of Duty, Battlefield 
 2, and etc and now x-box 360 has introduced another edition to this genre. 
  The gameThe Outfit" does take place during the terrible time of the WW2,
  once again youll 
 battle it out with them pesky no good Nazis! ( grrr i hate them!) In the Outfit, there are 3 main 
 characters whom you can play throughout the game. J. D Tyler , Tommy Mac Sports and the Aviator 
 wearing fighter Deuce. Each character does posses unique features and abilties which is important 
 throughout. Some have particular weapons, such as a shotgun, Bazooka, Flamethrower and etc. And 
 with your abilities youll have to battle your way with other men to be victorious.
  Well the game, is seen in 3rd person shooter, much like what you see in Max Payne, Ghost Recon ( 
 you know what i mean) and youll need to use strategy, teamwork, good fire power, big tanks and 
 artillery and plenty of badass attitude.
  this game has up to 12 mission each are action packed, plenty of weapons and can be enjoyable. 
 You may assume that this game might share the same awesome intensity and hardcore battle as other 
 ww2 games had given, however The Outfit lacks big time.
  Sad to say people, The outfit was a disappointment. The AI isnt great, the weapons may have some 
 isssue, the mission and fighting can really be repeatative, and for a game meant for the x-360, 
 the powerful console, the graphics blew big time
  Overall The Outfit was an ok game, you guys should give it a try,
  however this is a dissapointing 
 x-box 360 games.
  
  But still you can fight them lousy Nazis, and you just say
  "Nazis, I hate these guys!)
  
  Pros: interesting cast, not bad sounds, fun to play for a while, 
 blow up Nazis!
  It has The A-team feel to it!
  
  Cons: bad A. i, poor weapons performance, very repeatative gameplay
  very disappointing graphics 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Languish
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 4, 2006 1:19 am PT
Review:  I got this on the off-chance as i had been highly let down by another eagerly anticipated title 
 on the 360. It was the only game around at that time so i thought why not? I liked the demo enough 
 to at least try it and take it back if it wasnt any good. Wow. It's far better than i was anticipating. 
 
  
  I have children as well who it is already an instant hit with. The game is very easy to pick up 
 and play. The only real thing you need to master is the "destruction on demand" feature of the 
 game. The maps are well designed, spacious, and give a good feel of warfare in WW2. The Multiplayer 
 player maps are no letdown either. A combination of claustraphobic urban environments to the farmlands 
 of normandy. 
  
  Voiceovers provided by well known actors, very realistic weapon/vehicle sounds, serve to only provide 
 a more immersive experience. I don't had a HDTV but i bet it looks even better there. I would strong 
 advise anyone to at least try this game. It's surprisingly good in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a7medy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 30, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  first of all this is one the best xbox 360 i liked this game but i didnt like the review at all 
 2 be honest i review this game 9 out of 10..... 4 real this game is good but the some ppeople like 
 the idea but not the game i agree this is not the next gen. but its one of the beast if you like 
 war game you will realy gona like this game just go and try it and if you didnt like it you must 
 try the reaaaaal war game and its battlefieald mc woooooooooow thanks 4 reading my review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djmakesomenoise
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 29, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  When I first played the demo for this game before the full version was out, I loved it. I thought 
 it was a great new and fun way to get away from the dark dungeonesque first person shooters for 
 a while. I don't think the single player mode lacks all that much depth.. or maybe I'm just easy 
 to please, but, I've seen worse, and really its just one big challenge. I mean hell, theres plenty 
 of games out there with repetitive bad guys jumping from behind corners and yet they turn out to 
 be one of the greatest games ever (cough.. Halo.. cough) . There are a few issues I have with the 
 camera and the occasional crouching grenade toss that doesn't go in the right direction, or seemingly 
 complete loss of control when your vehicle runs up the side of a steep hill. I definitely think 
 there should be a sequel to this game that perfects these little annoying flaws.. I know I missed 
 a few, but whatever, I enjoy the simplicity of concept here.. and will continue to.. peace out 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evil_monkey248
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 28, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  So I bought this Game, for 49.99. I start Playing, and Its Very Good, The Game is Third Person, 
 and has "Cartoony like" Graphics, not like Call of Duty. You Can Buy Tanks, Artillary, Machine 
 Guns, and Other Vehicles. You have 3 or More other Team-mates Help you, Multiplayer is ok, and 
 the Single Player Campaign is good. When you Purchase a Tank or something Else, it Falls in a Giant 
 Box, almost Instanly. To Purchase the Weapons and Vehicles, you use Credits which you earn by Killing 
 people, and Completing Objectives. There are 3 Main Characters you can be, a Captain, a Sargent, 
 and I Forget the Last one. You can Hijact Enemy Vehicles, and Have Airstrike Bomb your ememys.
 
  
  GRAPHICS: Good, but not for 360.
  
  SOUND: Nothing New...
  
  GAMEPLAY: Very fun at First, but Gets Boring after a while.
  
  REPLAY VALUE: There is Multiplayer 
 (Online) and SplitScreen. No Singlr player, except Campaign.
  
  In the End, the Graphics are Good (but not next Gen) and Gets Boring after a while. For 59.99 I 
 would not buy it, but anything less is ok. I would buy Call of Duty 2, Instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psycopathicsk8r
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 28, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  This game has great splitscreen and online modes but the single player lacks variety. If you have 
 online and don't play single player a whole lot on games anyway like me, then i'd get it. I got 
 it just for the Live Gameplay. Mostly it's 2 on 2 but you can get 3 on 3 online also. It seems 
 like if you get over 6 total it just lags way to much. Kinda hard to get into a ranked game too. 
 Overall, I'm REALLY glad that I bought this game. Just for the Multiplayer. It's Like a strategy 
 and shooter put into one game. Pretty Unique. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unlimitedkiller
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 27, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  Well it came out as the same time as ghost Recon so i thought it was gonna be a little bit more 
 then what it ended up being. It seemed like a super amesome game because all of the hype that they 
 gave it but it ended up being a let down the best way of describing it is gi joes going around 
 fighting kinda cool but you die to much at least you respawn and that helps but this game has no 
 replay value. This is one of them games to wait forever for and pick up in the barggain bin its 
 not worth the 60 bucks i spent on it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr-sheep
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 27, 2006 6:28 am PT
Review:  I bought this game with the thought that it would be just like Battlefield expect in a 3rd person 
 view. The thing is.... it wasn't. Its got everything that the BF series has but it just doesn't 
 quite nail it that well.
  
  The graphics are quite good actually. But, there are other 360 games out there that surpass this 
 game's graphics. 
  
  The gameplay its self is quite entertaining. There is a system where you get to sort of like "order" 
 troops to come in as reinforcements. You can order things from tanks to infantry men. While playing 
 you will earn a bunch of points which you can use to buy reinforcements. Though it is fun to kick 
 Nazi ass, you will eventually get bored of this game....
  
  Overall, if your a hardcore WWII fan don't buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ConMan09
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 26, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  The Outfit offers a great multiplayer experience but not the best singleplayer or graphics. In 
 this game you are in a squad of 4 people called the Outfit. German enemies, General Hans Von Beck, 
 General Viktor Morder, and Nina Diederich, are attacking your American troops and you and your 
 squad must stop them. To stop them you must use you shooting skills and brains. Also with the help 
 of Destruction on Demand you can order backup, vehicles, weapons, and air strike to give you an 
 advantage. This game offers a great story line but the single player doesnt bring it to you.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay in this game is not the best. They controls take some time to get used to. But after 
 you are used to them its like a walk in the park. On a hardness scale I would say it takes about 
 20min to 40min to get used to. But that is just me. The thing that troubles me the most is RB and 
 LB, RB sprints while LB switches weapons. So overall I would give them a 8.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics... well lets just say there not as good as they could have been. With the Xbox360's 
 power they should have been next gen, but they were anything but that. But also to say they are 
 not that horribly bad. I was just saying that they could have been much better. The graphics are 
 pretty good. So overall I would give the graphics a 8.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound in my opinion is great! The guns sound like guns and the explosions sounds like explosions! 
 I know that you are probably thinking there supposed to, but in many games the guns sound more 
 like a somebody falling down the stairs. But overall the sound is amazing and is one of the best 
 things about the game, so I will give it a 10.
  
  Singleplayer:
  
  The single player is fun but repetitive. In almost every mission you either capture the outpost 
 or radio tower or blow up a building. But dont make that sound like blowing stuff up isn't fun 
 because it is! The enemies are fun to shot at and light on fire, but it does get repetitive. So 
 out of the possible 10 I will give singleplayer a 8.
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  This is where this game shines! This is the main reason to get this game. Many different maps and 
 game types really makes this fun. Plus playing the people on Xbox Live is even better. With all 
 the weapons and vehicles I know you will find something to do. Also make you own clan and play 
 with people on your friends list. So if you want a good multiplayer game than this is for you. 
 Overall for this I will give it a 10.
  
  Replay Value:
  
  Replay in this game is not the best, but at some times can be very fun! Although the missions are 
 repetitive some missions are still fun to repeat. This game doesnt have the best replay value 
 but it does have some. But if you are looking for a game that you can play single player over and 
 over, I dont think this is the game for you. So overall for replay value I will give it a 7.
 
  
  Overall:
  
  Overall this game packs in a big punch of fun multiplayer action, short but sweet single player, 
 big guns for massive destruction, and really big explosions. This is a game for those who either 
 want a great multiplayer of a fun singleplayer game where you might only want to beat it once or 
 twice. So if you an Xbox360 you should go out and get it for its intense multiplayer action! Also 
 if you want an action packed singleplayer game than this is the perfect game for you!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wasup109
Rating: 4.2
Date: Mar 26, 2006 5:34 am PT
Review:  This game has a high reach in it. I would have liked it but somehow it just didnt make the cut. 
 This just sucks. First of all i did not like the buying reinforcements thing. Very very unattractive 
 in my mind. Wait a second i shouldnt even be talking. If u have a xbox 360 dont buy this game. 
 I dont get it this game just sucks. I cant believe i took good time to review this piece of crap. 
 I mean the graphics arnt even that good. Get GRAW if u want a shooter. Cannot explain the stupidity 
 of the develepors when they made this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcwadsworth
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 25, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  The Outfit is a highly enjoyable (but flawed) game to play, when was the last time you played a 
 game like this?
  
  The laughs come from the fact that you can destroy just about everything you see and I mean everything!!!!
 
  
  However after a few hours I started to get board so I tried the online play and found this game 
 suffers big time from spawn point campers I played this guy all he did was sit on my spawn point 
 with a rocket tank and it was game over fro the start point less!!!!!
  
  So my view of the outfit is this:
  
  Will make you laugh 
  You will enjoy this game (for 
 a while)
  Good for wet Sundays stuck in doors
  Blow things up!!!!!
  
  Bad points 
  
  Wont be played in the long term
  Each level is basically the same 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: forgotten_relic
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 25, 2006 5:01 am PT
Review:  This game was very sweet tp play. I was hooked and was unable to put the controler down. I liked 
 and was impressed at the fact you can desrtoy anything in the game. The story line was fair and 
 the monuverablilty was good. The graphics was great also. 
  
  The single player mode was not to bad. Some times I felt the opposing force was on some kind of 
 crack when they drove. Some times they had very bad aim when up close to you. Like I said to my 
 brother one day "you could not hit water even if you fell out of a boat". The game did keep you 
 in the game and did make you feal like you were in a real battle. The sound effects were awsome. 
 The explosions and the sounds of tanks and plains were very real. 
  
  The multiplayer was really great. I played my brother and i had a blast. WE have played for hours 
 on end and the game has keept us very interested and we are building up stratagy's for going after 
 other people. I like the on demand ability for equipment. When you buy it it then drops down right 
 at your location. This ability is very helpful a lot. Im glad you dont have to go to a point in 
 the game and then get granted a tank or a wepon.
  
  I recomend this game to anyone who likes a good battle without the fuss or hastle you would get 
 with the other war games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evian
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 23, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  This looked an OK game but boy was I wrong, it is the same as Mercanaries but worse, at least in 
 Mercs there were civilians to kill and you could actually fly! The outfit has got to be the most 
 dissapointing game I have ever bought to date, It was second choice when I couldn't get Ghost Recon 
 AW, and after merely three or four hours (no exaggeration) of playing I already didn't like it, 
 the missions are unbelievably repetitive, it's always: capture this position, take over this base, 
 take over the communication tower and so on; it barely varies.
  As for the gameplay, very robotic and the choice between the three different characters isn't very 
 special at all. The graphics get a bad mark because when you look at Ghost Recon AW they're an 
 embarresment in comparison. You can obviously still tell it's an Xbox 360 game from the explosions 
 or the graphics on the rocks, though no way does it achieve the potential of the 360.
  The vehicles and weapons are let down by the sound, when driving a tank there is no 'umph' when 
 hitting a wall or other vehicle; same for a powerful weapon. So I think this is only a game to 
 rent as I don't think many people will want to replay the game alot of times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wayne70
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 23, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  The suckfit is more like it. I really thought this game would be good, boy was I surprise. The 
 graphics are about 6, the one player mode suck and repetitious. The only good thing is co op and 
 that was fun first couple of time and now just boring. I thought graphics in Mercenaries was much 
 better game than this and that was x-box not 360. They did not use gem capabilities in this game 
 at all. This could have been a much better game than what it was. The online is the only thing 
 that could save this game. I will be trading this game in, it is a defenite rental game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaloMaster21
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 21, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is what I would consider to be a coulda woulda shoulda. It could've been a much more 
 high quality game whole still retaining the arcadey gameplay, but to put it lightly, it just wasnt 
 polished. 
  
  Gameplay: This is The Outfit's high point. It is a break from all those Battlefield/Ghost Recon 
 style games while being a little (not much) more serious than a Halo or other scifi shooter. Think 
 destroy all humans mixed with Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter (or insert any SOCOM title here) .
 
  
  Graphics: This is The Outfit's low point. They are better than xbox... but thats where it stops. 
 Very plain, bland, been there done that, nothing special kind of feel. You get where I am going.
 
  
  Sound: Well, I never consider sound to be a make or break point, but for a review's purpose I will 
 say that the sound is average. The voices are cartoony, but the sounds are realistic, but repetitive.
 
  
  Value: Not worth $60, but definately worth a $10 rent. Even if you have to keep it for an extra 
 week and pay a late fee, it is worth it. You will have fun with this game.
  
  Tilt: You will have fun with this game, but the question is... how long. You will not fly through 
 the achievements, but you will get some rather quickly, so if you like gamerpoints, there is a 
 good opportunity here. Just some of the time consuming challenges you will have to forget about 
 (such as 1000 multiplayer kills) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaN_U_DiGiT454
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 21, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  All though the single player is questionable the multiplayer isn't. I can't seem to put it down. 
 Its hard to describe what the gameplay is like. Its almost like its own genre. Listen carefully 
 the heros say some hilarious phrases. O my best monicle, No!
  
  though the single player is questionable the multiplayer isn't. I can't seem to put it down. Its 
 hard to describe what the gameplay is like. Its almost like its own genre. Listen carefully the 
 heros say some hilarious phrases. O my best monicle, No!
  
  All though the single player is questionable the multiplayer isn't. I can't seem to put it down. 
 Its hard to describe what the gameplay is like. Its almost like its own genre. Listen carefully 
 the heros say some hilarious phrases. O my best monicle, No! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedX46
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 21, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game to play. i love the multiplayer. the single player suckz!!!!!
  This game does have a bad aiming, u have to aim like 3 feet below the enemys body!!!!!!!! but over 
 all i give this game a 8.5 if u think wrong tell me ok!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! If u own this game 
 and u dont like it take it back and save up for G. R. A. W. But other wise keep it this is a wonderful 
 and exciting game. it makes me want to jump up and shout just like i was wacthing a football  
 SO BUY IT AND DO NOT PLAY THE SINGLE PLAYER,,,,,,,,,,,,, PLAY THE  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarmoti1
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 21, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  The outfit has been underrated to say the least. the mane problem with it is it came out around 
 the same day as Ghost Recon Advanced War-fighter which over shone it by a mile. The Game play was 
 particularly repetitive but made up for it with an excellent multi player mode. The gun power could 
 have been made more powerful and could have been boosted by a little squad action. The fully destructive 
 environment idea would have been excellent in this title. The game would have been more impressive 
 if it was released over Christmas when there were fewer games of the genre out .Over all it is 
 a great buy but not worth the 50 pounds they charge for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voodoomaster18
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 21, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  This game was all hyped up about three months ago. Now that it has come out, everyone went out 
 and bought it. What a mistake that was. This game is purely made for multiplayer, and that isnt 
 even that good, so what does this game give to you, nothing. Multiplayer all depends on if you 
 have a team who can take the bases and hold them with artillery and gun emplacements, thats it. 
 Single player is really stupid, when you kill the opposition, they just send in more and more until 
 you get killed, so what you have to do is run in with a tank, take the base, and defend it off 
 for say 2-3 minutes before it is totally under your control. If you dont have enough FUs for a 
 tank, then it gets really frustrating. Your team's AI is really stupid and clunky when the other 
 team's AI will snipe you all the way across the map. So all in all, Multiplayer doesnt seem to 
 quite cut the edge of the next generation, singleplayer is a waste of time and the achievements 
 are all pretty stupid, and games online can take away from the fun for being laggy or for the host 
 having an advantage over you. (Like in Halo 2, you shoot, he shoots, you die.) Just rent this game, 
 it will save you sixty dollars, i guarentee it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 20, 2006 11:25 pm PT
Review:  The Outfit is fun as hell but not next generation enough to stand up next to the likes of Ghost 
 Recon 3. Then again who can stand up to Ubisofts Unreal Engine 3 powered masterpiece right? Ghost 
 Recon 3 or Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is the first definitive next generation game on the 
 first next generation console ( Xbox 360) . Just play the single player campaign and your $500 purchase 
 will be worth the money. You'll see. Back to The Outfit which is a fun game but I already said 
 that. If you liked Mercenaries for the PS 2 or the Xbox, then this game is for you. Personally 
 I never played much of Mercenaries but did find it immensly fun when I did play through the demo 
 on my Xbox 1. The Outift is like that but with a shot of steroids, HUMOR and classic World War 
 2 cliches that seem cool due to the fact that its handled properly. 
  
  Relic is in fine form in this territory and The Outfit seems like a dumbed down version of Relics 
 great and amazing PC game, Warhammer 40,000 : Dawn of War and it expansion, Winter Assault. The 
 reason for that is you capture strategic points just like in Warhammer but instead in a simplified 
 manner and you do not have a base of operations. You simply capture a point that enables you to 
 build vehicles in order to call in vehicles. This doesn't make much sense at all since you are 
 calling in airstrikes anyway but since the gameplay is so fun, it doesn't really matter at all. 
 
  
  Its pretty obvious most of the development team is compromised of new employees at Relic due to 
 the fact that while the game looks great, its almost missing the level of polish normally seen 
 in Relics PC offerings. Its looks great due to personal style but for the Xbox 360, it falls completely 
 short graphically speaking. I mean the Xbox 360 can easily do this if you've seen what Ubisoft 
 did with Ghost Recon 3. Its almost like part of Relic that worked on this game did not even use 
 HALF of the hardware because they did not gauge its capabilites correctly but then again this IS 
 a first generation game for a next-generation console that just came out of Microsofts belly. Thats 
 not a bad thing, it just means the new employees need some time to become a Band of Brothers, or 
 rather a Company of Heros (see Relics next PC game) . 
  
  Put it this way, the best way to describe The Outfit is that its like the WILD offspring of Mercenaries 
 and Warhammer 40,000 : Dawn of War. If you liked either game or both, then you are in LUCK. Its 
 fun as hell, easy to learn and worthy of your time. Dig in and hold down the trenches, you are 
 in for some large explosions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenneth_H
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 20, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  I was right about to buy this game because i had been playing the demo and it was amazing to me. 
 I was right about to pay for the game at the store when i thought twice about buying it, so then 
 i rented it. i beat the single player in one day ( the single player was boring except i enjoyed 
 the videos) . The multiplayer is really fun but it does get boring after a while and i would not 
 recommend this game for buying. ( and there are quite a few bugs and glitches in the game which 
 had pissed me off in single player such as your vehicle getting stuck in wall) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rathca
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 20, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is worth renting, but not worth the $ 60 price tag. In all fairness , I havent tried 
 this game online yet but I cant see it making that big of a Difference. I really cant think of 
 anything else to say , but I have to w r i t e one hundred words so stop reading this this stop. 
 I d o n t k n o w w h y t h e y m a k e y o u w r i t e 1 0 0 w o r d s . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FamilyGuyFan507
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 20, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  In manys eyes this game is a disapointment and distroys all respect for xbox... well you can say 
 these people are on CRACK!! This game is mind blowing... The graphics are top notch and the characters 
 are pretty cool as well. Playing either Nazi's or Americans can be fun and enjoying expecially 
 with a friend along side. Xbox live plays is alright. However the story is very weird and doesnt 
 feel in depth... The camera can bug you at times and the A. I. for men can be stupid and helpless.
 
  
  Strengths:
  -Great Multiplayer game
  -Blow up stuff is fun
  -Nice little Characthers
  -Nice weapons and portable stuff
  -Nice Graphics and sounds make 
 it seem real life
  
  Weaknesses:
  -Weak camera
  -A. I. is dumb and dies to fast
  -Limited objectives makes the game get old
  
  Question:
  
  It is 1940s, so why does JD 
 have his hair bald when the style didnt come apart untill the 2000s?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amin915
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 20, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  Ive been reading alot of the reviews for the outfit and they all give the GAme bad reviews i think 
 they are very accurate. A Game should not rely on multiplayer it deserves at least a decent if 
 not very good story line. Which this game lacks i think this game shoud of stayed next gen and 
 in the $39.99 Price mark. I personaly dont own the but i played with one of my coworkers who kept 
 on blabing about it. He wanted me to check out the "awesome multyplayer". Which honestly i wasnt 
 impressed at all i became bored. I mean blow up s*** been there done that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonefun
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 20, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  This game is great, in my opinion one of the best Xbox360 games out. The gameplay is fantastic 
 and the havoc physics engine really shows in everything you do. Firing weapons the recoil makes 
 it feel so real and when you get slammed in the side by an anti-tank gun you almost feel your sides 
 hurt. The physics aside the graphics are ace too crystal clear and the attention to detail on the 
 models is fantastic. Not just the models all the particle effects etc all add up to make a really 
 pleasurable game. Finally to the gameplay I love it .. strategy and hands on action mixed into 
 a really workable bundle .. And I haven't even mentioned the multitude of mutliplayer options that 
 give the game endless longevity ! I honestly think this game was slammed by a reviewer who was 
 simply playing a game genre that they have no interest in. Gets a BIG thumbs up from me .. go buy 
 it .. play it and then review it and get that "You Say" score up where it belongs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: runcollie
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 20, 2006 1:45 am PT
Review:  the game is good but its not all I expected it to be. I thought you would be able to call in more 
 soldiers to help defend but instead you have to call in machine guns to defend and you can only 
 call in more soldiers when you loss some. it was not as chaotic as I thought it would be in the 
 game.
  the online is pretty good. but the game isn't a total downer. I'm not saying it sucks cause people 
 would hate me for that. I'm just saying that the game isn't all the stuff it said it would be like. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmoorton
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 19, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Finally an easy game to get into, for people who have busy lives. The multiplayer portion of this 
 game is great my friends and I have a blast playing this. It is really easy to jump into. And the 
 bonus is you can jump, and it is in 3rd person. Someone hiding behind a wall hell I just blow up 
 the wall. A very fun multiplayer concept. Looking forward to a part 2. They can really do a lot 
 with the whole idea. Its the start of a good franchise. They just need to polish up the graphics 
 and the single player portion of the game. Oh yeah and add more guns and more vehicles would be 
 nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_Kaliaver
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 19, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  The Outfit it a World War II 3rd person tacital shooter. It pulls in some ok (not too amazing for 
 next gen) graphics and some big explosions with an acual pretty good story!
  
  The Outfit in a whole is three soldiers Deuce, Mac, and Tyler getting a repot of a German general 
 who is killing many people. They find out it is General Von Beck who is killing all the people 
 so they go on a mission to find him and kill him. With so bumps along the way and a alliance no 
 one would think could happen. 
  The Cinematechs will make you feel like your watching a movie with base camps with humvies patrolling, 
 soldiers marching, and yelling over the loudspeaker.
  
  The Outfit puts out some good graphics and sound with the explosion which you will see over and 
 over again (even in the trialer) . good looking water and some ok looking landscapes. The sound 
 is pretty damn good with the bombs going off and planes flying over head to even the screams from 
 soldiers on fire from molotiv cocktails. It all pulls together to be ok.
  
  The Outfits gameplay is no let up its dishes out some good fighting with some good looking melee 
 kills and some nice tanks killing everything. The gameplay also sky rockets with multiplayer. With 
 Deathmatch to Destruction and Strategic Victory. Also don't forget about the achievements some 
 will be put in gameplay and some will be somwhat hidden or you will have to blow up them to even 
 know that they are achievments (so just blow up every damn thing) 
  
  The Outfit puts out some nice things but it wan't enogh to make it great. Really we need better 
 for this next gen. Overall rent it, its damn good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Striker1992
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Multiplayer is awesome. Single player isnt. Thats it. The multiplayer brought many qualitieds from 
 other genres and brought it together in the multiplayer specifically. Problems:
  
  1. bullets dont exactly hit were the crosshairs are.
  2. people get up after you hit them with 
 a tank.
  3. commanding soldiers to man guns can sometimes be frustrating.
  4. vehicle controls can be a pain in the neck.
  
  Plus side:
  1. artillery
  2. artillery
 
  3. artillery
  4. graphics are awesome
  5. strategy is awesome
  6. quik and easy understanding of the controls
  7. next gen definetely
  8. artillery
  9. revolver 
 awesome
  10. soldiers arent worthless
  11. unlimited ammo yay
  12. melee attacks yay
  13. artillery
  14.
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
 
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
 
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  
  
 ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  v
  ARtillery
  v
  ARtillery
  v
  v
  v
  v
  
 ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  v
  ARtillery
  v
  ARtillery
  v
  ARtillery
  v
  v
  ARtillery
  v
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
 
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
 
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  v
  ARtillery
  v
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  v
  v
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  vARtilleryARtilleryARtilleryvv
  v
  ARtilleryv
 
  v
  v
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtilleryvARtilleryARtillery
  ARtillery
  v
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  v
  v
  ARtillery
 
  v
  v
  ARtillery
  vARtilleryvv
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  ARtillery
  v
  v
  vv 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raretical
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 19, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  The Outfit is a good game.. not a classic Xbox 360 game but good for starters... The graphics are 
 cool and the fact that u can order air strikes is what reall y impressed me but... BUT!!... The controls 
 for the vehicle really ticked me off.. it took me 3 deaths just to figure out how to drive the tank 
 and half-track.. I loved the fact that you can repair the vehicles and order for reinforcments and 
 all that jazz... but again u had to wait a good..3.5 sec. and in that time frame you are D. E. A. D!! Blah 
 I say!!!!.. The multi [player online i tight as hell!!.. (seems to be that way with some xbox 360 
 games.... Perfect Dark Online anyone???) .. but with all that said it would be better if you rent 
 the outfit... not worth the money... but hey.. I got a free faceplate for my 360 for just putting 
 a $5 deposit.. in the words of Charlie Brown.. Good Grief!!.. and good-night Iowa!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ioioe
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 18, 2006 10:45 pm PT
Review:  This game over all is a ok-very good game. IT all depends if you have XBL (xbox live) Now if you 
 do this game is overall one of the best XBL game out there. Blowing Shi* up is fun.. but with 8 
 people its even better. The game modes are very.. blah but... blowing stuff up is fun!. Now the single 
 campain... All it is is the XBL game.. but with AI and a blah WWII story. If you want a GOOD WWII 
 story get COD 2 or something... but if you want a great XBL time... this game is one of the best!
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  Its ok its some what hard to learn the first time you play it but then it kind of becaumes 2 nature. 
 As i said before the story line is pretty bad. but the xbl time you will have it SO much fun. So 
 if you want a game to rent for a party this is the game for you. 
  
  Graphics
  
  There ok. The lip syncing is VERY bad and well... some things are good... but blowing stuff would 
 be much more fun if the building fell down diffenrt ways. But some things are good some things 
 are not.
  
  Sound
  
  Not much here just some minor off timeing sounds but still ok.
  
  Value
  
  Rent do not buy... thats all i have to say about that... just wait about a year 
 and watch it come down in price.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirLarr_basic
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 18, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Nazis: boil em, mash em, stick em in a stew, anything can be done to these guys. Relic took 
 this idea and ran with it to make their new third person shooter, The Outfit. The game has lots 
 of great ideas, but unfortunately  and god help me for saying this  killing Nazis in The Outfit 
 just isnt that fun.
  The Outfit follows the exploits of three barrel-chested, square-chinned, cigar-chomping true G. I. 
 Joe American heroes and their march of destruction across France. While the setting and themes 
 of the game are downright hilarious in their caricature, actually playing the game is more of a 
 chore than a destructive delight.
  Let me get this out of the way right up front. This game is very, very similar to Pandemic Studios 
 Mercenaries. So similar, in fact, that its easier to describe the gameplay by whats different 
 from Mercenaries than by whats similar.
  New vehicles and gun emplacements in The Outfit are ordered through a radial Destruction on Demand 
 menu, instead of through a pause menu. And, instead of going solo, a squad of four grunts follows 
 the player around, manning vehicles and helping gun down those dastardly Nazis.
  The Outfit also adopts a Battlefield-esque control point structure. Every map has control points 
 that, once captured, can be used as spawn points. There are various other buildings that provide 
 stronger gun emplacements or better vehicles once captured. Once the player dies, he can just respawn 
 at the last point captured.
  And thats where the differences end. The goal of each level is to capture some point or to kill 
 some officer, leveling waves of seemingly endless Nazi troops and tanks along the way. There are 
 various secondary challenges hidden in the levels, which usually entail blowing up X many of these 
 hidden items, or saving this many American troops / civilians.
  This sounds great, except for the fact that shooting things isnt fun. The guns are painfully inaccurate, 
 and Nazi troops take a good five hits to go down. This combined with the fact that groups of four 
 enemies parachute in every twenty seconds or so, make combating the basic enemies a serious annoyance. 
 
  Some Nazi troops can even be juggled via tank shells four or five times before they finally die. 
 If this is what Hitler was talking about when he wanted to craft the master race, he may have been 
 on to something.
  After an hour of playing The Outfit, the player will have seen all there is to see. By the fifth 
 mission I was already jaded by the repetition and ready for the game to end. Luckily, the game 
 didnt last much longer. With only twelve missions, The Outfit can be beaten in around five hours.
 
  Enemy vehicles take a frustrating amount of damage before they blow up as well. Often times at 
 the beginning of a level, the enemy will throw some if its best vehicles at you, whereas all you 
 have at your disposal is a basic transport and an arsenal of foul language.
  Many times this leads to suicide runs where the only goal is to deal a little damage to the unstoppable 
 Nazi death tank happily sitting directly in the way. When it takes ten minutes of dying to drop 
 a single tank, its obvious some gameplay tweaks are needed.
  The Outfit also promises the same playground of destruction toted by Mercenaries. All buildings 
 are destructible, the game even sports deformable terrain, allowing the player to crush the landscape 
 with the judicious application of democracy. Unfortunately, blowing stuff up in The Outfit is unsatisfying.
 
  Imagine that for the fourth of July, you buy a huge firecracker. Were talking the ones you have 
 to carry with two hands, ones that have skulls and crossbones on them; this is the firecracker 
 you had to slip the dude at the fireworks stand a twenty for before hed even talk about it.
  Imagine you get that firecracker, light it up, and run and hide behind a blast shield. Imagine 
 then, that this firecracker emits a pathetic pop and a pitiable puff of black smoke. This is what 
 you will feel when you try to blow stuff up in The Outfit; its disturbingly underwhelming and 
 unimpressive, when the whole game seems to say that it should be a blast.
  When a building is hit in The Outfit, theres a tiny puff, and a small hole. When the building 
 is damaged enough to fall over, it just collapses in on itself and disappears. Given that total 
 destruction is a major selling point of this game, it kills a good part of the appeal.
  The back of the case promises that the player can Shoot, blow up or demolish everything in your 
 path. This is true enough for sandbag walls and barbed-wire fences, but when building blow up, 
 they leave behind a square of rubble that cant be driven over. The whole point of blowing up a 
 building is that its in the way, and shouldnt be anymore. 
  Visuals offered by The Outfit are nothing noteworthy. They get the job done, but thats all that 
 can be said. The pastel greens of France are nice to look at, but its nothing that hasnt been 
 seen before. Sound is average as well. Various gunshots and Nazi screams are par the course for 
 this sort of game. 
  The Outfit does sport an impressive soundtrack though. The loading screens and title screens have 
 grand and powerful war march songs, and really amp the player for the glorious fight to come. Theres 
 not much music in game, but the music that is there does its job well.
  Relic deserves some credit for the character and creativity in the game. The characters and inter-level 
 movies are laced with tongue-in-cheek humor and hyper-patriotic military might. 
  The monocle-wearing, leather bound Nazis are hilarious. In one movie, a Nazi general guns down 
 his subordinate for questioning his order to slaughter women and children. I played through each 
 level looking forward to the next cut scene; theyre easily the most enjoyable part of the game.
 
  Multiplayer is a bit more fun than single player, with options ranging from one-on-one deathmatch 
 to four-on-four team battles. They even have two-player co-op. Adding other players to the mix 
 can freshen up the experience, but it doesnt fix the flaws in gameplay.
  There are some good ideas in The Outfit, and a lot of humor hidden behind tedious gameplay. The 
 Outfit can be fun, but not sixty dollars worth.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dominator957
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 18, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Very solid game. Plays well and i highly recomend it. The campain is very emersive and keeps you 
 tuned in for the langh of the game. The graphics can be a little choppy at times and i had a few 
 framrate issues, but otherwise it holds together. The multieplayer is superb and highly addictive, 
 being able to call a pile of AT guns and use them as artilery is very fun. The vehicals are well 
 blended into the game and are well balenced against everything, so that way no one goes on a tanking 
 spree and no one can stop them.
  
  The whole "Distruction on demand" idea is very well incorperated and, whell the idea has been aproched 
 befor, this game applyed it perfictly. It is very acsesible and very usefull. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AWalGamer
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 24, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Now, Reviewing my last thought on this game, I realize my stupidity. This game is awful. The most 
 you might want to do with the Outfit is rent it for the single-player campaign. The graphics are 
 bad, gameplay is dull, and multiplayer is bleak. This game may seem fun at first, but it will get 
 lost in the back of your game collection very soon. There's the truth!
  
  More Words More WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore 
 WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore 
 WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore 
 WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore 
 WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore WordsMore Words 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mace8704
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying I'm not even going to go into the single player campaign. The only thing 
 you need to know is that it's terrible. Watch gamespot's video review for more knowledge on the 
 single player campaign. However, the multiplayer is extremely fun, and is a breath of fresh air 
 in an overcrowded FPS market. In fact, I love everything about the multiplayer with a small amount 
 of exceptions.
  BAD
  -Lag in games with more than 4 players 
  -Spawn Camping becomes an issue every now and then
  -The gun balance is pretty bad.
  -Vehicle 
 control is very clunky "You do all the driving with one thumbstick"
  -Another game that won't let you play ranked matches with friends
  
  GOOD
  -Pretty much everything 
 except for the things I mentioned above
  -DESTRUCTIBLE ENVIRONMENTS
  -nice physics engine
  -The more you think strategically the better player you will become.
 
  -Lots of multiplayer maps
  -UNLOCKABLE WEAPONS!!!
  -The maps allow for multiple strategies "There are many ways to win"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EssaregeeX
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 17, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Well, here is a odd game; part Freedom Fighters, Part Battlefield 1942, part Jade Empire (because 
 of the style swich system (and mapping) being alike) . Imagine a firefight, WWII Intense action, 
 grenades exploding, artillery barrage, and then a tank falls out of the sky... 
  First off, this game does NOT look next Gen; crappy grapics, reflections, shading, and models dont 
 look 360 worthy at all. Poor AI, vehicle handling, unbalanced gameplay keep this game from being 
 all it can be. There is really noughting to be said about this game, its a game to be rented first 
 and then bought (if you can blow $60 on such a game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 17, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  For all the hype that the Outfit had, this game is a dissapointment. Sometimes all that press and 
 hype can be a very bad thing. Taken away from all that though is a decent game with some good humor 
 and fun within. The story was funny and was enough to keep you interested during the few moments 
 you weren't blowing things up.
  
  Gameplay - straight forward squad shooter. Don't worry about tactics... just order the biggest emplacements 
 you can find for defense and run forward guns ablaze
  
  Graphics - Would have been good on the XBOX, but I think they are a step down on the 360... comparable 
 to Mercanaries. BUT I think you can blow up more in the Outfit ;)
  
  Sound - There was sound in the game? I couldn't tell over the gunfire! The gun and vehicle effects 
 were nice, as were your squadmates and hero's comments thoughtout the game.
  
  Value - If you have the need for destruction, a good game... nothing exceptional but a good fun 
 time, particularly with FRIENDS (gamers can have them, right?) The campaign mode is SHORT so don't 
 be surprised if you play through it in a day or two... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HD_Gamer_J
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 17, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  When I was tracking this game months before it came out I thought it was going to be this corny 
 (PDZ kinda corny) 4 on 4 run and gun shooter that would just tank. But the game pulled a total 
 180. I didn't realize this until I played the demo on the marketplace. The game actually is in 
 no way a run and gun shooter, it is actually a total strategy game, which I love because I can 
 use my......... uh?........... whats that called again?......... oh yeah, my brain. It is a game where 
 you have to plan out your battle and strategize how to win the war. The game has a learning curve 
 of about an hour and a half which is why mindless FPS only players will not like it. At first many 
 will not like the game because they will not know what is going on, but if you have an open mind 
 like me you will give it some time and learn the buttons, how to play, and how to win. The Outfit 
 has turned out to be one big surprise of a gaming masterpiece that I think has basically started 
 its own genre and is not for the mindless. If you like to have fun I strongly recommend that you 
 give The Outfit a chance. You will be hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halofreak445
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2006 3:45 pm PT
Review:  well firstly i must say the one thing that dissapointed me about this game was the single player 
 campaign. it was fun at first but did get tedious rather quickly. but that doesnt matter does it? 
 look at halo 2. the single palyer on it was not very good at all but it got a 9 or smtin. this 
 game redeams itself in the same way. the first day i picked it up i played the single player campaign 
 for about an hour and got bored i almsot put it down but figured id check out the multiplayer and 
 i was COMPLEATLY blown away. i had and still have immense fun with the multiplayer. the way you 
 can call in support and the way teamwork is NECESSARY to win realy made me enjoy the game. the 
 first day i picked 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GR-ICEMAN
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 17, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Does THQ/Relic they we are all llittle kids?? I spend much more money each year on games and developers 
 better start remembering the 20-30 range of gamers need substance. This game is really lame and 
 the multi player is juvinile.. We really need thes eotehr devlopers to look at Ghost Recon 2, not 
 the advancedd warfighter, that's anotehr story.. People want to play way games with good graphis, 
 basic controlls and the ability to move all over the map like real life. Also look at Call to Duty, 
 a great game with only connectivity issues. If you continue to make thse games developers will 
 drive folks to otehr platforms, (PS2, etc.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Will171
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 17, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  every one is giving this game poor reviews and that is unbelivible. people look right at the ok 
 graphics and say this game sucks. but you have to look at the the game itself. its a stradegy shooter 
 which has online coop and awsome online game play, it has many detailed completly destructible 
 maps and and a fun campain. this game was not intended to be the best looking game out, it makes 
 up for that with its fun gameplay. if you are on the borderline of geting this game or not i highly 
 recomend you buy it is worth 60 dollars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kallale
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 17, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  The graphics aren't as good as they could have been but the draw distances are huge. That said, 
 this is a multiplayer game with a single player campaign tacked on. All the reviews I've read and 
 just slammed the single player game, and rightly so. It gets really repetitive and anyone who has 
 played the game for any amount of time comes to realize that this game is made for multiplayer. 
 The is a next gen game for that reason... it focuses on multiplayer. Playing on XBOX live is more 
 fun than I've had in a video game in a long time. You have to communicate with your team mates, 
 watch your flanks and make sure your strategic objectives are safe. If you aren't into online gaming 
 don't bother with this game, but if you enjoy competition and a game that amounts to Giants meets 
 WWII FPS w/ up to 8 players this is good stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Silly
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  I bought this game the day it came out and have been playing non stop since then. This is a game 
 that sticks to the roots of gaming and just tries to be fun instead of many of the games coming 
 out lately which truly appeal to graphics whores but arent all that much fun. 
  
  The graphics aren't bad, they look like a 360 launch title but a still very nice and the draw distance 
 basically lets you see across the entire map.
  
  The gameplay in it is great. Its alot of fun running around shooting nazis with a shotgun and the 
 DoD menu which allows you to call in vehicles, air strikes and gun nests is very useful and keeps 
 the action going. To use DoD all you do is press Y and then scroll around a circle looking for 
 what you want. Takes about 10 seconds and walla! You got a half track. Every vehicle is there for 
 the taking, even the wheelbarrows, farm trucks and hitler car. The vehicles drive nicely though 
 I've seen complaints. You get used to them after a while and the way there done it really allows 
 you to aim and drive at the same time. Most vehicles also have a secondary machine gun which is 
 great.
  
  The sound is great. It really gives you the feeling of action. Theres also very nice music playing 
 in the background which adds to the game. 
  
  The single player campaign is alot of fun and takes about 10 hours to beat. Its got great replay 
 value. The campaign is alot more destructive then the multiplayer because theres so much more to 
 blow up and I gotta say....... WOW! Its just crazy, Theres buildings collapsing and walls smashing 
 apart and everything has some nice physics on them. 
  
  The multiplayer is even better. You have 3 modes to chose from. Destruction, Strategic Victory 
 and deathmatch. All very good modes. The online is very competitive and even if your losing bad 
 you can always come back and win. 
  
  I would highly recommend this game to any fan of fun. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueX1620
Rating: 4.4
Date: Mar 17, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  The game itself seems too basic to even be released on the Xbox 360. This game just didn't seem 
 to cut it on many different levels of interest.
  
  The levels all seem the same. You start at the beginning with one military base to re-spawn at 
 and you basically take over more of the same as you walk from start to finish. There isn't much 
 strategy to each level as you just use your "destruction on command" to get a full squad and move 
 in recklessly with the desired vehicle of your choice. (if provided at the time)
  
  The aiming system seemed to be off while I was playing too. Many times I found myself aiming straight 
 at an enemy, unloading a clip or two on him and he would not want to die. It was annoying at times 
 when I was bombarded by many different German soldiers.
  
  The vehicle control was complicated and proved to be a pain at times. I have never ever had a game 
 that gave so much trouble when turning and maneuvering around enemy encampments. Not to mention 
 when I was in a tank and I shot at a group of German's, the explosion was cool and I thought the 
 effects were one of the best I have ever seen, but when all of them stood back up and continued 
 firing at me I was more the upset.
  
  I definitely had more negatives to say about this game and this is what drove me to capitalize 
 on the new return policy at my EB and get G. R. A. W, which proves to be what I have been looking 
 for on the 360.
  
  I recommend renting the game to make sure you are a fan of this game before investing the $60 into 
 it. Then again, I would just say go buy G. R. A. W instead of wasting your time :-/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turbo_prelude
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 17, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  im tried of people trying to be like call of duty 2 one historical ww2 first person shooter is 
 enough its not that hard to be origanal people com on lol exaple call of duty 2 is an historcal 
 first person shooter and G. R. A. W. is an some what futuristic first person shooter and when battle 
 feild comes out it is going to be an modern day first person shooter they are all first person 
 but different all theres people trying to make a ww2 first person is not going to work sorry cant 
 wait to see how sorry the next copy cat titles are going to be lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robert430
Rating: 4.9
Date: Mar 17, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  Well, being mistrustful of the gamespot's review I decided to buy the game (together with GRAW) . 
 That was a mistake. Why, you might ask? The game sounds exactly like Mercenaries set in the WWII. 
 Right? 
  
  Wrong. EVERYTHING gamespot commented on is exactly correct. The tanks and other vehicles controls 
 are horrible, shooting guns is lame, and missions in the single player (I finish three at the time 
 of writing) are all linear and completely the same.
  
  Graphics wise it's not bad, but when you play the Outfit and then play GRAW you definitely get 
 an impression of moving into the next gen. This game would have been right at home on the Xbox.
 
  
  So, I give this game a 4.9. I am disappointed and think that it could have been done a lot better. 
 
  
  My only hope is that Relic will learn their lesson and will develop another game with the same 
 ideas, but implemented in better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popsadent
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 16, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  This game wasa let down. I could tell from the demo release that this game wasnt gonna be as good 
 as it could have been.
  
  The graphics are fairly good but could be slightly better in my opinion. The controls area little 
 funky to get used to but after time they will begin to feel ok.
  the sounds dont feel like 1940's material. The guns dont feel authentic and dont react as they 
 should. The game alone doesnt make much sense but if you look pass the story its a pretty fun single 
 player. Not much replayability in the story though and the missions are rather linear. The online 
 is where its at though. The games only redeeming quality is the intense online play. Though it 
 does bug me that instead of shooting some people will just run at you and kill you with a melee 
 even though you shot 'em a bunch as they were coming at you. All in all this game is a rental only. 
 I would have rather had them make a mercenaries 2 like game since they clearly ripped one of the 
 games few good mechanics from them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadBoySneak
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 16, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  so liek the guy that thinks hes liek so pro wrights his little review and liek records a video 
 of liek himself lol and says that the grafics suck and the game deosnt like own. i thikn that he 
 liek is a toTAL n00b that liek gets pwned alot and doesnt know how to think and aim at the same 
 time rofl lol omfg he should like stfu and not totaly suck ma balls and maby get his fat ass of 
 teh pro stick and liek get a nub stick on teh accout he liek sucks so much balls lol rofl rfol 
 lolol9lolool lmao lol faaaaaaaag lololol.
  
  this game totaly pwns. get it and liek lol, avoid the single play you n00b. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt-i
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 16, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  OK the reason i dont really agree is because i think it is pretty cool how you can get stuff on 
 demand and the rag doll affects are pretty funny... but i do understand that the graphics are a 
 little umm low but overall i'd atleast give it and 8... and i havent got to the part where you have 
 to be a german which is gonna suck kinda but oh well... it is kinda weird though because it is very 
 unrealistic but i think thats why it is fun in a way so now i dont know what to say but if you 
 want to get the outfit i would say get it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red1_1
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this is so freaking fun lol. i love this game so much, the multiplayer is godly good, the 
 single player is also very good blowing **** up never gets old lol. This was worth the wait for 
 me i jsut plain out love it. The explosions rock, the shooting is simple bozooka=aim the crosshairs 
 right above themrifles and machinegun= shoot a little bit high like for head its so easy and great 
 love the game if u love shooting and WW2 games and u have a 360 buy this game it is perfect!!!!!! 
 i think gamespot rated this game badly i mean most other places gave it good ratings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer_199
Rating: 3.7
Date: Mar 16, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  In this game they make you almost invinsable and then to make it even more stupid, they give unlimited 
 ammo. I was hoping for a realistic type of game but the outfit just turned me down. While the outfit 
 does give you the more un-realistic fealing, there are a few, and when i say few i meen few, realistic 
 feelings in the game but either than whatshis face taking an alligator and absolutly invisible 
 to anything, this game might be right for some people but to me i just plain don't like it, so 
 it's your choice to buy it or not, but i say rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: o_sausage
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 15, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  For a game of this caliber and budget and press etc. etc. would be a good game...
  That is 100% not true about the outfit. The graphics insult the 360 and the controlsare feel like 
 a budget title. In fact the game feels like marked up budget title. 
  
  The hit detection is downright awfull. You will have your sights (which mimic COD 2's) right on 
 aguy and not 1 out of your 10 or 12 shots will hit him. The bazooka doesn't shoot straight at all 
 either. Oh no a machine gun on top of the hill. BOOM!!! My two rockets soar 10 feet overhead and 
 5 feet under. The multi feels exactly as if the pandemic were to remake the battlefront series 
 for WWII with points for buying new cars troops and so on and so forth. Yes it has the # of troops 
 each side has at the top and your obgective is to take enemy control posts.
  
  Overall this is a terrible game. Combineing graphics that look hot off th Gamecube shelf and gameplay 
 like a FPS on psp all this game deserves is a 5.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teh_zax
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  It's like Battlezone 2, battlefield 2, and ghost recon all in one little package. 
  
  It's tough to review this game, The graphics are pretty good, the controls are solid, the levels 
 are pretty good, and the sound is good. It is realy repedative though. You run, you get a vehicle, 
 you biuld some guns, you kill some guys, you move forward, repeat, and repeat, and repeat till 
 you finish the mission. Multiplayer is great, single player, well single player is multiplayer 
 minus the "multi". It's just like the single player mode in Tribes 2, it was just put there to 
 make the few XBox owners without broadband, or friends.
  
  Singleplayer aside it's a good game. Easy controls, sweet weapons and vehicles, and unique characters 
 come together to make this title as solid as the most battle hardened of soldiers.
  
  KILL THOSE %$@#!* NAZI BASTARDS!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frag_grenade
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Personally this game is awesome the graphics aren't 360 graphics but the graphics are pretty good. I 
 experienced a glitch where every once and a while the sound would freeze up, the actual game would 
 not freeze up just the sound effects. This might be a problem with my disc though. The game-play 
 is awesome very similar to the battlefield-games where you have to take command points. There arent 
 many different weapons. You can pick from three different guys, one has a tommy gun and a flame thrower. 
 Another has a bazooka and a pistol. Then the last has a shotgun and a rifle all of these guys weapons 
 can be upgraded for instance the bazooka becomes a heavy bazooka. Each weapon gets upgraded 3 times 
 before they cant be upgraded again. Most of the stuff in the game is destructible, when you blow 
 a hole in a building it looks pretty cool. A cool feature in this game is that you can order in 
 reinforcements,3 different jeeps,3 different tanks, 3 different artillery pieces, 3 different machine 
 guns,3 different trucks and 3 different air-strikes. It gets repetitive after a while so I can see 
 why some people woulnd'nt like it. The sound problem is annoying but you get over it. Of course 
 this is my opinion but , THIS GAME IS AWESOME YOU NEED TO GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blaze0506
Rating: 6.4
Date: Mar 15, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Man where did they go wrong with this game it was terrible. Graphics weren't at all next gen. THe 
 facial details on the characters during the cut scenes were terrible for a 360 title. In every 
 level you do just about the same thing over again.
  Capture the motor pool, arnrmory, and radio tower. I played this game for a while when I decided 
 woa this is boring. Also the hit detection sucks. SOmetimes the tank missiles will fly straight 
 through the target. And sometimes it takes one hit to blow a brand new target up and sometimes 
 it takes 2 or 3. Also there are no bullet holes in anything! Its horrible! Now that I've said what's 
 mostly bad about it I'll say the good stuff....... um....... well you can break through walls on 
 tanks.... and the voice acting is pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DHAVIC
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 15, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is allot of fun, High action, world war 2 theme with the Germans and France and USA. 
 Hollywood actors you name it.
  
  Frist Lets talk about the Graphics, there not the best use of next gen But they are pretty nice. 
 if you pay attention to all the things happen on screen at the same time its pretty amazing.
  
  The areas are hughe the enemys are relentless and just about any vichele you see you can jump 
 into. Dont be fooled by the bad press. Check it out for yourself or download the demo.
  
  This game is addicting, especially if you like 3rd person view shooters, with light stragety and 
 blowing the hell out of everthing that you see. That includes walls, citys, go anywere you whant. 
 Also no two people will play the game the same way, May be youll like to set an ambush with machine 
 guns or take a tank and run and gun with it. This game is a one of a kind and I cant stop playing 
 it. 
  
  I have yet to get online with the full game. I played the demo online, that was alot of fun, I 
 am pretty sure the full game is alot more fun online, thats another addictive part of this fun 
 game.
  
  All Halo players and Shooter Fans Get it. . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Traitor_13
Rating: 5.1
Date: Mar 15, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Man where did they go wrong with this game it was terrible. Graphics weren't at all next gen. THe 
 facial details on the characters during the cut scenes were terrible for a 360 title. In every 
 level you do just about the same thing over again.
  Capture the motor pool, arnrmory, and radio tower. I played this game for a while when I decided 
 woa this is boring. Also the hit detection sucks. SOmetimes the tank missiles will fly straight 
 through the target. And sometimes it takes one hit to blow a brand new target up and sometimes 
 it takes 2 or 3. Also there are no bullet holes in anything! Its horrible! Now that I've said what's 
 mostly bad about it I'll say the good stuff....... um....... well you can break through walls on 
 tanks.... and the voice acting is pretty good. Well that's about it to sum it up they just missed 
 the mark. And it is a complete waste of money. Never have a been so bored with an action game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZZoMBiE13
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 15, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  The OUTFIT is a unique and innovative game in a sea of cookie cutter shooters. It offers a totally 
 open-ended experience that allows you to play to your strengths. You can play slow and plodding, 
 reinforcing your positions as you advance, or you can run-and-gun it if you can manage to get ahold 
 of the vehicle controls. There is really no end to the different ways you can accomplish your tasks 
 in the OUTFIT. Your options are always open. 
  
  The core gameplay keeps you on your toes as you have to pick the right soldier for the job. In 
 the way that Halo's two weapon limitation keeps you using strategy to accomplish your goals, OUTFIT 
 has a selection of warriors for you to choose and each has their own strengths and weaknesses. 
 They each carry two weapons that you can switch between as you wish and each has it's unique purpose. 
 There is also a different thrown weapon for each fighter that you can lob at will. As you spend 
 time with the game you will likely find a favorite that fits your personal style of play but you 
 can always switch anytime you fall in combat. There is also a great strategy element to the game. 
 The action is good, but it's accented by the way you can add support gunners to reinforce your 
 taken areas. You are only as strong as the tools you use in the game and OUTFIT offers you a toolbox 
 full of great assault options.
  
  OUTFIT's single player game is a romp through war torn France. As you progress you earn points 
 which can be used to air drop in supplies and reinforcements. The options for your DoD (Destruction 
 on Demand) are varried and they are all useful in their own way. From gun emplacements to tanks 
 to air strikes, they all have their place in your theatre of war. 
  
  The multiplayer is feature packed and there are plenty of options to keep your appetite for destruction 
 well fed. The modes range from a full on assault on one human opponent, to two on two teams and 
 so on. And one of the most notable modes is the online co-op as well as the slit-screen equivilent. 
 All have plenty to offer and make a good use of the core gameplay. 
  
  OUTFIT's graphics are so so. They don't really take advantage of the hardware in their look, but 
 they do make decent use of the 360s high RAM count by offering large sprawling maps that are completely 
 destructible. The vehicles all look good and are period styled to fit the WW II theme of the game. 
 Things blow up nicely and the constant fire of your enemies overhead adds to the tension. 
  
  The sound in the game is all spot on with appropriate thuds and kabooms in all the right places. 
 The voicework is all well done and it fits nicely to the characters. The Germans can sound a little 
 like a rerun of Hogan's Heroes at times, but it all adds to the over the top nature of the game. 
 
  
  The games controls are varried and may take some people a while to get use to, but veteran gamers 
 will pick it up quickly. Driving can be a chore at first but after some time with the game it starts 
 to make more sense. It's never perfect when compared to games like HALO, but if you spend the time 
 to learn how it works it'll all be worth it. 
  
  Overall, OUTFIT works well for what it is. It's a fun and innovative hybrid of strategy and action. 
 If graphics are all you are interested in then you may want to pass, but if you want a game that 
 is fun to play alone or with others The OUTFIT has a lot to offer, and even more if you are a LIVE 
 subscriber. If you are on the wall, then by all means download the demo from XBL Marketplace and 
 give it a try. But remember that the demo is only a small piece of the pie and the full game has 
 a lot more to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rinker03
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 15, 2006 5:37 am PT
Review:  Come on Gamespot 6.7... you have to be kidding me. This game is a great example of next gen gaming. 
 This game shows us how our new console can liberate us from linear gameplay. I've been waiting 
 on a great strat game forever and now we have it. I feel this game isn't getting good reviews because 
 of the kiddy gamers. Everyone has a differant opinion on where the next gen will lead us. I for 
 one hope that graphics are not the focal point of this era. It's nice to see a developer feels 
 the same way by showing us fully destructable levels and untilizing your enviroment is key.
  
  Gameplay: Best strategy game to date. Controls are well balanced with a quick learning, however 
 perfecting your warfare skills takes a bit.
  
  Graphics: Not Splinter Cell by any means however I feel great graphics/animations however this 
 game doesn't need them.
  
  Sound: Superb 5.1 sound.
  
  Value: If your a gamer that appreciates developing and excuting great warfare plans a $100 price 
 tag would be worth it. However if you perfer great graphics over gameplay go rent it or better 
 yet just quit gaming your dragging down the industry.
  
  I'm gonna tilt the crap out of this mother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1valiantknight
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 15, 2006 12:27 am PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game cause it kinda looked like Mercenaries. I should have known better, 
 you can't judge a game by how it looks.
  
  From watching videos you cant tell that the shooting in the game is not accurate or fun. You can't 
 tell from the videos that you can shoot a german soldier in the head 5 times and still have him 
 kill you. I never knew a tank could take five or six rockets and still be fine, did you?
  
  At first I agreed with Game Spots review, but now I don't. I think Game Spot was too generous. 
 If this game were released back on the original X-Box then sure I can understand, but this game 
 is in the next generation, and frankly is sorely lacking.
  
  The graphics are not very good. From The boxy character models right down to Dueces octagonal glasses. 
 At least the physics system is pretty cool and the game sports a nice rag doll affect.
  
  All the weapons in the game have the same flaws. They are highly under powered and over heat too 
 fast. As I said germans can take 5 head shots and still come at your full force. All the weapons 
 not very accurate and the splash damage is a joke. Sometimes a rocket from your bazooka will kill 
 4 germans, if your lucky. But more often than not you'll have to snipe them all, with your rocket 
 launcher. You can bounce germans around all day left and right with your rocket launcher and they 
 wont die until you get a direct hit.
  
  The story is just flat out stupid. It's like a saturday morning cartoon, it's just silly. The voice 
 acting is pretty good, too bad there are no good lines to go along with it.
  
  The game has plenty of noticeable bugs and is poorly designed. It's very linear and loses whatever 
 it has going for it after the first 2 or maybe 3 missions cause thats about the time your going 
 to realise your just doing the same thing over and over again.
  
  Rent it if you don't mind spending $8.00 on this stinker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eGamr90
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 15, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Great multi-player. The game grows on you the more you play it. The first time I played the demo, 
 I didn't like it. Then I played it more and It started to grow on me. Now its just awesome and 
 hilarius. Multi-player is awsome and the single-player is ok. Graphics aren't the best . Sound 
 is average. At least try out the demo and play it for a while. Yeah Multi-player is the mest out 
 of the game. Sometimes it can get annoying because of some of the glitches, and you die alot but 
 over all its a great game. Yeah but anyway atleast try the demo and play it for a whlie. If you 
 still don't like it, don't get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spike3oOo
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 1, 2006 1:57 am PT
Review:  While a lot of the reviews have been slaming the game for not being all that great. I however think 
 that the game is actually quite fun, and addicting. The single player campaign is extremly fun, 
 there are a ton of medals to unlock that you can use to buy cheats to make the gameplay even more 
 arcadish. The storyline is pretty funny, and the dod (destruction on demand) is brilliantly well 
 accomplished. And if that weren't enough to reccomend the game also has probably one of the best 
 multyplayer games on the 360 yet. Its basically like battlefied where you have to capture points, 
 and its a whole lot of fun either split screen, or on Xbox Live. The only bad things about the 
 game, are the vehicles control kinda clumsy, and the aiming takes some getting used to. Also the 
 Graphics really aren't Next-Gen, and the only real good thing about the graphics are the games 
 physics, and water effects.
  
  Overall though I am quite happy with The Outfit and think its a lot better than the reviews are 
 making it seem. Give it a chance and you will learn to like it too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmy343
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 14, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  This is so much better then the demo, the levels are massive, the vehicles are awsome, and theres 
 blood unlike the demo. The AI is actually good, and attacks you like crazy. the multiplayer is 
 the key part though, its so fun playing against other people unless it lags which it tends to do 
 now and then, but other then that its amazing, the graffics might not be completly next gen, but 
 no xbox could do what this does. People just jump aboard the bandwagon and says its not a good 
 game when they havent even played it before. The achievements are actually challenging online, 
 not just... get a kill or somthing like that. this is a must get game for anyone who likes shooters 
 and or strategy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cirus2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 14, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  I found this game quite good ad addictive how can someone rate a game 1.0 out of 10 ? no game deserves 
 that so they should be banned from every reviewing tbh.. making scores very soo much. easy 8-9 
 is well made and FUN factor is good n fun.. wheel barrow ya mates into the water is evil n fun 
 (6) . i played this alot n is very fun.. thats what games are for? fun?
  
  i think this game is original in a way aint played a game like it tbh, reminds me of command and 
 conquer in a way for some reason the 3d verssion. luv the way u can captor certain bases like u 
 can take control of tank thing for example and make a tank and raid ther base etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slurpicus
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 14, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is what it is. Its a Run and Gun game. Minimal Strategy elements (which is ok) . Overall 
 this game does everything well. Nothing perfect but not so bad where its unplayable. This game 
 may be disappointing to people who want another CoD or Battlefield Clone. This is a nice action 
 game that will keep people who give it a fair chance occupied for some time. The graphics are vanilla 
 for a Xbox 360 game. Yes its better then Tony Hawk and some other games. But it is not awe inspring. 
 With that said it isnt an eyesore. The controls to put it simple is straight forward. the game 
 can be picked up y a casualy gamer and be mastered fairly quickly. The Gameplay is like i said 
 run and gun, as with all run and gun games it can ge repititive.. but it is far from teh point 
 to where you are sitting there saying "OMG! this is so annoying". Each Type of Vehicle has a similar 
 feel which is a good/bad thing. Its good that we wont have a balance issue and more controlls to 
 master. its bad because there isnt more controls to learn and not as deep. (yes I know its circular) . 
 Its great to keep it simple for casual gamers but hurts the hardcore gamers. however if the game 
 got complex the opposite will happen. The causal gamer will ahve one less game to play. So overall 
 This game is a solid game, especially for casual gamers who want to pick something up and play 
 with out being overwhelmed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostNC360
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 14, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  ok for those of you who have played this game and liked it you need to be commited. I jsut don't 
 see what people see in this game. I was stunned when i looked at some of these reviews. The gameplay 
 is terrible and the graphics are even worse. How do you play a game as bad as this. If it were 
 possible on here i would give it a 0. I'd like to recieve some messages that explains to me what 
 people see in this game because honeslty I see a peace of crap. My GT is DarkLink 090, email GhosNC360@yahoo. com 
 or just leave me a message on gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juicymongoose
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 14, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  I have been anticipating The Outfit for some time now and I must say I am very dissapointed. All 
 of the Dev. Interviews and trailers made it look fun. Im here to tell you that it is..... for about 
 1 day. The single player is very repetitive and doesnt do anything new. The graphics are bland and 
 arnet smooth at all. The sound doesnt even come through. The only positive element is that there 
 are a good number of cool modes online. Unfortunatley, if the game isnt fun in the first place, 
 whats the point of playing the different modes. I hope they make a sequel and make it appealing 
 for more than just a handful of people. Because the idea was decent they just need to expand on 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotty0123
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 13, 2006 11:41 pm PT
Review:  This game compared to shooters like perfect dark zero and Ghost recon advanced warfighter doesnt 
 cut the cake, this game would be right at home on a present gen gaming system. The game isnt all 
 that long and also the value doesnt get any higher with the multiplayer, there isnt much options 
 to choose from, If you capture (On mulitplayer) about 4 bases then you've already won, but even 
 after that the match just drags on. I dont really think the graphics are great and the gameplay 
 isnt as fun as id hoped it would of been, if your going to go for a next gen shooter get G. R. A. W, 
 much more detail and gameplay in that. over all i dont think this is worth the money but its ok 
 for a rent or if you borrow it for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mish55
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 13, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  the game played is obviously a demo, so its not finished, but there probably not gonna have any 
 drastic changes. 
  the multiplayer was, ok, it was fun when just playing with a friend at home, no lag. but it was 
 hard to play, the controls, it wasnt that easy to get used to them.
  the game is very slow, even shooting.
  its very hard to aim.
  the games motive was to have 
 a fully destructible environment.
  it does, yet, its like the environments were only put there to be blown, they are not interactive, 
 you have to hide around them since you cant get in them.
  the multiplayer, 4 on 4 was terrible online, so much lag, every game i played, people quit, i got 
 mad, so much lag, i would to.
  lets hope outfit will be fixed, but its very doubtful.
  the game is meant for online, which is ok, but the single player is very predictable, the ai is 
 kinda ok.
  this game is not for everyone. it could have been.
  its got a great idea, but bad presentation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldog7
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 3, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  This game reminds me of full auto in one very important way. It's extremely fun for a few hours, 
 but after that, it gets quite repetitive and then just not all that fun. That sounds terrible, 
 but there is lots of fun to be had here, just not for 20hrs. The single player is really of little 
 value, except for learning how to play the game. Multiplayer is super fun! Destruction on demand 
 is awesome, but shooting people with bullets is absolutely stupid (who actually approved THAT?) 
 Flamethrower is an exception, it's pretty fun to use. But this game is the sort where I want a 
 sequel right away to fix up things and make the gameplay much deeper.
  
  Hey, it's a perfect rental, but not worth the $$ to buy. I'm guessing that if you're over 18, you'll 
 be bored with this game in about 5-8 hours. Younger people may like this game for double that.
 
  
  Ultimately, I think it's worth renting. At a LAN party, it would be a blast! But the price tag 
 to buy is just too much for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mickeyg
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the funnest games in the world. You can bring in a tank and shoot at anything, 
 then it will blow up!! All the buildings, wall or anything else you can look at can be destroyed. 
 The look of the game is very amazing it looks almost real. This game has to be the BEST 360 game 
 so far. The best part of this game is the online game play. I played online for 5 hour and i could 
 only find about 5 people but it was great. The best kind of game plat is blow up were you just 
 shoot at every thing and everyone. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
