-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Simpsons Game
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/thesimpsons/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fantastic writing that successfully lampoons both gaming culture and the Simpsons themselves.
 Sharp visuals.
 Lots of stuff to collect and unlock.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Middling gameplay.
 Camera likes to get in your way.
 You can beat the game in about six hours.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 30, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.3, 57 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 1,174 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Electronic Arts
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Oct 30, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The gameplay might not be anything special, but The Simpsons Game delivers more than enough laughs 
 to make it worth a look. 

  The Simpsons Game is a very strange animal. On the one hand, it's the sort of rote, generally uninteresting 
 action platformer that dozens of high-profile licenses have cribbed for nefarious game-making purposes 
 over the years. Yet, at the same time, this is a game that  knows  what it is and takes every opportunity 
 imaginable to riff on that very fact. The game is as much about mocking the various conventions 
 of the game business as a whole as it is about being Simpsons fan service, which makes for a very 
 weird and often hilarious experience; so much so that you almost forget the gameplay itself is 
 still pretty uninteresting. Almost.  

           The Simpsons take on the game industry at large in The Simpsons Game.      

  The premise 
 for The Simpsons Game is appropriately meta, given the circumstances. One day, Bart happens upon 
 a manual for a game called The Simpsons Game, which has floated down from out of the sky. He learns 
 that this game gives him and his family members special powers then promptly sets off to cause 
 as much violence as possible. At the same time, a game called Grand Theft Scratchy has just been 
 released in stores and Bart wants a copy, much to Marge's chagrin. She sets off on a crusade to 
 stop video game violence. Then longtime comic foils Kodos and Kang show up to start blowing up 
 the town, rehashing sequences from a variety of Treehouse of Horror episodes. Also, there's a weird 
 and wacky world the Simpsons keep getting trapped in called "the game engine," sort of an alternate 
 dimension where video games are created that's run by a bunch of haggard-looking spoofs of Mario, 
 Sonic, koopa troopas, Ryu, and Madden football players. There's also a bunch of utterly random 
 cameos from notable personalities, both from the Simpsons universe and the game industry itself. 
 This is one bizarre and genuinely incoherent adventure, which is to say it's a lot like an extended 
 episode of the show.  

  The jabs at video game culture are especially excellent. At times, the Simpsons family will find 
 itself in worlds that are directly cribbed from notable game franchises and genres. The sections 
 that knock off Grand Theft Auto and Japanese gaming in general are especially good. But you'll 
 also come across direct parodies of Medal of Honor, EverQuest, and Shadow of the Colossus, to name 
 a few. There are even some subtler gags in there as well, like the little mini-levels that pop 
 up, directly mimicking such classics as Gauntlet and Joust. There is a really sharp awareness of 
 the gaming audience's mentality in the writing here, and the game's various parodies are just about 
 pitch-perfect.  

  It's not all game humor, of course. There's plenty of  Simpsons -oriented humor as well, with a 
 ton of crazy in-jokes scattered throughout the gameworld. When the game isn't lifting specific 
 scenes or situations from various old episodes of the show and turning them into game levels, it's 
 throwing out truly obscure lines that reference things from Simpsons past that even some of the 
 more dedicated fans of the show might need a minute to recall. Anyone remember Linguo, the grammar 
 robot? Or the episode where Lisa became "Clobber Girl"? If you said "yes" then congrats because 
 the writers have geared this game decidedly toward you and your ilk.  

  All of this excellent humor does a good job of veiling the fact that the gameplay isn't very good. 
 You'll be too busy giggling in most cases to notice that the camera is frequently getting in your 
 way and that most of these mission objectives are just kind of boring. Most of the game revolves 
 around simple action platforming where you hop around a lot of platforms and solve some light puzzles. 
 You also beat up football players, pseudo-Ryus, miniature Krusty the Klowns, lumberjacks, Kodos/Kang 
 lookalikes, killer dolphins, sumo Comic Book Guys, as well as gangsta Itchys and Scratchys, among 
 others. Unfortunately, most of this stuff is just kind of boring. The combat has all the depth 
 of the old Simpsons Arcade Game from the early '90s, and the finicky in-game camera has a tendency 
 to make some of the platforming sections far more irritating than it should be.  

  Oddly enough, the game seems entirely self-aware of its own blatantly average gameplay. Along the 
 way, you'll collect a number of "clichs," which are highlighted by Comic Book Guy himself. These 
 include pits of lava you fall in, invisible barriers, a character's inability to swim, recycled 
 enemies, escort missions, and the like. It's kind of funny to see these pop up because, yes, these 
 are very clearly video game clichs. But the really weird thing is how utterly dedicated the game 
 is to making you live through these clichs again. The game makes fun of escort missions, but then 
 makes you do one anyway. You have to give the game credit for dedicating itself all the way to 
 its gags, though the gameplay suffers a bit because of it.  

           Some of the parodies in this game are hysterical.      

  The one kind of interesting 
 thing The Simpsons Game does from a gameplay standpoint is that it constantly pairs you with another 
 Simpson. You actually have the option to play cooperatively with a friend at any time, but when 
 it's just you all by your lonesome, your cohort is a computer-controlled tagalong. Nearly all the 
 game's puzzles involve the two characters working together, and for the most part, the artificial 
 intelligence holds up its end of the bargain, rarely lagging behind by much. Plus, you can switch 
 to the other character on the fly, which is helpful because you often have to use the special powers 
 of both characters in somewhat rapid succession.  

  The powers themselves aren't terribly interesting, but at least they add a bit of variety to the 
 proceedings. Bart can use a slingshot to hit enemies from a distance, as well as nail various targets. 
 He can also get all Bartman and use a cape to float while jumping. Homer can turn into a morbidly 
 obese ball that can be rolled around to attack foes using dash and slam attacks. Plus he can also 
 turn into gummi Homer and launch gummi balls at enemies. Lisa can use her saxophone to turn enemies 
 against one another, and at specific checkpoints in levels, she can use her Buddhist powers to 
 bring a giant arm down to either attack foes or pick up pieces of the scenery then drop them into 
 other spots to use as platforms or bridges. Marge is equipped with a megaphone and can use her 
 powers of moral persuasion to get any passers-by to form a posse to do her bidding, which usually 
 involves destroying things, building things, or beating up bad guys. As amusing as these sound, 
 they're rarely used to especially interesting effect within the game itself. Most of the level 
 objectives are pretty simple and it's plainly obvious in most cases which powers you need to use 
 when. A few of the puzzle-solving sections are kind of neat, but that's about the extent of it. 

  It won't take you long to best The Simpsons Game. The main story mode will probably run you about 
 six to seven hours, if you don't stop to smell the roses and collect every little random item the 
 game throws at you. You could also spend a great deal of time just wandering around Springfield 
 and taking in the various re-created sights or sounds, but doing so is an achingly slow process. 
 This is because of the limited foot speed of the family members and your inability to drive anything. 
 Still, there is lots to collect, and after you beat each level, you can go back to play it as a 
 time challenge, which unlocks even more crazy stuff.  

  Given that this is a game based on a cartoon, it would have been exceedingly easy for the developers 
 to quickly slap together some lousy-looking cel-shaded graphics and call it a day, but that isn't 
 the case in The Simpsons Game. This game looks a whole lot like the show on which it's based. The 
 characters and environments are drawn or animated in such a wonderful way that you really get the 
 sense that you're traipsing through an episode of the show. You do lose a small sense of that when 
 the game switches to an animated cutscene outside of the game engine, but at times, the line between 
 the two really is blurred. The colorful and crisp graphics are made better by a steady frame rate 
 that rarely hitches, save for in split-screen mode. Both the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions 
 look nearly identical to one another.  

           The graphics do an excellent job of recreating the look of the show.      

  Audio 
 is equally impressive. The entire voice cast from the show is on hand, and they deliver their lines 
 with the same sort of comedic enthusiasm as they do on the show. Even the guest stars are on point, 
 and there are some hilarious guest stars to be sure. All the other areas of sound design are excellent 
 too. Great sound effects pepper each level, and the music is always appropriate for the scene, 
 from the weirdo jazz music that plays as you fight on an airship in the Japan level to the bombastic 
 score that layers over the raid dungeon action of the EverQuest level. It's great stuff all around. 

  In the end, The Simpsons Game is one of those weird cases where a recommendation of it is based 
 less on its merits as a game and more on its merits as an  experience . The things that make this 
 game are its sense of humor, sharp writing, and excellent presentation. The gameplay isn't awful 
 by any means, but it's also completely unmemorable. It's something that's more to be put up with 
 while you appreciate the many other things going on than enjoyed on its own merits. That might 
 not sound like a ringing endorsement, but The Simpsons Game is absolutely worth playing. Games 
 this spot-on in the humor category don't come along too often. Considering what a fantastic job 
 it does spoofing the variety of clichs and crutches our favorite pastime relies upon, that's got 
 to count for something.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (82 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: LOSTLEAD3R
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 18, 2009 5:16 pm PT
Review:  The Simpsons is regard has the best series of all time, and I'm totally not being biased about 
 that. But when it comes to gaming they are the millhouse of the gaming world that's for sure. Awkward, 
 annoying, and look dorky in glasses, that only a mother, or a rabid fan could love. So the thought 
 of another Simpsons game doesn't seem like a good idea, but with the help of actual writers from 
 the Simpsons, this game may actually deliver a awesome look at the satirical world of gaming, through 
 the Simpsons point of view.
  
  The story starts out with the Simpsons, like always, watching TV (probably some Hollywood hogwash) . 
 We soon see Homer falling asleep and dreaming of the land of chocolate. This acts as the tutorial 
 level, insulting you along the way about your skills and how you can't even perform a double jump 
 and other controls it teaches you. Soon by completing the level we are treated to Homer, yet again 
 cursing the Heavens about not being able to turn into a giant blob that can eat anything. (don't 
 we all wish for that?) As the story picks up we see the Simpsons gain powers through an instruction 
 book Bart found. (plot device) They use said powers to benefit their own gain and (of course) it 
 begins to ruin the town in which they now have to save. Not to mention making fun of video games 
 along the way.
  
  What is truly great about this game is the fact that it never stops to poke fun at itself, and 
 other genres of video games, or even characters themselves. Gamers will be laughing at how many 
 references there are to other games, and Simpsons fans will laugh at all the references to the 
 series itself. The story binds two things that couldn't seem to work, Simpsons and Video games, 
 and manages to pull them together with satirical humor. The story feels on par or even above par 
 to that of the Simpson show, in its good years (seasons 3-9, for you people that don't know) . It 
 never stops to make you laugh at what it's doing, and it's a good thing too, because for the Simpsons 
 Story is everything.
  
  But like most deals with the devil there is a catch. The Simpsons game traded quality gameplay 
 for quality writing. But by no means is the gameplay horrible or unbearable. In fact its not, its 
 just average, in fact everything is taken from other more successful games (or not successful games) 
 and put into this game, but its more over to lampoon them then be played half the time. That's 
 the thing with this game, its all flash and no substance; all the worlds fill rather hollow and 
 generic. The Enemies feel the same way. If it wasn't for the writing I wouldn't be able to get 
 through it. But in this way it fills fitting. I know it sounds weird but everything seems to have 
 a purpose to why its there, and it's so it can be made fun of, such as respawning enemies, collecting 
 items, and power-ups. Which in any other game, would be mediocre at best. The AI isn't the brightest 
 either, you will be doing most of the work (unless, and I recommended it, you are doing co-op play 
 through) , but the computer sometimes gets stuck on walls and platforms. Enemy AI isn't much better.
 
  However despite the rather generic feel to all the levels they are all at least different and 
 offer a different variety of elements, traveling to such places as japanimation land, Neverquest 
 (land full of dudgeon with dragons) , and grand theft scratchy land, which is not a parody of the 
 Grand theft Auto series. On top of the variety of levels we also get interesting bosses either 
 parody of games or from the show itself, like the bullies, king snorky, donkey kong like ape thingy, 
 and Shakespeare?!?
  
  All the bosses have interesting ways to battle them, from fighting invaders (from space) to beating 
 the pants off Benjamin Franklin, its always worth going through the levels just to face the odd 
 bosses this game throws at you. Another interesting gimmick in the Simpsons game is that it calls 
 itself out, via Comic Book Guy. Each time something obvious or out of the everyday happens you 
 bet he will be there complaining about it. This adds on to the same type of, average things added 
 for lampooning category then anything else, but it is fun to see it every once in a while.
  
  The Sound is true to the Simpsons, and the music blends well with the background, sometimes 
 too well. Sometimes I found myself wondering were the music was or if it even existed, overall 
 all the sound effects and voice acting you couldn't tell. Really the music is played down hugely, 
 and generic most of the time. But what really is the star here is the voice acting, all the original 
 voice actors are all here. Dan Callestina (Homer) , Nacey Cartwright (Bart) , and the rest (which 
 names I can't remember or spell correctly) all here to provide quality Simpsons voices or annoying 
 grunts, instead of prerecord voices from the show. Which gives this game a fresh feel to it's otherwise 
 dull world that has a personality of a potato. Although this game does throw out way to many one 
 liners, "I hope I get to meet Zelda! ZELDA!!!" can only be heard for so long till you want to kill 
 someone.
  
  All in All, this is the Simpsons we all know and love from the show. It presents itself in a 3D 
 rendering of the show's town. Although most of the background and environment are hollow, the characters 
 themselves are filled and do well in the gaming world, which help make up for it. The cut scenes 
 look like they came out of the show, or rather the movie, which give the feeling of watching the 
 show rather then a scene in a game, and even if it is in 3D its show in a 2D like scene. The Story 
 is given a strong sense of humor, and satire toward the gaming industry, that makes the game more 
 of a episode then a game. Which make it more of an interactive episode then it is a game.
  
  
  
  In the end, The Simpsons game is trying to be two things at once, when in reality it 
 be better has one of them. This game would be better off as a special or an episode then a game. 
 Sure the story, voice acting, and humor are great, but that's qualities of a show, not a game. 
 When you strip what makes this part of the Simpsons, you get something that's rather mediocre and 
 bland. But the story is worth seeing, so see those anyway you can (anyway. youcan) . But this game 
 is really just for the fans, those that aren't dedicated should rent it or borrow from a friend 
 at best.
  
  3.6 / 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtamaster2005
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 17, 2009 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  + Graphics match the show
  + Funny dialog
  + Some decent interaction with AI
  + Easiest XBox 360 Achievement ever!
  
  Cons:
  
  - 
 Extremely hard with one player
  - Controllers could be better
  - "Helping" AI sucks!
  - Horrible cam angles
  - Makes fun of other games flaws, but has too many of it's own
  - Controllers 
 can be annoying
  
  This is a pretty fun game if you have someone to play with. If you don't then this game gets bad. 
 You are switching back and forth between characters to complete each mission. The camera angles 
 are by far the worst I have ever seen, making missions sometimes impossible to beat. And to make 
 matters worse in about every mission the camera locks. All and all "The Simpsons" game is not what 
 I expected, it is fun with the humor, but the gameplay is just weak. So if you are planning on 
 playing this game, rent it with a buddy. I hope they will come out with a more better Simpsons 
 game soon. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 4, 2009 8:11 am PT
Review:  Animated programs on network television have been around for decades; during that time, the colorful 
 Simpsons family has left a major footprint in entertainment worldwide that's lasted more than 20 
 years. It could be the distinct art style that represents characters with basic shapes and 4 fingers, 
 or maybe the slapstick humor that pokes fun at every possible stereotype helps. 
  With that in that mind, you have the Simpsons complete town as a functioning cast that ranges from 
 bubbly doctors to evil madmen, all which are voiced and animated in 2D excellence. Like most entertainment 
 properties chalk full of characters and robust worlds, the conversion of such elements to video 
 games appears to be easy. But, ask any gamer who has played their fair share of such titles, and 
 the usual consensus is failure.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The Simpsons Game is a strange mixture of borrowed gaming mechanics from titles of the last 25 
 years, and constant reference to fan favorite material. In all honesty, this is likely the most 
 effective and most enjoyable way to take part in the Simpsons family adventure. Starting off as 
 the klutzy father, Homer, you familiarize yourself with controls that are basically universal for 
 all characters that consist of: jump and double jump, attack combos, and special powers. As Homer 
 (a guy who shows nothing but deep appreciation for food) most of your special skills revolve around 
 being fat and hungry. Turning into a giant rolling ball of blubber, burping, floating as a balloon, 
 even morphing into green goober using body mass as projectiles actually benefits the Simpsons family 
 along their various adventures.
  Other members of the Simpson family: the super-pacifist Marge, coordinates followers to build objects 
 for passage, the daughter Lisa uses her spiritual Zen powers to move large objects, and the rebellious 
 brother Bart, mimics a cape crusader with a sling shot in hand. All characters utilize their powers 
 in valuable ways that help you progress through the game, and within a majority of situations you 
 actually have to team up with another family member to solve puzzles and defeat bosses.
  
  Like a potentially nasty paper cut, these bare bone concepts on paper look good and make sense; 
 the moment you try to manipulate them outside of their intended purposes, the grinding gears begin 
 to sorely show. After the initial story is laid out, you go through a few levels solo to unlock 
 the whole family. From here, the ability to venture through out the Simpsons hometown in the middle 
 of nowhere  Springfield offers tons of hidden goodies and also allows simple banter with cast 
 members seen through out the Simpsons show. That's about all you can do.
  If the open world approach doesn't hold your attention, you can easily tackle the 16 missions with 
 little to no real struggle. Since most of the missions are handled with a partner, you can plug 
 up another controller and enjoy the assistance of a human friend. If you prefer total control, 
 its not difficult to switch between characters on the fly using the D-pad; just be prepared for 
 the computer to die WAY too many times and do plenty of useless standing around. Besides flipping 
 switches and constant jumping from one area to another, the worst enemy next to the annoying respawning 
 goons is the atrocious camera control. Going in a straight line and mashing the attack button is 
 the easy part; but curse the moment you need to maneuver through difficult areas without the sporadic 
 camera causing too many missed jumps and plenty of level restarts.
  
  VISUALS
  Since the Simpsons show is solely based on 2D animation and flat characters, recreating this world 
 in 3D is a hefty serving of half good and half bad. No doubt, for any true fan of the show, it's 
 pretty exciting to see the Springfield town brought to life with interiors and exteriors offering 
 all sorts of nooks and crannies worth exploring. The colorful world may be simple at first glance, 
 but taking on the themed missions is the real highlight for fans and gamers alike. 
  Basically mocking other popular gaming franchises with twisted Simpsons humor is the star attraction. 
 Everything from war games, role-playing, GTA, and even a level where you explore the inner workings 
 of a "game engine" blatantly serve as the punch line for most of the visual jokes. Populating these 
 worlds as obstacles is mostly characters seen on the Simpsons show, which is okay, but seeing some 
 them who are usually friends and allies take the role of baddie #391 can be somewhat off-putting. 
 
  In the long haul, everything balances out nicely thanks to the well-made animated shorts. Between 
 levels, you are catered to some awesome cameos, crisp animations, and a good blend of 2D mixed 
 with 3D elements. As a fan, when you expect a commercial break to interrupt the story, the game 
 plops you into the action which takes place all in 3D. With linear level design besides the Springfield 
 town, the characters and environments look "good enough" from a distance, but don't expect glorious 
 details that would rival a casual kids game.
  
  AUDIO
  Even as a hardcore fan of the Simpsons show, you have to ask yourself as a gamer, "how prepared 
 am I to hear Homer Simpson comment on food every 10 seconds?" Being a videogame, this is a reality 
 most people who enjoy such products could understand more than others. Bottom line is, I love the 
 original cast working on all their respected voices  at least during the animated shorts  but 
 to apply the constant use of Marge's voice (which is a bit scratchy) during jumping, attacking, 
 switching between characters, taking damage, and the numerous random quotes that spew from nowhere 
 surely gets to the nerves in due time. And it's like that for every controllable Simpson.
  
  EXTRAS
  As I mentioned, the Simpsons Game borrows a lot of elements that resemble old school 
 titles. In one area, you explore a dungeon in the top-down view that is a spitting image of the 
 arcade hit, Gauntlet. Another offers something similar to Joust. You even get to battle it out 
 with a special someone in a Dance Dance Revolution mini-game that can score you 20 gamer points. 
 All of these visual and gaming perks are clearly explained and related well within the story, so 
 it's justified that they are never truly forced.
  As for achievements, most of the points rely heavily on diligence and repetition. Playing from 
 start to finish within the story, you barely rake in about 400 points. For some gamers who seek 
 that extra challenge, each level can be replayed through a time challenge mode that basically pits 
 you against a number of foes within a set amount of ya know time. This is not a difficult way 
 to scoop up another 80 points, but you might need a new controller after spamming each Simpson 
 characters special powers so much. 
  
  If treasure hunting is more of your gaming fancy, the Simpsons offer hundreds of hidden objects 
 that litter each level and are scattered through out Springfield. While tracking these objects 
 down for each individual family member (50 points per Simpson) is fairly easy depending on the 
 level, scouring the town is where the real workload weighs in. Using certain characters with their 
 special powers to reach hidden locations is key, but pairing up to help each member of the Simpson 
 family collectively reach hidden goodies could keep you playing well past the finished story. 
 
  Another tiresome task that can easily be managed through the objectives screen is finding Video 
 Game Clichs. The title sums it up best, and since you can hone in exactly on what level or general 
 location most of these little nuggets lurk, this 50-point achievement doesn't require too much 
 stress. Finishing the game, finding all these hidden items for each Simpson, and exploring all 
 32 clichs may sound boring; but if you put in the effort, 150 extra juicy gamer points awaits 
 anyone willing to endure the Simpsons world in such measures.
  
  OVERALL
  To go off on the deep end and proclaim this as the ultimate Simpsons game of all-time is a bit 
 much, even for a hardcore fan/gamer. But its also mighty difficult to deny the fun that can truly 
 be had once you master the flawed controls, and soak up the original story that plays out like 
 another great Simpsons movie.
  Beyond partnering up with a friend on the same TV, finding hidden objects that can be a little 
 on the tedious side, and replaying levels with time challenge objectives, there isn't much left 
 to the Simpsons Game after that. And like any fan of media, you want something to be amazing for 
 as long as you own it which is damn near impossible. So, like the legendary Simpsons show that 
 lasted for so many years as the best thing to watch on TV at a certain hour  there are much better 
 things a few clicks away. Sadly, the game falls into that same boat with a host of mixed reactions. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sillygostly
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 5:23 pm PT
Review:  The Good : Crisp, clean cel-shaded graphics. A diverse assortment of levels. The graphical style 
 of the cut scenes in the console versions make them feel less pretentious than the ones in the 
 DS version. Some amusing dialogue.
  
  The Bad : Awful camera and controls that basically ruin the entire gameplay experience. Some of 
 the cut scenes are lame and come across as trying too hard to be funny. You wouldn't want to bother 
 replaying the game for all the collectibles. A HUGE step down from The Simpsons: Hit & Run.
  
  --
  
  First up, if this game were branded any differently, NO-ONE would give this game 
 the time of the day. The control scheme is flawed and the camera is so infuriatingly inconsistent 
 that it CONSTANTLY moves around, obscuring what you want to see, or steering in the opposite direction 
 of where you intended on jumping (which is particularly worrying seeing as this is a PLATFORM game) .
 
  
  The storyline of the game is simple; Bart discovers a manual for a game aptly titled "The Simpsons 
 Game", and when strange things begin to happen, the Simpsons consult the manual and harness their 
 super powers. Homer can turn into a giant ball, Marge can boss people around at her will, Bart 
 can transform into "Bartman" and glide around, and Lisa can use her "Hand of Buddha" powers to 
 lift up heavy objects from checkpoints throughout the game. Maggie is also playable in the game, 
 but in a very limited capacity through Marge.
  
  The game is quite linear, and takes place over 16 levels, so, players may feel disappointed given 
 the freedom offered by The Simpsons: Hit & Run, where Springfield can be explored at will, and 
 missions can be played at one's own pace (or even skip them entirely if one fails the mission a 
 number of times) . Each level has a checklist of objectives, but unfortunately, given the bad camera 
 and controls, even the simplest of tasks can prove to be a grueling chore.
  
  What was more aggravating is that I NEVER made the PAR time on any of the levels. One of which 
 is particularly noteworthy was one level tha had a target time of 10 minutes to complete, whereas 
 I completed it in 55. Even my little brother spent well over an hour on one of the games' levels.
 
  
  For video game enthusiasts, there are dozens of references to much loved brands of years past. 
 Super Mario Bros., Grand Theft Auto, Wolfenstein 3D, Gauntlet, Medal of Honor, Everquest, Pokemon 
 and Street Fighter are all lovingly lampooned in The Simpsons Game, with some levels taking place 
 in parodies of their universes.
  
  A vast majority of the levels require two characters to navigate through them; and as such, you'll 
 need to utilise the powers of both characters in order to complete the level. The game is also 
 fairly generous in the health department, and characters automatically replenish their health once 
 every minute or so. Fainting will result in an automatic switch to the alternate character in the 
 current level (until the fainted character regains consciousness) , however, should both characters 
 be unconcious at any point of the level, it will be reset. This doesn't happen often, but can be 
 a nuisance with some of the tougher levels.
  
  Graphically, The Simpsons Game looks very much like the TV show. The graphics are especially nice 
 on the Xbox360 and PS3 versions, where they look quite crisp and clean, unlike the other versions, 
 where 3D models appear to be a little jagged. Most of the cut scenes are hand-animated, just like 
 the television series, however there is a small number that have been rendered using The Simpsons 
 Game engine, which don't look too bad either.
  
  The music throughout the game is nice and also captures the audio of the show quite well. Both 
 playable characters and NPCs spurt out one-liners throughout the game, and while some of them can 
 be funny the first time, the fact that they repeat them so often diminishes the comedic value.
 
  
  Comic Book Guy also takes note whenever a video game cliche takes place in The Simpsons Game. These 
 may include AI running into walls, chasms, lava, trampolines, enemy spawners among other video 
 game conventions. It's ironic though, as The Simpsons is basically just a mish-mash of all of these 
 cliches, and does little to challenge them. There are collectibles scattered across all 16 levels, 
 however, given the broken camera and controls, I can't imagine why anybody would want to go through 
 the torture of replaying all of the levels just to obtain every last coupon.
  
  Let's face it, if it weren't for the branding, none of us would give The Simpsons Game the time 
 of day. However, looking at it as a long, playable Simpsons episode, only the most die-hard of 
 fans would have the patience to see this game through to the end (and enjoy it on at least some 
 level) . If possible, I would strongly advise you pick up the DS version of the game as its the 
 best of all iterations of The Simpsons Game, at least in the gameplay department. While there's 
 little here to appease game lovers, there's some entertainment value to be found in The Simpsons 
 Game for fans of the television series despite all of its flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arcticcop
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 18, 2009 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Oh that new Simpsons game.
  
  I got it on Christmas day and I finished it this morning.... rather than going to the gym like I 
 was supposed to. I only put it away to finish Mass Effect.... so it was the game I've been playing 
 for 360 for sometime now (33 days) . The wife purchased it for me as a huge Simpsons fan and even 
 she has broken down and is playing through it ( and is almost done, which says something about 
 it as she NEVER finishes games she starts) .
  
  I wanted to give this game a higher score so badly. It really has it all... shiny, authentic, Simpsons 
 graphics, excellent voice direction, good level design, and an excellent plot with real simpsons 
 humour (although a little heavy on the "fourth wall" stuff) . It is successful at lampooning every 
 game it takes on.
  
  The Story is great! ( did I mention that?) I actually laughed out loud in every level. It is a quality 
 game and for the design team, I have no doubt, it was a labor of love. But oh the problems- its 
 not an overly long game (which to me is a bonus- I like short and concentrated, as an adult I dont 
 have the time I use to to devote to loooooooong games) , but some of the levels-more specifically 
 the balance in them need to be tweaked. You can take two runs at the same level and in one you'll 
 walk right through it and in the other the enemies will clump together and you'll experience SERIOUS 
 rage.
  
  The first invasion level with Bart and Homer was the beginning of this phenomenon, and it appears 
 in some of the later levels intermittently. 
  
  I imagine most people who play the game will have the same issue though- sluggish camera. The game 
 allows you to control the camera but it rotates fairly slowly and is prone to jerking or moving 
 slightly as you are playing. In a game where there is a good amount of jumping this plays havoc, 
 not as much as it could though since it isnt an automatic loss of "a dude". Its more of a pain 
 in the butt. It doesnt wreck the experience but it reduces it overall. anyone who suggests otherwise 
 is a fool.
  
  The other issue for myself was that the characters dont feel like they jump as far as they "should". 
 Every jump has that "barely made it" feeling and this leads to its own share of frustration. 
 
  
  Each Simpson you play as (all 5) has his or her own special powers which are used over and over 
 again to keep your game moving. The changing game play mechanics ( which range from Space Invaders 
 to Missile Defense) keep the gameplay fresh and makes each level its own animal.
  
  The graphics are fresh and clean, with good variety and well designed, colorful spaces. Right down 
 to good representations of the "Orangegrove" cul de sac from Grand Theft Auto. The shows characters 
 are all here and voiced appropriately and look... well.... they look like the show. The cinemas are 
 all well done and are of a high quality. I didnt experience any weird "glitchiness" that I am use 
 to in EA products (oh BURN.... I still love you EA) and overall its a quality presentation.
  
  For the "collector" (Which I am not) there are time trials and tokens to collect, along with 
 the "cliches", which are actions completed by the player that he has done hundreds of times in 
 other games, they are funny at first (such as pressing start) but by the end of the game I was 
 just hitting the buttons to make comic book guy get off the screen. But for the completionist there 
 is a lot to do.
  
  I love the Simpsons and I loved my time in Springfield but with another few weeks it could have 
 been something special.... instead of just being special to me.
  
  7.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alizerothree
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 11:57 am PT
Review:  This game actually surprised the hell out me! I thought it was going to be mediocre at best but 
 soon I realized what a great experience it was playing through the game. Finding cliches, and seeing 
 references to all the other video games and movies was such a riot! 
  
  There were references from all the EA games which they made fun of, references to Lord of the Rings, 
 Zelda, Mario Bros, Sonic, Terminator, etc etc. The list goes on and on! Even developers can enjoy 
 the game since there are so many development references such as "Known Shippable" and "Hot off 
 QA"! 
  
  It's was great! The game itself was easy but very enjoyable. I never felt the game get repetitive 
 since every level felt fresh and new! Finding the cliches was enjoyable and quite funny. It's sooo 
 true that it hurts!! Everything form the graphics, to the sound, and the character control and 
 feel are spot on! I couldn't believe how good the game was and how it surpassed my expectations. 
 
  
  By far the best Simpsons episode I have ever seen! I recommend this to anyone and everyone. Split-screen 
 coop is a nice added bonus as well! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alienofwar
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2009 10:03 am PT
Review:  If you have Xbox 360 and play this game on an HD tv, the camera issues are almost non-existent. 
 The game is a lot of fun, I love all the problem solving, the cinematic clips are like watching 
 the characters on tv and the jokes are just as funny! I find this game highly addictive and I get 
 a laugh out of it every time I play it again. The game is very long with over 16 missions which 
 take close to an hour to play each. So there is a lot of bang for your buck on this. In the Xbox 
 version, you can roam around Springfield between missions. In the PS2 version you can't do that. 
 I would totally give the PS 2 version a 7.0 score, but the Xbox version deserves 9.0 in my mind 
 because it highly satisfies Simpson fans and your average game player I'm sure. The game is not 
 perfect (what game is perfect?) but it's a lot of fun. Totally recommend it if your a fan of the 
 show. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LucrativeMath
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 14, 2009 11:54 am PT
Review:  So, I've always been interested in a Simpsons game, but never came across something as enjoyable 
 as this one. I picked the game up for $9.99 at my local Best Buy, and what can I say? The game 
 would've been worth every penny if I had spent $20 or even $30. Although the gameplay isn't as 
 deep and technical as most next gen games, it is fun and will suck you in. You can play as Homer, 
 Bart, Lisa, or Marge (w/ Maggie) and are able to roam across the entire city of Springfield, freely! 
 There are many collectable items through out the game and just about every mission ties into the 
 show in some way. It seems like the game isn't very long as I've been taking my time with the game 
 with about 6 hours of gameplay logged and have completed almost 50% of the game. I would say, if 
 you're a fan of the show and are looking for a fun game to play by yourself or with a friend, The 
 Simpsons game is worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior427
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  well I love the show and have been a fan ever since I can remember and Im glad to say the game 
 delivers pretty well and has alot of laughs and humor and doing this can be difficult in a game 
 but the simpsons game pulls it off and the game play is fun somtimes VERY frustrating but still 
 pretty addivtive once you get into the game it can be pretty hard to stop I thought the puzzles 
 were pretty good and creative but the game almost makes it so you have to play co-op which can 
 be a good thing or a bad thing the storline has alot to do with the show and the video game industry 
 this is where alot of the humor comes from just walking around and looking at all of the video 
 game paradoys is pretty fun and all of the cut scenes and animated simpsons shorts are well done 
 alot of people will really like the graphics becuae they resemble the show some people might not 
 because they can come off crude but I have to say with out the unique level designs puzzles and 
 humor this really wouldnt be much of a game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macabre190788
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 8, 2009 12:42 pm PT
Review:  The Simpsons, everbody knows them, eveybody likes them. Wheter or not they're still as popular 
 and funny can be debated. I quit watching the show several seasons ago, I think around season 10, 
 11 or something like that. After seeing the Simpsons Movie, I decided to check out the game. We 
 all know that Simpsons games suck, wit the exception of Hit & Run, I really liked that one. And 
 while this game is not as good as Hit & Run, it's still worth a purchase. Especially since you 
 can get it ridicilously cheap. 
  
  The game can be summed up in one word: "funny". It's funny, though it does seem to think it's a 
 bit more clever than it actually is. Regardless, I laughed on several occasions. So that's all 
 good and well, but is it actually fun to play? For the most part, yes, it is. It's pretty standard 
 stuff, platform jumping, small puzzles and boss battles. It does make fun of itself for having 
 these clichs, I guess as sort of an excuse. Playing as Homer, Bart and Lisa is fun, playing as 
 Marge, not so much. My favorite parts were some of the boss battles, which are quite good.
  
  The graphics are awesome, the cel-shading stuff works and looks great. Voice acting, well, 
 it's the same guys and gals from the show. So you know it's great.
  
  The game is very short, and there's not much reason to come back, though you can unlock a bunch 
 of stuff. Anyway, if you like the Simpsons, and a good laugh, you should consider getting this. 
 Especially since you can get it very cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maidendude71
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  A game that delivers more laughs than the televison show! With great graphics, just like the Televison 
 show and great missions this game leaves you feeling sad that it is over when you finally complete 
 it. You can choose what characters you can be Marge, Homer, Lisa, Bart or even Maggie. This game 
 is just super fun and I definetly recommend you buying this game. Its an instant classic with a 
 suprisingly good story and really funny ending which leaves you not just sad but chanting for more! 
 Better than Hit and Run by a mile! Go buy this game right now! Its just super 
 
  
  To sum it up in one sentence: A super fun classic which leaves you with side spitting comments 
 and makes you feeling sad that the quest has ended!
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Martin-2-5-9
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  The Simpson's game is a 3D action and adventure game by Electronic Arts. I noticed a few differances 
 in 360 version compared to PS2, Such as the 360 offers a bit of sandbox, but here I am to review 
 the 360 version of the game.
  
  
  One thing you might know the Simpson's for is being funny for the past 20 odd years and they bring 
 that spirit into the game the second you get to the start screen (I won't tell you want happens, 
 It'll make you laugh though) and the game is as humorous as the show is. The game make a lot of 
 parodies, such as Gamespot, Other EA games and so on. Its a game that can be played over and over. 
 The comedy is very well set out, there will be stuff you don't understand whilst someone else knows 
 and thats the great thing about the game, Its funny for all.
  
  Something hilarious in the game is the clichs that are in the game. These are obvious video game 
 items such as invisible walls and obvious weaknesses. It might not sound funny on paper, but when 
 it pops out at you in the middle of gameplay it can be unexpected and very funny. You will find 
 some very funny ones along the way, the first few are simple and the further you progress the more 
 funnier it gets.
  
  Now that I cleared the humor out of the way lets get on with talking about gameplay. The gameplay 
 is action and adventure, you go around collecting collectibles, trying to get to the end of the 
 level and each level has a twist in it. You encounter things which require both players to be used, 
 one person to do something, and another to do something else to pass. The gameplay can be puzzling, 
 tricking and overall a little bit stressful if you are a bit like me, but you will enjoy it.
  
  
  Some bad things I have to talk about is the camera. You can only tilt it to around a 90degree 
 angle and thats it, no backwards look when you hit R. It has an auto-move on the camera, which 
 is great except for when you are in tight corners with enemies. The story is kind of short, it 
 can be completed in a day or about 6 hours and another 2 for collecting everything. Collectibles 
 are not the most funnest thing to be doing either. You would rather do something else than run 
 around a giant city to get an achievement, Unless you are mad on them.
  
  I mentioned creativity at the start. This has to be to the level design how it always makes you 
 think twice and can be turned into a puzzle. The dialog is hilarious and very well wrote, all the 
 Simpson's actors came in to record the voices so it sounds exactly like the show.
  
  
  Overview:
  The story could be longer, it is not relative and there is something to do each time 
 which is good but it can be done in 6 hours, which I said before. Camera needs an improvement.
 
  
  If you are a fan of the Simpson's you really should buy this, if you don't like the Simpson's and 
 just want a good laugh in a game then get it and if you like Action/adventure you should get it. 
 But thats my view. It gets an 8 for being to short and having a poor camera, but if it was a bit 
 longer and not so bad with cameras I would say it is worth a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Assassin_651
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  The simpsons game is one of the best games i have ever played but thats not just because it has 
 good gameplay it is because it is one of the funniest games i have ever played.
  
  This game is very creative, the levels are not repetitive but playing it in single player mode 
 is quite hard because you have to switch characters a lot. this doesn't spoil it in the slightest.
 
  
  The graphics are very good and the cut scenes are very imaginitive and funny because they are very 
 similar to the show.
  
  The powers are very cool and they suit the characters personalities perfectly.
  
  The most 
 annoying thing about this game is the camera angle when you are trying to jump on something in 
 a small space, you can never see what you are doing, but this is a minor flaw and doesn't spoil 
 the fun and laughter you probably will have when playing the game.
  
  I give the game 7.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGhettoDT
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 4:36 am PT
Review:  Storyline
  The Simpsons family gains super powers an decide too use them for their own use until Springfield 
 is invaded by aliens then the Simpsons decide to use their powers to rid of them.
  
  Gameplay
  Each Simpsons family member except for maggie has their unique powers used for different 
 situations.
  Combat - You can perform combos or simply spam the same punch attack. You can use each unique attack 
 ability from the Simpsons too stun, damage and area of effect them
  
  Graphics
  The graphics is cartooney Simpsons TV episode style lookin graphics.
  
  Soundtrack / Sounds
 
  The sounds is good but there isn't much of a soundtrack
  
  What sux about the game
  -The storyline is too short
  -Collectables are always boring to get, unless your a serious gamer 
 that wants too 100% everyone of your games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pyrotech73
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 31, 2008 3:19 am PT
Review:  The Story Outline
  the storyline is where you play as the simpsons and just live out there usual lives except live 
 them with superpowers then you get invaded by aliens and you have to do something about them then 
 you have to go to heaven to save springfield and even at heaven everything is realy hostile like 
 everything else.
  
  The Good
  each simpson family member have their unique powers for different situations.
  you have alot 
 of collectables for each character which can be very fun to get (that's if you have a guide to 
 the collectables if not then it can suck very badly) .
  you have powerful upgrades.
  funny cutscenes (like the cutscene where in the lisa and bart level in the gaming engine at the 
 end after you defeat the monkey) .
  
  The Bad
  a very very short storyline
  bad combat
  EA games just rushed it
  
  overall score would be 7 cause there isn't much to 
 the game
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zachtom
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  the best Simpson game by far and a great game in its own right. the graphics is so good it's just 
 like watching the Simpsons series on t. v should of been a bit longer though, but it will take a 
 very long time to find all of Homer's duff bottle caps, Bart's Krusty tokens, Lisa's Malibu Stacy 
 tokens, Marge's 25% off coupons ect and to get under the target time for all the episodes and to 
 beat all the time challenges and to find all comic book guys clichs. i've been playing it since 
 Christmas this year and i still havent found all the collectables and extras. I hope that they 
 bring more Simpson game's out, the Simpson game's and Mario game's is the best game's in the world. 
 
  my verdict is, a very fun and addicting game and months of fun and laughter
  
  if you like this game you might like the sim's (but this game is much better) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simpsons_28
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  The SImpsons The Greatest Television Show Ever Known For It's Mediocre Games (although I Did Enjoy 
 Night Of The Living Tree House Of Horror) The Only Games That Ruled Were SIMPSONS ARCADE GAME and 
 SIMPSONS HIT AND RUN And Now Another Hit For Them In The Simpsons Game You Play As Who Else The 
 Simpsons As You Switch Between Characters But I Like To Use The Co Op Mode Which Is Good (Although 
 Rock Paper Scissors Is what We Use to See Who Gets To Play As Bart) Another Thing Thats Great About 
 The Simpsons Game Is The Ability To Run Free Around Springfield And How They Took Animation And 
 Were Able To Recreate it But Sadly This Is Only On The PS3 And Xbox 360.. But I Had A Few Problems 
 With The Camera for Some Reason I Guess it's Impossible To Make A Good Camera Oh Well It Makes 
 Up For That With Great Voice Acting It Has The Whole Cast Dan Castellaneta, Nancy Cartwright ,Yeardly 
 Smith, Hank Azaria, Julie Kavner, And Harry Shearer. This Is A Title All Simpsons Fans Should buy 
 For It's Simpsons Humor And Animated Cut Scenes This Is A Great Game And oh Right Story Bart Finds 
 A Manual For A Game Called The Simpsons Game Game And Finds Out That He and His family Have Super 
 Powers. SO BUY THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daltonilee
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 11:57 pm PT
Review:  Whats this? Ohh! Another Simpsons game! I hope it's good like 'Hit & Run,' and not dissapointing 
 like 'Road Rage' or 'Wrestling.'
  
  The answer is: adverage. 
  
  The Simpsons Game came out around the time the movie came out, yet had a totally different plot 
 than the movie. In the game, you play as the Simpson family, Homer, Marge, Bart, Lisa, and even 
 Maggie as you fight your way to God because you want answers why your in a video game. Pretty different 
 from any episode plot, but it still turns out to be a neat story with so many parodies, you'll 
 think your playing a Family Guy game. But each parodie is a game parodie that you play in, such 
 as Grand Theft Scratchy, Medal of Homer, and some japanese game with a mix of Katamari and Elemental 
 Sumos. It's a pretty fun and orignal story if you ask me. Did I mention you have a face off with 
 creator, Matt Groening and a dance battle with god? Pretty sweet!
  
  Enough with the story and on to the icing on the cake. Pretty cool graphics, nice sound and level 
 design, plenty of unlockables, super cool two-player co-op, but the camera... awww, the camera 
 design. Where do I start. Let me just say it sucks BADLY. Not as bad as Ninja Giadan, but bad enough 
 where you constantly fall off edges, get killed because you cant see where your going, and problems 
 like that. 
  
  So that's all I have to say about the Simpsons Game. It's a good platformer with funny moments, 
 and fustrating moments, but overall, it's awesome for any Simpsons fan who wants to spend a couple 
 weeks or months searching for unlockable content. But for someone who isn't so much of a Simpson 
 fan, it's still worth renting. But if you don't like the Simpsons or video games period, get off 
 of my page and this site, and go get into the Simpsons right now, or else....
  -BiG D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leeman911
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  This was 1 0f the 5 games I got when I bought my 360 and besides M. U. A
  Which Came free with my 360 prenium its the best with a funny story mode and exellent graphics 
 and addictive gampelay. If your a simpsons fan this will be a big treat like it was for me and I 
 beat it 3 times because I love it so much Its one of my favorite games of all time which Fanal 
 Fantasy 10 is my favorite but this is great and it has the simpsons awesome feme song which is 
 great. Theres also time challenges which are challengeing but fun to play doe so if your a simpsons 
 fan and you have a 3600 get this game now ore else your **** dead to me oooo oooo ooooo ooooo oooo 
 ooooo oooooo oooo oooo oooo oooo ooo ooooo ooooo oooo oooo ooo ooooo oooooo oooooo ooooo oooooo 
 oooo oooo oooo oooo ooooo oooo oooo oo oooooo ooo oooo ooo o ooooo ooooo o oooo ooo ooo ooo ooo 
 ooooo ooooo oooo ooo ooooo ooooo oooo oooo ooooo oooooo ooooo ooooooo oooooo ooooo oooo oooo oooo 
 oooo ooo ooo oo oooo oooo ooo oooo ooooo ooooo oooo oooo oooo ooo oo ooooo oooo ooo ooooo oo oooo 
 oooo ooo ooo ooo ooooo ooo ooo oooooo oooo oo oooo oo ooo ooo oooo ooo ooo ooo oooo oooo oooo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkElf2112
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  A retail game needs to be very bad for me to give up on it. So with a heavy heart I report on one 
 of the most disappointing gaming experiences of my life. Let me first say I LOVE THE SIMPSONS! 
 I've seen every episode at least 2 or 3 times and still watch the show religiously today. Even 
 though other Simpson games have been poor I had high hopes for this one. Unfortunately this next 
 gen spin on the Simpsons may be the most unplayable.
  
  Graphics - Great. Well, I mean as far as one could expect from a game revolving around a cartoon. 
 The world looks precisely like a Simpsons episode.
  
  Audio - All the actual voice talent from the show is here and they do a very good job bringing 
 the show to life in the game.
  
  Story - Well, not much of one. It's basically episodic missions as you would expect. The writing 
 is good and there are a few good laughs to be had.
  
  So you're asking "'Elf, what's the problem? Everything sounds OK so far, why the low score?" Allow 
 me to drop the bomb...
  
  KABOOM!!!!
  
  Gameplay - Absolutely, utterly, completely, and totally BROKEN! There is bad camera (Ninja Gaiden 
 Black or Conan for example) and then there is a disaster of camera that is spectacular in proportion. 
 The Simpsons Game falls in the latter category. Want clean, accurate jumping? Good luck. Want to 
 move smoothly through the environment? Fat chance. Want to clearly see what the hell you're supposed 
 to do next? Hah! I am in awe that this was allowed to be shipped with the camera in this state. 
 The amount of money it must have cost to bring in all the voice actors must have broken the bank 
 because the controls and camera were simply disregarded.
  Worse still is the need to switch between characters to accomplish in game progress. Dreadful. 
 Amidst all of this chaos you are expected to jump between characters and experience their own brand 
 of controller related failure. And the time trials? Don't get me started. The first of course is 
 way too easy, then absurdity ensues. Trying to utilize these controls under time pressure is an 
 exercise in futility. Sure, you'll get it eventually but isn't the point to be having fun, not 
 a coronary?
  
  This game is a rental or a bargain bin buy at best. If you pay the full $60 for this game then 
 you deserve the misery of trying to get through it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PdPizzle
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 1, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  First of all, my love for the Simpsons is like no other. The Simpsons game had me interested since 
 day one - then the demo for it came out on Xbox Live. I played it and Hated it. The game was great 
 but the camera ruined the whole entire game. So about 2 months went buy and everytime i went to 
 Bestbuy I had to convince myself not to buy it. I had been a GameFly member for like six months 
 so that qualified me for 5 GameFly dollars to buy a used game. I happend to see the simpsons game 
 for 16 dollars. I bought it and it was the best decision i've made gaming-wise in months.
  
  The good:
  The game has top-notch visuals as far as cartoons go.
  I was laughing the whole 
 time with all of the unique jokes in the background.
  Missions were extremly fun also testing my brain with some innovative puzzles.
  
  The Bad:
 
  The camera
  It's waaaay short.
  
  
  Overall: I really liked this game and I'm sure I'll play the story mode again. But, if your gonna 
 buy it for over $30 then don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ResidentEman
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 31, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  It would seem that making a videogame that makes fun of videogames featuring the Simpsons would 
 be a great idea. I initially thought it was reading the previews. However, ultimately the game 
 fails to deliver and leaves you wondering what good idea EA will butcher next. The gameplay is 
 just broken, the AI is worse than that in Medal of Honor (I kid you not, it IS that bad) , the visuals 
 don't quite look 3d, but aren't quite 2d and end up in a strange limbo of no depth perception and 
 no style. All of these factors make platforming, the game's main focus, next to impossible. You 
 try to jump for a ledge, only to go hurtling down thirty feet when you apparently misjudge the 
 distance, and trust me, this happens at least 50% of the time. Another main focus of this game 
 is playing with someone else, because the AI controlled partnere is about as useful as a car without 
 an engine, tires, brakes, or seats. That is to say it is a hollow shell of stupidity that you wish 
 you could shoot in the eye with Bart's trusty slingshot! There are many points in the game where 
 your partner is required to help you, and these are the points where you better beg a friend to 
 play this abomination with you, or spend an hour solving a two minute puzzle! Even getting your 
 AI partner to stand on a button long enough for you to cross an extended bridge is a chore! You 
 switch to play as your partner, then you go to the button, but as soon as you go back to the person 
 who has to cross the bridge, no matter what you do, the AI partner comes running up to meet you 
 like a Cocker Spaniel! And the enemy AI is equally as bad! Boss fights are as simple as using half 
 of your brain to enact a predictable sequence of events to annoy them into submission! And the 
 enemies you fight just stand there in the same place trying to hit you while you entertain yourself 
 by watching their stupidity, just about the only fun you'll have in this game! Ultimately, do not, 
 under any circumstances, buy this game. If you want to see the so called humor in this game, then 
 just go on youtube and look up the cutscenes, but they're not worth the price of admission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucario-kid
Rating: 5
Date: May 30, 2008 1:12 am PT
Review:  The Simpsons game is the first proper game of the popular TV series. In it you play as the the 
 simpson family, Homer, Marge, Bart, Lisa and Maggie.
  
  The Simpsons game takes place when Bart find a magic comic book called The Simpsons comic and it 
 gove him special poweres and turns him into BARTMAN! Eventully all the Simpson family get super 
 powers and the have to save the world from the evil CREATOR...... Who is obviously Matt Greoning, 
 the creator of the Simpsons.
  
  The controls are fine for the XBOX360, PS2, PS3 and PSP versions but the Wii version has some boring 
 controls, you just press B to attack and you just skake the remote to use your characters special 
 ability.
  
  Theb graphics are ok, but the place where The Simpsons game comes into it's own is the humor, it 
 was written by the people who made the TV series and is the funniest game you will ever play! It 
 is certain to have you chuckling all the way through!
  
  Overall The Simpsons game is a decent game and the funniest you will ever play, it's just too bad 
 it's only 16 levels. 5/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edlim615
Rating: 7
Date: May 27, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  I grew up on the Simpsons. It's hard to imagine that the cartoon has been around for 19 years. 
 Part of its appeal is its broad humor; it lightheartedly skewers all walks of life. Such is true 
 of The Simpsons Game. Each level is a send-up of a different video game genre (and isn't each genre 
 just a different facet of real life?) .
  
  The animation, voice acting and story is great. Simpsons fans will feel right at home.
  
  What 
 I found lacking were the controls and the camera. You die if you land in water, and jumping from 
 one small pebble to the next was frustrating. The character is positioned so low on the screen 
 that you can't see where you are jumping some times, and rarely cannot see your shadow so you can 
 never be quite sure where you'll land. I suppose this is the drawback in making a game engine that 
 will cover all sorts of game styles.
  
  Oh, and the "Shadow of the Colossal Donut" was more difficult for me than the rest of the game. 
 Its a pity that was the demo level because I almost didn't get the game because of it. But when 
 I heard it was not indicative of the whole game, I bought the game used.
  
  Anyway, my criticisms didn't stop me from getting the game and playing it all the way through. 
 Because each level was entirely different from the last, it never felt repetitious.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caddy06_88
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 21, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  The Simpsons Game is a third person action game from EA. The game, which you may expect, is based 
 on the ever so popular Simpsons family. In the game, you will take up the roles of Homer, Bart, 
 Lisa, Marge and even Maggie occasionally. The game has several puzzle elements that you must figure 
 out, as well as a whole range of enemies that need defeating.
  
  The most notable part about The Simpsons Game is the humour. It is expected that anything that 
 carries the Simpsons title should be funny, and this game certainly does not disappoint in that 
 respect. There are several moments throughout the story that you are likely to have a really good 
 laugh at. It is great to see such a light-hearted, funny game in amongst the space and war shooters 
 of today. The funniest parts of The Simpsons Game come in the form of the cutscenes, which are 
 fantastically written and is like watching the cartoon at it's funniest time. Even when just wondering 
 around levels or Springfield, characters will say hilarious things that you will laugh at and appreciate. 
 There are several jokes, gags and just plain comedy that will stick out while playing the game 
 and just like in the show, each character has a different personality. Homer will say funny things 
 which relate back to him being stupid and probably too dependent on beer and food, Bart will say 
 things to fuel his 'rebel child' position and so on. Each character has something to give to the 
 humour.
  
  A great deal of the humour can be derived from the story elements of the game. In the Simpsons 
 Game, you compete in an eating competition, you help stop a museum heist, you shut down a company 
 that plans on cutting down all the tress and you save the earth from an alien invasion, not to 
 mention that you spend time in a game engine and then different kinds of games and of course, you 
 fight bunnies made from chocolate. The story might seem a little crazy, but it actually flows really 
 well. By far the most interesting aspect of the story is how it interacts with the video game industry. 
 Not only is some of the levels based on video games e. g. Medal of Homer, Grand Theft Scratchy, 
 but there are references to video game popular culture. For instance, Will Wright makes an appearance 
 in the game as a 'mini boss' type figure. There was also a reference to Billy Mitchell while running 
 around the Game Engine room. On top of that, sections within some levels change to turn into a 
 classic game type e. g. Space Invaders. If you have knowledge of the gaming industry and classic 
 games, you will definitely spot some references, which will make you appreciate the story just 
 that little bit more. A possible downside to the volume of game references is the advertising for 
 EA. You will spot EA posters and stickers throughout the game that might take away from the experience, 
 but all in all, it isn't too bad.
  
  Another thing that helps The Simpsons Game feel like the show is the graphics. When playing the 
 game, the graphics are very similar to that of the show, but everything is in 3D and HD and looks 
 fantastic. The style is very nice and it actually feels like you are running around Springfield, 
 like in the cartoon. The animation is good too; everything moves nicely and there wasn't a moment 
 where the animation didn't hold up to the actions, although there were a few instances where the 
 frame rate dropped slightly, but it was only on a few occasions. The HD makes the graphics feel 
 even better and if you have a HDTV, it looks better than the actual show.
  
  Not only does the game look pretty great, the game sounds great too. The game features the voice 
 cast of the show and they do a terrific job of integrating the voices into the game and it's story, 
 which is to be expected. Not only are the cast present, the game's soundtrack is strong too and 
 while going through many of the levels, take some time out to listen to the back track, it makes 
 it feel like a more authentic experience. Another little sound touch that is much appreciated is 
 the small sound effects. For instance, there is a level that includes ice and snow, when you walk 
 on the snow, you hear the 'crunchy' noise you would expect to hear when walking on some snow. For 
 different surfaces, you hear different noises. We might expect that of a game in this day but it's 
 still great to hear.
  
  This game is not all pretty graphics and funny story though; it does have its share of problems. 
 The gameplay is not as fun as it first appears. In most levels, you take control of two Simpson's 
 family members and alternate between the two in order to get through the level. Each member of 
 the family has their own unique powers and while some of them are pretty cool at first, it soon 
 wears off. The game starts to get a little repetitive when you realize that you are doing the same 
 thing over and over again. There are small puzzles throughout the levels, and at first they might 
 take a few minutes to figure out but they soon become very easy because you just have to do the 
 same thing as the first puzzle of this kind. You either have to look for something for Bart to 
 grapple onto, or something for Lisa to lift up using her 'Hand of Buddha' power and so on. The 
 game isn't particularly long either and can probably be ran through in 6 hours, although, there 
 are things to do other than the story with collectibles and time challenges, but the story is the 
 most interesting part of the game.
  
  The Simpsons Game gameplay also lacks a certain execution. In one level, you are fighting a giant 
 Lardman that shoots lasers, fine, and because of the repetitive nature of the game, you soon realize 
 how to take him down. The problem arises when you actually begin the fight against him. It's a 
 'good old' three-stage battle where all three stages are similar. It soon becomes highly frustrating 
 when you are doing the right thing, but you can't get quite close enough to him because you aren't 
 quite high or close enough, and sometimes even when you are high enough, the angle and position 
 is too awkward. The game also suffers from horrible camera angles. There were countless moments 
 in the game where the camera would be situated in a horrible position. You can rotate the camera, 
 but it would stop if it came 'into contact' with a wall or an object, which meant for some tricky 
 sections where you had to jump from one pole to another it was very hard to see where you were 
 going. The bad camera angles really hinder the enjoyment of some of these very well designed levels.
 
  
  The Simpsons world has sparked a lot of games over the years and while The Simpsons Game is new 
 and different, it boils down to 'just being another Simpsons game'. It's funny, which they usually 
 are, but it lacks the execution to be a great action game. The nice graphics and great sound just 
 aren't enough to rescue the bad gameplay. The gameplay, coupled with horrible camera angles, stops 
 the chances of this game being great. For a hardcore Simpson's fan, it might be worth checking 
 out although renting is probably the best option for anybody that likes the Simpson's because the 
 game simply isn't as fun as it first might appear to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rustymilk24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  this simpsons game is the best one yet. it does not try extremely hard to be funny so when they 
 do try, it is like watching an episode. this game is only about hours long if you dont collect 
 all the items, if you do it will probally be 9 to 10 hours long. this is probaly the funniest game 
 on the market and is good for all systems. i think is is best for 360 because of good visuals and 
 achivements. i give this game an 8.5 out of ten because it uses all real characters and writers 
 from the simpsons. there are no crapy voice overs that do not even sound like the real character. i 
 am not sure i would get this game for sixty dollars becuse it is kinda short and there is no extra 
 content but if you find it for twenty or thirty dollars, i would recomend getting it. Visuals: 
 8
  Gameplay: 7.5
  Replay Value: 6.5
  Funness: 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisseburke
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 6:44 am PT
Review:  For fans of the series its a must buy!
  Funny never seen before footage!
  Play as four of the 5 main characters. (Marge and Maggie are classed as one character)
  Free 
 roam around Springfield and meet your favourite Simpsons characters talk and shout at you!
  
  Does get slightly annoying at some points but overall a great game especially for the younger 
 person. Although adults can enjoy fully also. Good achievments for the achievements fans! (Easy 
 time trails which get 5G each time)
  
  Alot of the missions / the whole game, rips off (in a good and funny way) alot of other games, 
 including, GTA, Neverquest, Medal of Honour, Pokemon, Black and White, Mario and many more! It 
 will keep the player entertained for a good time and has the option of co-op. Online leaderboards 
 are also included but not needed or any use.
  
  Fun and worth a buy/rent. I got mine for 20 in Asda, which is well worth the money in my opinion! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarHero670
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 14, 2008 1:38 am PT
Review:  The Simpsons have been known for being that hot liscence that has just never found it's way into 
 the video game world. Out of the countless attempts at a Simpsons game I can only think of two 
 that are actually quality titles. But this one picks up on what the other missed, humor. Throughout 
 the game you will be treated to loads of jokes and funnies from the original Simpsons cast. The 
 game tries it's best to poke humor at the video game industry itself, such as being able to collect 
 "video game cliches" like levers and invisble barriers. The games best strength really is it's 
 humor as under all that Simpsons liscence and humor is a relatively average platfromer.
  
  You fight your way through themed levels with the Simpsons cast. Each have their own special abilities 
 and you must constantly switch characters to solve the numerous (but easy) puzzles throughout the 
 game. But most of the time you'll be running around punching the crap out of various members of 
 Springfield. There's nothing new here and this game is happy to pilfer the tried and true techniques 
 of the Big Book of Platforming. The game does have some camera and collision issues.
  
  The game also features a 2-player co-op which makes the game even easier than it already was as 
 your AI partner can't be relied on for ANYTHING. In co-op mode the camera seems to get even worse 
 and one player tends to be left waiting doing nothing while the other one solves a puzzle. The 
 visuals are nice as the cartoony 3d type of look to the game really stick to the Simpsons feel. 
 But when the camera unfairly slaps you in the face and bullies you into a blind leap of faith the 
 graphics tend to look a little weird. Simply put the graphics are good only when the camera isn't 
 going crazy.
  
  The Simpsons game is average but most people will decide that good enough really is good enough 
 as it's got charm and laughs. Being that platformers are hard to come by these days it's aleast 
 worth a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liesandpies
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  The Simpsons Game is basically your average platformer with a whole lot of Simpsons humour. It's 
 fairly long with a whole bunch of collectibles and achievements to extend the gameplay. The graphics 
 look very true to the cartoon and run well though some slowdown is evident during explosions or 
 fancy effects. Lots of funny VO and good music and sound effects. The story is about a The Simpsons 
 Game manual falling out of the sky and giving all of the Simpsons superpowers which they at first 
 use to their own benefit but then use them to fight greater forces. The combat is average button 
 mashing but it's fairly satisfying with the Simpsons and enemies taunting. You can collect little 
 items to boost life bars or power bars and to get achievements to boost your gamerscore but this 
 is quite tedious. There are also time trials that require you to do something in a limited amount 
 of time. All in all, an average game with great personality and charm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  This is a very fun game! The fact that the game makes fun of a lot of video game cliches makes 
 the game very true and real in many respects.
  
  For example: there is a part when Bart explains that how to get through the next part of the level 
 may require going online and "cheating" by looking up a walkthrough, and at the exact time it was 
 saying that on the screen I was off the couch and over at my computer looking up a walkthrough 
 just like it said! It totally called me out!
  
  The graphics look just like the TV show and the characters and voices are very precise. The game 
 is enjoyable enough as a comical and cartoony game and would be fun for most teens or adults who 
 like the TV show.
  
  Be advised that the camera angles tend to SUCK ASS in multiple points in the game making it very 
 hard to work on the game when you can't see what the hell you are doing. And some of the areas 
 are a buit tough for a kid to learn so it does take a walkthrough to find out how to get through 
 certain parts of the game, and I very much hate that! I believe all games should be easy enough 
 to handle without having to yell at it and get pissed when you need some help just to get through 
 such a simple part.
  
  As the game can be beaten so fast... I would suggest renting this, it can be completed within 6-8 
 hours time frame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboss2010
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  The Simpsons Game is a wonderful adaption from the television series to a console game. It is a 
 sandbox style game. You will encounter many of your favorite faces as play progresses through. 
 You command either Homer, Bart, Lisa, or Marge as you play through the missions. You and a partner 
 may also team up in co-op mode and battle through the different levels. The controls take a little 
 bit of getting used to, the visuals and sounds are great and it looks really good in HD. You have 
 the choice during missions to find all of each players different tokens to earn trophies, which 
 in turn raises health and power length. After completing a mission one has the option to do a time 
 challenge to beat a top time to earn more points. You are able to run around Springfield as well 
 to uncover different hidden items. 
  
  If you really love the Simpsons you will really like this game I say it is definitely worth anyone's 
 time to play it through and find all of the secret items and complete all the episodes and challenges. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcustheman222
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  The Simpsons Game is, nearest makes no diffence, the 2,859,351st Simpsons game, but is it a Hit 
 'n' Run like game or is it as rubbish as Road Rage?
  
  GRAPHICS: The visuals are stunning, whatever your platform. The characters look realistic and cutscences 
 look just like he 2007/2008 shows, very nice!
  
  SOUND: This is the game's piece de resistence. All the voice actors are here from the show. Also, 
 only a few things make me smeark/laugh (one being an episode of Adventures of Sonic the Hedgehog. 
 What?!) but this overtakes Ratchet and Clack for amount of laughter.
  
  LIFESPAN: This is where the game loses its touch. No online co-op or versus modes. Just leaderboards, 
 boo! 
  
  UPS: Funnist game in the world!
  Origanal voice actors
  
  DOWNS: Worst. Camera. Ever!
  Puzzles?! At the start of the game?! NOOOOOOOOO!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspdemoboy52
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  Da da da duh da da da duh duh da da... sorry it's just everytime I watch The Simpsons I think of 
 this song and luckily for me they had it in the game. Obviously this song won't impact whether 
 I give this game a good rating or not. But let's get to the review! First off, the graphics. The 
 graphics are nothing amazing (it is a cartoon) but the graphics are similar to the cell-shaded 
 Zelda: Wind Waker. The game can be played in HD but I think that would made it worse. I haven't 
 tried it but the game looks as if HD would just make it brighter not crisper and cleaner. Next, 
 the audio. The game has every single voice from the TV show. Every major character and most minor 
 characters are in there with their original voices. Let's move on to the gameplay, the game is 
 based around the Simpsons characters finding out they are in their own video game and have powers 
 that are based on their characteristics. Such as, Homer can turn into a ball and eat everything 
 in site (I'm still trying to figure out the difference between ball Homer and regular Homer) , Bart 
 can become a super hero with his sling shot, Marge can use a mega-phone to rally everyone around 
 her to do her dirty deeds, and Lisa can stun people with her saxaphone and use the power of Buhda 
 (spelling?) to move things around her enviroment. You have to use two characters in each level 
 to finish the level. You can also do this with multiplayer similar to Lego Star Wars. The game 
 incases multiple game parodies within each level. The game is definitely funny and even has the 
 easiest achievement ever. All you have to do is press START at the beginning of the game. It's 
 only 5 points but it's a fun little touch. At the beginning of this game I gave it a 8.0 but I 
 think I'm going to upgrade it to a 8.5. I would recommend this game to anyone who likes The Simpsons 
 or just wants a fun platformer. It's more of a rent but if you really like The Simpsons than buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlwaysHaveHope
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 7, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Funny, good cut scenes the side collectables aren't that bad.
  
  Cons: not a very good camera, really short, the story is a bit out there.
  
  The Simpsons game 
 basically gets into as Bart is going to by a game at Game Sequel (lol) to buy this violent game 
 Grand Theft Scratchy because he is bored of the games he bought yesterday. As he walks out he see's 
 his mom and she takes the game. He is disappointed as he's walking down an alleyway and a game 
 manual falls from the sky and lands in front of him. That is which where the story takes place. 
 Going in different levels and beating them very quickly isn't much. But you could go back and collect 
 which character's collectibles are there. Homer= Beer tops 
  Bart= Krusty lunch boxes Lisa= Mallbu Stacy posters (or something) and Marge gets coupons. Springfield 
 overall isn't actually that bad, just a bad camera keeps it lacking. It's a fun game to play but 
 it would be smarter just to rent it and beat it then pay more money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: random58
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 5, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  it starts of great and the graphics are really simpsonish. the videos are fantastic and funny, 
 and all the levels are quite different but the game becomes stale and slighty tacky if you do anything 
 other than the main missions and quick. the normal free roam is dire and not fun like it was on 
 hit and run there is nothing compelling to make you want to run around looking for near endless 
 tokens and you can no longer use vehicles which to be fair was quite fun, now you have to go into 
 missions and enter different parts of springfield that way which wont be open in the free roam. 
 the story is also quite short and shouldnt take to long at all. leave this game to under 5yo because 
 this game does nothing for the simpson franchise, why dont they make a more interactive free roaming 
 game that has the perks of hit and run and the graphics of this game, if only 
::::::

::::::
UserName: destron123
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  The Simpsons Game is EXACTLY what a game about the Simpsons should be. A good mix of cheesy, yet 
 fun and clever gameplay which captures exactly the satire and wit of the series.
  You play in teams of 2 Simpsons characters at a time (except at the last couple of levels when 
 you can switch among all the Simpsons family) and the characters team up to solve puzzles. Marge 
 has the added advantage of having Maggie in a baby carrier to use to enter vents and push hidden 
 buttons or collect hidden tokens. The game is actually 2-fold -- there is the token collection, 
 open-ended sandbox type gameplay and then there are the story segments which are the main part 
 of the game. The gameplay actually satirizes itself with events like Comic Book Store Guy popping 
 up when you find a gaming cliche with some sarcastic and hilarious comment or the Simpsons realizing 
 that they are just characters in a computer simulation, which really adds to the fun atmosphere 
 of the game. Most levels aren't too difficult and you gain extra abilities and costumes as you 
 complete certain ones. 
  A real bonus is the "virtual Springfield" environment where you can roam around a detailed sim 
 of the city freely, collecting game tokens or striking up conversatioms with other characters from 
 the show. It would have been nice to be able to play as characters other than the Simpsons (Abe 
 is not even a playable character) , but at least most of the major characters have a role in the 
 story mode of the game.
  
  All-in-all, the Simpsons Game was a fully satisfying experience and is a game you will want to 
 revisit time and again, especially if you are a fan of the cartoon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garygok
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  Going into it I had no trust that I would enjoy this game. Past Simpsons games and games based 
 on T. V. or the movies in general have usually left me disappointed.
  
  It didn't take much playtime before I was refreshingly surprised. The environments look just awesome 
 in high def and the characters are a spot on match which all serves to really pull you into the 
 game. There are lots of genuine laughs as you play through and you will meet up with pretty much 
 any Simpsons character you can think of.
  
  The story itself is pretty darn funny too and consists mainly of picking on the gaming industry 
 the entire time. It's all in good fun though and there surely is nothing that would leave anyone 
 feeling offended. 
  
  The main game is a bit short taking about 15 hours but you will surely be left with plenty of achievements 
 to go after if you finish that quickly. Ending up with about 370 points on my first run through, 
 this is one of few titles I can see myself going back to and spending some time getting the left 
 overs.
  
  All in all I'm perfectly happy knowing I paid full price for it and I think you would be too. Getting 
 a well looked after copy at a reduced price should be considered a score... don't even think about 
 it. Just grab it and even if you don't pop it in until a month from now when you feel like you 
 have nothing else to play... you will be pleasantly surprised.
  
  POSITIVES
  You can be any of the Simpson Family. Special moves are pretty neat, some I'd never seen before. 
 Pretty much all the characters in the show are there somewhere. Sound and visuals are both excellent. 
 It's funny
  
  NEGATIVES
  The camera can be quite annoying at times, though it is really not that bad. For me the fun I was 
 having was well worth the occasional control annoyance. Main story is a bit short.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Basically you travel around Springfield from stage to stage. While doing this you can 
 explore the city and run around grabbing items for your collection. Each Simpson has a certain 
 item associated with them that can be found all around Springfiled and during the various stages. 
 Collecting items results in things like increased power for your character.
  
  The stages are greatly varied and very stylized which is one of the games real assets. The changes 
 of pace really help to reduce game monotony.
  
  GRAPHICS
  Awesome. Tight environments and wickedly done characters seem flawless. A strong point to the game.
 
  
  SOUND
  Fantastic. All the sounds and actual voices you hear on the show. A strong point to the game.
 
  
  CONTROLS
  The camera angles will became a nuisance in various situations but nothing that is not overcome 
 by a few tries. For me it was not significant at all. 
  
  VALUE
  Well worth it. For the amount of laughs and enjoyment I had it was well worth the price and I would 
 do it again. It was even enjoyable enough for me to go back and do a little achievement-getting 
 ;)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: danny3ya
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  i have just recently bought this game and when i got home couldnt wait to but it, But there a re 
 a few problems with it
  its a very messy game and dis organised
  not hugely fun but OK it is not clear at all on what you have to do and when you know what to do 
 it is simple and what i think they should do is the opposite: make it clear on what to do and make 
 it hard when you know what to do 
  and also it is sometimes quite repetetive 
  
  BUT
  
  i must say it was a funny game, made me laugh although at some stages it was a huge bore, and 
 also with games like these they normally go very fast but this one is very long wich i love
  
  alot of shops are selling this for around 45 pounds but i wouldnt pay that at all i would 
 rent it BUT if you are determined to buy it then i suggest asda as they sell it for under 40 (Wich 
 is where i bought it from)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shozz
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 16, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  There are two types of people who will play this game, simpsons fans (myself being one of them) 
 and those who enjoy a good laugh ( most people fall into this camp) . But has the simpsons game 
 got great gameplay that matches the irrevent and clever humour from the TV show. The answer is 
 yes. First off the simpsons game is bloody hillarious particularly if you're a game nut and have 
 a bit of knowledge about old school games. Many are parodied, including Medal Of Honor (aptly renamed 
 medal of homer) , Grand Theft Auto just to name a few. Graphically its not the best looking game 
 compared to say Call Of Duty 4 but this is not the intention. The aim of the game developers was 
 to make it look as if you are playing a season of the simpsons and they did really well. When first 
 playing level one I thought is this a cutscene or not (cutscenes were specially made for the game 
 by the creators of the TV show.) Gameplay boils down to button mashing a lot of the time, but each 
 character has special abilities well suited to themselves, for example Homer can inflate into a 
 giant ball and roll around destroying everything in his path but in order to do that he needs to 
 get his collestral levels to critical by, yep you guessed it eating every item of food in sight!! 
 Little touches of humour really help this game elevate from generic licensed tat to something decent. 
 As always in a simpsons licensed game you have all the voices of your favourite characters. So 
 all in all its not going to win game of the year but if you love the simpsons and if you love video 
 games then this is one not to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxStrixxzkxx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 6:12 am PT
Review:  So the game takes place in Springfield, Bart is at the Sequel Stop and purchase the Grand Theft 
 Scratchy game. But he dosen't get far untill Marge caught him and put his game in Homer's underwear 
 dror. But instead Bart finds a game manual of his life.
  
  Every family member gets special powers. Bart can turn into Bartman and use his slingshot and glide 
 with his cloak. Homer can be a giant ball, he can burp, and allso he can turn into a Gummi-Homer. Marge 
 can make people do what ever she wants. Lisa can use her saxophone and use her ''hand of buddha'' 
 and solve puzzle. Maggie can be sent into tight spaces to push buttons and such.
  
  The Game allso makes parodies of ' Terminator, Everquest, Medal of Honer, God of War, Dragon's Lair, Okami, Mortal 
  Fighter, Pokemon, Shadow of the Colossus and many more.
  
  The Camera can be a problem but you overlook it, beacuse it's such a funny game. And it's at least 
 worth playing once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HummaKavula
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 24, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  I, as many others, love The Simpsons. But I, as many others as well, do not love The Simpsons Game. 
 The game sure is funny and it might have your favorite characters included, but the gameplay is 
 very mediocre.
  
  However, there is still something to like, maybe the fact that that this game isn't really trying 
 to revolutionise platforming/adventuring. Despite that though, there are just so many design flaws 
 it makes the game more boring than it has to be.
  
  The first thing I'm going to mention is that the camera is constantly in the way, so you're going 
 to fight the camera as much as you're going to fight enemies. This takes away alot of the joy of 
 playing the game, and making it through a level is a complete chore.
  
  You get to play as all of the family Simpsons characters, though when you play as Marge you'll 
 play as Maggie too because she sits on Marge's back. All of the characters have their own style 
 of fighting, but that doesn't mean playing the game as a different character on each level makes 
 it not repetitive.
  
  Every character uses their fists to attack, and they can finish with a combo that breaks the enemies 
 blocks. At the near beginning of the game The Simpsons will realise they're inside a video game 
 and they all magically gain magic powers.
  
  None of these powers and abilities however doesn't do much to impact the gameplay because they're 
 almost always used at key points to get to the next level. So the freedom is very limited and it 
 makes the game very repetitive.
  
  While alot of the jokes are funny, if you're a long-time Simpsons fan like myself you'll quickly 
 notice many of the jokes are straight out of the episodes that are not newer, aka does not suck. 
 This gives you the feeling that the writers didn't take the time to make funny jokes, much like 
 they've slacked on the writing job the past 7-8 or so years. At least, I know it did for me.
  
  All in all, being a big fan of The Simpsons, the Game is a big disappointment. It doesn't take 
 advantage of the winning formula I had hoped it did. In any case, if you're not as picky as I am 
 this game is probably worth a rent. Either way, you'll still have the feeling that it could've 
 been improved alot, that I guarantee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Farreg
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  The game has a head start over all it's predecessors simply because right from the beginning it 
 does what the Simpsons does best, makes fun of various pop culture icons, as well as themselves 
 at the same time.
  
  The game itself has very common game controls, and very common game puzzles, jump here, solve puzzle, 
 defeat and of stage boss. But how the Simpsons put their spin on the game is that they are literally 
 making fun of games in general, and in part themselves.
  
  Don't expect any original concepts or gameplay, as one of the main themes of the game is that it 
 is a game as cliched as any game that came before it.
  
  There's classic Simpsons dialogue throughout (thanks to the actual writers of the show) , and the 
 storyline, though base enough, still offers plenty of play for the writers to continuously put 
 in their little tidbits.
  
  Don't expect any real challenge from this game, just treat it as an interactive episode and enjoy 
 it for what it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrashMacKenzie
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit it right off the bat. I love "The Simpsons".
  
  It's been my favorite show for years. I know it's not in a very good place right now, but "The 
 Simpsons Movie" and now "The Simpsons Game" have assured me that the show's writers haven't completely 
 lost their touch.
  
  "The Simpsons Game" is a platformer that puts Springfield's favorite family through every video 
 game cliche in existence.
  
  The gameplay is pretty fun with each character having unique abilities. The wacky camera hurts 
 the overall experience, though.
  
  Ultimately, the gameplay is not the reason this game is good. It's the faithful art design, great 
 voice acting, funny dialogue, hilarious story and great video game parody.
  
  The camera isn't the only problem. The game is set-up for multi-player, but it's pretty lame. The 
 in-game cutscenes are not very impressive, unlike the cinematic cutscenes, which are good.
  
  All things considered, this is probably the best thing to bear the 'Simpsons' since season 
 12.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _rock_
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 1:27 am PT
Review:  Overview - The Simpson's game is Great game for any Simpson's fan and will entertain Evan the casual 
 watchers of the show. 
  
  Game play - The game all starts when Bart Simpson finds a manual to there very own game and finds 
 out they each have special powers. The home of the game is in Springfield and you can freely roam 
 around the town you will see alot of Characters from the show walking around Saying there funny 
 remarks from the show. You will find the different levels around Springfield Where you will go 
 threw adventures with all the members of the Simpson's family. Using your special powers, killing 
 enemies and alot of button mashing you will progress threw the levels. Overall the game play is 
 probably the main thing holding this game back from its full potensual because it involves alot 
 of mindless button mashing fairly quick levels and bad camera-ing.
  
  Graphics - The Graphics are great. Taking after the show in looks. A very detailed look of Springfield 
 will all the Characters looking like they do in the show (probably Evan better)
  
  Sound - The sound is top quality the Characters sound great just like in the show. Right threw 
 out the game you will not be disappointed with the quality of the Characters voices. And one of 
 the best things about the game is how funny it is, Just like a Great episode of the Simpson's the 
 Simpson's game will make you laugh using there funny quotes from the show.
  
  Conclusion - Overall This is a Great game for the big Simpson's fans and a must buy. But for casual 
 fans of the show I would wait till the price drops a bit. If your looking for a good laugh a fairly 
 short and shallow game with alot of button mashing and adventure the Simpson's game is for you!
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BSantamorena
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  If you are looking for a revolutionary game with great difficulty look somewhere else. If you are 
 looking to have a good time and laugh this is your game. From the first level in the chocalte land 
 taken directly from an old episode to the final boss you won'r stop laughing throughout this game. 
 The game parodies are absolutely brilliant the "cameos" of characters from old games are great. 
 Comic book guy pointing out all the cliches in the game as you see them is so perfect to the series. 
 But all else falls short of the final boss, I won't spoil the surprise but there has never been 
 a better final battle in gaming history. Those of you who have got there know how absolutely unexpected 
 and funny this is. When you get there you will see why this is the Best... Game.... Ever!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sven7
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 28, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  Tedious, brutally unentertaining gameplay destroys what might have been another great chapter in 
 Simpsons videogame history. Just compare this tired and uninspired failure to the brilliant Simpsons 
 Hit and Run to see how good writing and game programming can make the Simpsons come alive in a 
 game (as opposed to this one) . This game is a very standard version of the fairly dull switch-between-characters 
 genre. Negotiating Bart through puffs of air across various towers simply isn't any fun. Turning 
 Homer into a giant ball of lard and breaking up stuff sounds fun, but in practice is not. Marge's 
 power is directing mobs of people to destroy stuff (and build stuff) . Using Marge's power is mind-numbingly 
 boring. The game simply fails at bringing Springfield and its enormous cast of characters to life, 
 and Springfield itself seems like a dead and empty emulation of the real thing. Instead of coming 
 off as a clever parody and commentary on videogames, the game instead becomes the very bad games 
 and conventions that it sought to make fun of.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ernsp
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  I'll start of by saying that theres no reason to own this, even as a rabid Simpsons fan. You've 
 played this type of game a billion times and you've mashed the A button even more.
  That said, if you love the Simpsons then its a great rental. Its like playing an episode. The Land 
 of Chocolate level is cool. The dialogue and locales are a great service to the fans but the basics 
 of a good game are gone. Repition and bad camera plague this game. Sure its fun to play a Katamari/japanese 
 inspired level but i want to do more then jump and kick.
  Like I said its cool to walk around all of Springfield and see Apu or Skinner, but in the actual 
 levels the novelty wears off quick.
  
  For $50-60 you could rent the game and buy 2 seasons on DVD.
  I personally have all the DVDs, 
 but haven't watched the show in about 5 years due to the quality. If your a fan of the show this 
 is a definite rental (the writings great) , or find it in the bargain bin.
  But not worth a full purchase.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: frostyshorts
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  If you look back at most of the games packing The Simpsons logo, you kind of get one of those sick 
 sensations, ya know, nausea, indigestion, the works. But hold your puke, because although this 
 is a Simpsons game, you'll find that you actually don't want to hurt someone while playing this 
 game. I found it hard to type such hurtful things about the Simpsons, being as it is my favorite 
 series on television, but the games always let me down. This one is a game that I think any fan 
 could get into. It plays nicely, even with a few camera problems, and with all the new content 
 that is strewn about, it'll make you want to play more and more. You get to play as all five of 
 The Simpsons, as you explore Springfield, and other dimensions as you fight to try and save the 
 human race from loggers, game fans, and eventually, aliens. It has a lot of great cameos, each 
 one that will make you laugh hysterically. Such modes as time trial and co-op will keep you glued 
 to your controller until you have gone the length of the game. Thats a good thing, except for the 
 fact that it isn't a very long game, unless you spend all your time searching for the many collectables 
 there are in the game. I can't say much without giving away the story, but if you love The Simpsons, 
 then you will love this game, and if you don't love The Simpsons, there is still plenty here for 
 you to have the fun you look for in video games. Thats why i gave this game and 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OracleXIII
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  The Simpsons Game is a 3D platformer in which you control any two members of the Simpson family 
 in every mission. That's pretty much it. But if you think of this game as just a cartoonish platformer, 
 you're missing a point. 
  The Simpsons Game actually lets you take part in the life of the family and be sucked into their 
 world, the world of Springfield. This game can be called many things; it can be a parody of many 
 many things (and hillarious at that) , it can be called a kid's game (which it is not) , it can be 
 called shallow, and so on. But the fact of the matter is, this game allows you to step into the 
 very cartoon itself. 
  So here's a short list of why this game is outstanding:
  
  1. It's like a hundred times funnier than the actual show, which is funny as hell.
  2. It's so 
 amazingly colorful and happy, it's the cartoon brought to life in a very thought through way.
 
  3. Homer turns into a huge ball that bounces off of things. That's like one of the major reasons 
 you should play this game. 
  4. There are hundreds of little things in this game that will just make you go "HA HA!", Nelson 
 style. Like posters on the walls with parodies of EA games: "Need for Speedo", etc.
  5. Homer turns into a huge ball... and he can fly!
  6. It's a very innovative game graphics-wise. 
 The character models aren't really like polygons with textures on them, like in any other game. 
 It's hard to describe, but everything in the game looks exactly like in the show. 
  7. This is a game that can teach children how to work in teams. Every puzzle there is to solve 
 in the game requires two characters to work together. If you play alone you'll just have to switch 
 characters, but another player can join at any time during the game!
  
  And yes, the game is a bit to short. People also say that it's shallow and gets boring after a 
 while... but this game's purpose is not to take you on a spiritual journey on which you'll discover 
 new truths about life. This game is meant to be fun. And that's exactly what it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UncleLev
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  The world's most beloved yellow family is back in their greatest interactive adventure so far. 
 While The Simpsons have made appearances on numerous gaming consoles in even more numerous games 
 throughout the past two decades, this latest adventure is, without a doubt, the greatest so far. 
 Of course, I'd be lying to you if I claimed to have played every Simpsons game there has ever been, 
 because there are probably more than one could count  that is, if you want to go all the way back 
 and even include arcade releases as well. Nonetheless, I have played a good number of The Simpsons 
 games across half a dozen platforms, and I can honestly say I had more fun with this one than any 
 before.
  
  Like many people from my generation, I grew up with The Simpsons. At one point, I was such a huge 
 fan that I had seen all of the first 16 seasons some ten or more times, and had nearly half of 
 them memorized as well. I guess you could say, I was a humongous fan. I use the word "was", because 
 it was around the beginning of the 16th season that I started tuning out of The Simpsons. Let's 
 face it, after close to 20 years, they were losing it, and it just wasn't that funny anymore. I 
 have seen no more than one or two episodes from season 17 and have completely steered clear of 
 season 18. Then the movie came along and I knew I'd have to watch it, no matter how disappointed 
 I had been with the latest of the series. Surprisingly it wasn't near as bad as I had expected, 
 and there were several times I even laughed out loud.
  
  And then the game came along. I downloaded a demo of The Simpsons game from Xbox Live, and my first 
 reaction was complete laughter. I couldn't help but bust up laughing, seeing Homer roll around 
 as a giant fat blob. The graphics also appealed to me, because the developers did an amazing job 
 at making things look more like a cartoon than polygons. Needless to say, the demo won me and a 
 couple days later I got the game.
  
  Surprisingly, the latest Simpsons game is not only hilarious, but even contains a decent story. 
 Normally, one might expect a pretty cheesy premise and a bunch of unrelated chaotic events mixed 
 together in a blender. Well, I guess, the latest game can be described to an extent like that, 
 but at the same time, the plot is not quite as dry as one might expect from a Simpsons game. In 
 fact, I found the story to not only be entertaining, but didn't find it boring or overly done either. 
 There are numerous sub-plots, but one of the main basic themes is: video games!
  
  Yup - good ol' video games. Video games are the primary theme throughout the entire game, with 
 an emphasis on the contemporary moral issue in society regarding violence in games. There are numerous 
 references to popular video games, but the main focus is Grand Theft Auto. When Marge finds out 
 that Bart purchases a copy of the latest would-be hit "Grand Theft Scratchy", she goes on one of 
 her typical think-as-I-think quests to have the game banned. Somehow aliens are also thrown into 
 the mix and wreck havoc throughout Springfield.
  
  Kodos and Kang are only one of the many references to The Simpsons series. The evil dolphins with 
 their leader Snorky also makes an appearance, as does a brought-to-life version of Lard Lad and 
 the evil Krusty doll. The series references don't stop with the enemies, as you will encounter 
 Mr. Sparkle and Clobber Girl as well as an uncountable number of other characters and even locations. 
 If I were to make a list of the multiple of references to the series and specific episodes, I would 
 have to compile a list containing hundreds of elements. Heck, even a couple characters from Futurama, 
 whom I will not mention here, make a cameo appearance towards the end of the game! That definitely 
 came as a surprising treat. With that said, the game does a great job at using the series' license 
 and rebuilding the town and characters we have all grown to know and like or dislike. You will 
 be happy to know that the virtual town of Springfield also contains a large range of the common 
 locations used throughout the series. Of those notable and worth mentioning: Krusty Burger, the 
 retirement home, Springfield Elementary School, Noise Land Arcade, Barney's Bowlarama, The Kwik-E-Mart, 
 and of course The Simpsons' home. Even better, the developers of this title did an excellent job 
 at recreating the interior of the house, both upstairs and downstairs. I've played a lot of Simpsons 
 games before, but this is definitely the first to portray the living breathing Springfield that 
 we have come to know.
  
  As I was saying earlier, not only are there an uncountable number of references to the series, 
 but there are a myriad of video game references as well. Aside from Grand Theft Auto, the theme 
 of video games is obviously transparent and can be seen and heard everywhere. Among those referenced 
 are Metal Gear Solid, Street Fighter, Diablo, Everquest, Final Fantasy, Pokemon, Megaman, Medal 
 of Honor, Guitar Hero, Super Mario, Sonic, Dance Dance Revolution, and Oblivion. These are just 
 a handful of those which I can recall off the top of my head  there are sure to be a number of 
 other gaming allusions. While most of the references to video games are merely comical in nature 
 and can be nothing more than a simple joke or poster, there are other references which have a much 
 more significant role in the game. For example, in one level you play a Space Invaders mini-game, 
 in which you are shooting aliens with Bart's slingshot in an overhead view. Another part has you 
 jumping over logs, turtles and alligators in a hilarious homage to frogger. There are even several 
 funny jokes referring to video games, such as when Lisa exclaims to an enemy, "You have worse AI 
 than a frogger log". Even the almighty is a hardcore gamer, and lets The Simpsons in on a little 
 secret (Earth is all a video game) . Interestingly enough, there is even an entire level themed 
 around a game production factory, which not only pokes fun at how games are produced, but makes 
 many amusing stabs at the history of gaming.
  
  Humor is all fine and dandy, but how exact is playing the game, you might ask? Surprisingly, it's 
 a blast to play for the most part, even if it does begin to feel repetitive and contain its fair 
 share of flaws. Every family member is fully playable and hosts a unique range of "video game super 
 powers". Bart can turn into Bartman, and climb special walls, glide and grappling hook onto certain 
 targets, and shoot a slingshot. Homer can turn into a giant green gummi, and roll and pounce around 
 as a giant fat blob. There are also special tanks Homer can use to inhale helium and float around 
 like a balloon. Lisa can use her saxophone to stun enemies or have them turn on each other. Occasionally, 
 you will run into a Buddha statue, which can be used to execute Lisa's "hand of Buddha" skill that 
 allows her to pick up and move large objects. And much like in the series, Marge's unparalleled 
 nagging ability comes in handy as you can create mobs of people to build and destroy certain structures. 
 Even the mute heroine in a diaper, Maggie, is controllable when playing with Marge. Maggie is capable 
 of climbing through vents that the other Simpsons are unable to access, allowing you to hit certain 
 switches and find certain collectibles.
  
  Each member of the family has a balanced role in the game-play, and because all of the levels are 
 designed for specific characters, you are forced experience a variation of game-play styles. Sometimes 
 navigating your way around a level can be frustrating since you occasionally have a map, but never 
 have a compass. A map without a direction to reference is fairly useless, but then again most stages, 
 and even Springfield, don't even provide you with a map. Anyhow, there is a pretty even mix between 
 all of the levels that you use each character with, so no one member really plays the role of an 
 unnecessary third (or fourth) wheel. Unfortunately, you cannot use your character's special abilities 
 as much as you'd like since you have a power meter that you need to let recharge, or you have to 
 collect character-specific power-ups to recharge the meter. Though, if you are adamant about getting 
 all the secrets, then you will eventually reach a point in which you can use your special abilities 
 as much as you like. I took great pride in being able to remain a fat blob and roll around everywhere 
 to get around in style.
  
  While the game does contain variation in level design and variation in what objectives you have 
 to advance in the levels, game-play can still feel repetitive, primarily as a result of a weak 
 combat system. Even though your characters host a selection of power-ups at your disposal, you 
 may find yourself pounding away at only the punch button all too often. Using the blob Homer is 
 quite effective, but most of the other skills feel incomparable in terms of combat. Plus, the lack 
 of being able to use your special moves all you want leaves you naturally resorting to physical 
 punches out of habit. It wouldn't be so tedious if it were not for the fact that physical combat 
 consists of nothing other than repeatedly hitting the, X, punch button. There is a combo move you 
 can pull off as well by throwing in the Y button, but there still doesn't feel to much more skill 
 or challenge involved in disposing of your enemies. While there is a targeting system, it cannot 
 be used for basic combat, but instead only for a few rare abilities, such as Bart's slingshot or 
 when Marge orders a mob around. Unfortunately, the target system doesn't work that well either, 
 since the game often refuses to target what you have in mind by instead targeting an enemy. This 
 becomes a problem as you may want to order the mob to attack an enemy spawning vehicle, and instead 
 the targeting system keeps focusing the target on the enemies. Instead of allowing you to eliminate 
 the object that is responsible for creating the enemies in the first place, you are often forced, 
 by poor design, to take down enemies in your way.
  
  Above anything else, there is one issue that stands apart as the most irritating annoyance of all 
  the camera! It's not downright horrible, but it sure as heck can be at times. It didn't really 
 strike me until replaying the game for achievements just how horrible the camera can be at times. 
 The first time I breezed through the game it only crossed me on a few occasions, but as things 
 heat up and you are under a lot more pressure (for example, if you are doing time trials) then 
 it is a real cause for concern. It always manages to find ways to get caught behind the most obtrusive 
 structures or objects at times which couldn't be worse. Or maybe it just feels that way because 
 it happens frequently enough that you notice so many occasions in which it causes problems. Another 
 hitch is that there are certain areas in levels in which the point of view changes abruptly, which 
 can have you run right off the edge of something. That's not very fun. It is possible to play the 
 game without becoming too upset with the camera, but you have to be pretty forgiving because it 
 is bound to act up on several occasions.
  
  Distorting and hiding what you are supposed to be seeing is not necessarily the only problem with 
 what gets displayed on your screen. Graphically speaking, the latest Simpsons game may yield mixed 
 reactions. I've heard many people say the visual style resembled amateur fan art, but I wouldn't 
 completely agree with that. In fact, I was very fond of the graphics, and felt that it was one 
 of the key issues which got me interested in buying the game. The visual style is generally well 
 done, but does have a few rather severe flaws. If you have ever played a cell-shaded game before, 
 then you have a general idea about what to expect. The style that comes to mind the most for me 
 when playing is Crackdown, although The Simpsons is quite a bit more cartoonish looking. Instead 
 of everything looking like polygons, polygons do not host defined edges and are treated as an overall 
 object of a mass of polygons. Everything contains an outline to create the illusion that you are 
 playing in a cartoon world. For the most part, it works extremely well as the attention to detail 
 with how lines are formed and where they should and shouldn't be used is very well done. Generally, 
 there is an incredible sense of aesthetics to the style the developers have used, and for that 
 they should be commended on an excellent approach to painting a cartoon world. But, this approach 
 is far from perfect as it hosts two rather irritating side effects. For one, almost all of the 
 outlines and drawn texture lines do not appear to be anti-aliased. This leaves the "drawn lines" 
 appearing to be rather pixilated and not nearly as smooth as they should be. I can understand that 
 they wanted to show you that the lines were supposed to be "drawn" and not rendered to create the 
 cartoonish look, but it still feels like they may have looked better being smoother. For this reason 
 alone, many of the real-time cut scenes look pretty cheesy and can give many people the impression 
 of the style being fan-art. Another visual hitch would makes the settings look worse than they 
 had to be is the lack of outlines on objects in the distance. If you are in Springfield, for example, 
 and look far into the distance at the buildings and structures, you won't be able to miss noticing 
 how poor looking the objects in the distance appear. Since the game engine doesn't want to draw 
 outlines everywhere, since it is not-only memory intensive, but can look ugly  instead we are 
 left with shoddy looking long range views. When you are only taking into consideration everything 
 in your vicinity and if you can get over the roughness of the outlines, then you will love the 
 graphics.
  
  Without a doubt, the most pleasant aspect of The Simpsons Game is the sounds. Without humor, The 
 Simpsons would be nowhere, and it is through the incredibly well scripted and spoken dialog that 
 this title is such a huge treat. Don't get me wrong, a lot of what you are seeing is hilarious 
 as well, but all of the one liners and that characters say are hilarious. Nearly everyone from 
 The Simpsons that you think of is here in all their glory. All of the voice actors are authentic 
 and sound exactly like their non-rendered counterparts on the television. The Simpsons game is 
 littered with laugh-out-loud humor at a constant pace. Even more surprisingly, is that not too 
 many of the quotes you will hear are repeated so many times that your ears begin to bleed, like 
 so many other titles I won't go into here. Sure, you will hear many of the same things multiple 
 times, but you will also continue hearing lots of fresh dialog even after hours of playing. The 
 humor level in The Simpsons Game is off the scale  I cannot recall a more humorous game to date. 
 There are also some creative and perfectly suiting tunes to fit the variation of levels. Playing 
 the Japanese level accompanies Japanese sounding music, while playing an RPG level hosts the clich 
 Latin-esque sound that oh-so-many over dramatic role playing and adventure games use. The weakness 
 of the sounds, are the effects. The Simpsons Game doesn't have bad sound effects; they just aren't 
 anything special or worth mentioning.
  
  Like most platform games, this one contains a variety of different collectibles you can try to 
 find in order to increase your health and power meter, while unlocking achievements at the same 
 time. Most of these collectibles are fairly easy to come across, but there are sure to be at least 
 a few that you will need to examine every corner of Springfield to find. I was very pleased to 
 see that each collectible will still appear transparently grayed out once you have obtained it. 
 This is perfect for all you cheaters out there who will use a location guide, allowing you to know 
 for certain you are looking in the right place, but have already obtained the collectible in question.
 
  
  Another interesting and amusing thing you can "collect" are clichs  that is, the developers know 
 that the game they built is fairly shallow and unoriginal so they decided to poke fun at all of 
 the typical things you come across in so many other games. For example, hanging on ledges indefinitely, 
 double jumping, and not being able to swim in water, to name a few. These were particularly fun 
 to collect, although I found it rather annoying and unfair that each clich can only be unlocked 
 at predetermined points in the game, even though you can meet the same conditions for acquiring 
 or performing the clich at a bunch of other portions of the game.
  
  Hunting around Springfield for collectibles may not be your most interesting idea for fun, but 
 it at least helps add a bit more game-play to an otherwise short game. Sadly, you will complete 
 the entire game in roughly 6-8 hours on your first run through. This is also taking into consideration 
 the large amount of included animation, which totals upwards of 45 minutes. It's great that so 
 much animation is included, but if you factor that into the amount of time it takes you to finish 
 the game, it makes the time you are actually playing look even shorter. Aside from simply following 
 the story mode and searching for collectibles on the side, there isn't really anything to do other 
 than speed runs.
  
  Besides receiving an achievement for meeting the target time for all the levels in the game, there 
 are also time trial challenges that will earn you a small achievement for each challenge you complete. 
 After completing each level you will unlock the time trial mode for the respective level, although 
 I found that a good number of these time trials have little, if anything, to do with time. For 
 starters, the time trial mode is rarely redoing the same level in under a certain time frame; it 
 instead consists usually of collecting a certain number of things in the same level (or a portion 
 of the level) before time runs out. There are even several "time trials" in which the time limit 
 isn't even significant or relevant. For example, performing certain tasks like dropping barrels 
 at enemies rushing you in three predetermined waves could completely go without the time limit 
 at the bottom of the screen because all you are doing the whole time is reacting to the rush of 
 enemies, so it's impossible to run out of time. Some of the time trials are pathetically easy, 
 while there are a couple that are quite frustrating. Either way, you only earn 5 gamer points per 
 trial, so actually performing these challenges may not even seem worth it to a busy gamer.
  
  Striving to obtain every achievement that is available does breathe a little more life into 
 this short adventure, but even this is not the most difficult of tasks. I managed to acquire all 
 1000 gamer points in less than five days of playing. When it is all said and done, the game can 
 be completed, or should I say "mastered", in a week for most gamers. With that said, you may want 
 to rent it a couple times instead of purchasing it, since you can do everything there is to do 
 in a pretty short timeframe. If you are a die hard Simpsons fan, than you will definitely want 
 to add it to your collection, but generic platform gamers may not get the same sense of satisfaction 
 from it, other than the incredible volume of humor contained on the disc.
  
  Therein resides the biggest problem with The Simpsons Game. Its strength is in its ability to make 
 you hurt in your stomach from laughing, and with its admirable artistic appeal. As a laugh-machine, 
 it's excellent, but as a platform game, it is just above mediocrity, and is constantly held back 
 from a really angry camera. While definitely true to the series, and successful in translating 
 the powers and personae we would expect each Simpson to host, combat and advancement through levels 
 can become increasingly repetitive. It's a good game, but you can't help but occasionally feel 
 that the game is a bit shallower in its execution than is good for it. Sure the story is funny 
 and amusing, and it does try to convey a message, but the tasks you perform in levels are fairly 
 mundane and don't necessarily have any direct tie to the overall plot. For a Simpsons game it is 
 excellent, but as a game in general it is good, but not great.
  
  
  
  Gameplay: (7) Play as every Simpson; each with their own special "video game super powers". Camera 
 and targeting issues accompany repetitive combat.
  
  Graphics: (8) An excellent job at simulating a cartoon world, though outlines look rough and buildings 
 in the distance don't look so hot.
  
  Sound: (9) Good music, plus the absolute most hilarious voice overs and dialog *ever*!
  
  Lasting 
 appeal: (6) It's a shorty; 6-8 hours tops for your first play through. Added time trials and collectibles 
 are nice, but don't add much life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LosDaddie
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  Best. Simpsons. Game. Ever.
  
  This game is not to be missed by any Simpsons fan. It pays great homage to the long-running TV 
 series and the game, in classic Simpsons' fashion, makes fun of the gaming industry.
  
  Nearly every type of game genre is represented, with not too subtle cameo appreances from Ryu (SFII) , 
 Mario, Sonic, Madden NFL. Even Will Wright makes an appearance.
  
  The gameplay isn't deep or really polished, but it isn't supposed to be either. The camera can 
 be a pain, but nothing that truly distracts from the fun. The graphics were great and EA finally 
 reached the point where it feels like you're playing a Simpsons cartoon.
  
  Co-op is a blast. The time trials are fun and somewhat easy.
  
  Overall, very solid game. Recommended 
 for any fan of the TV show. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toolzz360
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  The simpsons game published by EA at its core can be a fun a game. 
  
  Gameplay
  
  The single player campaign is pretty good. The story in the game is top notch and really displays 
 the work of great writers working behind the scene. Not only is it origional simpsons material, 
 but it is also geniunly funny. One of the greates quotes in any game appears in the simpsons game 
 "Flava Flav whats up with the clock. 
  
  The controls for the game are also simple which is a good thing. Each of the charecters have different 
 abilities which use different controls, but the buttons you will be using the most are X... B... and 
 The Right Trigger. Overall the control sceme is good.
  
  What disapoints me about this game is that the gameplay itself is quite bad. The camera control 
 is horrible and really gets in the way of the game. Some of the overal mechanics such as jumping, 
 combat, and each charecters special abilities can be frustrating and you will find yourself doing 
 basic things over and over again when your charecter doesnt want to move or jump right. On the 
 first playthrough of the game you will probally not really notice these flaws too much because 
 of the strong storyline. On my 2nd playthrough the flaws became very apparent and I could barely 
 finish it again. The game is also insanely easy with the last boss fight being a joke.
  
  Besides the basic story there are also a few othe rthings to do. The actual campaign will last 
 6-8 hours depending on how good you are. The extras that come with teh game do add replayability 
 and are somewhat enjoyable. In every level there are different things to collect for each charecter 
 which unlocks trophies. getting every collectable and video game cliche can be very tedious, especially 
 in springfield where there are 75 collectables for each charecter to get. I did mange to find everyone. 
 You can also replay the missions in time trial form, and these are both fun and rewarding alon 
 with soem being very difficult.
  
  There Is no xboxlive for this game, and coop story should have been on xbl. The achievment difficulty 
 is a 8/10 for me because some are really tough.
  
  Gameplay: 6/10
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics and art style is very good, and it does a great job of capturing the simpsons atmosphere. 
 All of this is steady as there are no technical issues such as framerate drops or graphical glitches. 
 I really enjoyed teh style this game had to offer.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  
  Presentation:
  
  The Presentation is also very slick and easily manuverable menues. This kind of goes hand in 
 hand with graphics. The HUD when playing is very good but is standard fare
  
  Presentation 7/10
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound is excellent. The origional simpson charecter 
 voices are all here, and soem of the background voices such as in the Muesuem level are downright 
 hilarious. The sound really helps create an atmosphere around the game. This cannot be said for 
 many games.
  
  Sound 9/10
  
  Lasting Appeal
  
  Like I said teh core game will only take about 7 hours, but I ended up acculmilating 23 Hours just 
 by doing teh time trials and collecting everything. I rented this form gamefly, and I would say 
 to definetly rent the game with a buy only if you could get it for 19.99 somewhere down the road.
 
  
  LA 6/10
  
  Overal if the story hadnt been as good as it was this game would get a 5-6... but teh story does 
 save it
  
  7.4 rounded to 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreenC4T
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 6, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  In the beginning I enjoyed vastly the funny comments made by all characters in the Simpson's universe. 
 It was fun to explore their town and even get inside some known locations. Such as the Kiwi-Mart 
 or the Church. But problems with the camera became more evident as I progressed through the game. 
 When I was getting attacked by multiple enemies sometimes it was hard to see where they were attacking 
 from because of the camera issues. 
  
  I began to enjoy the game alot in the beginning but towards the end, my enjoyment of the game began 
 to trickle down the scale. I was basically just finishing the game for the heck of it. Not to diminish 
 the game completely I will say that there were some "wow" moments. Such as the references of past 
 and present games. In an "episode", as the sections are refered, I encountered the Madden players, 
 Street Fighter's Ryu, and even Mario himself! That's just to name a few. Then in the Neverquest 
 there were references to NES games. I thought they were funny and fun with the references, but 
 if only the gameplay was executed better. If you really love The Simpson's then buy it. If not 
 a huge fan, either wait till it drops in price or rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_simon_000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 5:54 am PT
Review:  The Simpsons Game
  Xbox 360
  
  This is the best version of the Simpson game because there is os much more to do and has better 
 graphics. This game has 16 level and 2 town levels, The town level is where you can explore springfeild 
 as all four characters which is fun and interesting to do.
  
  The game has alot a references from other films and games, The gameplay if fun with alot of jokes 
 and posters around the level.
  
  The bosses are harder in this version with hard bosses the gamer will fell more changed to play 
 the game. There are over 100 collectable items in the game that give you posters and duff beer.
 
  
  Overall this version of the game has better graphics, better gameplay so if you going to buy the 
 game and you have a Wii and Xboxs 360 then go for the Xbox version because its better in every 
 way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elitedead
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  The simpsons.... Its been 18 years....18 years its been around..... But not until 2007 has there 
 been a decent video game of it. There was simpsons wrestling which was god awful, Simpsons skateboarding 
 with ropey graphics and glitches everywere. There was then Hit and run, Another copy of Gta and 
 instead of stealing cars.... you get lifts from people... now thats what i call fun..... 
  
  Then 2007 The simpsons game came out. First impressions, just looks like another platformer 
 with the simpsons in it... well surprisingly your wrong, you see this has the excitement in it 
 like the first time you got a copy of the long awaited halo 3. And the humour of the actual simpsons 
 tv shows. 
  You start off in a dreamworld full of chocolate, or chocolate land.... Homer snoozes off into and 
 dream and is basically a tutorial level to get you going. So all you do is chase a White chocolate 
 bunny around a level, but the bunny has funny one liners such as, ''Cant keep up fatty? Eaten too 
 many of my realitives?'' So from there, there's 16 levels, which last from about 5 minutes to about 
 45 minutes. So not too bad. There are basic puzzles in the game such as get homer across the river 
 and using hand of budda to build stacks of things. I rented the game and completed it in about 
 11 hours, but i am only 50% through the game. There is no way you should spend 39.99 or $59.00 
 for a game which would proberly wear off in about a week. Too keep you playing there is; Collectables 
 to unlock achievement, 
  Bonus level, Cliche's (which bring back old memories) and the opportunity to look around and explore 
 springfield, which is smaller than Hit and Run but has much more detail.
  
  Moving onto the character classes, You can play as Homer, who can Roll in fat ball, Turn into gummi 
 homer who its everything, and volcano homer who basically burns everything. Then there's Bart who 
 can only turn into Bartman who is limited to gliding and can use his slingshot. There's lisa who 
 can play her saxophone to confuse enemies and later on turn the enemys into allies (for 30 seconds 
 or so) . Then finally there's marge who can, Get her microphone out and recruit random springfielders 
 and can get maggie out of her backpack and she can crawl into small spaces.
  
  Onto graphics, The game looks almost like the tv show but more of an anime style. This is a big 
 step up from Hit and run and is not a bad looking game. There are few flaws in the game but the 
 flaws i quite big, one being it is way toooo easy, you can beat the final boss within 3 goes and 
 that was on normal which is way too easy, and secondly the camera angle. At times the camera angle 
 locks itself into position and you dont know were your going or how far a ledge is from a river. 
 
  
  So this game is a rent only, Do not buy it unless its a present to a young relative or child. Hope 
 you liked review!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socialninjitsu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  The characters and environments somehow achieve something I've never seen achieved in a cartoon 
 game:
  
  It actually RESEMBLES the show pulled into 3D video, both in look and feel. 
  
  Every section of the simpsons universe is intact and explorable down to the tiniest detail. 
 You can walk around the entire simpsons house and sate any curiosity about how it's layed out. 
 Exploring town seems to have everything exactly where it feels like it would be in the show. The 
 small details of all the places are captured to a surprising tee.
  
  The actual gameplay is great too. Most platformers throw me off at high-stress areas, not for lack 
 of skill but because of reaction to responsiveness, which tends to bug and shift in platformers, 
 tossing you off rhythm to your death in hairpin areas. This one was different. Its controls stood 
 out from the rest, being incredibly smooth, intuitive and reliable. It's just as challenging, but 
 without control inconsistancies throwing you off; meaning you never constantly die because of controls 
 not sticking for certain complex areas, and if you have skill it sticks like glue. It feels liberating. 
 The puzzles themselves are incredibly enjoyable and neither too obvious nor pull-your-hair-out 
 ridiculous. 
  
  The dialogue is on point and plentiful, surrounding you in a world of complete simpsonity at every 
 turn. Basically, they have plenty to say, and new hilarious reactions hit time after time with 
 uncanny appropriateness and timing.
  
  Even if it's short, a completely immersive experience. If you're a cartoon fan, can you ask for 
 more? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1257860
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Well first off the graphics aren't stunning but they really seem to work well with the game. What 
 i am really glad about is how well the explosions work with the graphics. The fighting system is 
 really poor and boring. Your punches lots of times don't feel like your hitting the enemy and in 
 lots of cases your forced to do the combo X, X, Y. Which combos are made to be done once in a while. 
 In fact thats the only combo in the game and the only way of fighting enemies.
  
  They really balance it well how you get to play your characters. Homers special ability is his 
 homer ball and his glob like attack. 
  
  Marge can gain members to join a mob and direct them to attack things.
  
  Lisa can use her 
 telekineses which you play as her big hand and really is good in the format of solving and putting 
 together puzzles. 
  
  Bart can use his cape to glind and rope to grabble onto things
  
  All these make the gameplay better because you have to do more solving puzzles or figuring out 
 how to get to an area to an area. Or else the game would be horrible.
  
  The storyline is just the best part of all. So far i felt like i havent seen a better one. While 
 the plot to the story isnt all that good the cut scenes look identical to the tv show series. Also 
 it hell of a lot funnier too. 
  SPOILERS 
  i am going to tell you the story..
  
  
  Well Bart finds a manual that is based on his life and is called the simpsons. And every one has 
 secret powers. Even though it sounds a little shallow it all comes together at the end. 
  LVL 1 : Well before Bart finds the manual homer is having a dream about a chocolate world with 
 everything in it is chocolate. Then you end up having to chase a white bunny and when he makes 
 you chase him on a giant cake like pillar you eat him. YEA! Dream ends... it was a tutorial level 
 really. 
  LVL 2 : This is where what i wrote comes into play and Bart in Homer decide to test their abilities 
 on some bullies who are stealing from the muesem. 
  
  So you do some missions like that , which arent really special. Until like the last game the aliens 
 come to attack the planet. But they are too strong for you to stop them. So you guys some how go 
 into the internet and into the game engine. So you figure out some stuff and need a word with the 
 guy who biult the game and tries to dump the old games when he makes a new one. So this is how 
 he is doing it by having a whole bunch of aliens come destroy their world. 
  So in the game engine you get these keys to go and fight him. But nothing gets revolved so you 
 end up going to heaven and talk to God. Which turns out hes a gamer and did this on purpose. He 
 tells you that your an old video game. Something to that affect and so he challenges you to a game 
 in DDR. Then when you win he stops the invansion and turns out he is in a video game that is controlled 
 by a kid , one of the simpsons characters. Which means that wasnt the real God who thought he was. 
 So the invansion is over and everything is back to normal. Also God dropped the manual by accident 
 while getting mad at oblivion so thats how that happend.
  
  
  A little confusing i may have messed up or stumbled a bit lol..
  
  
  Any ways the game is 
 real good but is short.. 
  
  WAIT ONE MORE THING 
  the game has a whole open city. But since you cant drive the only way you could get around the 
 city the fastest way is rolling in a homer ball. But thats annoying they should have added where 
 you could drive if you have a whole open city. Cause you cant really explore it so you only notice 
 probably one fifth of it, they could of also added some small driving sequences in the missions.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XGhostEX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  the simpson's game is a game based off the TV show and it brought the shows laughs with it. witch 
 is one of the best parts of the game along with good two player co op and cool graphics but i also 
 has many flaws like the short story and the poor replay value but any fan of the simpsons should 
 own this game even though it wont last long it has alot of fun parts and playing with a friend 
 is makes the game shine its brightest but even though you'll beat the story pretty fast you can 
 explore springfield with alot of detail and even though there are alot of funny things to do and 
 hear you'll get bored of it pretty fast even though there'll be alot of things to collect after 
 the game is over you'll just throw it in the dont-play-for -a-year box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jmwade
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  The simpsons games have had a rollercoaster ride with the good (simpsons hit and run) the bad (simpsons 
 wrestling) and the ugly (simpsons roadrage) but now EA have made a game to remember. The simpsons 
 game enables you to play through the family (bart, lisa, marge, maggie and homer) and enjoy fantastic 
 *copy* levels. they include "medal of honour", "space invaders", "Gauntlet" and many more. 
  The Good: play as all 5 characters, addictive, actual voice overs, fantasic levels, teh entire 
 simpson cast.
  The bad: sometimes the camera angle can get bad, the levels may get slightly repetitive.
  
 
  overall an amazing game. and a must buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 20, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  While gaming hacks are always searching for innovation and originality when tearing new titles 
 to shreds, sometimes it's fun to play a genre game that doesn't do anything particularly new, but 
 does everything extremely well. And while The Simpsons Game won't win any awards for creativity, 
 the jaundiced family's latest outing is an hilarious take on traditional platforming action.
  
  As the game unfolds players are presented with countless parodies of videogame culture, poking 
 fun at established franchises such as Grand Theft Auto and EverQuest, while at the same time lampooning 
 popular gaming genres, garish Japanese adventures, and the candy-coloured worlds of Mario and Sonic. 
 Simpsons fans will also be charmed by the myriad references to episodes from the TV show and cameos 
 from memorable characters  Matt Groening included  and the fact the characters are all brought 
 to life by the original TV voice talent means the title feels like a true extension of the Simpsons 
 universe.
  
  But if you're not a Simpsons devotee, the game's charms are short-lived: the action is cruelly 
 clichd and you won't find anything new amongst the familiar platform hopping; the co-op mode falls 
 flat as the action is unbalanced and always favours one player over their partner; and the whole 
 thing can be completed in a little under eight hours, with no reason to return once the end credits 
 have rolled. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  Unless you've been living in a cave somewhere or on another planet, you know about The Simpsons. 
 This dysfunctional family of 5 has been entertaining the masses for close to 20 years now and show 
 no sign of slowing down. Naturally, with every successful franchise comes the usual onslaught of 
 video games, and the yellow-skinned family are no exception to that rule. There have been some 
 good ones, but there have also been some bad ones as well.
  
  The Simpsons Game, from EA, would fall right in between. The story starts off with the release 
 of a new video game in Springfield called Grand Theft Scratchy. While Bart is trying to get his 
 hands on it, Marge is working hard to have it banned. Soon enough, Bart will discover The Simpsons 
 Game, a game based on him and his family. As you can imagine, all hell will break lose soon enough 
 and the Simpson family will be the only ones capable of stopping the annihilation of Springfield..
 
  
  What we have here is a mix between a platformer and an action game. You'll be doing plenty of button 
 mashing and puzzle solving as you fight to save Springfield. You'll always have 2 Simpson family 
 members at your disposal for all of the levels and, quite often, they'll have to work together 
 to solve different types of puzzles throughout the game. Each Simpson has special abilities at 
 their disposal. Homer can transform into this huge ball, called Homerball, and bash through different 
 objects and float when he breathes in helium. Marge has a megaphone and can rally citizens to her 
 cause. Bart changes into Bartman, which gives him the ability to grapple onto objects and glide 
 with his cape. Lisa can hypnotize enemies while playing the saxophone. Finally, Maggie, who follows 
 Marge around, can crawl into air ducts and reach secluded places.
  
  The general idea behind this game is that it never takes itself seriously. The Simpsons will go 
 through different levels spoofing different video games like Neverquest, Medal of Homer, Happy 
 Happy Fun Fun Game (Katamari games) and so on. They'll also come across different video game clichs, 
 which are pointed out by Comic Book Guy as you go along. Some of them include double jumping, the 
 inability for your characters to swim, repetitive enemies and so on. There are also plenty of throwbacks 
 to older, classic games in there, which are sure to make you smile when you come across them.
 
  
  If there is one thing that this game does right, it's humor. All of the original cast is present 
 and accounted for in the game. You'll also come across some characters that only Simpsons aficionados 
 will recognize, accompanied by some special guest stars. The voice acting is stellar as every actor 
 voices his or her character perfectly. The story is funny and entertaining and will remind you 
 of the good ol' glory days of the series. It's also a delight to hear the characters let out jokes 
 about video games For example, when Homer is running around a mock-up Gauntlet game, you'll hear 
 a voice say "Homer needs food badly.", to which Homer replies "Homer also needs beer badly!"
  
  The graphics are also incredibly well rendered. The cutscenes actually look like a Simpsons 
 episode. The main and secondary characters look awesome. Springfield looks as good as ever here 
 and so do the other places the rowdy family will visit. You can clearly see that a lot of care 
 was put into designing this game.
  
  Sadly, awesome graphics, a great script and terrific voice acting aren't enough to make this game 
 good. The game consists mainly of button mashing and, quite often, it only seems like mindless 
 button mashing. The controls aren't hard to grasp by any means. In fact, the game is just a little 
 too easy as you'll very rarely get stuck in a level and not know what to do next, which makes the 
 game's length (around 8-10 hours) seem even shorter. The camera angles here are quite possibly 
 the worse I've ever seen in any game. Oftentimes, you'll find yourself struggling with it, trying 
 to find a good position as you swivel it around. It gets extremely annoying and frustrating at 
 times.
  
  There is no real reason to go back to this game once you finish it, unless you're a perfectionist 
 or a crazed Simpsons fan but, if you insist on doing that, there are a ton of collectibles in each 
 level which unlock different trophies. The design of the levels tend to repeat themselves a lot 
 during the course of the game. Now, I don't know if this was done intentionally or not but, if 
 it was, it's a very bad idea. The AI isn't bad, but it isn't perfect either. You'll find that, 
 on certain levels, your computer controlled Simpson will get stuck in some places and not follow 
 you around. This doesn't happen often but, when it does, it's really annoying.
  
  In conclusion, The Simpsons Game is filled to the rim with humor and plenty of clichs about video 
 games, while giving you a ton of nostalgia that will put a smile on your face. But it's repetitive 
 gameplay, broken camera angles and relatively short length keep it from being a game to remember 
 and there is no real reason to go back to it once completed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chad828
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  The game has its laughable moments but the game play and control is abysmal. The camera likes to 
 get stuck where it is not suppose to be. Bart likes to run in the opposite direction that my control 
 is pointed. This is not a game I could keep playing. 
  
  There are also many hidden things in the levels however there is not enough interesting things 
 around the level to keep you looking for them. You pretty much lose interest and fight your way 
 to the end of the level hoping that the next would be a little more interesting. Sadly it is not...
 
  
  I suggest renting it for a laugh but save your hard earned $$ before buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jayronimo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  From the opening screen it's like watching an episode of the Simpsons. You feel like you are part 
 of their universe and with the graphics being as close to Simpsons on TV as I have ever seen it's 
 the best virtual Simpsons experience ever. 
  
  The camera work is sucky at times and you do get trapped in corners at times but it's a minor irritant. 
 The gameplay is repetitive but fun for a quick turn on, jump into without much thought kind of 
 game.
  
  Honestly, with games getting so much more complicated and needing a degree in gaming to get used 
 to this is a blast. It makes fun of itself, the planet and video games in general and is a joy 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vashkey
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 16, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  I'll go ahead and say that The Simpson's game is almost a typical platform adventure game with 
 multiple playable characters. At the start of the game, you may be fooled into thinking this is 
 an open ended adventure sort of GTA syle because you're seemingly in a large town. A little exploration 
 and you'll figure out, that it's not really. And what especially hurts the game kinda here is that 
 theres a bridge leading to the other half of the town thats drawn up so you can't cross. So theres 
 always that second half of the town you can see, but you'll never ever get to heck out. 
  Despite the first impression you go about mission more like the traditional platformer. You'll 
 make you way to one specific point to be taken to a completly different area to complete some sort 
 of level.
  For the gameplay it'self, it control much like any other platform game you've played. You can do 
 the double jumping, and the running and all the characters have their own unique abilities and 
 power ups. I mean there really isn't much to explain because you've seen all of this before.
  While the gameplay really doesn't present anything new or profound, it's still very playable and 
 enjoyable. Most of your enjoyment will be from the game's humor, which really helps give The Simpson's 
 game personality. So much effort went into the script and the cut scenes you can easily forgive 
 the Simpson's game for short comings on gameplay.
  
  The graphics are very nice and cartoony. And EA did an excelent job capturing the Simpsons style. 
 I wasn; t sure why the game looked so much more cartoony than any other cell shaded game I've seen 
 thus far, but when I looked it up, suposedly the game take the 3d cell shaded characters and some 
 how flattens them into 2d images. I'm not sure how it works, but I'd have to say they did a good 
 job.
  The voice acting is just as good as it is in the series. As is the much. As for the sound effects... 
 Well there nothing amazing or bad about them. They get the job done.
  
  I'd say the biggest problem with the Simpson's game is that it really doesn't give you much to 
 do. The single player game ia little less than six hours long. And once you've beat it theres no 
 reason to go back and play it again. After that there are time trials, but they aren't anything 
 special, and I can't imagine why anyone would want to do them other than to get the achievements 
 for them. The single player does offer co-op play though, but it's not much different from playing 
 solo. There is nothing more to speak of as to what you can do in the game. There isn't even any 
 X-box live multiplayer options. And for the pushy price of sixty bucks I really can't reccomend 
 even Simpsons fans to buy this. It's a fun and funny game and I'd deffinatly would suggest a rental 
 here or wait till it's down to twenty bucks.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ranteal
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 12:06 am PT
Review:  I will admit that when it come to the simpsons, I am biased. I wont even watch the Family Guy, 
 even if the previews look funny. I watch 1 and only 1 animated show and that is the simpsons. Having 
 said that, the simpsons video game is the best simpsons game ever to grace any game system, and 
 is a must for die hard fans like myself.
  The story itself works very well. It has the sharp with that the simpsons is known for, and the 
 animation and voice acting is top notch. The levels are very cool in there design and poke fun 
 at the many different types of video games out there. Difficulty is about right for a platform 
 game. The only thing that makes this game a question is the heroically bad camera. The camera is 
 just plain broken and most of the time you will be fighting it.
  All in all, I have grown used the camera, just because I am such a huge fan of the series. There 
 are many who feel the same way I do and will live with the shortcomings. The rest may want to rent 
 before purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treyballard
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  OK let me start out by saying that I am not a real fan of the Simpsons. I have enjoyed some of 
 the shows but I didn't really get into the humor of the show. Not to say it's bad, just not for 
 me. That being said, this game is very enjoyable by fans and not so much fans. The fact that they 
 constantly make fun of the game industry and even themselves keeps the game funny and fresh. While 
 the game is short there are many parodies on very big game franchises like Madden and Everquest. 
 Also when you are in freeplay and just roaming around town the characters spurt out quotes from 
 the shows that will be sure to bring back memories. The only major problem with the game is the 
 camera. It constantly gets in your way and sometimes is a big hindrance. That being said this game 
 is worth buying and enjoying because with all the serious games out there you need a break. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lostboy1224
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  I just spent about 10 hours playing and beating the main story part of the game with my 8 year 
 old daughter in Co-Op mode. We both love the Simpsons with out question. We watch the show all 
 the time and have every season that is available on DVD. I was pretty happy since it was a bit 
 challenging, but not too much as to where my daughter couldn't play as well.
  The humour is spot on from the TV series and there are so many characters running around it will 
 make you smile to hear all their little one liners, and famous phrases.
  The combat controls are pretty simple, and even though the combat is pretty much the same through 
 out the whole game, the environments change a lot, so you won't be getting bored too often as the 
 new levels mix up the action nicely.
  You get to play as Lisa, Bart, Homer, Marge, and occasionally Maggie in some short sequences. They 
 each have their own super powers and most of the time the game will have you switch between characters 
 to complete tasks with their different powers. 
  The whole game environment is up to code with the SImpson's standard from the show. The entire 
 town of Springfield is there to roam, and most of the missions poke fun at various games and movies. 
 Such as Lord of the Rings, Medal of Honor, Grand Theft Auto, and more.
  The cut scenes in the game are pretty funny too, and you even get to battle the creator of the 
 Simpsons Matt G. towards the end of the game. The last boss battle was pretty funny and i am sure 
 you'll enjoy it.
  If I was rating this game merely on how it played i would make it in the 6-7 range, but once you 
 add the humour and Simpson elements it kicks it up to an 7.5-8.0 ! I love this game, and had a 
 lot of fun beating it. It will be one of those games that you play through once, and still enjoy 
 later on. 
  The only big issues in this game are the camera sometimes doesn't go where you need it to go. The 
 game can be beat in under 7 hours if you play it in a reasonable pace. Like I said, my daughter 
 and I took our time and it we finished the main story in 9 hours.
  The Simpsons Game will be a nice addition to any diverse gamer's collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spoonful
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Sure, the TV show went off the boil about seven series ago and if Dr Kevorkian still had his van 
 he'd be pointing it towards Springfield, but at its peak The Simpsons was untouchable. And it's 
 the license that ultimately saves The Simpson Game. Thirty seconds in and you'll know whether you'll 
 be able to stomach the family's latest digital outing. If you chuckle knowingly and appreciatively 
 as you guide Homer around the Land of Chocolate, then you'll probably enjoy the rest of the game.
 
  
  Videogame spoofs popped up occasionally in the TV series ("Buy me Bonestorm or go to hell!") but 
 The Simpsons Game seems to exist purely to parodying the medium. As you leap around the game's 
 sixteen or so levels, you'll run into riffs on Shadow of the Colossus, Medal of Honour, Grand Theft 
 Auto and EverQuest. The big set piece parodies are funny but like the TV show, the real belly laughs 
 come from the throwaway lines and quick gags ("Hey Bartman, have you ever danced with the Devil 
 in the pale moonlight?") .
  
  The story tying the parodies together is suitably ridiculous and remarkably meta. Bart stumbles 
 across an instruction manual, which reveals that the Simpsons family are characters in a videogame 
 and have special abilities. Bart can become Bartman, who can glide around using his cape and use 
 a grappling hook; Homer can inflate himself into a giant ball and do things that only a giant Homer 
 ball could do; Lisa can use the hand of Buddha to shift bits of scenery around; and Marge can recruit 
 the residents of Springfield into an instant mob. The game's plot twists and turns, making hilariously 
 obtuse leaps as it works in eating contests, Kang and Kodos invading Earth again, giant advertising 
 mascots, killer dolphins, and Mr Sparkle. It's pretty clear that the gags and parodies came first 
 and the plot thrown together to give them some context, rather than the jokes growing organically 
 from the storyline but it's still an undeniably funny game.
  
  Like the best parodies, the spoofs in The Simpsons Game come from an obvious love of the things 
 being lampooned. But there is a sneaking suspicion that The Simpsons Game emulates the games it 
 sends up a bit too closely. Sure, having 31 hidden Game Clichs to find is funny but the question 
 is whether delivering a clich with a knowing wink negates the predictability or is just hiding 
 your games flaws in plain sight.
  
  And sweet Moses are there flaws. As an actual platformer, The Simpsons game falls to prey to some 
 of the issues that have plagued the genre since the leap to 3D. The biggest problem by far is the 
 camera, which seems to be determined to irritate you in the shortest time possible. If it's not 
 giving you the worst view of the platforms you're trying to leap between, it's snapping back into 
 the worst position possible after you've pain stakingly moved it into place. The camera constantly 
 twitches when you need it to hold steady and then takes up a fixed position when you need to swing 
 the view around. As an example, there's a section that involves using a gas canister to inflate 
 Homer then manoeuvring him over to a ledge before he deflates. Fairly simply in theory but in practice 
 a frustrating pain in the arse. You're wrestling with both Homer's altitude and the camera, so 
 you constantly miss the ledge because you can't tell where you're going to land. There are a few 
 sections where you feel that the game just doesn't offer the level of control you need to be able 
 to do what it asks of you.
  
  Even if you manage to get the camera under control, the levels you're running through aren't all 
 that spectacular. It's not that the levels look bad per se, in fact this is far and away the best 
 looking Simpsons game so far, with the character models and backdrops really capturing the Simpsons 
 look (except for in engine cut scenes, which get a bit too close to the characters and make them 
 look rough) , and it's not the overall ideas and aesthetics behind the levels are anything short 
 of inspired, it's just that the level design can be a bit dull and predictable. The game does throw 
 the occasional puzzle at you but they're rarely complex and mostly involve combining the special 
 powers of the two family members you're playing as that level.
  
  If you're playing by yourself, the AI manages to to keep up fairly well, managing to pull off some 
 of the trickier leaps surprisingly well. But they do manage to get the crap kicked out of them 
 with frightening regularity. The combat in the game subscribes to the 'hammer one button' school 
 of fighting but the computer controlled character still manages to get knocked onto its backside 
 an impressive/horrifying number of times. It's not a huge problem as they'll bounce back up fairly 
 quickly but they do seem to get knocked out at the most inopportune moments, normally when you 
 need them to keep enemies off your back while you use a character's special power.
  
  Obviously the AI partner problems evaporate if you have a buddy and a second controller. There's 
 no online co-op, which seems a bizarre over sight. But then, The Simpsons Game lends itself so 
 well to two people sitting around cracking up to the on screen action that the lack of online play 
 isn't a huge loss. And, given how the pace of the game can take a nose dive when one player has 
 to make an awkward leap and that patience is so very rarely a virtue exhibited by online folk, 
 it's probably for the best.
  
  The Simpsons game is essentially critic proof. It looks like The Simpsons, it sounds like The Simpsons 
 (the entire cast of the show are here and are pitch perfect) , and so it's going to sell like a 
 Simpsons game. As a game, it's not particularly great but as a piece of entertainment, it's a decent 
 but not brilliant attempt at working the family into a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  I'm always very skeptical when they make some famous TV or movie brand into a game. With a very 
 few exceptions, like LOTR: Battle for Middle Earth and Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher 
 Bay, those games are usually complete failures and born out of greed rather than any pride in the 
 art of making games.
  
  Not so this time, as the Simpsons spirit truly has entered this game and you do get a true dose 
 of the humor the series is so famous for. And this is also the main reason why you would want to 
 play the game - for the laughs.
  
  The graphics is quite interesting too, with its cartoon shading the look and feel of the series 
 is well preserved, and the true Simpson fans might get a kick out of exploring all the famous locations 
 in the series. 
  
  The main idea of the game is to solve various puzzles by switching between a pair of characters. 
 Each Simpson character has unique abilities, and can be used for different purposes. They need 
 to cooperate to succeed. So while Homer can turn into a Homer ball and break obstacles in the way, 
 Bart can turn into Bartman and glide long distances in the air or be lifted up by hot airflow. 
 Often these tasks needs to be synchronized.
  
  The game also has many action sequences. Like fighting scenes or mini-games like the giant Frogger 
 game starring Simpsons characters trying to cross a river. 
  
  It's all very simple gameplay, and in fact often a bit shallow and linear, but you are constantly 
 motivated to go through every mini-game to get your reward in the form of a funny cutscene spot 
 on to the series.
  
  Apart from some annoying camera problems, where the camera sometimes chose some really poor angles 
 for you, the game flows well and is easily playable also for the casual gamer. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: carzyman1
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  dfg dg dg g dfg df gd gfd s sfg fhw th cvbwr th gfbgtrhf bf ghtrf fgbh sdth frgbhdftherth ertherh 
 sdrghgf f fh f h fgfgf g fg f gf gf g fgf gf gfgf gfgf gf gfrgrghad had had ahd ahhad hadh had 
 had had had had had had had had had had had had had ha dhit iogtit it it it it you yo uyo uyo uyou 
 oyyou you you you yo uyyo u ogyjdfkgjgdghm frhgfh fhgghh g ghg hg h g h h h h h h h h h h h h h 
 h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treb3
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  the first thing you notice when you turn your 360 is that you just unlocked the easiest achievement 
 ever. Which is hilarious as is. Another thing good about this game is the open city, they say that 
 there is no replay value, Im here to say that is not true. Any game with free-rome has plunty of 
 replay value. I could say the music blows, becuase it loops its lame and theres only like a total 
 of 6 tracks. why could'nt they put that ea traks thing in from NFS, burnout and madden, but still 
 this game funny. the cutscenes are like a episode of the simpsons which is funny. the gameplay 
 sort of like a beat'em up/platformer which is cool. so what sucks about it, the eating contest 
 level the ending's impossible. I think you should probably get this game, because if your hard 
 core enough to be on gamespot you should get most of the gamer aimed jokes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: br3ttski22
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  ok so everyones saying it
  
  there isnt much variety to the game blah blah
  
  but if your a fan of the simpsons you will probabley enjoy this game its realy funny the cut scenes 
 look great the in game graphics look just as good its easiley the best looking cartoon game out. 
 the game looks like you are in a cartoon its a very nice effect and the efforts there
  
  the gameplay is for the most part platform / puzzles / beat em up while its keeps been these 3 
 the comdey of the game dosent make it boring of frustrating
  
  and also there is the odd 2 min maggie search mission which is a nice touch. u look through the 
 eyes of maggie and crawl to find a switch of marges 25% off tokens but they dont last long
  
  (also the rooms are always empty apart from when you see mayor qwimby through a vent but you 
 never come close to a charcter whe your maggie)
  
  there is a clock on your save when i completed the actual story i had most of the cliches and some 
 bottle caps and it sed 5.30 so if you try and get all the cliches and the bottle caps there is 
 more time here
  
  there is a time mode but isnt much fun just mainley requires you find a curtain number of items 
 of smash a number of items in a curtain time limit
  
  but its worth doin for the achivments
  
  there is xbox live support but no online multiplayer
 
  
  it say on the boz downloadble so hopefully a few more missions here and there would be kool
  
 
  FINAL
  
  i enjoyed the simpsons game but im a big simpsons fan i think though that anyone whos a fan of 
 the simpsons will find somthing they like in this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MightyOsprey
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  The Simpsons game - nothing like an original title!
  
  This game is quite fun, and quite easy which I think adds to its appeal in the mainstream, its 
 quite humorous as you'd expect (particularly its computer gamer and computer game jibes!) . The 
 graphics are episode like and the voice acting is superb. This is the most Simpsons episode-like 
 game yet which only adds to its appeal.
  
  It does not have the most immersing gameplay admittedly, -but Road Rage was quite a hard act to 
 follow. Nevertheless, well worth playing if you're a fan of the Simpsons.
  
  If you're a fan of mainstream computer games, this is a welcome break from the norm, in that you 
 dont really have to think that much or develop complex strategies to solve its puzzles, -its quite 
 easy to play, definitely not a head scratcher!
  
  Upsides - Graphics, voice acting, entertainment value.
  Downsides - Camera angles are an annoyance 
 - especially on certain levels, gameplay not too immersive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pistolero983
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 5, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  I am a BIG simpsons fan so when i heard there was a new game coming out for the 360 i was pretty 
 exited. Having now spent two hours on the game, i have to say i am still waiting for someting about 
 it to impress me, anything. The gameplay gets boring after about five minutes when you figure out 
 it's all about puzzles and getting the two characters which you control to work together. Other 
 than that, there really isn't anything else about the gameplay worth mentioning. The worst part 
 of the game is the camera angles. Ten years ago, i would have been content with the angles, but 
 for something developed with todays technology it is a dissapointment, they really could have been 
 more creative in this department. I am very, very, dissapointed with this game, I really expected 
 something better from a game that had the input of the show's creator. If i wasn't such a big fan 
 of the series, i would have scored it 4 out of ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drswank
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  While the Simpsons has enjoyed success as a long running TV show, its long run as a gaming franchise 
 has been a tad disastrous, and thats putting it nicely. While there have been some standout titles 
 in the Simpsons game legacy, its apparent that even their best titles were mediocre at best under 
 the flag of Acclaim. Now that EA has taken the franchise, you could almost hear the collective 
 groan come from gamers and fans everywhere. Thankfully, I can honestly say that The Simpsons Game 
 is by far the best iteration of them all. While a basic platformer at its core, the games excellent 
 sense of humor coupled with its satirical view of the gaming industry as well as the controversy 
 around it make the Simpsons game one that almost has to be experienced. So lets start with the 
 games premise, which starts in complete ho-hum territory with an alien invasion at the hands of 
 Kang and Kodos (armed with boards with nails in them of all things) . In the meantime, the Simpson 
 family discovers a manual to a game starring them, in which they discover theyve got superpowers. 
 With game manual (along with a conveniently found strategy guide) in hand, the family sets out 
 to stop the invasion. After a few twists and turns, the family ends up being zapped into whats 
 known as The Game Engine where an evil creator and corporation are churning out shoddy Simpsons 
 games at a fevered pace. While the first half of the game is funny, a lot of the material is recycled 
 from the TV show. Its during this latter portion where the funniest and most original stuff comes 
 from. So before we get to the positive, lets get the negative out of the way first. While I say 
 the Simpsons game is the best in the series near twenty years of existence, it honestly doesnt 
 have a lot to live up to. First off, youll only encounter maybe one or two types of enemies en 
 masse per episode, which mixed with the fairly limited combat system, gets stale pretty quickly. 
 Second, there are a few gameplay bugs that may cause you to restart a level due to being stuck 
 in the environment, though thats a rare occurrence. Third, the camera is complete garbage. This 
 element alone will cause its fair share of rage inducing frustration due to its mule-like stubbornness 
 and inability to give you a useable angle during the most painstaking jumps. After all, a good 
 camera in a platformer is really somewhat important after all. Fourth, the game is short. It attempts 
 to prolong things by giving you the option to collect 75 icons for each character and replay levels 
 to find all of the icons and other hidden items to get the coveted Complete Package achievement. 
 The game almost makes its deficiencies forgivable with the discovery of several hidden game clich&eacute; s. 
 If you find yourself drowning in water or the aforementioned, Comic Book Guy will appear with a 
 sarcastic remark about it, like You cant swim until the sequel. These clich&eacute; s will have 
 you intentionally jumping into lava pits or running against walls to find the next one  theyre 
 just comedy gold. The main story takes you to just about every notable locale in Springfield, though 
 almost all are completely optional during the free roaming mode that takes place between the different 
 missions, or episodes as the game refers to them. Still, while the story mode is short on content, 
 youll enjoy being able to wander the streets and exploring the Kwik-E-Mart or discovering Comic 
 Book Guys hidden pirate video stash inside the Androids Dungeon. While in free roaming mode, 
 you can travel to different locations to start each mission. Thankfully, a number of bus stops 
 are strategically placed so you dont find yourself walking across town to get where you need to 
 go. Each mission has two members of the family teaming up to work through three segments. Youll 
 do everything from helping Bart and Lisa take out a logging operation to controlling Marge and 
 Homer on a crusade to ban sales of the Grand Theft Scratchy game. Each character has their own 
 special moves that will get you past any obstacles in your way. Homer can inhale helium and float 
 or turn into a gelatinous ball and roll around, Marge uses a megaphone to blow enemies back or 
 call townspeople to her aid, Lisa can use her saxophone to turn enemies against each other and 
 can use the powers of Buddhism to lift objects, and Bart can glide using his Bartman cape, scale 
 walls, or use clouds of steam to fly. In addition to the popcorn enemies youll encounter, such 
 as reanimated Krusty dolls, sailor Smithers, and Zombie Moe, your main enemies will be the heaps 
 of death-defying jumps that stand in your way. Theres also a good amount of puzzle solving involved, 
 but none of which are too much of a strain on the brain, which if youre only interested in playing 
 straight through, youll find this to be a walk in the park. Thankfully, the games story is good 
 enough to keep you going. The humor of the game is by far its best feature. While the opening levels 
 are enjoyable, as theyre all heavily influenced by the Tree House of Horror Halloween specials, 
 youll get a lot of original and recycled humor that are still worth some laughs. Each character 
 has something different to say based on whats going on in each mission, so the dialog really never 
 gets old. As a matter of fact, things get progressively funnier as the game goes on. These first 
 portions of the game serve as a sort of tutorial to prepare you for what happens later, but theyre 
 enjoyable nonetheless. The real fun begins when the family is transported into the game engine 
 where they have to save their 8-bit incarnations from a demented Will Wright, who is floating on 
 a platform made of a Sims diamond icon which is classic. From there, the family goes into a number 
 of video game spoofs that are chock full of self-referential humor, satire, and above all, totally 
 pointing out what everyone thinks about EA. The family has to play through four different video 
 games in order to reach the one known as the creator. Medal of Homer is a spoof on World War 
 II shooters where Homer and Bart need to collect surrender flags from a French village as well 
 as the clich&eacute; escort mission. Grand Theft Scratchy has Marge and Lisa gathering mobs to 
 clean up a mock-up of Grove Street from GTA San Andreas. Trust me, its much funnier than it sounds, 
 especially when you use Maggie to infiltrate the radio station to change the music from Gangsta 
 Rap to Dionne Warwick and Stevie Wonders rendition of Thats What Friends are For. Neverquest 
 is a spoof of Everquest where Homer and Marge have to protect a group of Hobbits from a dragon 
 blessed with the likenesses of Patty and Selma. Lastly, Big Super Happy Fun Fun Game has Homer 
 and Lisa fighting through a Japanese game that takes references from Katamari Damacy, Final Fantasy, 
 and best of all, Pok&eacute; mon. Recognizing each game spoof is really half of the fun, as the 
 episodes youll go through will skew off and put a classic gaming spin on things as youll play 
 a version of Missile Command by blowing up kitty prostitutes in Grand Theft Scratchy, to playing 
 a version of Gauntlet and Joust where Homer has to butt heads with the Patty/Selma dragon in NeverQuest. 
 Its a treat to see where the game will go next, and the further you go, the game continues to 
 please and never gets old outside of the aforementioned nuances. it truly ups the ante. In the 
 interest of being spoiler free, the best parts are yet to come after you pass each game spoof. 
 All I can say is to expect some truly Oh my god moments.
  
  Graphically, the game is the first to truly take on a 3D cel-shaded art style, which is about time. 
 The characters all look great; though they look a tad rough close-up during a few in-game cut scenes. 
 The majority of the major plot points are done through fully animated cartoon shorts that ooze 
 the typical Simpsons humor and all look really nice. The environments are just as good, though 
 a few hardcore fans may question the placement of certain locations in relation to others, but 
 they can really just get over themselves. When youre exploring in free roaming mode, the town 
 is depressingly barren of traffic and almost seems lifeless if it werent for the many key characters 
 of the series walking around. Every environment looks like it has been pulled right out of the 
 show, whether its Moes Tavern, the church, or any of the crazy places youll go in the world of 
 the game engine. Speaking of the game engine, the creativity of the environments is something to 
 behold. Your first foray into the game engine is full of burned out characters resembling Mario 
 and Sonic powering the works while vats of coins, wooden crates, and health packs are manufactured. 
 Its all just really cool. Do me a favor and take my castrated, spoiler free word for it.
  
  As is expected, the voice acting is top notch  cmon, its the Simpsons after all. All of 
 the original actors are here and none of them is phoning it in. The jokes definitely match with 
 the quality of the show  take that for what you will, but its guaranteed youll laugh at least 
 once before the game is done. Some of the most entertaining dialog will come from the enemies you 
 encounter or the townspeople as theyre walking down the street. Oftentimes youll see them engaging 
 in actual coherent conversations if they meet up with each other. Its a wonder how much dialog 
 was recorded for this game. The music also matches well with the environments and has an epic feel 
 behind it.
  
  Though the combat is shallow, the puzzles are repeated frequently, the gameplay if prolonged by 
 time challenges as well as fetch-and-collect quests, and the platforming elements are all pretty 
 basic, the humor, satire, and sheer creativity of where the story takes you definitely make The 
 Simpsons Game an enjoyable experience. Its so hard not to start rambling about the many memorable 
 moments this game has, so let me give you the short of it. If youre a gamer and a die-hard fan 
 of the show, youll be in heaven here. Given how short the game is, its hard to recommend for 
 a full-price purchase but its definitely worth a weekend rental at the very least, thus earning 
 The Simpsons Game the coveted wait until its thirty bucks recommendation. Its a game that any 
 fan of the show or games in general just has to experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  Like all my review I like to get the obvious stuff out of the way first so people don't feel obligated 
 to read the entire review unless their heart desires it. The bottom line is this The Simpsons Game 
 is the best Simpsons game to date though that really isn't saying much with the quality of previous 
 titles. The main notes are definitely hit in this game: presentation and voice acting is spot on, 
 writing is perfect and witty, charm and humor of the show is translated into the games cinema. 
 I'll break it down even farther: The Simpsons Game is a mediocre platformer with an amazing license. 
 Essentially, the license saves it from being completely passable. Story: The story goes that Bart 
 wants to buy the new Grand Theft Scratchy game but Marge doesn't approve. On his way home, bart 
 finds The Simpsons manual and realized that they are actually in a video game. The story is just 
 one massive parody of the video game industry and some specific game types like Mario and Space 
 Invaders. The story is definitely humorous and presents a lot of nerdy humor; a lot of video game 
 and simpson jokes that most causal goers might not understand. The story feels like it was ripped 
 right out of an episode and its definitely the best portion of the game.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in The Simpsons Game is interesting because on the one hand: the game is 
 a parody of the video game industry which is why it uses so many video game cliches. The entire 
 gameplay mechanic is just ripping on every cliche like: double jumps, breaking boxes and bosses 
 showing their weak spots. On the other hand, they're ripping on these aspects yet they turn around 
 and use the same mechanics over and over. There is even an instance when the three dimensional 
 Simpsons save their 8-bit selves. Afterwards, the 8-bit versions ask: Where is the score?? How 
 many lives do you have left?? The three dimensional version say: Scoring and life systems aren't 
 used anymore in video games!! The 8-bit version respond by saying: Well then how do you know your 
 winning and If you don't have a life system than were is the difficulty!! This latter comment is 
 perfect; there is no difficult in this game, a two year old could complete this game with no problem. 
 In the unlikely case that you do die, the game just auto spawns your right were you left off. Now, 
 having a life system can have added some difficulty but I would have liked to seen better enemy 
 AI and harder puzzles and less guiding. I mean it's ridiculous that even in the final level there 
 is still little windows that pop up and tell you want to do. This game just basically holds the 
 gamers hand and walks them through the experience, there is no challenge but more importantly the 
 game gets extremely repetitive and boring. Basically, you start a level fight a couple of retarded 
 enemies; walk over to a switch or puzzle have a little window pop up and tell you exactly what 
 has to be done you do it and repeat. The Combat System in The Simpsons Game is a joke, each character 
 has one combo and two special moves!! Thats all the developers could come up with is one combo; 
 and other than homer and bart the special powers suck. Marge is the worst, all she does is take 
 out a mega-phone and command people to follow her. Lisa's power isn't as bad but still pretty boring 
 she uses her saxophone to stun enemies. Homer can turn into a massive ball or gummy homer which 
 are both extremely over powering. Bart turns into bartman which allows him the ability to glide 
 and use a grappling hook. I said earlier I know this game is aimed towards kids but they made this 
 game so ridiculously easy a caveman could do it!!
  
  Sound: The music is pretty decent though its essentially the main theme repeated. I didn't once 
 play my own music in this game which says to me that the music and sound effects were decent enough 
 to keep me interested in the game.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are perfect for this license but horrible for the 360. The cartoony style 
 of graphics make for a great setting and creates the illusion of playing through a real life Simpsons 
 episode.
  
  Conclusion: With the proved content, 6-7 hour single player, time trial challenges that can be 
 beaten in about a hour and offline only coop play; the package that is being offered for 60 bucks 
 is really difficult to swallow. I would say to definitely rent it but don't buy this game. It won't 
 last more than a day or two of enjoyment and the humor will only last a couple of play throughs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrainV
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 4, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  the whole point of the simsons game is to basically make fun of video games, the game can only 
 be apprecianted to the fans of the show.
  
  THE GAMEPLAY: 6. the games weakest point is the gameplay. its just not interesting. even though 
 the power ups are amusing the are not pulled off very well. bartman's gameplay gets old after a 
 while, marge's gameplay is repetitive, lisa's gameplay is not used as much as it should. the only 
 character that i had no problem with was homer
  
  THE GRAPHICS: 9. the cel shaded graphics were a nice touch. you actually feel like you're in the 
 show. its just nice to look at
  
  SOUND: 9 the sound is also one of the strengths. the voice over work is the same as the show. the 
 writing is top notch, the game has some of the most quotable lines in any game. VALUE: 7, the value 
 depends on how much you liked the game
  
  TILT: 5 the camera is just awful. even though the camera is never a big part of the game, its still 
 annoying. the controls are only clunky when you are the homer ball, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KyleBeech
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  At first when you see the first few trailers you think to yourself this is going to be exactly 
 like hit and run too quick of a story graphics/gameplay average at best. So i thought being a hardcore 
 simpsons fan as i am, that I would buy this. The simpsons are in a video game world and they have 
 gaming abilities like bart is bartman and he can glide, homer is a big fat ball etc. The missions 
 at first do take a while to get use to and you do need a good mind to figure out all the problems 
 by flicking between the two characters you are allowed to use in a mission. The cut-scenes are 
 just pure humour with several parodie of classic arcade and modern games such as frogger and space 
 invaders, this will keep you busy for a little while. The only downside to this game is the fact 
 there is no online co-op.
  
  
  P. s look out for homer in a borat speedo ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 3, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  The grapics are ok, story is decent, gameplay SUUUKS hard, missions are a snore fest, characters 
 are just like in the TV show, and overall it is not a very well planned out game beause its like 
 SAVE THE TOWN than its like GO GET HOMER DOUNUTS. The missions are really random. EA just wanted 
 money but thank god I didn't buy it! A rent is even asking to much. This game is dull and a complete 
 waste of time. If you like the simpsons than just play RR or HnR because 60 bucks for a C@ppy game 
 like this is just so so so so STUPID!! This is a must avoid game so please don't waste your money 
 on this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeLashmutt1980
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 2, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  The game isn't going to be remembered for its incredible game play. Then again, is a game like 
 this supposed to? The Simpsons Game brings humor to its audiences and anyone who grew up watching 
 the simpsons can easily fall in love with this one. The story line seems as though it was written 
 by someone with ADHD which falls in line pretty well with the show. The humor touches on everything 
 from video game cracks, one-liners, and SImpson based humor, to cracks at the creators of the cartoon, 
 gamers, and developers alike. This game is to be played by people looking for a laugh, not someone 
 who is going to compare it to halo3, GTA or some other popular game. Bottom Line: I think a lot 
 of people gave the game a low score for the wrong reasons. It isn't the BEST cartoon based video 
 game I have ever played but there is something in it for everyone and it is among the best Simpsons 
 games to date. Sure there are little problems here and there but when you look past its average 
 gameplay there are a lot of reasons to check this game out. Few games generate more laughs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liam437
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Even though the act of playing through the levels doesn't add anything new to the platformer genre, 
 The Simpsons Game actually takes a new approach to tried and true gameplay by poking fun at itself 
 through the use of attainable video game cliches. It points out the fact that all videogames have 
 crates, bosses with overly obvious weak points, and other things of that nature. There are 31 throughout 
 the game and they're all equally funny.
  
  In between jumping from platform to platform you will of course be pitted against enemies, the 
 bulk of which you'll recognize from the series. Sideshow Bob, Jeff Comic Book Guy Albertson, and 
 Mr. Burns are just a few of the characters to make the jump into the game. The Simpsons family 
 has two basic attacks. There's a standard melee punch and there's a power-based attack which is 
 governed by your power meter. Objects in the environment spit out power items, as do fallen foes, 
 so you won't spend much of your time budgeting your power usage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monteffiori
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  Que un juego de Los Simpsons salga para el Xbox 360 es lo que muchos seguidores de la serie esperaban. 
 Aunque en el fondo sabemos que tampoco ser&aacute; un GRAN juego... Ya lo hemos visto en consolas 
 desde NES, SNES, y PSX... Y es que lo que pasa con esta entrega es que si ponemos el gameplay del 
 juego en una plataforma con personajes que no sean los Simpsons, este juego es otro m&aacute; s 
 del mont&oacute; n. La cosa se vuelve bastante mon&oacute; tona... Creo que los extras y los gui&ntilde; os 
 de la serie son el real valor del juego... Los universos y los personajes de la serie se ven realmente 
 incre&iacute; bles, una gr&aacute; fica magn&iacute; fica, pero joder! el juego se queda ah&iacute;... 
 Imag&iacute; nense que en vez de The Simpsosn the game se llamara The Adventures of Wacky Family 
 , s&aacute; quenle los gui&ntilde; os a los Simpsons y el juego se convierte en una plataforma de 
 buenos gr&aacute; ficos pero con un muy corto rango de diversi&oacute; n a corto plazo... L&aacute; stima. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
