-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Thrillville: Off the Rails
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/strategy/thrillvilleofftherails/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Tons of stuff to do.
 Accessible for children, yet fun for adults.
 Most of the minigames are lots of fun.
 Everything in your park can be played or ridden.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not a great-looking game, and the frame rate could have been better.
 Could have been a little more challenging.
 Some minigames won't feel fresh to anyone who played the first game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  5, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.3, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 215 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Frontier Dev.
Genre: Strategy
Date: Oct 9, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Thrillville: Off the Rails makes every part of building and running a theme park great fun. 

 
  Many games promise that they're "fun for the entire family," but very few actually deliver an 
 experience that can be enjoyed by both kids and adults alike. Thrillville: Off the Rails is one 
 game that makes good on this promise. Whether building your own amusement park or playing the games 
 and riding the rides, there's never a shortage of ways to have fun. Thanks to the inclusion of 
 50 minigames, Off the Rails is one of the better party games out there as well.  

  Thrillville's single-player campaign places you in the role of a theme park manager. Your goals 
 include making the guests happy, ensuring the critics give your park a fair shake, and preventing 
 a rival theme park from ruining your park's reputation. You start off with one theme park broken 
 into three distinctly themed areas. As you complete missions like playing minigames, building certain 
 rides, and managing staff, you're awarded thrill points, which eventually unlock new parks, each 
 with its own theme.  

           Most of the minigames are really fun.      

  There are simulation aspects to Off the Rails, but nothing as deep as other "Tycoon" games. Sure, 
 you can set prices, run advertising campaigns, and even borrow money, but there's very little benefit 
 to be gained by doing so, and money is never a problem. Most of your time will be spent placing 
 rides, stalls, and games, and, of course, building coasters. Placing new attractions is a piece 
 of cake: Scroll through a menu until you find what you want to place, locate a good spot, and press 
 a button to drop it into place. Unfortunately, you're a bit limited as to where you can place buildings 
 as well as how many you can place. Each building consumes power, and each of your park's three 
 areas has a limited amount of power available. This seems to be the game's way of making sure the 
 frame rate can keep up, but it's frustrating to have the room and the money to build something, 
 only to be told that there's not enough power available. This doesn't ruin the game, but it would 
 have been nice to be able to place more stuff.  

  Building coasters is surprisingly simple. If you're not into designing your own roller coaster, 
 you can purchase prebuilt rides with the press of a button. But that would mean depriving yourself 
 of one of the game's best aspects. It's really easy to build a crazy coaster. All you have to do 
 is pick what type you want (wooden, hanging, flume, and the like) and then start dropping pieces 
 into place. The interface is intuitive, and while the camera can sometimes be frustrating and the 
 auto-track-completion rarely finds a solution to ending your ride, you can complete your first 
 coaster in a matter of minutes. Of course, you're going to want to make your signature ride a memorable 
 experience for your guests. This is where the "whoa" pieces come into play. Flaming hoops, brick 
 walls, loops, corkscrews, and more can all be added by choosing a whoa piece from the menu and 
 dropping it into place. You won't want to go too crazy, though, because you don't want the ride's 
 nausea rating to be too high. Actually, that's not true. While your guests may  think  they don't 
 want a ride that's too insane, what better way to end a ride than by not ending it? By not connecting 
 your track back to the station, you can create a "crash coaster." This is exactly what you think 
 it is -- the car reaches the end of the track and flies right off. It sounds insane, but because 
 you parachute gently to the ground, the kids love it, even as their parents watch in horror from 
 the ground.  

  Building rides is just a small part of the Thrillville experience because everything you build 
 can be ridden or played. There are 50 minigames included here. Many of these are knockoffs of arcade 
 games like Gauntlet, Offroad, and 1942, but there are some original games to be found and most 
 of them are a lot of fun. First-person shooters; puzzle, racing, and flying games; platformers -- you 
 name it, it's here. You can play these minigames anytime you like, and you can even play them from 
 the game's main menu in a party game format. The game does a nice job of integrating them into 
 the campaign. You might need to get a high score in a particular game so that you can win a prize 
 with which to bribe a critic, or you might need to chase off some annoying robots that hack your 
 attractions so that they can ride for free by shooting a bunch of them in a futuristic first-person 
 shooter. These missions come along just often enough that you'll appreciate the break from running 
 your park, but not so often that you'll feel like they get in the way.  

  It's how the game balances all this variety that makes Thrillville so much fun. Everything makes 
 sense -- you're not just doing minigames for the sake of doing them. If you need to train an entertainer, 
 you do so by performing a dancing minigame. Should you need to fix a ride, you do it by connecting 
 wires in a somewhat difficult, but still fun, minigame. Even figuring out what you're doing right 
 or wrong is handled smartly. You can talk to any patron about a number of subjects, but if you 
 don't feel like yapping to everyone in sight the game will let you know the more important stuff 
 by having park-goers shout out their problems as you walk by. When you've heard a dozen customers 
 complain about not being able to find a drink as you've walked from one end of the park to the 
 other, well, you get the idea, it's time to build a drink stand. Off the Rails also achieves a 
 good balance between being fun for adults as well as children. It's not a particularly challenging 
 to build a cool park, but that doesn't really matter because the fun comes from playing minigames 
 and building the most over-the-top rides possible. While the campaign mode is technically single-player 
 only, it's fun to play with another person. It's not hard to envision parents handling the controls 
 while younger children detail just how they want their coaster built.  

  Thrillville isn't a great-looking game. In fact, it barely qualifies as good looking, even on the 
 PC and the Xbox 360, where it looks the best. It has a cartoonlike style to it, and there are lots 
 of bold, bright colors to be seen. The 15 or so areas of the parks each have a unique design that 
 might not be supercreative (there's a beach town, a snowy mountain, a futuristic area, and an underwater 
 section, to name a few) , but they all serve to make each park feel like its own special place. 
 It's fun to customize your rides' themes and colors, even if they don't have much of an effect 
 on your park's success, outside of a few specific missions. Though the game isn't filled with detailed 
 textures, lighting and particle effects, or anything else that should push a console to its limits, 
 Off the Rails doesn't run perfectly on any system. The 360 and PC versions have some frame rate 
 hitches; the Wii version runs fairly well (and uses motion controls to let you build your coasters) 
 but has some nasty aliasing issues; the PS2 version is aliased and runs pretty choppily; and the 
 PSP iteration suffers from some long load times and a sometimes stuttery frame rate, though it 
 does let you play multiplayer via Wi-Fi, which is nice. None of these technical issues ruin the 
 experience, but it's worth noting that the game would have benefited from some sharper visuals. 

           Don't worry -- in this world, crashing coasters are considered cool.      

  At least the game sounds good. The older crowd might not dig the soundtrack, which sounds as if 
 it were ripped straight from Radio Disney, but the music fits the game's lighthearted feel. The 
 voice acting is solid, too. There's a surprising amount of dialogue in the game, and while the 
 conversation options might not rival those in Mass Effect, there's a lot you can find out by simply 
 walking up to someone and talking to them.  

  You can spend hours building your park, or you can just play minigames; you can play alone, have 
 someone play the role of advisor, or get a group of people together and play the minigames like 
 a party game. It's how everything comes together that makes Thrillville: Off the Rails such a good 
 overall experience and one that truly is "fun for the whole family."     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 24, 2009 3:26 pm PT
Review:  The gaming company LucasArts has always been spoken in the same breath as Star Wars, for obvious 
 reasons. Since there is a huge library of games already dedicated to such a popular franchise, 
 most gamers wouldn't imagine seeing anything other than wookies and light sabers come from such 
 a creative bunch.
  Truth be told, over the years this capable crew has published numerous colorful and adventurous 
 titles that range from Greek heroes battling in the after life, to educational children programs. 
 Going one step further than most Sims titles; the second version of Thrillville, dubbed Off the 
 Rails, caters to anyone who loves rollercoaster's and theme parks by allowing complete modification 
 of everything that keeps park attendants happy. Surprisingly, the game is basically a rehash of 
 the first, but the vast amounts of added side quests and mini games really make this a fun title 
 for people of various ages.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  If you've ever played a game based on simulation and micro-management, OTR serves it by the bucket 
 loads. Tagged as the new park manager, you go through a bare bones character creator where selection 
 is crippled by simple pants or shorts, guy or girl, plain or creepy cosmetic options. Once you're 
 created, the real chores begin as you familiarize yourself with the park operations.
  At first, this is not so bad as you tackle minor task such as hiring staff to entertain/clean/maintain 
 the park. From here you populate the park with particular mini games and theme rides to help lure 
 in park guest, and to keep them further happy; you can build concession stands and restrooms for 
 comfort and stomach delights. If you bore easily with the God view looking down upon your creations, 
 you can traverse the park with your created manager on foot and actually interact with guests. 
 This function was simple in the first Thrillville, and it still serves as a mundane time-killer. 
 Yet, with a few key choices during these interactions you can acquire valuable insight in how to 
 better improve the park, become friends, compete in games, and actually develop love interest. 
 Since the game is mostly structured for children and teens, the intimacy doesn't extend past hugs 
 and warm dialogue, which of course is fitted for guy and gal action only.
  
  Once the foundation of the park is laid out, you mainly progress through the story by completing 
 park objectives that require creation milestones and fetch quests. This is where OTR can easily 
 lose most gamers, young and old. Being that every park usually asks for the same objectives to 
 be completed, mostly varying with increased numbers or approval ratings, the overall 5 parks that 
 can be unlocked really can drag on and become tedious.
  If you fancy yourself as a digital artist of architect, OTR could salvage some much-needed respect 
 in allowing for great park customization. Besides laying the foundation of each park down with 
 required numbers and area limitations, your imagination can go wild when placing mini-games, food 
 and beverage stands, restrooms, park staff, and user created rollercoaster's. All which can be 
 altered in color and design or shape and main appeal. Like I said, this level of hands on interaction 
 is really the core selling point of OTR. With a multitude of side distractions that offer a few 
 decent hours of extra game play, anyone who feels shafted in theme park thrills can rejoice in 
 over 50 mini games that all look and play fairly different and also allows for difficulty adjustments. 
 A pretty nice perk to co-op and multiplayer is the 2 to 4 player versus action that can be enjoyed 
 shoulder-to-shoulder, or online over XBL. 
  
  VISUALS
  Thrillville: Off the Rails is all about the fun factor that can be had maintaining an imaginary 
 theme park, paying no mind to how good it looks while doing so. This could be a major knock against 
 a game that is far from shy about making its intentions clear, yet there are some areas where character 
 models and overall animation come up so short, its hard to excuse.
  When you first create your aspiring park manager, the selection is greatly limited to boys and 
 girls between the ages of 8-15, which is even more difficult to stomach as the clothing attire 
 mostly consist of generic GAP fashion. Supposedly, a teenager who is tasked with "managing" an 
 entire theme park organization only wants to wear shorts and bland t-shirts, which is pretty lame 
 once you realize park guests sport just about the same closet.
  With the ability to adjust colors and prop designs for main attractions, the double-edge sword 
 also hampers variety. You can rejoice in the creation of a stellar rollercoaster by not only riding 
 it yourself and experiencing the thrills first hand; you also feel the constrictions of simply 
 placing things in confined areas with nothing more than direction orientation.
  
  One area where OTR really won me over was in the massive selection of mini games and the variety 
 in how each game looked and played. Even with the borrowed elements that obviously resemble games 
 we've played the last 20 years, OTR really puts a nice spin on each mini that almost stands well 
 enough to be their own full fledge titles.
  
  AUDIO
  The most difficult area of this game to judge is strangely the most appealing for me. With a strong 
 array of dialogue spoken between park guests and your created male or female manager, the voice 
 work is average at best. Some areas are really rough around the edges and are simply laughable 
 in how badly their done, while other moments really shine with good range of emotion. This tug 
 of war in quality is present in other aspects of the game such as unregistered sound effects and 
 missing dialogue, which happens every so often depending on the speed of play. Other areas like 
 music within mini games and hilarious dialogue responses help smooth out the unsavory audio, but 
 there is too much inconsistency to help void such unforgiving technical negatives that encourage 
 muted volume.
  
  EXTRAS
  One of the big reasons why I highlight OTR as a decent game for kids is mostly due to the forgiving 
 difficulty settings. When you first start off, mini games and park management task are all pretty 
 straightforward and simple. As you progress to the more advance parks and objectives, the goals 
 still remain pretty lofty allowing plenty of room for mistakes and never push for any sense of 
 urgency. 
  Beyond leveling up in park management (which maxes out at 10) you have plenty of mini game achievements 
 to keep you busy as parks basically sit in the background incurring interest so that the story 
 unfolds. With the story and the management levels, you can easily scoop up about 500 points simply 
 playing from start to finish completing all the main objectives.
  
  If you prefer more hands on action, you can take part in various activities that range from challenging 
 special park guest, accomplishing minor feats within mini games, and hunting down items hidden 
 through out the 5 parks. With a hefty illusion of variety, any kid could dump hours of effort into 
 games and activities that never really offer gamer points and still have plenty of fun. Since there 
 is the luxury of viewing the achievements list from the get-go, any determined points monger could 
 go down the checklist and easily rake in about 200-300 extra points away from the plot.
  
  OVERALL
  Thrillville: Off the Rails really doesn't offer anything dramatically different in the 
 world of simulation. You create a player, navigate imaginary theme parks, assist staff members 
 and park guest, and basically decorate. It could be somewhat insulting to assume this as the perfect 
 children's game, because I'm sure any teen or adult who finds at least one thing worth enjoying 
 in OTR might feel targeted for teasing. 
  Not the case here. Games like this don't require shutting down of the brain, or numbing of high 
 expectations. What I see in this theme park creation series is a lot of potential, great gaming 
 mechanics, fun presentation in the visuals and audio, and a really entertaining concept that could 
 easily blossom with continued development. Compared to the last version of Thrillville, improvements 
 and polish are minor at best in OTR. For anyone new to this quirky genre and doesn't mind renting 
 a game for the weekend, I'm sure OTR will offer something worth mentioning after a few hours of 
 gaming. If not, you can rest assured that another version of Thrillville is in the making, and 
 the next addition will likely build upon its proven strengths; which is surprising to say being 
 the cynic, but are quite numerous and robust. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totallyawsome10
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Well this is game is worth it's price (NOW) it is fun doing the missions and building an awsome 
 theme park but once you can't beat missions and u have done all u could have to where you can't 
 put more stuff in your park it isn't as fun so basically once u have finished one park make another 
 to keep ur satisfaction and to make a totally different park with maybe way better stuff then you 
 would have thought of for the first park! My advise is to only get it if u absolutely love building 
 things and riding them and playing about I think there is about 40 somthin miny games but anyway 
 it is a good game but I don't play nonstop like I do my pokemon ds game which by the way can't 
 wait for pokemon platinum i am saving my money for it! But like i said only get if u love building 
 things and riding them with a few fun minigames! well hope this helps make ur dicision if you don't 
 have it and want it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gord_mose
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure what is so compelling about Thrillville: Off The Rails (Lucasarts) but it has me hooked. 
 I am addicted to the missions, the game play, and the achievements (it has tons of little tiny 
 achievements instead of a handful of big ones like some games) . Even though the graphics are basic 
 in the adventure portion of the game, they are charming. Being able to walk around the park, see 
 the people having fun on the rides or running in and out of rest rooms, etc., just makes me happy. 
 It's like being at Disneyland without the expense, the real crowds, or the eventual fatigue.
  
  The mini games, which really are the soul of the game, are fun. Some are especially snazzy, 
 like the sharp looking circuit boards you train the technicians with. It has a very addicting memorization 
 game where you connect circuits together with pipes. Other mini games are more basic looking, but 
 regardless, they are solid and well implemented. Racing dune buggies, for instance, feels as natural 
 as in a game like Mario Kart, and the side scrolling bike racing game has funky physics and groovy 
 visuals. A real standout is the first person shooter game, which has excellent graphics, with dummies 
 for enemies and a variety of cork guns. It definitely feels like a real shooter and is fun!
  
  Everything is streamlined and the UI is informative. Although loading and saving games is a 
 little slow, and the music in the game is too loud (and strangely the movie cut scene volume is 
 tied to the music volume setting, so turning down the music means you won't hear what the person 
 says during the movies!) , everything else is seamless and responsive. Building rollercoasters, 
 adding food stalls, interacting with guests, who are fully voiced BTW, are all extremely well done.
 
  
  In the end, Thrillville: Off The Rails is just one of those wonderously next gen experiences. It's 
 like someone finally figured out how to make a good tycoon game. Frontier has been doing this for 
 a long time, and it looks like they've really taken the experience they've gained to heart and 
 have used it to fine tune the game play so as to present a charming and interesting game that is 
 strangely compelling.
  
  I played the game on the Xbox 360, so your mileage may vary.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PinkAngelDead
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  Thrillville: Off the Rails is one of my most recent game purchases. I know that a lot of gamers 
 will criticise the game in some way, but my response to them is to tell them all to 'lighten up!' 
 It is clear that this game has been designed purely for fun and entertainment. This is something 
 that I consider the game to achieve, highly. It has a great plot and is full of amusing characters, 
 as well as a high number of missions to complete. This is not a game that requires you to gain 
 a lot of achievements and high gamer scores, but that's because it's not designed for that. It's 
 for amusement and pleasure. When playing the game you can relax and have fun, which is something 
 that you can't endure for hours on end on games that are much more intense. Even though I enjoy 
 games like COD4 and Kane & Lynch, I like to have something in my collection that is there purely 
 for satisfaction and fun, without having my heart set on completing the game with a respectable 
 score. I'd highly recommend this game to anyone who loved Theme Park World and Theme Hospital on 
 the PC, as it's just an much improved extension of those kinds of games. If you played on them 
 as much as I did and took away a great deal of amusement, I'd go out and buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thirtytwoshoe
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Of the few Rollercoaster Park simulator games I've played Thrillville is one of my favorite, but 
 I'm not surprised the sequel didn't live up to the hype. I'll just go ahead and say it, this game 
 is bad and there's little fun to be had in Thrillville this time around. The game is about you, 
 a kid that is allowed to run his own amusement park. Sounds fun right? Well lets face it, the only 
 people who are going to enjoy this game are ten year old kids who have never played a real video 
 game before. This is a kids game and that's really all you need to know to make a decision on whether 
 to buy this game or not. They basically manipulate a regular child's poor taste in games and only 
 make it as good as it has to be to impress kids, and that's not very good. Where this game really 
 shines is the game play, although it isn't really the best amusement park simulator I had some 
 fun here. The mini games can be enjoyed by everybody but after an hour you've seen it all and will 
 realize how truly repetitive this game can be. The game sounds great but the music will get incredibly 
 annoying after the first thirty minutes, you'll definitely want to replace it with some of your 
 own, that is if you haven't thrown out the game already. The controls don't seem to respond like 
 they should and the game is only fun in short burst. They have more boring moments in the game 
 than fun ones, seriously what the hell where they thinking? I'd much rather design suicidal rides 
 than talk to guest with poor AI. There are some fun moments here and there but not enough to save 
 you from the horrible repetitive game that is Thrillville: Off the Rails. This game had a lot of 
 potential but it was just so damn boring after the first hour not even little ones would enjoy 
 it, that's why I'm giving it a 5 out of 10. Please just pick up the original Thrillville or wait 
 'till this is in the bargain bin, trust me you'll thank me later when you wish you never purchased 
 this sorry excuse for a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is a copy of Rollercoaster Tycoon and its not as good as it. I think that a bunch of 
 games this holiday season is great but stupid games like this should not even be made. some rides 
 are cool but most do the same stupid thing. This game is almost as bad as the show The Sarah Silverman 
 Program. This is one of those games that you wish the devs would just die form. (not really) but 
 it is not as fun as people think. This game is one of the worst games ever put on the 360. Go buy 
 a good game this holiday season not this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 14, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  Amusement parks are full of excitement, laughter, amazing rides, games and tons of rabid children 
 hopped up on sugar. While the overall outlook on amusement parks is small, it takes more than just 
 a few nifty rides and attractions to manage one, and Thrillville: Off the Rails does a solid job 
 of offering players the chance to hop in the driver's seat of their very own amusement park, while 
 keeping the charm every kid loves about them. 
  
  Thrillville: Off the Rails is a tweaked up version of last year's game. While the various tweaks 
 may not be noticeable to anyone who played the previous version (just a few new minigames, customization 
 options, and improved graphics) , for first timers it is a well-imagined treat anyone will enjoy. 
 Similar to the popular Roller Coaster Tycoon series, players are tasked with creating the ultimate 
 amusement park. From the start you will have to create a name, allocate workers to run rides, maintenance, 
 and clean the parks, and of course, pick certain rides you would want. The set up for every level 
 could take hours, with decisions that affect your entire outcome relying on how well you manage 
 in the beginning. They aren't detrimental to your success, and since the game is easy to just pick-up-and-play, 
 if you don't want to worry about the details, you can always let the game choose a pre-arranged 
 layout for you. 
  
  There are over 15 missions throughout the game, and instead of just working your way to the top 
 of the amusement park spectrum by changing the prices on various things, you will be tasked with 
 certain objectives. While some of the tasks require you to just have fun, like build a three-looped 
 roller coaster and have a certain income by the end of the day on that ride, many require you to 
 think about your actions, such as having ten guests refer to you as their "sweetheart." It is a 
 fun break away from the ordinary mundane tasks of simple micro-managing. Of course, you can always 
 just roam around as well without worrying about objectives or simple tasks. 
  
  Redefined for this version is the interactive dialogue you have with the customers of your park. 
 At any time you can click on any guest and start a conversation with them. The dialogue is stretched 
 to offer many forms of speech, including how a person is doing or if they are enjoying their time 
 at the park. If a guest is happy with your park, you can give them free passes to return again 
 next time, a move which may net you more free-roamers. If a guest is angry, however, you can ask 
 them for ideas and solutions to fixing potential problems that can then help improve your park 
 in the long run. Guests also have little icons above their heads which let you know how they are 
 feeling, so you don't have to talk to every single person to know their thoughts. 
  
  Probably the most impressive feature in the game, and one of the most enjoyable, is the custom 
 ride manager, which lets you build any ride or attraction in your own vision. Little things such 
 as prize booths can be specified to where the guests sit when they compete, to designing every 
 loop, turn, and drop in the roller coasters. New effects such as the pendulizer and triple loop 
 make even the dullest roller coasters depth-defying thrill rides. For those golfing experts, you 
 can even waste your life away on the putting green and create a truly spectacular miniature golf 
 course. During one level, we actually managed to create a golf course that circled around the entire 
 amusement park, even resting under the roller coaster at one point. Again, the customization and 
 originality is up to you. 
  
  The visuals do a good job of mixing business with pleasure. Thrillville has a very kiddy look to 
 it, with all of the guests and people looking like mini Sim characters. It's a look that helps 
 give off an amusement style, but while the rides and attractions look much better detailed and 
 believable, it is weird to see the guests in this vision. Thrillville has its few sets of interactive 
 tools, like building and land managing systems that give even the most hardcore fans something 
 to enjoy and interact with as well. The sound, however, is not as rewarding. The quirky amusement 
 park music can get often irritating when you are trying to think or complete a task, and the moaning 
 and groaning of guests sounds childish. 
  
  You can also jump online and play some of the minigames against other people. Balloon popping, 
 mini golf, and tons of other games can be played against one another, or set up against a leaderboard 
 to view high scores. There is also co-op mode where you work together to complete tasks and assign 
 chores between one another, but unfortunately, this is limited to offline only, and finding someone 
 to help you manage an amusement park could get tiring fast. 
  
  For what its worth, Thrillville does a fine job of offering more amusement park managing fun while 
 also adhering to the kid in everyone. The new customization options and managing modes give players 
 tons of ways to create their park, while the mini games and rides offer hours of endless play time, 
 both online and off. It's still a little too kiddy for its own good, but if you are a fan of the 
 series you will no doubt have a great time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flippy1008
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 25, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  The Title Sublime. You see the think with Trillville OTR is that it is the second version of the 
 infamous PSP title Thrillville which was release mearly less than 1 year ago. Now it is being re-relesaed 
 for all consoles and PSP. But PSP stuff out the way, because we are talking 360 stuff. Thrillville 
 doesn't add much new features, thus if you have the famous series of RT on your Computer, it would 
 be pointless you spending money on this game. It is a slightly quicker version, with idiotic achievements. 
 Friendships can be created by skipping the overally boring script and building a friendship in 
 6 clicks and 20 seconds, which gives you achievements in the easiest way possible. Power is major 
 in the game, with limited power at various parts, all the maps are taken directly from the original 
 and muliplayer kinda sucks, you only get to play bonus games which are provided with single player 
 AI, like Dune Buggy and Robo Ko, which are awfully designed activities. I actually like these type 
 of games, tycoon style games, however this game exgerattes the genre to new bad boudries, except 
 the good thing, its not on the slow computer no more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HKBrad
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 25, 2007 4:45 am PT
Review:  This is a well put together enjoyable little game. I have to say, I've loved the Roller Coaster 
 Tycoon games for quite a while now. Also, I find that Lucasarts puts together enjoyable games outside 
 their core area (meaning that the Star Wars games sometimes suck, but things like Sam &amp; Max, 
 Monkey Island and Maniac Mansion have always been a lot of fun) . So, I'm favorably biased towards 
 Thrillville.
  
  What you'll find here is a lightweight version of Roller Coaster Tycoon, but one with more personality. 
 The park management aspects are about 80% of what they are in RCT, but this game makes up for that 
 with more humor and fun. The game is targeted for the young and young at heart, but delivers on 
 fun. The mini-games include some true greats (I don't know who thought of Bandito Chinchilla, but 
 I love it) and of course the coaster design is loads of fun. The minuses, well, it's definitely 
 not targeted at hard core gamers. Not many of the challenges are that challenging, I'm not sure 
 there is a ton of replay value (although, again, some of the mini-games are better than much of 
 what's on Xbox Live Arcade) and it definitely feels like you're playing a kids game. Overall, a 
 solid 7. Not one you have to have on your shelf, but it could be a good title if you want to round 
 out your library of first person shooters, tactical shooters, and role playing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScottyT
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2007 11:06 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the most innovative console based Theme or Tycoonish type games made, It 
 has everything you need.
  
  The ability to spend countless hours straight doing creative and new things, being able to controll 
 the enviorment and still have fun is a must, Their is nothing lacking in this game.
  
  As a 20 year old gamer, I can say im still at a good age to enjoy this game, and still have fun 
 with challanges int he mini games.
  
  Im sure this game would be perfect for any family or any one just wanting to have some fun gaming. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxbababooeyxx
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 16, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of the rollercoaster tycoon series and was looking forward to having such a game 
 on my 360 but thrillville isnt it. this game has nothing to do with running, building or managing 
 a theme park its basically a bunch of mini games that happen to take place in a theme park. Theres 
 no real strategy involved you just complte the missions that they give you and thats it. also this 
 game is not designed for the older audience (hince the awkward looks from the gamestop sales people 
 when i bought it) . This game is just bad i mean real bad perhaps if i was younger i would have 
 enjoyed it but probably not i grew up with games like sim city abd this thrillville is far from 
 that type of game. DO NOT BUY THIS GAME!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonycben
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  You are the new park manager of a theme park that most kids would die to go to and most lawyers 
 would die to prosecute. Rollercoasters with insane drops, flaming hoops, exploding barrels, and 
 pendulums that take the cars off the rails .
  
  Starting off, the game gives you a decent amount of options to customize your avatar, ranging from 
 little kids to older teenagers, boy and girl, with varying styles of dress that will please goth 
 and preppy alike. This is what sets this game apart from other theme park games: You are in the 
 park, walking around as someone that the park goers can directly speak to. Once you pick your other 
 self, you are literally dropped into your new theme park to do what you wish (after some short 
 tutorials, of course) . From then on, the park is what you make of it.
  
  And what you make of it is vast and varied. You get to decide from a good range of different rollercoasters, 
 carny games, drink stalls, food stalls, and arcade games, all of which you can walk right up to 
 and use. The various missions your lead inventor gives you are fun and intuitive. Most mission 
 descriptions will either warp you to the person you need to speak to, start the game you need to 
 win, or at the very least, give you a good indication as to what the game expects of you. My only 
 complaint with the single-player game is that the camera gets stuck on things when you rotate it.
 
  
  There is also a party mode that you and your friends can jump into and includes any games you have 
 unlocked in the single-player portion of the game. These consist of various flash-type games and 
 shooters akin to 1942, along with DDR-type games and carny rides. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
