-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tiger Woods PGA Tour 08
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/tigerwoodspgatour08/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 More courses and golfers than last year.
 Game face is a lot of fun, when it works.
 New draw and fade mechanic works well.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Analog swing is too touchy.
 Many features don't work well, if at all.
 Doesn't play as well as last year.
 Crashes make it impossible to finish Tiger Challenge.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 29, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 8.0, 50 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 741 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Salt Lake
Genre: Golf Sim
Date: Aug 28, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Thanks to a crash bug and features that don't work well or don't work at all, Tiger Woods 08 on 
 the Xbox 360 is a big disappointment. 

  The Tiger Woods series has long stood atop the charts as the best-selling golf franchise year in 
 and year out. There's typically very little to distinguish one year's version from the next, but 
 the games have always played well, and, judging by the sales numbers, people have been happy with 
 the incremental upgrades. But even those expecting minimal improvements are likely to be disappointed 
 with Tiger Woods PGA Tour 08. There are some new features, but many of them don't work. Also, there 
 are a fair amount of frustrating bugs (particularly in the Xbox 360 version) that give the game 
 a rushed feel. Even the game's most noteworthy feature, the analog swing, doesn't work as well 
 as in previous years.  

           Putting is now easier than ever.      

  TW 08's game modes are almost exactly the same as last year's. New to the 360 and PS3 is bingo, 
 bango, bongo, a head-to-head mode where you are awarded "bingo" for being the first on the green, 
 "bango" for being the closest to the pin when you reach the green, and "bongo" for having the best 
 score. It's OK, but as the lone new play mode it's underwhelming. Online play is largely unchanged -- even 
 the lag issues and glitches are back for another go. Career mode hasn't seen a whole lot of change, 
 but what  is  different is better. You can now choose how long you want standard and major tournaments 
 to be, which is nice for anyone who doesn't want to go through four rounds on the same course for 
 one tournament. Thanks to the addition of Westchester, TPC Boston, Cog Hill, and East Lake, all 
 FedEx Cup courses are in the game. Thanks to the addition of Westchester, TPC Boston, Cog Hill, 
 and East Lake, all FedEx Cup courses are in the game. Throw in Harbour Town and there are now 16 
 courses -- a healthy amount, but still far fewer than in the last-gen versions. There are 21 professional 
 golfers in the game, eight of which are new: JB Holmes, Justin Rose, Camilo Villegas, Cristie Kerr, 
 Morgan Pressel, Paul Casey, Paula Creamer, and Natalie Gulbis. Of the amateur golfers, many, like 
 Pops Masterson, are returning favorites, but there are also some new faces, such as soccer player 
 Wayne Rooney, to play with and against.  

  Once again you start your career as either a rookie Tiger Woods or a created golfer with limited 
 skills. You can improve your skills a little by performing well in events, but you'll want to take 
 the skills challenges, which are largely unchanged, to improve them quickly. The idea is to simulate 
 a golfer getting better by practicing and gaining experience, but it feels artificial thanks to 
 the level caps, which are the same for each skill and go up only when you beat certain tasks in 
 the Tiger challenge. Not only do all golfers end up playing the same (because you tend to level 
 their skills up evenly) , but the process is cumbersome -- especially if you play the series every 
 year. Because your golfer will stink to start off, you won't stand a chance at winning a tournament 
 event. Making you play with such a lousy golfer feels like a contrived, last-ditch effort to make 
 the game challenging. Speaking of artificial challenges, the CPU's tendency to go from making miracle 
 shots to blowing absurdly short putts depending on how close the match is seems more pronounced 
 than ever.  

  Because your golfer isn't much better than the average weekend hacker, you'll spend your time playing 
 the Tiger Challenge until you've gotten the skills and the equipment to take on the tour. Rather 
 than consisting only of 9- and 18-hole challenges against other golfers like last year, the challenges 
 are typically shorter and more varied. There are long drive contests, par-3 challenges, and challenges 
 from the rough and sand. It's certainly more interesting than before, but the sheer number of events 
 means that the challenges still become tedious because there isn't all that much variety to them. 

           If you can get it to work, the game face can be pretty entertaining -- even if the result 
 doesn't always look much like the picture.      

  A few changes have been made to how the game plays on the course -- some good and some not so good. 
 The best addition is the return of the "3 button press" mechanic from early in the series. At any 
 point in the round, you can push the right analog stick in and the meter comes up. You press one 
 button to start the swing, press it again to set the power, and press it a third time to determine 
 accuracy. This works well, which is a good thing considering what EA did to the analog swing. It's 
 extremely sensitive, so the slightest push to the left or right will send your ball sailing into 
 the rough, or, quite frequently, out of bounds. The sensitive stick is most problematic on the 
 Xbox 360, but it's still an issue on the PS3, just to a lesser degree. This is an issue even when 
 using a golfer like Tiger Woods, but it's a huge problem when starting out with a created golfer -- they'll 
 hit the ball everywhere and don't have the power to make up for mistakes.  

  Another change, this time for the better, is how you add a draw or fade to your shot. You just 
 tap a button to instantly teleport to the landing zone (you can hold it down to slowly zoom) , and 
 then add a fade to the shot by pressing left bumper or L1 to move the target to the left, or add 
 a draw by pressing right bumper or R1 to move the target to the right. This works great and really 
 pays dividends when you're hitting off the back tees and are forced to make more creative shots. 
 Putting has gone largely untouched, but now you can check your aim and power by pressing a button 
 to zoom out above the green to see the path the ball will travel. You can't make any adjustments 
 while using this view and you can use it only once per shot -- but it still makes putting too easy. 
 It's no problem at all to drain 50-foot putts; in fact, you'll do it so often you'll come to expect 
 to make them nearly every time.     

   

  And then there are the problems from last year that simply went unaddressed. There's still a crowd 
 lining the course and they're still standing way too close, often getting in the way of shots that 
 just missed the fairway or green. You can fast-forward while the ball is in the air, but you can't 
 skip your opponent's turns and you can't turn off their practice swings or celebrations. Yeah, 
 we got it, Pops is old and grumpy -- can we skip his theatrics next year, please? Whether it's because 
 of the bad lighting, lack of shadows, poor textures, camera angles, or a combination of all four, 
 it can be difficult to read the slope of the green without the help of the putting grid. This makes 
 chipping onto the green more frustrating than it should be, because the ball will just roll right 
 off the green or back toward you because of an unseen change in elevation. On its own it's not 
 a huge problem, but when you combine it with your golfer being terrible to start off and the touchy 
 swing controls, it's just another way to lose a few strokes a round.  

           The Tiger Challenge has more variety this time around.      

  The biggest new gameplay 
 feature, or at least the most hyped feature, is the EA Sports Gamernet. This allows you to save 
 your best, worst, or weirdest shots and share them with the world. Not only can you share them, 
 but you can turn them into challenges for other players to attempt. This is a neat idea, but one 
 that's underwhelming in practice. For starters, as of this writing it doesn't work properly on 
 the Xbox 360; you can make challenges, but you get an error when you try to make a highlight. But 
 the biggest problem is the challenges aren't all that fun. It is nice to be able to play a round 
 and then upload it for a friend to play, but unless you've been challenged by a friend there's 
 little reason to try to bounce the ball off of a building and then onto the fairway, or to spend 
 a half hour trying to drain a 113-foot putt.  

  Once again the great create-a-character mode is back, but this year you can make your likeness 
 more realistic than ever thanks to the photo game face mode. Using the Xbox Vision Camera (which 
 also works with the PS3) , the EyeToy, a USB camera, or pictures uploaded to a Web site, you can 
 create a 3D model of your melon for the game. At least, that's the idea -- too bad it doesn't work 
 very well. None of the digital cameras we tried worked, nor did the Web site where you upload photos. 
 The Vision Camera worked OK, but the results were hit or miss. This seemed due mostly to the limited 
 customization you can perform once the face is rendered. There are plenty of options, but the inability 
 to change skin color or add eyebrows results in some odd-colored heads with no discernable brows. 

  And that's the big problem with Tiger Woods 08; it feels like a good idea that wasn't seen through 
 to completion. There's too much here that simply doesn't work, particularly in the Xbox 360 version. 
 The 360 crashes in the same place during the Tiger Challenge, making it impossible to finish, and 
 you can't upload highlights to the EA server. Both the PS3 and 360 versions have periodic lag, 
 glitches, and freezing issues when played online; the game face upload site doesn't work; and the 
 single-player suffers from glitches like golfers vanishing, taking drops when they weren't supposed 
 to, and a way-too-sensitive analog swing.  

           Raise your hand if the game feels rushed.      

  Tiger Woods 08's graphics are virtually 
 indistinguishable from Tiger Woods 07's. For the most part the golfers look like their real-life 
 counterparts. Each player has a unique swing, which is good, but they look lousy in motion. Players 
 will warp from one position to another when preparing to address the ball; sometimes they don't 
 appear to hit the ball at all; and there are frequently hitches in their swing. When the camera 
 is still the courses look great, but when it starts panning around or following the ball the frame 
 rate takes a bit of a hit and the grass looks lousy. Other objects, like rocks and many trees in 
 the distance, look downright awful, moving or not. Even with the addition of more-dramatic camera 
 angles for your opponent's shots (which often are horrible) , the presentation is dry and in sore 
 need of an upgrade -- and that includes the commentary.  

  People who worry about yearly releases diluting the quality of games have plenty of ammo in the 
 form of Tiger Woods 08. The changes to the gameplay are minimal, and some of them make the game 
 worse. There are only five new courses, and many new features don't feel fleshed out, don't work 
 well, or flat-out don't work. The PlayStation 3 has the fewest issues and plays better than the 
 360, so it's the one to go with if you have the choice. Xbox 360 owners should just stick with 
 Tiger Woods 07.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (55 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bperdue
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 20, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Pretty standard Tiger controls here. Putting, as in previous Tiger games, is very easy. 
 Your swing will be horribly affected if you miss hit a shot and the confidence system discourages 
 taking risks as in previous games. As in previous games in the series, if you choose to make your 
 own golfer you must earn all your attributes again. However, Tiger features a great create -a - 
 character system and you can even download your own face to the game. The tiger challenge system 
 is horribly flawed and actually holds back your skill progression (it takes forever to increase 
 attributes in this game) . Worse still, you cannot complete the tiger challenge system due to a 
 game crashing bug. Despite this, the game recovers with the fun and challenging PGA Tour mode. 
 Tiger brings the same fun golf modes as before such as battle golf or skins games. The newbie here 
 is Bingo, Bango, Bongo. BBB is something I wish was not included and can be very frustrating.
 
  
  Graphics/Sound: Nothing to write home about on the graphics front, pretty much the same as last 
 year. The announcers are not that great (never have been spectacular) but will make you laugh from 
 time to time. 
  
  Storyline: In tiger challenge, you are trying to beat the best golfers on tour. Other than that, 
 you can play on the simulated PGA Tour. As far as online is concerned, it is fun, but you have 
 to be big into online gaming.
  
  Overall: This game should have been much better, but really feels like EA rushed it to consumers. 
 Anytime you cannot complete a portion of a game then the game developers have failed consumers. 
 This game is saved somewhat by PGA Tour and multiplayer (offline) modes. I traded this game in 
 for Tiger 09 as soon as I could. 
  
  Multiplayer/Online: Tiger has always excelled at multiplayer simply because it is great fun to 
 challenge your friends to a round of Tiger Woods golf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Engage28
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  TW08 is fantastic and GameSpot is actually wrong on this one. I trust them to review many of the 
 games I spend, or contemplate spending, money on. This game has incredible graphics with gameplay 
 to match. The swing mechanics are as great as they were when TW06 was first released and some new 
 features like Tiger Challenge are simply fun for any golfer. There isn't a storyline yet, which 
 I know people are anticipating more and more with each year's release. However you can still compete 
 to see how you place in the multitude of offline tournaments found in the game and there is a great 
 deal of challenge in the game as always. Customization! This game is great because of it and the 
 GameFace feature is amazing.. yes it really works. Even with the many complaints that EA isn't 
 allowing people to put their faces on the game, it works if you enter the email address associated 
 with your gamertag into the EA website when uploading images to use in the game. Anyway, the features 
 are fantastic and GameFace is revolutionary. I like the pace and visual aspect of the entire experience 
 and recommend it to any golf fan out there looking for something new and something personal in 
 a video game. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdm289
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  Great game, looks great and plays great. Harbour Town looks gorgeous. Not a lot more to say, you 
 either love or hate golf games. A shame the course downloads don't integrate into the PGA Tour 
 mode from Xbox Live. The Game Face is so much better than last year, with the more up to date equipment. 
 The balanced mode is quite fair and will help out newcomers. The Tiger challenge is a nice idea 
 but could be improved no end. The only other area that needs improvement is the commentary and 
 the crowd reactions outside the ropes. Infact the presentation generally could do with an over 
 haul to bring it in line with other sports games and real TV golf coverage. The major problem with 
 this version seems to be the bugs that EA failed to iron out before putting the game on general 
 release. Fingers crossed they have learnt from this for the 09 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrPepper124
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 28, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  I downloaded THis games Demo played thought it was confusing boring and just a waste of my time. 
 About a week later I Start Getting into Golf Now that its summer i have alot of time so i went 
 golfing with friends and family lately and it was fun. So i decided to rent it and give a second 
 chance. Once You get into its pretty fun GAmernet is pretty cool SAve clips and challenge people 
 and what not. My Carrer is pretty fun its just like a REal Pro Golfer FRom Local To The Top just 
 like any other sports carreer Game. The controls Are easy once you get the hang of it. But i do 
 have to admitt This game does get boring If you play it too much so i suggest you play other games 
 at the same time so you dont get bored of it. I dont know what else to say about this game except 
 that it deserves better than a 6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justwin
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 29, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  The analog stick swing control can be difficult and frustrating at first. Like anything else though, 
 don't get too discouraged though, having patience will help you adapt. Take your time to learn 
 to push the stick directly back and then directly forward and this game is a great play. I particularly 
 enjoyed creating my own golfer and I'm currently progressing him towards becoming a "legend" of 
 the PGA Tour. The only real draw back that I can find is that the game can be drawn out and a little 
 too long when you play with 2 or 3 friends on one system, which is probably unavoidable. I'd suggest 
 maybe only playing 9 holes in those instances instead of the full 18. This is my very first introduction 
 to golf games and it is surprisingly smooth playing and mildly addicting even for the casual gamer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokefortyaday
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 2, 2008 3:39 am PT
Review:  I love the custom charachter creation, using your real photo is prerry neat, altho it is not as 
 good an image as Rainbow Six produced, at least once created you can tweak things, and because 
 of the way it works you can also wear all clothing available, unlike RS.
  
  As for gameplay not much has changed since 07, the putting feels better and the one chance putt 
 preview is a welcome addition it at least adds a chance of missing, unlike in the 07 variant where 
 you felt that you could finish the putt from any angle using tiger vision.
  
  The variant on the HUD after shot whereby it gives you a measure of how extreme your error for 
 your slice or hook is also very helpful to correct your swing when using the analogue method. I 
 haven't tried much of the 3 click swing function yet.
  
  The Tiger Challenges and Skills training are the best way to up your stats, but stats aren't everything, 
 as i proved yesterday when beating a fully maxed player in a skins game by $75, very satisfying, 
 especially as i lost first 4 holes of 9. My stats at the time were around 20%, where as his were 
 all at 110%.
  
  As always EA frontend menu system looks nice and EA sports radio gives you recent headllines from 
 around the world, along with results ticker on bottom of screen.
  
  Graphically however, there is little or no improvement, except that the water looks a lot nicer, 
 but hey how much time do you want to spend near water in a golf game?
  
  The crowds still appear to be doing everything as one, no independent ai when a ball comes hurtling 
 towards them, IMHO i would not bother programming crowds in unless they are in the stands, or behind 
 ropes like the real thing, otherwise its a pretty pointless feature.
  
  All in all a worthy second hand or below rrp purchase, otherwise unless you only play ranked online 
 stick with 07, or 06!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameogameo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 5:43 am PT
Review:  I really don't understand how Tiger Woods 08 on the 360 recieved such a poor score from Gamespot 
 when in actual fact its a very good game. Plenty of new features have been added for the latest 
 in the franchise such as the shot confidence indicators and the 'draw and fade' mechanic. Making 
 a gameface as never been more enjoyable because this time you can use the XBOX vision camera for 
 better results, a new clever little add on.
  
  Graphics have been improved along with the controls which were a little dodgy the previous game, 
 Tiger challenge mode is still fun but you'll probably find yourself playing the PGA Tour season 
 a lot more instead due to the new features. XBOX live remains to impress with 4 player versus but 
 seems inferior to the singleplayer modes
  
  There aren't many negatives to make a fuss about, the framerate can falter slightly and the XBOX 
 live game modes are basically a clone of PGA 07. Despite a new poorly designed elements of the 
 game Tiger Woods PGA Tour 08 is still a fine golfing game and fans of the previous games will still 
 be impressed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mayham88
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  This is the first golf game I have owned since I had the super nintendo. So I didnt know what to 
 expect, but I must say this game is pretty good. The graphics are good, the courses are fun, and 
 there are alot of golfers to choose from.
  The only thing I dont like is in the career mode, where you start out as a rookie. They dont give 
 you any power what so ever, so its almost impossible to win. However I still play just random matches 
 and all the special games they have on there. This is a pretty decent golf game.
  One thing kind cool is when you play on a whole, you can hear planes going by or birds or pretty 
 much any kind of backgorund noise that you would expect to hear in the middle of a summer afternoon.
 
  I must say I was pleasantly suprised by this game and if you interested, play the demo, and im 
 pretty sure you'll like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ked2009
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Tiger Woods 08 is a great game. It is a great improvement from Tiger 07. First of all, there are 
 more courses, more golfers, better graphics, an optional 3 click swing system, a putt vision, and 
 overall better gameplay. My game has never crashed, but I guess some have. The only problem I had 
 with the game is the difficulty. Sometimes you will hit shots that go left and right, even though 
 the joystick barely moved left or right. This makes it harder to hit straight shots. If the game 
 is set to the easiest setting however, your shots will be straight. In conclusion, Tiger 08 is 
 a better overall game. You have more options with the putt vision and 3 click (you can use them 
 if you choose) , making the game better overall. I recommend this game to anyone who is a sports 
 video game fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AGENT02
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  As a player of 05 (XBOX) , 06 (GAMECUBE) , and 07 (XBOX) ... I was very hesitant to purchase this 
 game for my new XBOX360 after reading the review on this site and a few earlier reviews.
  
  I have no idea why. I guess that before the patches, it had its issues in terms of crashes and 
 glitches, but I have seen nothing of the sort now. I'm not sure I understand people's issues with 
 the playability either. Hands-down, this is the best iteration of TW I've ever played. I actually 
 LIKE how you hook/slice it once and a while when you move the stick a bit off... it's all that 
 more like really golfing. Previous versions got boring... it was too easy to hit perfectly straight 
 shots every time. The fact that you might have to change up how you attack a hole because of a 
 mis-hit makes it sooo much better to me.
  
  Summed up, TW08 found a real sweet-spot between realism and arcade golf. I do miss that WIll Farrel 
 sounding guy in the crowd in 07 though... ha!
  
  PROS:
  
  - Improved course and player graphics over older versions
  - Much more "realistic" play (mis-hits, 
 slices, flubbing 4-foot puts)
  - Improved green reading system
  - Much better "Tiger Challenge" format (less hokey)
  - GameFace is awesome (uploading real pic)
 
  
  CONS:
  
  - Same old tired commentary... it's the same as 05... jeesh!
  - The crowd looks sub-par graphically 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russcripps
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  Having been a big TW fan 05&07 versions on PS2, I was expecting great things from the xbox 360 
 08 version. Firstly the swing control is a nightmare to control to start with, having gone round 
 on the PS2 on average 15 under I would consider myself reasonable on the predecors, how wrong was 
 I. The putting is just as easy the problem is keeping the ball on the fairway. Graphically better 
 than the PS2 but not much to choose from. Also what has Wayne Rooney to do with Golf?
  Personally buy 07 version, cheaper, more courses and less glitches would be my advice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReturnOfDaJedi
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 25, 2007 3:05 am PT
Review:  In my time I have played alot of games. So excellent, some good, some bad and some that are so 
 awful they should never be sold.
  You can guess which category I placed this game in.
  It is terrible. The gameplay which I find is unrealistic just makes you despise golf. The game 
 is slow to make progress, in fact, it's just impossible to make any progress since, shots always 
 go on angles or the ball refuses to go into the hole and you can't get better without winning events 
 which is impossible. 
  Christmas is coming up so I advise anyone not to buy this game as a present. It's a waste of money 
 as you will never play on it because of the disgraceful gameplay and features. The only feature 
 I liked was creating your own player and customising them in everyway and buying different clothes 
 for them. 
  
  So people, do not buy this game!!!! You will be greatly disappointed.
  
  ReturnOfTheJedi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshualbh105
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 17, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Alright. Lets face it. Tiger 08 is not as fantastic as the previous Tiger games as there are still 
 some flaws in the games that have yet to be corrected by our dear EA. Examples include being forced 
 to punch out or hit back wards if your ball enters the stupid grandstand instead of getting a free 
 drop or free lift to nearest point of relief in real golf! Yeah i agree to a certain extent that 
 those stupid crash bugs keep on appearing when i play Tiger Challenge but somehow or rather, i 
 can still complete Tiger Challenge so i disagree with gamespot on that aspect of not being able 
 to complete Tiger Challenge due to crash bugs.
  
  Well, the plus points. EA has certainly made an effort to make the swing anolog stick much more 
 sensitive. Those of you who play Tiger 03 to 05 on the original xbox knows that you can NEVER MISS 
 A FAIRWAY OR GREEN OR EVEN PULL OR PUSH THE BALL A SLIGHTEST BIT! You end up shooting eye popping 
 scores such as 45 to 59 which in real golf, unbelievable!! Alright 59 is possible as David Duval 
 shot it before! So this Tiger 08 swing makes it more challenging as true, in real golf, a slight 
 fault in your technique can cause the biggest slice of your round which will result in OB or some 
 other places you dread of puttting your ball. So in that aspect, Tiger 08 is more realistic.
  
  Now tell me, besides Tiger 08, is there any game that allows you to play the FEDEX cup? None 
 right? So EA has done a good or if not, excellent job in putting together the pieces of the PGA 
 TOUR SEASON and the presentation is very well done indeed. The Photo Game face works very well 
 indeed as well and as far as i am concerned, no other golf game offers you this feature except 
 Tiger.
  
  However, one of the biggest disappointments of the game is that most of the features actually remain 
 unchanged from Tiger 07. There isn't anything for me to say 'WOW, Now that really puts Tiger Woods 
 08 way above all other Tigers PGAs'. It is just like taking Tiger 07 and a few changes here and 
 there and you'll get Tiger 08.
  
  So i really hope Tiger 09 next year will be something DIFFERENT from all Tiger series as i must 
 admit, the Tiger Woods series is getting more stagnent each year as EA seems to be running out 
 of ideas. Overall, TIger 08 is still a good game but it is just more like an expansion pack to 
 Tiger 07. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ross13895582
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 17, 2007 5:42 am PT
Review:  Okay, so I've had a Tiger Woods game every year since 2000 for various consoles, and most years 
 it has been one of my favourite games in my collection. However! 2008 could well put a stop to 
 the annual trend.
  I had been really looking forward to TW 08 for months, and my thinking was, 2007 was cool but it 
 had its down sides, so this year EA will make sure that TW08 will blow everyone away! .......... 
 Wrong! Yes, it has blown everyone away, but not due to the amazing gameplay or sleek graphics, 
 due to the fact that the word on the streets is that Tiger Woods 2008 sucks!
  Personally, I think 6.5 is a bit harsh, although, anything above 7.5 or 8 would be just as bad. 
 The analogue stick suddenly seems as though it is fixed on making you hook or slice the ball every 
 shot, but then when you have a virtually impossible 60ft putt for par, you sink it! wonderful some 
 might say, once again Wrong! I am a keen golfer myself and I think the longest putt i have every 
 seen someone hole was about 80ft and that was luck. Online still sucks but with that aside, the 
 graphics are really neat! 9 for graphics at least. Im disappointed in the lack of pro golfers, 
 i mean, why did EA put in women before they havn't even got any of the top 25 male golfers in the 
 world, sorry if that sounds sexist, but its stupid! 
  Once yo get into the game, it can be quite entertaining, but you will probably be annoying by game 
 freezing or modes not working before that happens. 
  EA have really got a tiring year ahead of themselves if they want to sort this one out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darray
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Save your money and keep your Tiger 07, that's what the reviews say and I'm going to advocate for 
 that particular portion of those reviews. 
  
  As you have read the stick control is too touchy, on-line play it's even more apparent. There are 
 times it shows you have hit the ball perfect but it doesn't go as far as it should, just plain 
 glitchy.
  
  The putting is most frustrating, in the 07 version you could go by the general guidelines of 1 
 inch in height equals to one foot past the pin for putting, well throw out any conceivable notion 
 of "guidelines" for putting here folks. The line it gives you does not give you the full line and 
 often you are simply left guessing how hard to hit it. Also the idea of going by instinct instead 
 of guides actually may be better advice in this game, and I'm not too comfortable saying that's 
 a good idea if you catch my drift.
  
  Next, Bingo Bango Bongo actually means Bingo Bango Bongo Bull^&%$. Who created this game and thought 
 it's a good idea? This particular mini game I can do without and I hope they never bring it back... 
 
  
  The game crashes, just that. Nothing else needs to be said, game freezes or just continually loads. 
 My god can it get any worse?
  
  Overall this game has been a disappointment, I have to say it's mostly because of the game play 
 and during the course of the Tiger challenge that Bingo Bango Bongo I actually try to aviod but 
 it's inevitable, you have to play it.
  
  Save your money, wait for a better version and until then keep playing the much better 07 version. 
 
  
  I hoped this helped.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sting7000
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I finally made the decision to upgrade my TW 06 to a next gen version. Wow the graphics are cool 
 &amp; the sound is great, sadly thats about it. Nothing much else has been improved here. Shot 
 shaping was fine in the last so a new control system really merits the cash I handed over. Tiger 
 Challenge is boring, couldnt wait to be done with it, had to give up eventually because my XBOX 
 360 decided to get sick violently when playing certain courses. Tour mode is a tiny bit better 
 than the last but the atmosphere just isnt there , even with the crowds it still doesnt excite. 
 Pathectically easy to reach legend status.
  
  Music is better than the last, less Dave Matthews band (which is frankly revolting music) . More 
 Layo &amp; Bushwacka, along with some chill music which is deffinately more suited. More pros but 
 who wants to play as them? Adam Scott is the only one I'd go for a round with. Notable players 
 are still missing like Els, Mickelson. No legends this time around but I suppose EA really didnt 
 want to put the effort into digitizing 'individual' swings. e. g. Montgomerie has a wonderful swing 
 in real life, in TW 08 he looks like a typical boring pro. Titleist is still missing but the equipment 
 has been improved upon with some more realistic ratings of real equipment.
  
  Heres a list of things that really p*ss me off about TW08
  
  1. Hitting a ball 20 yards off 
 course does NOT mean its Out of bounds every time.
  2. Pro's do not chip every shot within 50 yards to 2 feet.
  3. Hittin tree leaves does NOT kill 
 the flight of the ball completely
  4. Pro swings do NOT even come close to their real life counterparts
  5. Why does the putting 
 distance meter trick the player into putting rubbish?
  6. U can have a 9 putt round 1 day and a 29 putt round the next.
  7. If I score a 1st round 62 
 in a major how is it the CPU decides 15 pros will shoot it next day? - unrealistic tripe
  8. Cant finish Carnoustie because XBOX despises the disc - wouldnt blame it!! I'd crash if I was 
 used to play an EA game
  9. Hitting a low punch into the wind does not mean it should go have the distance of a full shot. 
 whats the point in a punch??
  10. The CPU gets stuck behind a bush, CPU decides best way through it is straight, shot limit reached 
 = CPU AI is dumb!
  
  Heres a list of things I love about TW08
  
  1. Graphics are fantastic
  2. TW 06 &amp; 07 were fine games, so is this ; if its your first 
 forte in Golf simulation. Final Word :
  If you like golf then buy this, its fine............. just not outstanding
  
  BRING BACK SEGA 
 VIRTUA GOLF ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doisemeio
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 14, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Alright I am going to try to make this quick and as honest as possible. Let start it off by saying 
 this game is broken, it has more glitches then Gears of War and that is hard to do. I have a camera 
 and my experience with TCRS vegas was great. My character looked so good that I would be happy 
 with TW 08 if at least that feature worked but it doesn't. I tried several times with the camera 
 and with uploaded photos and the character never looked anything like me, a random generated character 
 and my character all looked the same. playing this game is annoying because the game is so glitchy 
 that if feels like a BETA not a full game. Nothing is quiet as good as the last one which was an 
 average game itself. So with no improvents and the new features don't work all I have to say is 
 DAMN EA at least try to make us want to buy the game. well I guess they don't really have too they 
 already have money and fame and the love of millions for their early work I myself keep on buying 
 the games hopping to one day have the same experience I had in the past. That may be true to you 
 if you think about it. well whatever makes you happy go with it. My final thoughts are simple Wait 
 for TW 09 just keep on playing TW 07 till then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mistalewis
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2007 2:02 am PT
Review:  We can complain all we want about how the shot stick is more difficult and how the game is now 
 more prone to errant shots. But maybe you might want to get out there and play an actual golf game 
 and while you swing try try to power boost your swing for 40 - 50 extra yards and then once your 
 ball is in flight give it an extra spin to go back forward or to the side. Good, tell me how that 
 goes. This game is a golf simulation and it's about time they tightened the reigns on how difficult 
 the game of golf can be in this translation. So with that said, love the game. sweet graphics and 
 the courses are extremely accurate. If you love the genre of golf then you will enjoy the less 
 cartoony TW08. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roscoe11_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  Gameplay, for once, has undergone some obvious changes. The biggest additions to the game - the 
 much vaunted GamerNet and Game Photo Face functions - are sort of sitting off to the side of the 
 main game itself, so let's do a quick recap of the mostly positive enhancements made to the actual 
 gameplay before we tackle those features.
  
  The most sweeping change in this regard is the one that you probably won't notice until you've 
 created your own golfer and played with them for a while. As with 07, all new golfers are rubbish. 
 I mean, really. They're embarrassing. Fudging putts, hooking drives and generally making you wonder 
 if your fingers have been replaced with sausages filled with wool. Tackling the PGA tournaments 
 with such a golfer is a waste of time, so you're forced instead to spend your time in the additional 
 game modes - especially Tiger Challenge - to build up your skills.
  
  It still plays a great game of golf though, and is almost embarrassingly eager to please with its 
 abundance of game modes and options. Don't like an option? Just switch it off. Need some help grasping 
 the basics? The game leaps into action to take your hand. Want some guidance to refine your pro 
 game? Everything you need to analyse your performance is at your fingertips. Almost every area 
 of the game can be customised in line with your tastes to the extent that, if you ask nicely, Tiger 
 will probably even dress up as Sailor Moon and call you Susan. Given the variable quality of the 
 EA Sports brand over the years, the general air of sequel cynicism is more than justified but, 
 if you're willing to invest the time in building a better golfer and not just grumble that it's 
 too hard, this is the best Tiger Woods has been in years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adrian7hall
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  This is my first attempt at a golf game since the days of the commodore 64! I havent really been 
 a golfing fan until I actually played the sport this year for the first time at the La Manga south 
 course in Spain. I have to say, especially now the game has been patched - its very enjoyable!
 
  
  The characters look stunning, obviously - its EA who have produced it! But everything about the 
 gameplay is just wonderful. The first feature I got to grips with was the player face creator as 
 I have an xbox live cam - WOW its amazing!
  
  Definately a recommended purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bildoluv81
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  I thought the swing stick was kind crappy and the 3 click feature was a nice alternative to the 
 stick. You do lose the ability to get the power with the 3 click as you do with the shot stick but 
 i think the loss of power is worth it. The rest of the game is good but the part of tiger challenge 
 where every few people you try to play freezes your game. I found if you repeat to go to the same 
 person it won't freeze every time. Some of the same courses are back but with better graphics. The 
 new courses are a great addition to the old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floodiastus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 4:27 am PT
Review:  So I started up Tiger Woods golf reading a few reviews saying it wasnt that good looking but boy 
 was I surprised. This is alot better looking than 07 in every way. EA has really got together the 
 game face thing in this one, which let you customize your players face very detailed. It even looks 
 better than Fight Night which blew me away with they facial customization features. The game plays 
 great and they brought back the Three Click Swing which is a welcome addition and works alot better 
 than the analogue swing ever did. The Graphics all around are great, the framerate is solid. The 
 sounds are quite ok and the music very fitting to a golf game.
  
  Now what trouble me somewhat is the fact that they removed alot of features from the older games. 
 The whole sit in the couch to play a game with your friends feeling is long gone. You cannot even 
 get XP for your character playing against other players, you cannot play tournaments together or 
 play the Tiger Woods Challenge together. It seems like they made this game for players without 
 friends which is wierd considering playing AI in a golfing game isnt very fun at all.
  
  If you still are stubborn like me, your friends are forced to stay over late leveling their character 
 while 3 people sit beside them watching them play for hours upon hours in single-player mode so 
 they get some stat points fr their characters. This is such a serious blunder that I seriously 
 think Grit Weed has made itself into the EA offices!!!!!!
  
  And that stats in the game are also wierdly put together, you must more or less level your character 
 so that all the stats are on the same level. You cannot really specialize in being a hard hitter 
 or a great putter. It more or less forces you into making a balanced player, which is very lame.
 
  
  All in all I wish they would have kept alot of the features that made Tiger Woods a great game 
 instead of stripping it down to simpler game
  
  Still, it plays great and looks great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sony_vaio
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  Great game of golf. Graphics in the game are the best I have seen in the Tiger franchise and the 
 I love the new courses they offer. The gamerface is a awesome addition and makes you feel like 
 you are really the golfer in the game. The game clips you can save and upload onto EA's website 
 is a great idea. The confidence meter for holes on every course is also a nice addition to the 
 game. One of the best things in my opinion to come to the Tiger franchise is the return of a 3 
 click metet swing. It really comes in handy when you need to have pin point accurecy on a certain 
 shot. Being able to switch back and forth between using the 3 click and the analog is genius. Overall 
 this years Tiger is truely next gen and if you have been a fan in past years this years game will 
 have you playing with alot of joy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  I don't get some of the other reviews of this game. I haven't run into any bugs. I don't find either 
 swing mechanism to be too sensitive. And the game certainly doesn't feel unfinished. 
  
  Tiger Woods 08 is a great looking game that plays smoothly and is enjoyable from start to finish. 
 The options are extensive, with a variety of non-career minigames and challenges for when you don't 
 feel like playing a full round of 18-holes.
  
  I found the controls to be a dream. I often switched between the analog swing and the three-press 
 depending on the shot. I loved having the option. The game manages to give you extensive control 
 over your shots without overwhelming you or making it too easy. That's a difficult balance to pull 
 off. Mastering the game takes some time and effort. Putting is a mixed bag. The game now allows 
 one putt preview before taking a shot, but it's not always that helpful. I suppose for some it 
 might make putting too easy, but I find I don't use it all that much.
  
  The courses are diverse, and enjoyable. Some have complained about there not being enough, but 
 I can't agree. The courses included provide a nice variety of challenges, and manage to stay distinctive.
 
  
  Graphically, the game looks great. Model animations can be a bit off from time to time, but for 
 the most part they look as good as they ever have in the series. And the Photo Game Face feature 
 is amazing, if a bit hit-or-miss. Given the complexity of creating a model from 2D photos, I think 
 the game does about as well as one could imagine. With some extra tweaking, and some luck, your 
 model will look eerily like yourself.
  
  I very rarely disagree substantially with Gamespot's reviews, but on this game I must. I think 
 this is easily the best golf game available on any console, and its new features and updates are 
 certainly worthwhile.
  
  Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paraminoz
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2007 4:06 am PT
Review:  I have been to play the TW 06/07. I feel the improve for each version since the TW 08 coming. The 
 gameplay is the same except for 3 click button. Graphic is wonderful and sharp. I don't know why 
 people have to hate this game although everything is better. I don't found any bug or crash within 
 playing so I can't comment about the buggies.
  
  The GamerNet is very fun. You can challenge the best shot of each player around the world. At least 
 I don't try the gamer face yet because of TW challenge made me stick to the game.
  
  Everything is improve, Please don't rate this game lower! Don't use your expect to judge the people 
 to hate this game. That's ALL!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Appljaxx
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 7, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  I don't know... something about this game is just a little wrong. Gamerface is way cooler than 
 i thought it would be; its still kinda creepy how much the avatar looks like you. The new Tiger 
 challenge format is very cool and very fun, but something is missing from the rest of the game. 
 The addition of the 3 shot swing is a nice idea but not implemented properly. The swing meter is 
 too touchy. Speaking of touchy... is it just me or does the regular swing seem more touchy this 
 year also? The presentation and graphics just don't look as good as last year. I love golf games 
 so i will still get my money's worth out of this one. If you like the Tiger series go buy it, but 
 don't expect the WOW factor from 07. If you like golf games you will like this one, but its just 
 not as cool as it could have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5107h
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot is right on the money with their review of Tiger Woods 2008 for the Xbox 360. Perhaps 
 even a bit generous...
  
  I've been playing TW games since TW 2003. Between Xbox, Xbox 360, Wii, GCN and NDS, I've bought 
 a total of 10 copies of the various iterations of Tiger Woods Golf. This version is isn't the worst 
 (it's probably the third worst after 07 on the Wii and 07 on the DS, respectively) but it makes 
 me feel ripped-off the most.
  What's wrong with it? Well, for starters, the much-touted Photo Gameface simply does not work. 
 I know that some people have gotten it to work, but it just won't work for me. When I can get on 
 the site, which isn't often, the creation process always hangs in the very same spot. I tried it 
 on several different hardware platforms, Win and Mac, with different versions of Flash, and on 
 both IE and FireFox. Same thing every time. Worse than the fact that it doesn't work is that fact 
 that EA doesn't seem to care. I sent an email to support at EA, describing the problem in detail 
 and even included a screen shot. I got no reply. Sorry EA, but a we're sorry pop-up or the word 
 beta on the creation site doesn't cut it for those of us who've shelled out 60 bucks for this train 
 wreck. It should say beta on the box. Once you get past the fact that you won't be able to use 
 Photo Gameface, you can then move on to hitting ridiculous slices and hooks all over the place 
 due to the stupidly touchy analog control. I try to justify this flaw to myself by thinking it 
 makes it more challenging . It's true, but there's challenging, and then there's  
 The analog control, unfortunately, is decidedly in the second category.
  You can go to the game's driving range and hit 6 perfect drives. Of course, you'll have to mess 
 around changing back to your driver, though, because the game always wants to automatically change 
 your club to a 5 wood or 3 iron on you for some reason... but I digress. Anyway, you can hit a 
 number of perfect drives, right up until you think you've got it figured out, and then you'll start 
 hitting wild shots again without doing anything perceptibly different. Perhaps a spec of dust gets 
 under the control stick, or perhaps the control stick has slipped over to a different ridge of 
 your thumb-print in mid-swing. Who knows. The meat of the matter is that I can go out and hit it 
 consistently straighter on a real golf course... and that's a pretty sad statement on the controls 
 of this game.
  When it does go crooked, which is most of the time, the crowd often gets in the way of your recovery. 
 The very first time I went right, a spectator was standing in my way, facing me as I addressed 
 the ball! Sure, it was funny watching him grab his crotch and double-over after my ball hit him 
 squarely in the junk, and it was worth having the ball advance only 34 yards... the first time. 
 After that, it's just another flaw.
  I could go on and on about the rest of the game, but the Gamespot review pretty much touches on 
 all the problems I saw. Interestingly, I didn't have the crashing problem others are reporting 
 during the Tiger Challenge event against that girl at Carnoustie. The one and only version of TW 
 I bought for the GCN (I think it was 04) was obviously not play-tested. At the end of the Tiger 
 Challenge you had to play two 18-hole compilations and, since the courses were distributed between 
 the two discs, you ended up changing the discs after practically every hole. TW 2008 for the Xbox 
 360 feels much the same... not finished, and not properly tested. That's the real problem with 
 games like this, folks. Developers fling them out rife with bugs and figure they can just patch 
 it later if anyone notices their mistakes. It's been going on with PC games for a number of years 
 and, now that the PS3 and 360 are able to deliver content via the Internet, it's easy to do the 
 same with console games. I saw one other reviewer comment something to the effect of there are 
 problems, but it's still worth playing . Sorry, but that attitude is what made the Ford Escort 
 a popular car, my friends. Here's the thing: When someone expects me to pay money for something, 
 and their black-hearted marketing people are telling me that it's the greatest thing since sliced 
 bread, I expect something more than recycled gameplay, recycled commentary, recycled courses, and 
 brand new bugs. At the very least, I expect it to work. Is it so much to ask that we get what were 
 paying for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: candidate0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Ive done about ten hours on this game now and found no glitches, no freezing, in fact no faults.
 
  
  My gamer face went straight on and looks awesome, i am making my way through Tiger Challenge and 
 it feels way better than last years effort which was also very good but now looks old compared 
 to this improved version.
  
  I have not tried it live yet but based on offline play its a very good addition.
  
  Gamespot 
 must have been playing on a dodgy copy from a market stall or took a bribe from another golf game 
 developer to be critical.
  
  This is a great game, even better if you are a golf fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loulantosdotcom
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 2:29 am PT
Review:  How does a game see the light of day, in this day and age, from such a major studio, with such 
 a huge fundamental flaw. TWO, in fact! This year's Tiger offering screams its shiny little face 
 off over the sparkling new features implimented in the 2008 carnation of the game; most notably 
 the photo game face innovation (I use the term innovation tentatively, as I would suggest that 
 a feature needs to actually work for it to be considered innovative) . This particular little gem 
 took me about 3 or 4 days to get working, as the EASportsWorld website often decided to lock users 
 out as it could not handle the server load. Then when it did work the interface would stall and 
 give you no specific thumbs up to tell you that all went well. I had to load up Tiger 08 and take 
 a pot-shot at creating my own, life-like self to discover that my irritating little mug had found 
 its way online. Don't you dare try and upload a profile shot, though! Such practice is would be 
 foolish on a finely polished release such as this... !
  
  Anyway, the next big issue (and by big I mean oh my god I can't even play the game properly -big) . 
 In the Tiger Challenge, arguably the central game mode, the game crashes. And not just in selective 
 instances; this has been reported by just about everyone who's gotten far enough into the game 
 to witness this collosal eff-up. This. Shouldn't. Happen. It's not like this is some shareware 
 piece of crap on Downloads. com, this is something we're all paying out over the odds for.
  
  If a patch isn't released quick-sharpish to cure this horrid little disease then I think action 
 should be taken by the law-folk. A hasty imprisonment, I believe. And all the sodomy a programmer 
 can tolerate. Either that, or, we should all be entitled to a full refund of that hard-earned money 
 we're given that crooked Mr. Woods. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waynekirschner
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay is superb, realistic achievements and 3 click option with ease of switching at any time 
 really put this release 'fairways' ahead of previous titles. Camera angles are even better, with 
 a very real feeling of being in the game! Early Achievements are readily available and the monotony 
 of past gameplay has been removed via suitable options for example, in being able to set a 1 day 
 duration instead of 4 days for tournament play.
  I held back on purchasing due to the Gamespot Review - that review certainly not being on par for 
 the integrity of reviews generally written on these pages.
  
  To date I have only been successful in uploading a frontal face shot, but results with this image 
 alone are impressive.
  
  The new features are now commonly known, and well worthy of their inclusion.
  
  Most golf shots 
 are rewarded or punished as you would expect.
  
  Putting is greatly enhanced with the view once only 'line-up'.
  
  Looking forward to teeing 
 up the Achievements, which in past offerings generally seemed too monotonous and prevented any 
 passion in pursuing any meaningful long lasting relationship!
  
  Tiger 08 on the other hand offers not only a rich rewarding golf experience, but also a keen interest 
 in moving through the gameplay.
  
  Maxed out golfer is a no brainer, if only this could apply to the Real Deal - and Tiger 08 is pretty 
 close! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pine_1045
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 5, 2007 7:16 am PT
Review:  Within the 3rd series of Tiger Challenges I attempted and always crashes in the same place making 
 the game impossibly difficult to attain new player levels on and making it impossible to actually 
 finish the game. If a fix comes out from EA, I might raise my score. I better not be forced into 
 picking it up for my Mac just so there is a fixed version at my house. Ridiculous! The graphics 
 are ok. I'm playing on a 62 DLP HD TV and there is some serious anti-aliasing issues. A lot of 
 the made-up characters are really annoying. Also, when the computer wants to be difficult, it is 
 REALLY difficult. It doesn't cut you a break at all like in previous versions. You better be sinking 
 shots from the fairways for eagles and albatrosses to beat the computer at times. It seems like 
 EA just didn't care at all about this game. This is also apparent in the Gameface and online gaming. 
 After a week of trying, I still can't get a game face to load and the online server is always crashing. 
 Why is this page still being run in Beta? Shouldn't this have been up and running more smoothly.
 
  
  There is one thing I really like about the game and that's when it logs onto ESPN radio and gives 
 me score updated. I don't care much for watching sports but it's still nice to know who when especially 
 during college football season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NickC75
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 4, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  The game is ok. I always liked doing the Tiger Challenge, building a nice golfer and playing online 
 with him, but this one with the Glitch really pissed me off. I called EA, they said they know baout 
 it and are having techs try and fix it. The analog swing is nearly impossible to do a straight 
 shot. I do like how they show you is your hooking or slicing your shots, but give me a break, if 
 your a little off, your NOT on the fairway. The Gamespot review was also right with how the people 
 are right on the edges, so if you have a nice level drive you have to worry about hitting a spectator 
 and your ball stopping right there. The games AI is sad, you can call their shots, you know what 
 order to do the tiger challenge to make it easy and quick, but the glitch only allows you to get 
 like %35. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellett21
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 4, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  This is the most disapointing game I have ever bought.. Some of the features are ok but the game 
 has so many bugs it's sad. First of all you have problems with the Tiger challenge, now my game 
 locks up after the first hole of any course and any game play. I was hoping for a lot more from 
 this game.. Wish I would have saved my money. MAybe if they ever get all of these problems fixed 
 it might be ok. Right now it is frustrating. Want to play but it always locks up. What ever happened 
 to the days when there were no patches and everything worked all of the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xombi71
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  I don't know what the problem is here. Why did this game get such a bad review? The only problem 
 I've seen so far is the Brockway Bug and I understand EA has already addressed the problem and 
 have released a patch. We're just waiting for Microsoft certification now.
  
  Overall, I think this is a great golf sim! I admit I don't have Xbox Live at this time so I can't 
 discuss the online portions of the game, but from what I've played so far, I think it's great.
 
  
  The only other problems I can see is that the analog swing is a might touchy. But that just means 
 you have to work a little harder at it. I've had lots of perfect swings since I've been playing 
 more. And sometimes I notice the CPU switches clubs right before it takes a stroke but who cares.
 
  
  This is a great golf game! And once the bug is fixed, it will be darn near perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoystikJoe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game for over 20 hours, and the only problem (which is a BIG problem) is that 
 the game freezes while loading the Carmoustie course, 3/4 of the way to completing the Tiger Woods 
 Challenge! I played Tiger Woods 07, and I must say that the Tiger Woods 08 is a leap in the right 
 direction (aside from the freeze bug) . Of course the game is hard when you first start out and 
 you are building up the skills of your character, but the game progresses well! The graphics look 
 the same as last year, but they are still good. I went online to play this game and I noticed that 
 everyone I played with uses Tiger Woods as their golfer. My assumption is that most people haven't 
 built up a character to a level where they are confident to use it online. Anyway, the fact that 
 this year gives you a choice of analog stick contol or a 3 click system for golfing, makes this 
 game more fun to play than the 07 game. Also there are alot of extras thrown into this game as 
 well. Aside from the bug, this game offers more than 07.
  I hope that EA will patch this Carnoustie loading freeze bug soon, so we can all complete the Tiger 
 Woods Challenge. Hopefully, Gamespot will use its clout to encourage EA to release a patch pronto!!!
 
  Latest 9/8/07: I did manage to get past the first Carnoustie loading freeze in the Challenge, 
 but only after trying several times. Now I am stuck at the second Carnoustie freeze playing the 
 skins game against Henrietta. Very Frustrating!! Maybe EA will find it in their hearts to offer 
 some compensation for the $60 we shelled out (not holding my breath) . At the least, they should 
 discount all the yet to be sold games to $29.95. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiney50
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is underrated. The three click control complaint is a red herring. It is optional only 
 and some people like to use it. I don't. That is not a good reason to dis the game. The graphics 
 are mostly superior to 07. The renderings are at times stunning. The game play is solid and fun. 
 I mean how much can you do with a computer golf game. If you want more realism then grab your clubs 
 and go hit the links for real. My only complaint about this game is that they kept some of the 
 courses from 07 unchanged. For 50+ bucks they should have offered entirely new courses or re-rendered 
 the old ones like Carnouste, Bandon Dunes, the Prince etc. To me this game has some cool new features 
 like GamerNet and GameFace etc.... but it appears to be a bridge to 09. That is my only complaint. 
 Sticking in the old maps is a bit of a disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthmaul1
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 3, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  I rented it, thank god, this would of been a waste of money. I was hoping they would add more clothing 
 options, Where are the silly clothes and hats, and sandles? 07 didn't have alot like that either, 
 I want to be able to wear a wizard hat with cowboy boots and have a bunch of tatoos. the 06 for 
 the regular xbox had everything I am not sure if the 06 xbox 360 had that or not, i know it had 
 only 6 courses. if you have 07 just stay with it, the analog swing is too touchy and the putting 
 actually seems easier than last year.
  And what is with the game face?? I know they are just trying to make money off of you, but you 
 can only upload a picture and get it with xbox live or buy a xbox360 camera and then use that?? 
 why not have 3rd option to download a picture onto a disc then throw that disc into the xbox and 
 store it on the drive??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HOGSTA-
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 2, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  This is the same old tiger woods that we are all used to, the gamernet feature is a good idea, 
 this finally widens the golf golf games life. I would say that i may have to wait about 3 years 
 until i buy another one, it might not have tiger woods as the title by then though! I would definately 
 buy this title over the previous ones, it is better, graphiics help to add a new dimension, the 
 3 click classic isnt anything special at all. All in all, the game has alot of playability, it 
 is quite hard, you will spend hours 'doing up' your character as it takes ages, the putting system 
 once used to is an instant hole in one once on the green. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxrulze
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 2, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  I'll try and make this as quick as possible because there isn't a whole lot different from 07 to 
 make a long winded review about.
  
  Tiger Woods 08 seems to have taken what little 07 had going for it, flipped that on its ass and 
 then reigned down horrible add ons in the form of salt on the wound.
  
  The graphics really need to be built from the ground up with a whole new engine for 09 because 
 the one used in 07 and 08 are just horrible. The golfers show lots of detail in the face, but everything 
 else, courses included are horrendous. Worse though are the animations. They're choppy and seem 
 incomplete and make the smooth swing of Mr. Woods himself, seem like a hack swing by yours truly. 
 The camera angles are once again an ugly spot on an already stained shirt that is 08. The create 
 a golfer has been improved by the ability to take a picture of yourself and impose it in game to 
 make a virtual you without playing with the original layout for hours. In theory this sounds great, 
 but the system has flaws enough to make it a challenge in itself to work properly, but when it 
 does, it's great.
  
  Gameplay wise, they have ruined the swing stick system. Making a straight swing is God awfully 
 hard, and when you even miss swing a minor amount, you aren't going to recover from it easily. 
 The good addition though, is the ability to control draw and fade. Instead of using the swing stick 
 like in previous installments, the bumpers control it pre-swing making life much easier.
  
  Sound joins the graphical side in the next to unbarable category. The commentary is weak, the audience 
 is just badly done, and the effects are used to mininum effect. The music... well it's what every 
 other EA game has, and always had. Enough said.
  
  I don't want to bash the game too much though, as it still is a solid golf game once you bound 
 over the obstacles in your way. They have added more courses and golfers, and a great new ability 
 to post shots to be challenged by others online. The latter addition is broken though as of this 
 review, and it doesn't seem to work to full effect. Hopefully they will update and fix the bugs 
 in the system.
  
  All in all the game does a decent, bearable job of bringing us another golf game that stacks just 
 enough with the previous entries to be at least a rent for those of you seeking a golf fix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleanslate1982
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 2, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  When I first put in this game, I thought I'd give it a spin on the default difficulty. Big Mistake! 
 On any difficulty above EAsy Play, and you'll find yourself hooking or slicing your shots right 
 out-of-bounds or into the woods. The swing stick is way too sensitive. This may give the game a 
 more real feeling, but most of us aren't golf pros, so this could wind up simulating one of our 
 own rounds then that of a potential PGA pro. I could spend $60 to play the local course, throw 
 a club after my fifth consecutive slice; or I can spend $60 on this game, and throw my controller 
 after my fifth consecutive slice. Thank god I'm renting it. Gameplay: (8/10) - Although too difficult, 
 it plays rather smoothly and realistic. There are many different modes, game types, and online 
 options to keep you going. I'm not particularly fond of the leveling system, and how you have to 
 progress through the Tiger Challenge to raise your level limiter. I also don't like how you have 
 to hit a loading screen between going through almost every menu. Most of all, I hate the game types 
 of One Ball and Bingo Bango Bongo . In those games it pays to be terrible, or good. In One Ball 
 , it's like a chess match with a golf ball. You each take turns hitting a golf ball, trying to 
 make sure it lands in a circle. This circle is huge, and it gets smaller as you get closer to the 
 pin. If you miss the circle, you get a betrayal and lose a turn. You go out-of-bounds or into a 
 water hazard and it's a Double Betrayal and you lose two turns. So you basically try to put the 
 opponent into the worst possible shot, and then whomever sinks the ball gets the point.
  If you drive the ball long in Bingo Bango Bongo you'll have a huge disadvantage. You score a Bingo 
 for being the first to hit the green. So the shortest drive will have the advantage here, because 
 they get the first shot at the green. For Bango , who ever shots closest to the pin, when finally 
 landing on the green gets this point. So if someone scores bingo, you'd be better off missing the 
 green and pitching or chipping on. It's sure to get you closer to the pin, or at least make it 
 easier. The only one where score means anything is Bongo whomever finishes the hole with the lowest 
 score gets Bongo . I didn't really like those game types too much, but too each their own. I just 
 wish I didn't have to play too many of those games in the Tiger Challenge. I don't think they ruin 
 they game, I just hate being forced to play them.
  
  Graphics: (7/10) - They women don't look like women. They all got these freakish hour glass shapes, 
 and come with thunder thighs. Their hair also looks like wigs. They still need to improve the looks 
 of the trees. The leaves on them don't look like leaves, and just different colored squares. Sound: 
 (5/10) - Can't complain about game sounds, they were perfect, so they got a 10. The other half 
 of the grade was the music, or EA Trax, which wouldn't even pass as music. Absolutely horrible, 
 so that got a zero, Average them out and you get a 5.
  
  Value: (7/10) - This grade really comes down to patience. As a game, this game has tremendous replay 
 value. It can easily have you tied up for while and be more than worth the $60 bucks you paid for 
 it. If you have a temper, this game can make you so mad that you could go through a couple controllers. 
 So there's a possibility that you'll spend $60 on the game and a bill ($100) or so on new controllers.
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: (7/10) - If this game didn't freeze or bug out so much, I'd give it a higher grade 
 here. You can read on the message boards about the different things that will cause a game crash.
 
  
  I actually really like this game. It makes you mad, but you also get drawn into the game. You keep 
 trying to make yourself get better, that eventually the game doesn't aggravate you as much any 
 more. Let's face it, it's a golf game. Golf is the most frustrating game on the planet, and this 
 game does a fantastic job of bringing the course to your home. All you'd need is beer and a golf 
 cart and you'd have the real thing. You'll definitely curse like you're on the course too.
  
  Overall: (6.8/10) - Like I said, it's a good game, but it has a long way to go before it's 
 worthy of a perfect 10. There are just too many little things that take away from this game. If 
 you are a fan of this series though, you will have fun playing, and you will be playing for a long 
 time with all the different options at your disposal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sportzfan8993
Rating: 7
Date: May 8, 2008 9:21 pm PT
Review:  this is my first ever golf game an it was pretty good. at first it wasnt very fun, only because 
 my stats were really bad, so i was horrible. But now i have tiger woods stats so i hit it 330 yards 
 every drive..
  
  first i'll name the good parts: the golf courses look very good, and its cool when your golfer 
 yells out something like "get in your hole!". "the putt preview makes the putting easier, sort 
 of. and the gamernet is pretty sweet. the graphics are really good except for the grass which looks 
 like one piece of faker than artificial grass.
  
  now the bad parts.. their are too many "hit the cup" putts, sometimes the putts are 100% but only 
 go 4 feet. the people stand way too close to the field of play. the circle where it says you should 
 hit it, is about 50 yards off. the tiger challenge keeps breaking down which completely ruins the 
 fun. also this game out 5 months after tiger woods 2007. 5 months!. and i thought march madness 
 coming out 3 months late was bad enough. just like gamespot said, just go with 2007, you'll save 
 money and have much more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pipefitterrome
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it, even some of the most respected and loved games have had setbacks... even WOW crashed 
 before.... Why don't we hold off on judging this game before we see it's full capabilities. This 
 crash bug is a speedbump , but tell me one other golf game that has incorporated such a realistic 
 and true physics engine to implement all aspects of golf.... wind, lie, slope, angle of club, power, 
 spin, realistic bounce and gravity effects.... stop hating on this crash and just rate the game 
 as is. I'm sure once this problem is resolved with EA everyone will be on TW 08's nuts. Face it, 
 if this problem was with Madden, there would be a hell of a lot more complaining. EA is doing something 
 new and that takes time to fully implement. All of you with a PS3 will agree with me if you haven't 
 already traded your junk system in!!! Give it time and this Tiger will prove to be the best yet. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6of6
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 31, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  My daughter loves the new 3-click swing. Everything else is just the same old stuff. If you loved 
 07 then you might like 08. If you were unhappy with 07 then you'll likely be unhappy with 08.
 
  
  My biggest complaint is that all of the graphics are the same. That means many animations still 
 have improper light or shadow. Why have a photo-face if you don't have a body, lighting, etc., 
 to go with it. All the people waiting to take advantage of the (FBI) photo-face are going to be 
 so disappointed that they must still have a stick body.
  
  I won't buy this game again unless I see a true advancement in character creation. Until then, 
 come on 2K, the door is open!
  
  6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theducksfan
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  First of all, that gamespot review is pathetic at best. Tiger 08 is great. Here is the deal, not 
 really that it ever was compared to other golf games, but this years game is the most realistic 
 and a less arcade like golf game ive ever played. But still is a blast. By being so realistic i 
 think some people are saying its unpolished, but thats not true at all. The game face feature doesnt 
 really work, it dont really look like u or your friends. And the music on it sucks. But besides 
 that it is the best tiger and best golf game ive played. Its a blast with friends. I welcome the 
 challange that tiger 08 brings. And about that whole crashing the that gamespot was talking about. 
 I havent had one single problem with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: temperedsp007
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very rea; istic golf experience. If you play golf you realize that previous versions 
 just were not realistic and got boring fast do to lack of a challenge. You definetly need to get 
 the hang of it but once you do this game is amazing. You have more control over your shots and 
 the analog stick should be touchy because in golf you rarely hit a perfectly straight shot. There 
 is always a little fade or draw. Way off on this review gamespot. This game provides a great feel (realistic) , great 
 graphics, awesome replay value, and statistics to help improve your skills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G3n0cyde
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  Gamespot... I understand when you give games a bad review. I also bought Nascar 08... But why criticize 
 a great game, and an even better franchise. IGN gave this game an 8.5 and the Editor's Choice award. 
 I haven't noticed any buggy or choppy play. As for the ctick. To me it seems more realistic. The 
 shot confidence has a ton to do with that. I noticed it too. After playing with a created golfer. 
 And getting progressively better I might add, The analog stick became more reliable. The game is 
 harder especially putting, but that makes it fun. Critics first reported that this game played 
 just like 06 and 07. When the reality hit... Tiger 08 was way different. Critics hate being wrong. 
 Career mode is very deep and lots available in Pro Shop. Face recognition was unavailable due to 
 a server issue at EA. Overall impression. The game is GREAT!!! Still love ya Gamespot... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcmarra12304
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  First and foremost gamespot needs to replay his game but have a real expert sports fanatic play 
 it. Ok now that I have that off my chest, to the game... I was really impressed with the cool new 
 Gamernet feature, some people really have no life though. Uploading a picture of yourself and having 
 a pretty acurate golfer's face of you, is really showing off some talent the gamemakers have these 
 days.
  
  The new slice and hook swing really is tough if you like to move you hands all over the place. 
 So what that means is you better hope the cpu really sucks, but that isn't very often. Graphics 
 are getting better year in and year out, so no bad comment about that. All in all gamespot sucks 
 at scoring lately and it's really getting on people's nerves. Just take a look at the new xbox 
 mag, they rated it an 8.5. I'm giving it a 9.0. I think it deserves it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emokid830
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 6:45 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome, i think maybe even better than 07. The game face is really cool and if you 
 do it right you can get a player identical to yourself. I dont know what people are saying about 
 crashes as i have had no problems at all. My only complaint is that the swing stick is a tad touchy. 
 The 3-click swing just doesnt feel natural though. Lots of modes and playability make this one 
 worth the money. They also added some golfers and courses which is sweet. If there are glitches 
 im sure they can be patched via xbox live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmaser
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  I'm really not sure what's they're talking about, I think it's a GREAT game, and about the 3-click 
 system... I LOVE IT because I've always thought that the analog always sucked because you could 
 have a PREFECT movement with it but somehow get a slice or hook... with the 3-click system you don't 
 have to worry about a Analog swing is too touchy ... just use the 3-click then, I find it works 
 fine and have had no problems with it.
  
  In regards to the game crashing, unless I missed it I didn't see where it said it crashed at... I 
 know I haven't had any problems with it...... yet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth_turf
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  I really think this is what 07 should have been (minus the crashing) . It is pretty much a polished, 
 bug filled version of Tiger Woods 07. The menus are better, the putting is easier, and the analong 
 swing seems more forgiving. There are alot of problems with the stability of this game. I had to 
 turn off my 360 three times in the same spot. This all happened in the first 10 hours or so. Another 
 problem I have found is the Gameface Photo feature. This was a big, much hyped selling point for 
 this game. I thought This will be a lot faster, easier, and more accurate than the traditional 
 Gameface way of doing things. Let me tell you, this thing doesn't work to say the least. I am an 
 average, white, run of the mill guy. Nothing special about me. Well, I used the Xbox Live Vision 
 camera to take a front and profile picture of myself, put the points on the picture, and let the 
 Gameface Photo feature go to work. Needless to say, the face looked nothing like me. In fact I 
 came out looking Middleastern. After 07, I said I wouldn't buy 08 the day it came out so I could 
 see the reviews. I lied on that one. I guess I'm just a sucker for Tiger Woods, and hungry for 
 a good golf game. All in all, the game is fun. I'm just upset I didn't get more than an update 
 for a game I already had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccerjock815
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  There's not much new to say about this year's Tiger Woods. It's pretty fun, more challenging and 
 a ton of Tiger challenges to do. EA seems to have tinkered with the ball trajectory a bit which 
 makes it hard to hit over trees even with loft control all the way back. This does make the game 
 challenging but almost unplayable on some holes where the tee box sits way below the next tier 
 of fairway. I have seen a few clipping errors so far but no big deal. The players are a little 
 more realistic looking but the fans and surrounding buildings still look very generic. There is 
 AT LEAST one major bug in the game. In the Tiger challenge with Henrietta Brockway, the game always 
 crashes half way though loading the 3rd hole. Since the dawn of online gaming, companies have gotten 
 into the rut of releasing unfinished products and this is no different. If there is an update made 
 available soon, then I may not return this game. To anyone thinking of buying it... wait for a price 
 drop or an update. $60 is too much for a busted game. It would have gotten a higher score if it 
 wasn't broken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaveLogan
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Very similar to 07. But one can really draw and fade now, which I could never do with the stick. 
 I don't think the stick is touchier than 07's. The HUD instantly tells you if/and how much you 
 are pulling to either direction. Sadly there is no ideal putt cam and the new preview feels very 
 cheap (as if you get two hits) . There aren't any new PGA golfers only fakes and LPGA ones. Only 
 five more courses were added to make a total of around fifteen, not as many as one would hope for, 
 but decent, especially if you haven't played 07 non-stop. In summary: If you liked 07 you'll like 
 this year's Tiger. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmokeGT
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  The only dissapointment in this game so far is the Photo Game Face option. The face I generated 
 with my Live Vision camera dosent really look like me. It is possible to take these pictures with 
 a digital camera (high res pics) , wich you can upload to EA and use to generate face which supposedly 
 produce a much better result. Unfortunately EA has problems with their site and this feature is 
 currently unavailable. Overall this games gets an A . Better than last years. Awsome graphics.... gameplay 
 looks real. Lots of Tiger Challenges to keep you playing for a long time. Lots of multiplayer and 
 arcade games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shloobonya
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Tiger Woods 08 had great promise, I wanted it to be everything that 07 wasn't, and to some extent 
 it addressed many of the issues I had with last years version. By bringing back the three click 
 swing EA has done a huge disservice to Tiger Fans. Who knows if they just felt like they have to 
 make game play changes just to make it a little bit different from last years version, but it is 
 terrible. At least they didn't remove the analog swing entirely as you can turn it on if you so 
 desire. The game is essentially the same as last year as far as graphics and the core game play 
 are concerned, though the new putting system really sucks, get ready for another year of draining 
 impossible putts like it was nothing. It seems that every year this game alternates between catering 
 to the brainless casual gamer by dumbing down the game mechanic and catering to the true golf sim 
 crowd. This years version is the former, they concentrated too much on useless network features 
 than on truly improving the playing experience which is where the average player spends most of 
 their time. One final gripe, can we have complete freedom to customize the buttons how we want, 
 there is no reason the power and spin buttons need to be locked to a particular button (the one 
 they chose is most inconvenient) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tat2dchad
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 29, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  so i have to say i really like the gameplay!! the game plays well... i have not seen to many buggy 
 issues or random glitches..... BUT.... the whole easportsworld web site ya need to go to to upload 
 your pics...... well as of right now... it just doesnt work!!!! no no no... not only can i not upload 
 pics.... you can not even sign onto the web site!!! they have a beta site for this???? REALLY?? 
 WTF?
  
  and from what ive read.... their response is due to the unexpected amount of people  
 THEY DIDNT EXPECT THIS? its the biggest feature of the game!!!
  so..... id give this game alot better of a score........... if it wasnt for this major oversight!!! 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
