-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/tigerwoodspgatour07/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Twice as many courses as last year.
 Best create-a-character around.
 True aim system adds a new level of challenge.
 Plenty of great-looking fictional and licensed golfers.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Has nine fewer courses than the PlayStation 2 and Xbox versions.
 Not enough variety in the training challenges.
 David Feherty and Gary McCord have worn out their welcome.
 The only way to get &quot;Sunday Tiger&quot; is to buy him off Marketplace.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 20, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.1, 48 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 1,322 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Redwood Shores
Genre: Golf Sim
Date: Oct 17, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Electronic Arts improves upon the solid foundation they laid with Tiger Woods 06 and builds a great 
 game in Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07. 

  Tiger Woods' first foray onto the Xbox 360 was a prime example of style over substance. The courses 
 looked great, but they numbered just six and there weren't many different ways to enjoy them. It 
 also didn't play much differently than it did on the consoles -- a disappointment for those who were 
 expecting it to be more than just a prettier version of what they had been playing for years. EA 
 Sports has addressed those issues by adding a new aiming system, doubling the number of courses, 
 and adding a host of new play modes. There's still room for improvement, but Tiger Woods PGA Tour 
 07 is a great golf game that plays as good as it looks.  

          Creating your own golfer is still one of the game's highlights.     

  There's certainly 
 no shortage of ways to occupy yourself with Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07. You can select from a number 
 of different match and scoring modes, including stroke play, match play, skins, practice, stableford, 
 alternate shot, best-ball, and four-ball. Battle golf, which is a twist on match play, is a new 
 addition. The goal here is to win the most holes -- as it always is in match play -- but here you are 
 able to remove a club from your opponent's bag after each hole you win. Needless to say, it's great 
 fun to watch your rival tee off on a par five with a two-iron because you've taken all of his woods. 
 Also new this year are bloodsome and greensome matches, both of which are team-based best-ball 
 events. After you and your teammate hit your shots in greensome, you get to pick which ball you're 
 going to play; in bloodsome, your opponent will choose which lie you'll use. One-ball is another 
 new game, where you and your opponent share the same ball and alternate shots. The strategy in 
 one-ball lies in trying to set your opponent up with difficult shots so that you're the one left 
 with a makeable putt. If you're the one who drains the putt, you win the hole. Before each shot, 
 a large blue ring that represents the target area appears on the course. This is the area in which 
 your shot must land, or else it's a "betrayal," and you'll lose a turn. For example, on a par four 
 you may be able to put the ball on the green with your second shot, but that will leave your opponent 
 with a putt -- and that's not good. You can, however, shoot the ball into a sand trap that surrounds 
 the green, thereby forcing your opponent to be the one who has to put the ball on the green. This 
 play mode is great for learning how to recover from bad shots, but it can be frustrating to play 
 against the tenacious CPU and is best played against another person.  

  Right off the bat you'll notice the improved presentation. As soon as the game loads the camera 
 sweeps around a beautiful driving range, finally zooming in on Tiger, who's juggling a ball with 
 his club, a la the Nike commercial from a few years back. From here you can immediately hit the 
 range to practice or jump into a quick game, but you're encouraged to immediately create a golfer 
 so that you may embark on a career. Tiger's unrivaled character creation mode is back and much 
 deeper than in 06. If realism's what you want, it's a breeze to create a male or female golfer 
 in your spitting image, and you're limited only by your imagination when it comes to making zany, 
 off-the-wall characters. You can also customize your player's swing as well as their reactions. 

  Your created golfer has unlimited potential, but at first they stink. It's up to you to head to 
 the training course to help them develop their skills. Each of your golfer's attributes -- power, 
 power boost, ball striking, driving accuracy, putting, recovery, approach, and spin -- can be improved 
 by completing short minigames. You can face other golfers in a longest-drive or a putting contest, 
 play quick competitive rounds of T-I-G-E-R or 21, and race the clock in minigames that test your 
 mettle with long irons and your shot-recovery skills. The number of minigames is impressive, but 
 many of them are little more than slight variations of each other. It's still tough to complain 
 about, though, after last year's barren set of options. After completing a challenge your individual 
 attributes are raised, based on what skills the challenge focused on, as well as your performance. 
 In an effort to keep people from training their golfer over and over before venturing out on the 
 course, your attributes are now capped based on your experience. You'll need to actually go out 
 and win some matches before you're able to go any higher than 25 percent in any skill category. 
 This does work as the developer intended, slowing your progression through the game, but it's frustrating 
 to have a skill artificially held back when you've already earned the points to raise it. Should 
 your skills need a little boost, you can always pick up some new clubs or some jewelry for a small 
 skill bonus. New equipment and clothing can be purchased in the pro shop, which is easier to browse 
 this year. If you're lazy and you've got the cash, you can skip all of the "hassle" of playing 
 the game to earn skills, courses, and equipment. A quick trip to the Xbox Live Marketplace and 
 a few hundred points is all it takes to get everything unlocked.  

          You're going to spend lots of time on the training course.     

  The team tour mode 
 from the PlayStation 2, Xbox, and PC versions is nowhere to be found; it has been replaced by the 
 Tiger challenge. Here you'll take your created golfer up against fictitious golfers like Pops Masterson 
 and Big Mo, PGA professionals, and, eventually, Tiger himself. It's understandable that EA wanted 
 to show off new animation for each golfer, but the inability to skip your opponents' turns makes 
 rounds last far too long. However, you can skip the CPU's pre- and post-shot routines once they've 
 started, and you're able to fast-forward their shots once they're in the air. If your interests 
 lie in more-traditional golf, the PGA Tour season, which now uses the FedEx points system to rank 
 players for the PGA's new playoff format, offers up more of a challenge than ever before. You'll 
 first need to train your golfer and then win a few matches in the Tiger challenge, or your golfer 
 won't have a prayer against the punishing schedule of four-day tournaments. You can simulate rounds 
 of a tournament and you don't have to enter every event, but it really would have been nice to 
 have the option of setting how long you'd like tournaments to last.  

  Should you grow tired of playing solo, you can head online for a greater challenge. There are daily 
 tournaments, ranked and unranked rounds of stroke and match play, as well as alternate game modes, 
 such as best ball, battle golf, three-hole golf, skins, one-ball, four-ball, and alternate shot. 
 We had some difficulty getting into matches, and it was annoying to get booted all the way to the 
 main menu after a round, but once we did get in a game everything ran smoothly and lag was never 
 a problem. There's a small amount of ESPN integration, but it's limited to a ticker that runs across 
 the bottom of the screen, short text news stories, and brief ESPN Radio SportsCenter updates every 
 20 minutes. NBA Live 07 on the Xbox 360 had the ability to stream ESPN video content while online, 
 but that feature is not available here.     

  If you just want to stick to the pros, there are 15 professional golfers (and a host of fictional 
 golfers) in Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07. The list includes the likes of Tiger Woods, Colin Montgomerie, 
 Justin Leonard, John Daly, Jim Furyk, Mike Weir, Retief Goosen, Vijay Singh, and Rich Beem, among 
 others. For the first time, LPGA legend Annika Sorenstam is a playable character. The course list 
 has doubled from six to 12 since last year, but it's still underwhelming when compared to the PlayStation 
 2 and Xbox versions of the game, which have an impressive 21 courses. Joining returning favorites 
 like TPC at Sawgrass and Pebble Beach are Firestone Country Club, Glen Abbey, the Prince Course 
 at Kauai, Spyglass Hill, Bandon Dunes, and the vaunted Scottish course, St. Andrews. Once again, 
 there's no course designer -- still one of the series' most glaring omissions after all these years. 
 You can put together your "dream course," using holes from any of the 12 courses in the game, but 
 this doesn't make up for not having a true course editor.  

          The game looks great, and the presentation is much better this year as well.     

  
 Tiger 07's gameplay isn't vastly different than last year, but there are a few changes that make 
 the experience more challenging and enjoyable. Swinging your club uses the tried-and-true method 
 of pulling down and then pushing up on the left analog stick. You can add a draw or a fade by moving 
 the left analog stick down and then up at an angle during your swing. The right stick is used to 
 change where you address the ball. You can hit under the ball to add loft and backspin to a shot, 
 while striking the ball above the center gives your shot a lower trajectory with lots of topspin. 
 A little extra oomph can be put on your shot by pressing the left bumper or the A button during 
 your swing, and spin is added by pressing the same buttons and a directional while the ball is 
 in flight. A new system called "true aiming" makes shot selection a less by-the-books affair by 
 replacing the cursor that essentially pinpointed where your shot would land with a large circle 
 that covers a much wider area. If you hit your shot just right, the ball should land somewhere 
 in that circle. Should you miss, however, you're likely to end up in serious trouble. When using 
 golfers with higher levels of skill, the circle doesn't come into play too often, but anyone playing 
 with a new golfer will frequently find themselves questioning if the extra 10 yards of distance 
 on a club is worth the increased size of the landing zone. You can still take huge risks -- you're 
 just more likely to pay for them now. The clumsily implemented gamebreakers from last year are 
 thankfully nowhere to be found.  

  The standard control scheme for putting works much in the same way it did last year, with a few 
 noticeable changes. You still use the left stick to putt, but you can now add a little extra speed 
 by using the right stick to hit the top of the ball, adding topspin. Conversely, you can take some 
 speed off of a putt by hitting it lower and adding some backspin. Both of these options come in 
 handy for putts that are on either side of the putter's power level. An overlay is placed on the 
 green, and you'll need to read the slope by how fast the white dots move along the grid. This is 
 more important than ever because the ideal putt-cam that shows you the ideal putting line is gone -- at 
 least on the default difficulty level. It's still available on the easy setting, and you can turn 
 it on in the game options. Veterans of the series shouldn't have much of a problem adjusting to 
 life without the putt-cam. The basic system is very familiar and it's forgiving enough that you'll 
 still be able to make long putts, except now you won't be making them on every hole.  

  There's no question that Tiger Woods 07 is a fantastic-looking game. The created golfers look wonderful 
 and have a host of unique animations to bring them to life. Each golfer has a unique swing, which 
 makes them not only look different but also play different. The professional players generally 
 look good, but there are a few that look pretty rough, and many of their animations are canned 
 and repetitive. Tiger, of course, looks great, as do Annika and Vijay. John Daly doesn't look a 
 whole lot like the real John Daly (perhaps this is a good thing) , and Colin Montgomerie is downright 
 scary. A new picture-in-picture window shows player reactions in real time as the ball is in the 
 air. This is entertaining for a bit, but most of the golfers don't react in any way that's worth 
 watching more than a few times.  

  Courses also look better than ever, though like in the rest of the game, there's room for improvement. 
 Vibrant colors, crisp visuals, and little touches, such as flocks of birds flying over the green 
 or waves breaking along the shore, make each course beautiful. On the negative side, some shadows 
 appear and disappear for no reason, green and fairway textures look poor under close inspection, 
 and the rocks on the cliffs at Pebble Beach are last-gen quality at best. Crowds line each hole 
 and will track the ball as it's hit. You can even watch them run up and down the side of the fairway 
 as they scramble for a better view. Unfortunately they don't make much of an effort to get out 
 of the way of your ball. This is a big problem after a drive, where any chance you may have had 
 of your ball rolling onto the fairway is routinely killed by a fan that's anchored to the ground. 
 Occasionally this works in your favor, particularly around the greens when fans sacrifice their 
 bodies and keep errant shots over the green from going too far away.  

  Most of the audio in Tiger Woods 07 sounds good -- or as good as can be expected from a golf game. 
 The crowds are lively and react with enthusiasm to a great shot. David Feherty and Gary McCord 
 are back and seemingly have nothing new to say. The commentary plays it too straight in a game 
 that's otherwise full of personality. Their negative comments appear to have been toned down a 
 bit, but the duo still drinks "Haterade" and just loves to rub it in after a poor shot. For the 
 most part, their observations are accurate, though they'll occasionally praise you for hitting 
 the ball in the rough and chastise you for what ends up being a perfectly good shot. Should you 
 choose to forgo the announcers, there are lots of ambient noises to listen to instead. You'll hear 
 birds chirping, planes flying overhead, and on Pebble Beach, the sea crashing into the cliffs. 

          Annika makes a welcome first appearance in the Tiger Woods series.     

  Tiger Woods 06 had some of the most difficult achievements of any game to date. With requirements 
 like "compete in 1,000 online matches" and "make 25 holes in one," it was possible to pour dozens 
 of hours into the game and have no points to show for your efforts. A sizable time commitment is 
 necessary to earn all 1,000 points in Tiger Woods 07, but boosting your gamer score, at least a 
 little, won't be as futile an endeavor as it was last year. Points can be earned in a variety of 
 ways, such as by winning major tournaments, by beating golfers in the Tiger challenge and minigames, 
 and by creating a male or female golfer.  

  Almost universally, the changes and additions made since last year serve to make Tiger Woods 07 
 a better game than Tiger Woods 06. However, with many of the big problems out of the way, a few 
 still remain, and other, smaller issues have become apparent. Twelve courses is still on the low 
 side of what one would expect from a Tiger Woods game, a lot of the different modes feel the same, 
 and with many of the graphics being outstanding, the ones that aren't so great are more noticeable. 
 That said, Tiger 07 is a great game, and the improvement in the last 11 months shows that that 
 EA isn't content to maintain the status quo. If you're searching for a great round of video game 
 golf, Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07 is what you're looking for.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (72 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: drago709
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  The visuals in this game can only be described as yummy, and played in HD, its almost paralyzing. 
 The best aspect of this game is the ability to create your own golfer. The options for customization 
 is limitless, from facial features, to hair, to body build to apparel. As you progress through 
 the game you can also unlock more clothes and clubs from the pro shop. There are many different 
 modes to choose from. The best one to start with is the tiger challenge where you have to beat 
 20 golfers of varying degree's of skill at the game before finally defeating the main man Mr Woods. 
 Once you have completed this challenge, your golfer's should have been increased to maximum. Its 
 at this time that you should begin the PGA tour and begin winning your trophys.
  throughout the game you can unlock and play in a multitude of different courses as well as unlocking 
 every golfer available. This game is thoroughly addictive and you begin to yearn for that next 
 birdie or next big win. great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  I had played Tiger Woods 07 for the Wii over a year ago and when I bought an XBOX360 it came with 
 this game for that system and the upgrade is much much better with this system!
  
  In the Wii version you could only play as Tiger Woods and with a different shirt color but in this 
 one you can create a character and there are so many cool ways to update their face and body to 
 match yourself its unreal! I made a pretty hot version of my wife with a little extra added in 
 the chect area :) My friend made a pretty cool version of himself as well.
  
  The graphics are pretty well done and the courses are very well thought out. The visuals of the 
 game are great. The crowd reactions lack in a few areas and aren't the greatest, but the player 
 reactions are awesome since you can control how they will react to putting the ball in the cup. 
 
  
  With so many different training courses and modes to upgrade your career and skill level this game 
 is a definate winner! I am sure by now there is a 2008 or 2009 version, but for 07 this game is 
 awesome! I would recomment it to anyone who enjoys golf. Even if you don't like golf this game 
 is addicting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daxacid
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 12, 2008 6:36 am PT
Review:  This franchise isn't making great strides in the world of Golf games, but it is still a solid game. 
 The changes to the swing are minimal, but do take some getting used to from the original XBOX versions. 
 You can still customize the players looks, but gone is the course customization. That is not a 
 big deal to me, but some people may miss that. I never spent much time changing the courses around, 
 I was too interested in completing the season as the biggest winner. I do like the new side games 
 that are offered. They are quite challenging, and make for an interesting way to learn the nuances 
 of your shots, and you also receive points for the achievements that you can unlock. The equipment 
 and apparel prices have changed to a more reasonable price, but the attribute increases these items 
 have are quite different. It is very difficult to get the top level on all your characters different 
 attributes. It takes a bit of studying to get everything to 110%. The graphics look very good and 
 the animations are still funny and the sounds are up to "par". For me, it is still the best Golf 
 sim available. Later, Tater. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdm289
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  More content, that's what we all wanted the major improvement to be over last years version. We 
 got that with this version. Although it wasn't hard to beat 06 you can't help feeling that there 
 should be alot more. Now that we have HD consoles with 20GB memory all hooked up to broadband internet. 
 Don't get me wrong, it plays great and is everything a Golf game should be. But if more courses 
 can't be included on the disc, then lets have downloadable course, and pro-shop content. Had this 
 of been available then it would of got 10/10. Lets hope 08 is even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sabru8
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  I bought Tiger Woods 2007 with the anticipation of really enjoying the game and I was not disapointed. 
 I have really enjoyed playing TW 2007 and I cannot wait to get the 2008 version. I think that one 
 of the things that I like most about the game is that while it helps to know golf to play good 
 in the game if you are a new to the game it helps you learn golf. I have not played that much of 
 the game on-line, but I like having the option to play against other players on-line. I think that 
 these days not having an on-line option is out of the question, but I think that if there was one 
 thing to improve about this game that woud be it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kagomesango
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  I just got Tiger Woods PGA tour 07 and it's pretty fun the characters look life like the game play 
 is something to get used to but once you get the hang of it you'll be getting eagles in no time. 
 I usually don't like sports games but right now this is probably on of my favorites. Like I said 
 the graphics are great Tiger looks like himself and the gameface thing is fun. Plus this game doesn't 
 have glitches like 08 does The good thing is that you don't really have to be a golf fan to actually 
 like this game it's just fun to play and it's a great challenge. I'd recommend this game to everyone 
 that just likes to have fun with their games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hessticle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 3:35 am PT
Review:  I finally got to spend several hours playing Tiger Woods 07. I have to say that I am very happy 
 with this game. There is a huge variety of things to do in this game. Career mode is interesting 
 and an enjoyable way to consume some time. Your player is aweful at first, and you'll spend hours 
 training to get him up to a competetive level. Offline multiplayer gameplay is some of the best 
 I have played of any sports games. I cannot think of a better game to sit back with 3 friends, 
 have a few beers, talk, and play a game together. Kind of like being out on the course. Of course 
 you can always go online if your friends aren't around. Yet another great game that can be had 
 cheaply now that it's predecessor is on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t-mac720
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  i never liked golf and i probaly still dont like golf , but this game was just sooo fun that i 
 forgot it was golf i just couldnt stop playing at first its kindve hard well if ur like me but 
 ones u start playing it more u get better and better till i really have fun with it . The season 
 mode it is pretty cool. There are 2 modes in it which is called tiger challenge well i think that 
 whats it called u basically go agaisnt a lot of oppenets and beat them one by one untill untill 
 u reach the master which is of course tiger woods which in my opionion was reallllly hard and than 
 theres the normal story mode whcih u do like tournaments and try to rank ur self u also get money 
 for winning which u can use to buy cloths , hats , watches, shoes , gloves , clubs , balls , n 
 other stuff i forgot and each one of those help u gain more in a certain skill which is really 
 helpfull the achievements are easy well to me since i find sports game achievemnts pretty easy 
 though challenging and even if u dont like golf just get the dam game trust me its wayy worth it 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JehovaWrinkles
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 14, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  This series is the best sports game, I think. Especially because you can create your own guy. That 
 has to be my favorite thing to do in a game because it expresses yourself, from making an ugly 
 fat lady all the way to a Jay Leno, in this game you can do just about anything that floats your 
 boat. I like making my guy look like a big, buff, and tall guy with a fish-shaped head and a really 
 squeaky voice. But my friend likes to make exactly the opposite, and that is fine with me. The 
 details in this game are absolutely gorgeous, and I have yet to find any glitches. This game will 
 rule the golf game world for many years to come. Buy it now if you like this kind of thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kahnebeast
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 11, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07 was a decent golf game. It was not however, what I was expecting. You start 
 out your career as a beginning golfer you created or as rookie Tiger Woods (like that's realistic) , 
 but I guess some liked it. I still wish they had less fake golfers and more tour pros. Some of 
 the people you compete against in the Tiger Challenge mode are just ridiculous. Anyway, as you 
 progress through the web of golfers, your skills get better, and you train your golfer. Then, once 
 you get to about 25% of your total skill, you can start contending in the PGA Tour. This is where 
 a lot of irritation came from in the game. You participate in a number of four-day tournaments 
 in which there are many other pros competing with you. (Even pros who aren't in the game are in 
 tournaments. ex. Arron Oberholser) If you do well in the tournaments, you can get into contention 
 for a win. You start winning more as your skills increase. There is one fairly big downfall to 
 the PGA Tour season mode, though. When you start a tournament, you play your first round of golf. 
 As you finish each hole, you see a wait menu of the scoreboard. It usually turns out that your 
 competition plays to your skills. I mean that if you play well, they play really well. If you play 
 badly, they play badly but slightly better than you. For example, say you shot an awesome 63 in 
 the first round. It's not that hard on the first day because of the easy conditions (easy pin placement, 
 white tees, low wind, etc.) . But, in the second round, your best opponents might shoot a 58, no 
 matter how hard the conditions are. In the usual wind and hard greens and putting of round two, 
 you might shoot 67-70. You are now in a dilemma. You went from leading by two or three in the first 
 round to being tied for 25th somewhere far down the leaderboard. This problem is fixed sometimes 
 by a really good, smart golfer. The key, (which should not have even been brought up as a possibility) , 
 is to moderate yourself in the first round. If the field is shooting 66-68s, go higher by two or 
 three strokes on purpose. Then they will think you are playing bad and compensate the next day. 
 When you feel comfortable, let the birdie train begin. Lay it on as much as you can. Go for every 
 flag, and make as much ground up as you can. You may just be able to hold the rest off until the 
 final round, where anything can happen. Anyway, Tiger Woods' entry into this year's sports lineup 
 from EA Sports is not a waste. It will provide a knowledgeable golf fan a fun experience. If you 
 love golf like I do, go out and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameogameo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 9, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  Tiger Woods 06 was a decent game but there were things that had to be improved to make a memorable 
 game, this time around EA has produced a top notch golfing game. The game itself is packed with 
 over a dozen different game modes to play with friends and twice as many courses than before. The 
 EA game face is as detailed as ever and (agreeing with Gamespot) THE best around, the graphics 
 have vastly been improved and noticeably the whole presentation on the main menu screens. Replay 
 value is small, however there is a lot to do for completion of the entire game, with all this Xbox 
 live just appears as some sort of extra?!
  
  Compared with the 06 version everything has been improved upon in one way or another. Well done 
 EA, this is truely a nice game. For fans of golf, or people that just want something fun and easy 
 to play? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cammby
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 8, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played a Tiger Woods/PGA Tour game since the early 2000's, so I can't get into how little 
 or much they added with this year's version. Anyway here are my pros/cons:
  
  PROS:
  + The create-a-player mode is deep and very good. You can really make a player that pretty much 
 resembles you if you'd like to.
  + Decent number of courses, though could always use more to provide more variety
  + Great fun/frustration 
 building your golfer skillwise. It does take time and ability, but makes it worth it
  + Allows for a variety of clubs and apparel to be purchased/won/unlocked
  + Gameplay is very 
 good. On Tour Pro setting, it is just right... not crazy tough, but punishing if you mis-hit
  
  CONS:
  - Commentary is weakest point in the game (though most sports games fail in this regard 
 as well) . In real life, these guys are great but here they are bland, woeful, and just wrong (i. e. 
 And he finishes the round at even par .. this after putting in on the first hole of a tournament!!!
 
  - Goofy/unnecessary game modes (greensome, bloodsome, etc.) . Better to put more manpower and thinking 
 into improving the basics rather than that type of unused fluff.
  - Some achievements are ridiculously difficult despite playing for a very long time.
  - Graphics, 
 though very good, could still use some more detail and refining.
  - Crowds are annoying at best. They stand there like posts getting plunked by 300+yd drives. A 
 little programming is needed to attempt some scatter for realism.
  - Pro Shop interface could use improvement. Time consuming to find an item you'd like sometimes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  'Tiger Woods PGA Tour' is widely known as the best series of golf videogames on the planet. The 
 problem with this series is that it's failed to evolve over the last few years into anything better 
 than it was in 2004. Sure they add a few minor things each year (some of them for the worse) , but 
 it's nothing that's changing the face of videogame golf. I call it the 'Madden syndrome'. That's 
 another series that hasn't had a good idea, of any substance, since '04. Hit stick? It's ok. Cone 
 vision passing? Awful. Playing as an offensive lineman? Cool, but bleh. Superstar mode? Wasted 
 opportunity. Tony Bruno radio show? Worse than cone vision passing.
  
  My point is that the developers of the Madden and Tiger Woods series have, obviously, realized 
 that they can put out the same game every year (with a few minor upgrades) , slap a new cover on 
 it, and get $60 of your hard earned money. That's not to say 'Tiger Woods '07' is a bad golf game. 
 It's always been a very fun mix of arcade-style &amp; simulation-style golf. It's always been an 
 easy game to pick up and play for beginners, but you'll really have to invest some time to master 
 it. And with the move to the 360 last year, the series got a decent visual touch-up that it desperately 
 needed.
  
  The '07 entry into this series doesn't stray far from the course, so to speak. One of my biggest 
 annoyances with these 'next-gen' sports games that EA is putting out is the fact that people (including 
 reviewers) are overlooking the fact that these titles STILL don't have the feature-set that the 
 'current-gen' titles have. Why? I understand that making a completely new game engine to use the 
 power of the 360 takes some time (so I can somewhat excuse the '06 EA sports titles) , but we pay 
 a hefty price for these games and we deserve all the gameplay modes &amp; features that the 'current-gen' 
 gamers get. Especially since we are paying $10 MORE for the game on the 360. So when I get a game 
 that STILL has less features than the PS2 version, it annoys me.
  
  The game certainly looks nice, but it's nothing that will blow you away. And being a veteran of 
 this series, the announcers are really starting to get on my nerves. They are repeating the same 
 stuff that they did several years ago! You can't get these guys in to spout out some new lines? 
 Even though it's not as feature rich as it's PS2 counterpart, this game will keep you busy for 
 quite awhile. There is the usual PGA Tour mode, of course. Then there is the Tiger Challenge, which 
 is the same boring ladder-match style that has been in the series for awhile now. And no matter 
 how many times EA changes the name of it, it's still the same thing every year. There are also 
 a ton of mini-games to play here. Some of them are fun, but I mostly went through them just to 
 get the achievements that are attached to them. And thankfully, the achievements are WAY better 
 this year.
  
  The main reason to play this game is to make your own golfer with the excellent create-a-player 
 system, build-up his/her skills, and then beat the snot out of your buddy's created character. 
 Or you can take your character on Xbox Live and give some of the online modes a shot. Like I said, 
 the game does have an extensive single-player game here. The problem (like I said before) is that 
 I have been playing this since '04 and it's the same thing, over and over. This game has grown 
 VERY stale playing by yourself, if you are a veteran of the series.
  
  I still say the best way to play this game is to get a bunch of friends together, have some drinks, 
 each of you create a golfer, and play against each other. I have even found that girls like the 
 create-a-golfer feature quite a bit and I tend to use that to get them to give the game a chance. 
 After that and when they get the controls down, they are hooked. The game is a blast in this capacity 
 and is still fun to play online. EA really needs to give this series a jump-start, though. The 
 single-player needs more improvements than just changing the name of the 'Tiger Challenge' thing 
 every year. I used to REALLY like this series, and I hope for the best in '08. Unfortunately, with 
 EA's track record......... the forcast isn't looking good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shinerman77
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 1, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  I have loved the TW series and this is by far the best. I love the graphics, sounds everything. 
 I have only played for a few nights now and its I cant put it down. Upgrading the character you 
 create is fun. Challenging and yet sometimes dull. The commentators have worn out there welcome 
 in my book, time to find some new voices next year. One other downside I have found and maybe its 
 just me, cause i havent played around with it long enough to really care, is that in the pro-shop 
 when you buy things they make it difficult to see all the items at once. It always goes to the 
 item you have selected and brings it up. Other than that, I have really enjoyed playing this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 22, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I'm not a big golf fan. And this is only the second Tiger Woods game that I buy. 
 And while it isn' t a huge jump over the last entry, this is a very good golf title that has a 
 lot to do in it. Graphically, the game is pretty outstanding. The character models are very detailed, 
 especially Tiger Woods. There are more courses than last year, although I wish there were a few 
 more. Sound is about what you would expect in a golf game. And the playability of this game is 
 just right. My only complaint is really not the game's fault. Ater a while, I personally just get 
 bored with a golf game. But again, that's just me. If you want the best available golf game, then 
 buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdano1197
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 10, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Although I love this game, a few minor improvements could have made a HUGE difference. I like just 
 about everything about this game and you have heard what everyone else likes about it. I prefer 
 to just state what could have been better that could have made a huge difference. I would have 
 liked to have had the option to automatically skip all preshot sequences for the AI and just watch 
 them hit the ball see where it goes and move on. Games take too long to play when you have to sit 
 and watch what the AI is doing. Crowds are always in the way. Ever hit it just off the fairway, 
 but rather than being able to go for the long shot down the fairway from the rough you are forced 
 to hit a short shot to get it back on the fairway because the crowd is in your way. So an option 
 to turn the crowds on or off, or something. Also online tournaments setup for quickplay. No need 
 to wait on other people or even see what they are up to. You sign up for the tournament in advance, 
 sign in before it begins, and then it begins, you play through the holes at your speed (not too 
 slow) and a menu option to see what the leaderboard displays, and what hole everybody is currently 
 on. For slow players they get penalties to discourage players from being the person bringing up 
 the rear trying to see how everyone else does first before they make an attempt at a hole. Anyway, 
 just my two cents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JADavidson
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 26, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Game play is not up to Tiger Woods standards. I can see why EA took this franchise away from its 
 regional creators. They changes some features and tried to re-invent the wheel, which I think was 
 a HUGE mistake. The format and gameplay was great in previous versions, but due to some interesting 
 changes, the game lacks some smoothness and fun factor or previous episodes. I'm really hoping 
 the new Tiger Woods goes back to the greatness it once provided. Pros: More challenging driving 
 and ball striking. Great graphics!
  
  Cons: Putting is really, really, bad! The feature Fast forward feature after the ball has landed 
 and you are waiting for the ball to stop rolling after a drive is gone! What the heck?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Howell123
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 13, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  Well I bought this game a couple of days ago for &pound;30 and it was worth it basically. Tiger 
 Woods PGA tour remains the best golf game you can ever own... PERIOD!
  
  So when you first come to the game you'll come across a nice tutorial which will help you and teach 
 the basics of putting , chiping , driving and recovery and a few more skills from there you create 
 your own gamer face/character and for 5 easy gamerscore points it's just a nice little sequence 
 which gets you into the game more.
  
  So you've got your golfer now do you decide to go straight into the season or train your golfer 
 Oh and do the TIGER CHALLENGE. i went straight into the season and it was a bad move your driving 
 is awful your putting is poor so just spend around 1-4 hours on a little bit of everything to help 
 improve your skillsa nd then go for it!
  
  The TIGER CHALLENGE is a way for you to earn extra money for the pro-shop and extra bonuses for 
 certain skills. So you can face the likes of Luke Donald , Mike Weir, Monty and even Woods and 
 again you are awarded 30 gemerscore points for just beating them it is relativley hard so try an 
 easier approach I would recomend.
  
  A problem with the game is the lack of creativity you have for your carrer you don't get like fan 
 mail or e-mails congratulating you or anything llus are no world rankings so you dunno where you 
 are and the sound is pretty lame aswell. Commentary is weak and the golfers tend to repeat certain 
 phrases like GET ON THE FAIRWAY!! 
  
  Tiger Woods Fan? you know the drill GEt IT! cos there is no other game on the market NOW that can 
 really draw into a golf game like this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MDDichard07
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  Good:
  The amount of courses from 06 has been doubled and they are amazingly fun to play.
  Create a Character has been almost perfected in TW: PGA 07.
  All the licensed golfers look spectacular 
 and are extremely impressive.
  Gameplay has great stuff for newbies and fun difficulty changing improvement from 06 to keep long 
 term fanboys happy.
  Sound is impressive
  
  
  Bad:
  EA remains to be one of the few companies remaining that are making better games for current gen 
 consoles in comparison to their next gen brothers, for example their are almost 10 additional courses 
 on the PS2 version of this game.
  Training missions are disgusting
  Commentary is atrocious and should better replaced immediately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TTDog
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 26, 2007 5:21 am PT
Review:  To put it bluntly the 2006 version on Xbox 360 was a rip off, half a dozen courses and game modes 
 distinguished only by there absence.
  2007 is better, but still a few courses light.
  What it does do, unlike previous versions, is offer something of a challenge.
  Gone are the days 
 when you could land the ball on a sixpence time after time after time, here when you line up a 
 shot the potential landing area is highlighted and covers a much wider area of the course, so you 
 have to plan the shot more, and whilst its still possible to score in the 40's around the easier 
 courses, its by no means guaranteed.
  There are plenty of mini-games, some disguised as training aids for the player to boost their skills, 
 and a decent length tour season and unlike 2006 its possible to win a tournament without shooting 
 45 each round.
  Graphicallt the courses are stunning, but the level of detail on some of the other players could 
 be better, and the crowd look too much like PS2 rejects for my liking.
  At worst this will keep players busy until the 2008 version hits the shelves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zerostar537
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  This is the best golf game ive ever played.
  
  Gameplay: great golfing, many courses, many pro golfers to beat, and plenty of tournaments to play 
 in. the create a character is awesome . it is so detailed that you can make your character pretty 
 much look like yourself. And also all your abilities can risen in training challenges.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are good but not the best.
  
  Sound: the announcers are kind of annoying 
 and they can predict the future almost every hit. And your players voice can get annoying no matter 
 the pitch.
  
  Value: the game goes pretty deep and has kept me playing for a while.
  
  Reviewers Tilt: I love this game and i give the tilt a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesv00
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Best game have, very fun to play, sponserhips are cool and trying to get to the top. a must have 
 game for sure! I reaaly like the mini games as they are very fun, and matchplay, online, and playing 
 with ur mates is great. I LOVE THIS GAME! If you are into golf this game is good to help you with 
 your real life swing asweel as you can see how tiger woods does it, as the game mimics all of the 
 pros swings. Jim Furyks is reaaly funny to see in slow motion as he has a very bizarre swing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flishkin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  I have not played previous Tiger Woods PGA Tour games, but this is a great game to pick-up and 
 get into. Its a bit slow going in the beginning as your golfer is rather poor and can barely hit 
 the ball, but the game seems to be getting considerable more fun as my golfer gains experience. 
 It has great graphics and quite a few nice touches that allow you to fast track the various mini-video 
 clips which do tend to repeat a bit. The most annoying part of the game is that you cannot save 
 your game while youre playing a course (e. g. after youve played a hole) . You can only save once 
 the entire course has been played. In the beginning its okay as most tournament are 9 holes, but 
 to play a full 18 holes takes about 1 hour 30mins thats a long stretch for me! ;-) Other than 
 that, its the best golf game Ive ever played! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamikaze_pigmy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 4:14 am PT
Review:  'Its alright I guess' a phrase i've heard all to many people say, when playing on this against 
 me, i'm not good, thats probably because i only played it once, when i got my 360, it came in a 
 bundle so i wasn't expecting it to be good, the only things that come in bundles are usually launch 
 titles like PGR 3. I played through the tutorial, which was a bit annoying because it used too 
 many golf terms that i had no idea what they meant. But the tutorial does have some good points, 
 such as 3 modes: Spoken, Written or a sort of video demonstration where you can have a go. Also, 
 the game tricks you into thinking your good by being awful at the tutorial, you can get a whole 
 in 1, and the computer can't even do what it supposed to be demonstrating, to be fair though that 
 was only the tutorial, and I probably havent given the game enough time to impress me, but frankly 
 thats never going to happen, i thought it was abismal right from the start, every game diserves 
 a chance, but this wasted its. If i had to sum it up in one word i'd shoot myself, because there 
 are too many words for terrible.
  
  Maybe the word ZZZZ would work tho... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: obiken
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  I must admit, I hated golf; I have always hated it, I thought it was the dumbest and easiest game 
 on the planet. Wrong. This game taught me how people can really get into it. No, I am not going 
 to go out and hit the links in real life. Never the less, I can now see how great the game is and 
 most of all how great Tiger Woods is. Like Fight Night Round 3 you can create your own Golfer and 
 give him or her spiked hair and tattoos. You can if want to cheat; you can download the codes from 
 XBOX live. However on easy level its not necessary. That is the thing I like most about this game: 
 easy level is easy level. HARD is HARD. I hate games like Gears of War that easy is hard and hard 
 is impossible; I think I speak well for my fellow wimps out there. The graphics and game play are 
 great, although the putting could be a little easier, but one could argue that's real golf. There 
 are so many courses and players its unreal, from Jeff Furyick to Tiger himself. I dont see how 
 you can make it any better.
  In short an addictive Classic!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigNudeGuardian
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 23, 2007 12:30 am PT
Review:  This game is so frustrating. Everytime that I hit it over the crowd or a trap it ends up going 
 in that particular spot. Now i know it just isn't me. I have watched several of my friends play 
 it and get the same result. Makes me think that there is something funny goin on. But that could 
 just be me. But yeah, it is far to frustrating to like. I will admit that it is one of the better 
 looking golf games that i have ever played but i will say that there is no golf game that has ever 
 been ever to beat Links 2004. Links was smooth and never felt like it was ripping you off with 
 ever hit. Nor did it get old or boring until after you beat the game. It could just be so give 
 it a try yourself, it is worth a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haz_4x4
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 19, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  And again yes, i got this game for xmas, without asking for it, and i do like golf in life so i 
 thought hey? why not lets give it a try, and when i first played it i was fairly impressed, nice 
 graphics good gameplay, i didnt think anything could go wrong, and now when i come to play it i 
 am currently playing through the tiger challange, and i do find this incredbly poor, for one the 
 match can consist of up to 45 minutes, and my main problem is you seem to do well and then it all 
 falls apart when your playing, your golfer becomes floppy and they suddenly become amazing, and 
 then before i know it, i had lost the match, and wasted a lot of time, EA really do need to consider 
 this game is suitable for 3+ and they really need to improve the gameplay, i am dissapointed, so 
 next time they need to bare in mine not too rush it and think about the difficuly of the game and 
 the achaivments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndyTSJ
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 18, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  Tiger is back with a new, harder variety of golf - a refreshing upgrade for this solid series. 
 In previous years Tiger has become a bit gimmicky and a bit easy. Last year on the 360 the game 
 was a bit more demanding but still reasonably easy. It did however include some neat character 
 building mini games to enhance your golfers abilities. This year those have been extended further 
 and they're a great addition. Likewise the gameplay itself is more demanding, especially on the 
 Tour difficulty level. You can make things easier or harder by adjusting the difficulty and having 
 caddie tips turned on.
  
  All in all this is a solid, attractive looking and detailed game of golf. Any sports fan owning 
 a 360 should pick this title up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cecx
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 11, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Tiger Woods 06 for the 360 seemed extremely rushed and put together poorly. The online play was 
 there but didnt function at all due to large amounts of lag. The achievements in the game were 
 also impossible to get for the most part and created a very frustrating game experience overall. 
 The gameplay itself was supposedly more challenging than previous versions but really ended up 
 being almost identical. Tiger Woods 07 improves on just about everything wrong with the last game.
 
  
  First of all, the single-player portion of the game is primarily based around the Tiger Challenge 
 mode as well as the PGA Tour Season. In addition, you can play rounds of golf for pure fun against 
 A. I. too. The Tiger Challenge consists of you creating a golfer using the character creation feature 
 (which is more in depth than ever letting you create any kind of golfer you can imagine) and then 
 using him to compete against various golfers in match play games of the 9 hole and 18 hole variations. 
 You can also use rookie Tiger Woods if you really dont want to make a character. Once you beat 
 everybody who there is to play in the ladders you have to face Tiger himself. The PGA Tour Season 
 is exactly that, a PGA Tour Season. You must take your character and play through a season trying 
 to win as many tournaments as possible, and eventually the FedEx Cup which is new to both real 
 golf and the game.
  
  There are a few new gamemodes added this year with the big ones being Greensome and Bloodsome. 
 Although they cannot be played online, they are both fun to play when friends come over (or you 
 can always play against the A. I.) . Greensome consists of 2 vs. 2 best ball, but your team picks 
 which shot they want to use instead of playing both. Bloodsome is the same except the other team 
 picks which shot they want you to hit. The online play is vastly improved over last years. There 
 is little to no lag in the actual game itself once it gets going, but you occasionally may lock-up 
 or freeze in a game lobby or when hosting. The community is very good for this game with very few 
 people quitting early and hardly any trash talkers. When you log on regardless of your time zone, 
 there is always somebody who wants to play. I have played around 70+ matches and have had fun in 
 every one of them.
  
  Some more pluses in this game would be that it has a more realistic feel to it. Rarely do you hit 
 a ball perfectly straight in this game. Different layers you will meet online play fades and draws 
 on purpose, but some play them on accident which makes the game even better. The putting also seems 
 to be more difficult online, and an extra little bit of challenge is always nice.
  
  The graphics are improved over 06, primarily the character models. The most noticeable difference 
 would be that Tiger Woods doesnt look like he has eye liner on. The courses themselves look very 
 good, but the background and water sometimes look ugly with all the jagged edges.
  
  The sound is pretty good, but some of the clubs dont sound like their real life counterparts and 
 the sound the ball makes when entering the cup is completely off (I play a lot of golf and notice 
 the little things.)
  
  The only big negatives I have with the game are some of the online issues, and the fact that the 
 Try 5 online tournaments achievement doesnt work at all, otherwise this game is a lot of fun 
 and is a great golf sim.
  
  If you are a golf fan, or at least a fan of the Tiger Woods series I would highly recommend that 
 you purchase this game. It is not only a challenging game, but has good multiplayer and gamemodes 
 to keep you busy far after you finish the singleplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiltaJay
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Wow talk about a comeback, this game gets the award hands down. This game is such an improvement, 
 it'll even make Tiger Woods blush. I personally think the greatest innovation so far is the new 
 aiming system. No more dumb arrows telling you where to hit your shots, this is straight up earning 
 your shot if you want to be good. The feel just seems so natural and the controls are responsive 
 and very challenging once you gain experience and put in your hard earned time, but the rewards 
 are great. Once you feel the pressure and not far behing Tiger in the scoring you'll see what I 
 mean. The graphics are truly next gen with Tiger looking soo real you can almost feel his flesh. 
 The other golfers look great as well and the courses look outstanding. the crowd looks generic 
 but they're there for the atmosphere and make the game more authentic. The sound and commentary 
 could of used more work, but I'm sure EA will work on that next year. The most important thing 
 is the gameplay and TW07 does not dissapoint. Is there room for improvement? of course, but EA 
 is heading in the right direction. All EA has to do is sign some legends like Jack Nicklaus and 
 Arnold Palmer and we'll be all set. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redsam
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 24, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Last year's tiger had a look to the courses, and golfers that seemed a bit more finished. The upside 
 is the load times are much better. The new shot targeting is more frustrating, but hell this is 
 golf, so a bit more realistic. The game modes and training are a huge improvement. More courses 
 are great too.
  
  The one thing I really wish they had, that my psp version does, is the ability to hit skip golfer 
 button for AI based matches to speed up the pace of play. You can use the Y button to fast forward, 
 but first you have to get through the wind-up of the swing, only impact on is accelerated.
  
  New mini-games are great. The more encouraging achievements a huge improvement. My only question, 
 why no points for unlocking the other greatest golfer, Annika Sorenstam?
  
  Oh, and please, let's fix the stupid announcers that say the same thing over and over, and the 
 AI rarely is on point about what the shot is really doing. Let's dig a little deeper EA and add 
 some depth and unexpected dialogue that we never have heard that can show up from time to time, 
 and actually surprise us!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stonec9
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 23, 2007 1:32 am PT
Review:  Im a massive golf and gaming fan and played many golf games over the years. This has got to be 
 the best thats been done! The graphics are amazing, especially on a decent HDTV and ive played 
 this game formany hurs on both a normal TV and a decent HDTV (since weve only just bought it) . 
 The difference even between TW07 on the xbox and 360 is noticable and its clear they spent far 
 more time on the 360 version, even minute details such as the details in the corner detailing the 
 yardage etc looks far more stylish and crisper than ever before.
  
  Theres loads to do in this game with the great 'Tiger Woods Challenge' which is a matchplay format. 
 The training area is also great and possible one of the only games Ive played where training is 
 just as much un as normal gameplay. Some of the past ones got boring where you had to train up 
 your golfer and it took far too long to get up o tigers standard. This game keeps all that training 
 and time spent on the course and the range fun.
  
  Achievements are also easy in places but some are also quite hard to get but to be honest theres 
 a nice balance. Its good that the achievements encourage u to really explore the whole game and 
 so get the best out of it. Far too many times weve all just ignored certain game modes, etc but 
 TW07 are great.
  
  Overall, this game ir brilliant and if youve been a fan of any of the games before, this id definitely 
 one to buy. A must have in all golfers collection, especially on the 360! Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riggatone
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 22, 2007 7:01 am PT
Review:  Playing Tiger Woods 2007 for the first time I had a distinct feeling of De ja Vu, and anyone who 
 has played any of the the last 3 years games on ps2 or Xbox will no doubt feel the same. It is 
 easy to pick up and play and you get the feel for the game quickly although thats not to say that 
 to get anywhere near 100% completion on this game will be a simple task. The game is addictive 
 and like all EA sports games sports good graphics and presentation. None of this is lost online 
 and the game runs perfectly via Xbox live. Like many other titles that have first appeared on the 
 last generation of consoles this feels not truly 'next gen' and for there to be less golfers and 
 courses than the PS2 and Xbox version is poor.
  
  Recommended none the less as even though it is doing nothing it hasn't done before, I keep wanting 
 to go back and play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyberjock64
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 21, 2007 1:15 am PT
Review:  Well even if it is the only golf on XBOX 360, I bought this game a couple of weeks ago and cant 
 put it down. While it isnt the cutting edge graphically it is superior to anything I've ever played 
 before on a console. My previous console favorite was Links on the original XBOX. Now I have this 
 game to absorb myself in for hours. Bottom line I love this game. And at the end of the day it 
 has remarkable replayability. The Tiger Challenge is a lot of fun and while it took me a minute 
 to figure out how best to work the PGA Tour part of the game I haven't been able to find much to 
 complain about here. If you like golf and have countless hours available for this addictive game. 
 Go out and get your self a copy now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tooshay17
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 17, 2007 3:39 am PT
Review:  Tiger Woods has to be one of the best golf games I have ever played. The wierd thing is, I hate 
 golf. I don't like to watch it, I don't like to play it but I'm just completely addicted to this 
 game. The best part I have to say is creating your own golfer. The vast amount of different faces 
 that you can create is unbelievable. Also, as your new golfers face is close up to the screen, 
 the realism is just breathtaking. The PGA tour season is a fun way to continue your players career 
 but I much prefer the tiger challenge. The tiger challenge is a group of 15 different well known 
 golfers which you have to beat on a particular difficulty with a particular number of holes, and 
 once you beat the golfer, you unlock them. Customizing your golfer is also a fun aspect, and the 
 pro shop's sheer number of clothes, clubs and accessories is amazing. This isn't just a one player 
 game though. it has plenty of different 2 player mini games like T-I-G-E-R and battle golf that 
 you can play with your friends. This is a stunning game, don't miss it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chazzx21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 16, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  ok one major edition, AMAZING graphics. This game succeeds in making Tiger look like a next gen 
 champion. It almost looks as good as playing it on my friends Mac. The swing mechanics are still 
 very similar and basic and sometimes a bit sensitive. You will end up hitting alot of tour gallery 
 members early on. Unfortunately excpet for distance, there is no difference between Tiger and an 
 average Joe in terms of hitting skill and probably luck.
  
  Making a welcome return is the putting grid. It put's a lot of the skill back into putting but 
 unforunately is still a long way from mirroring real life putting. Still the standard package of 
 games but none of them still maintaining any sort of great longevity. This is definately a gamefly 
 rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdrillnfill
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 5, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  What a difference between 06 and 07 in this game. I had Tiger 06 and thought that if this was the 
 way this game was going in the future then I was just going to hang it up. 07 has made me much 
 happier though. Great graphics, improved layouts and menus that are very self explainatory, solid 
 commentating, and nice music. EA did a great job of getting back to the basics with this game and 
 bringing back some of the things people loved about this game. If you we dissapointed with 06, 
 do not hesitate to get 07. You will not be let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: role-player07
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 2, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Tiger Woods 07 is the best in the series by far. When you put it on the next generation graphics, 
 it improves the fun you have while you play. If you are going to buy this game buy it on 360. The 
 driving has gotten more realistic, and the putting is still solid. I love Tiger Woods 07 more than 
 any other golf simulation out there. This game is worth the buy, no doubt. I don't even like to 
 play or watch golf, but I love playing it on Tiger Woods 07! Best sports game out there right now, 
 take my word. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 20, 2007 5:38 am PT
Review:  Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2007 Micro Review
  
  The PGA Tour series has been going for a number of years now and it is good to see that it still 
 delivers a fine game of golf. The golf swing is neatly translated to the 360 control sticks and 
 feels just right. The inclusion of simple fade, draw &amp; spin with the new target zone aiming 
 is a welcome improvement. Tiger07 also features an excellent character development mode which 
 sees you trying to improve your characters skills by competing in a wide variety of different 
 events.
  
  The courses are beautifully presented and look fantastic on an HD TV. The player character models 
 are excellent with some cool customisable animations. The character creation engine also allows 
 you to create an avatar with an amazing variety of renders and textures. I have been critical of 
 EAs Trax in the past, but here it actually works really well with some fine tunes to accompany 
 the golf. The voice, crowd and ball sound effects are all fine, with each drive featuring a particularly 
 satisfying whomp!
  
  Tiger 07 delivers a large array of different game modes from training mini-games to full tournaments 
 that will keep players occupied for some time. Tiger also features a well designed multiplayer 
 that includes a welcome variety of game modes. It is, however, disappointing to be short changed 
 in having 9 fewer courses than the PS2 and Xbox versions. In addition, EA have done themselves 
 no favours by being quite cynical with the Marketplace add-ons as well.
  
  Tiger 07 is a genuinely enjoyable sports game, and plays a fine game of golf. The character creation 
 &amp; development, multiplayer options and variety of game modes make this an essential purchase 
 for any golf or sports game fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swr1ght
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 1, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  The only real knock against this game that I have is that I paid 20% more (from $50 to $60) for 
 40% less game (from 21 courses to 12 courses) . This is beyond poor. And having to pay extra for 
 features that are available for free on the cheaper versions? WTF? Otherwise, the rating would 
 be higher. Also, the online play is still not as easy or as intuitive as other 360 games. I do 
 have a petty gripe about the apparel items. In '06 you could buy an item, but then transfer the 
 points that the item gave you to a different item. This allowed you to dress your character however 
 you wanted without interfering with game play. In '07 they have removed this, making my character 
 have to have either lower stats, or wear knickerbockers. Which is lame.
  Besides those complaints the game is a good one. I really liked the increase in realism from the 
 '06 version. The target circle makes the game harder, and more realistic. Which in my opinion is 
 an improvement. I never liked the Tiger Vision, and the GameBreaker features that were in previous 
 versions. And it has been removed in this version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brad2645
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 26, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; 
 &lt; This game is so fun its awesome to just chill with your friends and play with them on multi-player. 
 And the graphics are great! VERY great game WAY more fun than watching golf. &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
 &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; MUST BUY! Some 
 times the gameplay can be a little frustrating but it makes it more difficult . The create a player 
 mode is the best i have ever seen you can give them wrinkles and all sorts of customized looks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wmcgee353
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 10, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Great play as always but it is missing the old fantasy courses like Black Rock Cove. We should 
 be able to download them. With the power of the Xbox 360 there is no reason EA should not have 
 every course on this game that has ever been in the Tiger Woods series. This is the only reason 
 I don't give this game a 10.0. The game play is not as easy as it used to be that's a plus it's 
 more realistic, but with the lack of courses it's dissapointing because it would be perfect. Another 
 thing that really stinks is the regular Xbox version has more courses than the 360 version. EA 
 did the same kind of thing with the NCAA football game (there is summer camp in XBOX but not in 
 360) I feel like that is very lousy on the part of EA the 360 games are more expensive and have 
 a more powerful system to work with. I could see an excuse for this last year when games were being 
 rushed out for the launch of 360 but it has been around for a whole year now. The way it is now 
 if you just play sports games for the features and don't put much stock in graphics there is no 
 incentive for you to upgrade from XBOX to XBOX360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjl259
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 6, 2006 11:03 pm PT
Review:  The next gen Tiger looks awesome! The new face models, course/environment re-detailing, and even 
 the crowds look next gen unlike '06. The crowds are huge now, so it actually feels like a pro tourney. 
 My only gripe is the commentary. If youre like me and have played tiger series from the near beginning, 
 you know what I am talking about. The Gary McCord and David Feherety chime ins are soo redundant, 
 and even annoying. For a new tiger player, this is no big deal. But for the love of GOD have them 
 say something new, or get replacement commentators. Im so tired of Oh he hit this one long, or 
 Wow, thats gargantuan. Besides that, great game. New aiming makes the game semi- more difficult, 
 which is good because you essentially cant shoot like 20 under in one round anymore. I definately 
 recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DurdyRubberX
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 5, 2006 4:54 am PT
Review:  Fans of the Tiger Woods series will be surprised in amazement this year when they plug in this 
 title on the Xbox 360 with in-depth graphics that will blow you away and enhanced game play that 
 will make you grin. In this years title you will again be able to create your own personal model 
 with which you will go through the PGA earning your own prestige and find your own strengths and 
 weaknesses. Even outside of the game play for players who are online a special bonus courtesy of 
 ESPN is updates on all games and even trades which tend to be handy if you have money on the game. 
 With all of that in mind this will be the year that Tiger Woods PGA Tour '07 shows everyone that 
 it can and does get better from here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 420Braindead
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  This is game is fun. Its easy to pick up and play (So playing with friends is great!) yet its hard 
 to master. I dont really like golf. heck I think its boring. But the other day i decided to rent 
 Tiger Woods 07 and I was happy i did. of course the graphics look great. All the courses youve 
 ever wanted to play plus more. And there is not any more of tapping A a few times... its all in 
 the left analog stick. this makes it easy yet challenging to play. So why are you still reading 
 about it and go try it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 27, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  ==========
  IMPRESSIVE: Beautiful visuals // Challenging and skill-building gameplay // ========== In-depth 
 character creation // Xbox: Live tournaments add ========== more excitement, interactivity, socialization 
 and points // ========== Achievements are well thought-out.
  ============
  NEEDS WORK: Not much variety of courses.
  ============
  
  Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07 improves 
 over it's predecessor in every possible way, the presentation, the graphics, the multiplayer, everything! 
 Tiger 07 hits the golf sim genre on the nose, it presents it in a way no other EA Sports game has 
 ever been presented, from every last detail you can tell that it has all been tested and approved. 
 Teeing off is unarguably the best part of it all, the adrenaline that runs through you as that 
 hard metal sound blasts when you hit the ball with full force, to the brisk flight through the 
 air till the thunderous landing (hopefully not in a bunker or out of bounds) .
  
  Tiger 07 is definately the crown of golf-sims, not only on the 360, but every platform. If you 
 still aren't sure about this game, then download the jam-packed demo and have a taster. This game 
 truely does ROCK! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nextgengamer32
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2006 12:32 am PT
Review:  Tiger Woods 06 had some of the most difficult achievements of any game to date. With requirements 
 like compete in 1,000 online matches and make 25 holes in one, it was possible to pour dozens of 
 hours into the game and have no points to show for your efforts. A sizable time commitment is necessary 
 to earn all 1,000 points in Tiger Woods 07, but boosting your gamer score, at least a little, won't 
 be as futile an endeavor as it was last year. Points can be earned in a variety of ways, such as 
 by winning major tournaments, by beating golfers in the Tiger challenge and minigames, and by creating 
 a male or female golfer. Almost universally, the changes and additions made since last year serve 
 to make Tiger Woods 07 a better game than Tiger Woods 06. However, with many of the big problems 
 out of the way, a few still remain, and other, smaller issues have become apparent. Twelve courses 
 is still on the low side of what one would expect from a Tiger Woods game, a lot of the different 
 modes feel the same, and with many of the graphics being outstanding, the ones that aren't so great 
 are more noticeable. That said, Tiger 07 is a great game, and the improvement in the last 11 months 
 shows that that EA isn't content to maintain the status quo. If you're searching for a great round 
 of video game golf, Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07 is what you're looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itlnjeff
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2006 12:38 am PT
Review:  I am not a golf guy by any means. When it comes to Tiger Woods games I am hooked. This game is 
 not as forgiving as the previous titles. When you are making a shot if you don't do it perfectly 
 you will be somewhere you don't want to be. The graphics are spectacular and the character customization 
 is also great. The game is a thinker from start to finish. Even if you don't like golf definitely 
 give this game a shot you won't regret it. I play for hours. The last thing is the golfer training 
 what a great add on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adams83
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 24, 2006 3:56 am PT
Review:  First off, this is a good game. The graphics are good, and the gameplay is solid, fun and addictive. 
 Sadly, because of this solid grounding, and the fact that i was in love with TW2005, it makes it 
 hard to ignore the ways this game could have been much better.
  
  First off, that there are no fantasy courses (because of the other courses needing so much work) 
 is annoying. The Greek Isles was a great course on 2005 and the lack this sort of thing is a noticeable 
 loss. Also, the profile setup is also strange, with two player not being able to load two created 
 golfers to play against each other off the same 360 profile (unless I'm missing something - please 
 let me know if i am) .
  
  One technical issue is, if a bad shot is played into a large bush or something, the game compensates 
 by moving the location of the ball out of particularly hard-to-play areas: after landing in waist 
 high grass, then next shot will be played from the 80-90% rough. Also, if a ball lands right on 
 the edge of a bunker, the next shot will sometimes be played from the middle of the bunker. These 
 were probably designed to avoid near impossible shots, but it feels like a short term workaround 
 rather than a engine based solution - play it where it lies is my motto. The introduction of fully 
 harm-able people is a welcome introduction, and i must admit that when i know i am going to lose 
 a hole i sometimes just Punch a shot into the the crowd. It's also worth noting that the crowd 
 can be used as a wall to stop the ball going to far off the fairway a shot goes wide (can't decide 
 whether this is bad design or a welcome helping hand) .
  
  It is also much harder, which is good, and there is tons of stuff on the forums out there on the 
 finer points of the tricky putting system. It is also more sensitive to stick movements on drive 
 and approach shots, with very slight deviations from center causing large errors in direction (especially 
 at low skill levels) .
  
  The skill increase process is also good, requiring the player to defeat character along side completing 
 practice session to climb the skill ladder. Unfortunately there is nothing particularly innovative 
 on the side of practice mini-games (one or two player) .
  
  Obvious things like face mapping via the 360 camera are missing, and the pro shop store is surprisingly 
 limited.
  
  Basically, the changes can be summed up as an attempt to make this game a 'golf sim' . Aside from 
 the gameplay, the frivolous graphics and playful sounds have been dulled down. Some people will 
 like that about this game, but i would rather less realism and more fun. If you really liked previous 
 TW games, but have played them do death, then get this. But be prepared for a game that only really 
 improves in terms of graphics and difficulty, and removes imagination. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylepadd
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 16, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  This game in the series takes graphics to the next level. Everything looks as real as it ever could 
 using this console. The old Tiger Woods of past were easy and did not provide much challenge. Skills 
 are accumulated by play and success and not bought with money like the old games. This makes to 
 round to round consistency much better and the gameplay longer before your character is maxed out 
 skill wise. It might be me but the putting in this game seems much harder than that of previous 
 games. It makes you think a lot more. One aspect that did disappoint was that the game freezes 
 for 5 seconds occasionally.
  
  Overall this is a great and surprising improvement with additions of many features to keep you 
 playing non stop. Buy this game, it will not dissapoint, and it will keep you glued to the TV for 
 hours on end. One thing that I should mention is that once when swinging someone in the crowd said 
 eagle eye, and sure enough it dropped in the cup for an eagle. I have only heard it once but I 
 hope to hear it many more times. Listen for it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raylaboy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 12, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  TW '07 Plays and looks silky smooth. From the detailed facial features on the Game Face to the 
 facial expressions on the gameplay, this game is eye candy for gaming fans and for golf fans too! 
 But it's not all about visuals, the gameplay is as good. With all the different game types, mini 
 games and training games this game has a lot of replay value. When you feel youve done it all, 
 get on XBL and find out how good you really are on a crap load of types of games that require you 
 to compete against other XBL golfers from around the globe. Overall, this game is a must-have for 
 golf fans and a good buy for sports multiplayer junkies. If youve never played a golf game before, 
 rent this game. Who knows, you might end up going for the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billym99
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 28, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  To keep this short I'll simply say that this is the best Tiger Woods golf game to date. I think 
 EA has made a few steps in the right direction of making the gameplay here more difficult, although 
 there is still room for improvement. One of my gripes with the series has been the ability to easily 
 shoot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6of6
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 9, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  EA took over the computer/golfing arena when they came out with gameface . The reason for this 
 is that golf is a social game and character creation made the difference between EA and their competitors.
 
  
  Now, EA has let character creation go to the dogs and the only improvement to game play in 2007 
 over 2006 is *removing* things that were bad in the first place. I do give them credit for doubling 
 the golf courses, but -- really -- they should have been there in the first place.
  
  I hope EA will wake up and see that golf games fail based on technical merit and succeed on artistic 
 merit. Well... imho, anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erratis
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 8, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  I played a friends PC version, and I have to say, the 360 version Is 100% better than the PC version. 
 I dont like playing golf myself, but the game on the 360 is suprisingly good. The graphic are very 
 good, I have seen better, but I have seen much worse. The replay value of this game is unlimited. 
 I have not played online yet, so I cant inform you about this part of it. The single player mode 
 is very good, and keeps you busy. The Tiger challenges to up your players skills is a nice touch, 
 I think this is better than being able to just buy them. Ive played with 4 people in the same house, 
 and its very fun. There seems to be a problem when playing 18 holes on the Sawgrass course, it 
 freezes at the back 9 holes. I havent had this problem anywhere else yet.
  
  The commentary is a little off, telling you its a bad shot, when its actually a good shot, but 
 nothing to complain about. The music is... i dont remember hearing any....
  
  All in all this is a good game, even if your not a fan of the game. I would highly recommend this 
 version over the PC version though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninja929
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2006 2:15 am PT
Review:  First I would like to say that I am not a sports sim fan except for the Fight Night series. I only 
 picked this game up because I had downloaded on LIVE and enjoyed it a lot. Having not played any 
 other Tiger Woods PGA Tour I would not know how it compares to others in its series, but I really 
 really like this one. I popped it in my system and created my custom golfer. I thought there could 
 have been more features to choose from. I am an Asian American with spikey hair and there is no 
 option for that in the game. If any one knows how to create a character with this feature please 
 let me know. I like how you start as a nobody golfer and have to level up your skills as you train 
 your golfer or play through the Tiger Challenge. The graphics are good for a next gen console, 
 but could be more polished. On the other hand Tiger looks totally like him. The swing sticks makes 
 digital golfing fun. This game is a relaxing game to pick up and play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fman12
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 6, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  This game was very disappointing. The graphics on the people I think they over tried on some stuff 
 and messed it up. Gameplay was horrible. I don't like the new aimer that big circle. They definitly 
 need to get back the caddie tip the grid is horrible. The grass doesn't look much better than it 
 looks on PS2. There was nothing special about the sound. It was kind of original but in a bad way. 
 So if I were you I would stick with the PS2 version. It isn't that hard other than the stupid putting. 
 It doesn't take as long as I put to get use to it that is just how long it takes to believe ho 
 much they screwed it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Michael5076
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 3, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  Tiger Woods 07 is the best golf game to come on the market to this day. Ive found the game to be 
 easier to play but is still very challenging. The putting game is much easier than in past years. 
 You can now spin the ball forward or backward to get the exact speed on the ball. Bunker play isnt 
 as hard. you can also go to the xbox live marketplace and pay 200 pts to max out ur player. Yes, 
 hes automattically better than tiger. You can also download the extra golfers and courses if you 
 dont like the challenge of having to earn them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jergernice
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 2, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  This year is harder, more realistic and more fun..... until you gain attributes then it becomes 
 easy, boring, repetetive...... as last years, as every years.....
  
  seriously if you dont like the new putting over the old putting.... you are not a golfer, nor a 
 golf fan. golf is all about challenge. golf is all about hitting a good shot and still getting 
 in trouble.
  
  until golf games get this right..... as a person that spends about 8000 a year on golf and equipment 
 for personal use, i will not buy another golf game..... quit catering to the dumb and create a golf 
 sim. or at least sim mode totally separate from the arcade game like madden used to do. that way 
 the people that feel that shooting 15 under is the only way to have fun will still buy. i mean 
 i bought 06 and never once hit the sand or water. ever. ever. ever.. huh..... horrible.......07 
 is better until well ive already said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kahuna9995
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 31, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  I remember when I purchased TW04 after playing TW03 to death on my xbox and within the space of 
 time it took me to play a round with a new character with no stats I shot a round of 15 under par... 
 this left me thinking that there really wouldn't be much room for improvement in my game with increased 
 stats.
  
  It would seem that ever since TW04 EA has tried to make the Tiger Woods series increasingly difficult 
 and to try and move away from the acrade experience that was the earlier versions. However it leaves 
 me feeling that TW07 is pulling itself in two different driections and the developers can't seem 
 to commit to one idea of what this game should be trying to achieve.
  
  For a start this move towards simulation has resulted in one of the most bizarre changes I have 
 seen in a golf game, the aiming circle. Now having played enough real golf in my time to understand 
 it's subtle frustrations. Aiming (In my case) is a fairly random affair. However the base principle 
 applies that how I allign my feet and shoulders directly relates to the path the ball should fly 
 away in. So I can aim for a specific point on the fairway or the green and depending on how well 
 I hit the ball directly relates to how close to that original aiming point I land the ball. With 
 that in mind I find the inclusion of the aiming circle to be an overly random representation of 
 the aiming process in golf. I see no requirement to vary the possible trajectory of even a well 
 hit shot because surely sensitivity of the swing detection through the thumbstick would relate 
 to the variance of the shot anyway.
  
  Granted the ability to increase your players stats eventually overtakes the inaccuracy created 
 by the aiming circle but I can only surmise that new players to the game may be put off by the 
 initial difficulty of this system.
  
  The removal of the ideal put line does make for a welcome increase in the difficulty of the puttling 
 however anyone familiar with the putting system in the original PC Links series will recognise 
 this immediately.
  
  I do appreciate the developers attempts to make a more realistic golfing experience with the inclusion 
 of a harder aiming system and an increasingly sensitive swing system but in a simulation where 
 you would be expected to adapt to the control method to get the most out of it because TW07 still 
 uses the stat increase system your players abilities soon overtake the limitations implied by the 
 aiming controls that it no longer affects your game to any adverse level.
  
  To be fair this is the best looking game in the series so far. It is still a little annoying that 
 the 360 version does have the least number of courses due to there increased storeage requirements 
 but there are a fine selection of courses available to play on.
  
  The folley sounds/crowd reactions and commentaries are exactly the same as they have been for the 
 past few incarnations of the TW series that it really doesn't merit any comment.
  
  In summary TW07 is the best golf game on the 360. Bearing in mind that the only other golf game 
 available is TW06 and it was rushed for launch thats not much of a statement. TW07 still offers 
 a fun golf experience and is worth commiting some time to but sadly I do feel the series peaked 
 for sheer playability a good few versions ago and we will continue to see graphical and gameplay 
 tweaks that don't really take the series anywhere special. Maybe in TW08 the developers will decided 
 to make an all out golf sim or go back to it's arcade roots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wehttam16
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 29, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  GAME PLAY: The gameplay is pretty spot on. Not to hard, not to easy. A new aiming system has been 
 added for teeing off and other long shots. Instead of an arrow pointing to where the ball should 
 land, there is a rather large cirle which shows you approximately where the ball should end up. 
 This makes for more of a challenge. Putting is pretty much the same as last year. A grid is on 
 the green with dots running accross it. If the grid is red, it indicates a severe uphill shot, 
 when it's yellow, it indicates a moderate uphill shot, when it's green, it means the course is 
 level, and when it's blue, it means it's a downhill shot. The dots indicate which way the green 
 slopes. The faster the dots are moving, the more it slopes.
  
  GRAPHICS: Overall the graphics are good. The player models (especially Tiger) are a step up from 
 last year. Tiger is one of the best looking player models I've seen in a game. The fact that the 
 players have different emotions and facial expressions are a nice touch and add to the realism. 
 A nice addition to this years game, is that the clubs heads and shafts are shiny and reflective.
 
  
  The invirnments aren't too bad. But when inspected closely, the trees and rocks, for example, can 
 be a little bland. It would've been nice to see a little bit more texture on some things. There 
 are more spectaters this time around which is a nice addition. In fact there can be up to five 
 thousand on some of the longer holes. The crowds are more responsive too, for example, when you 
 tee off, you can see many people leaving their positions and either walking or running to get to 
 a better location for your next shot.
  
  FRAME RATE: The frame rate can be a little jerky at times. Most noticeably when the camera is panning 
 a hole. Other than that, the actual gameplay is pretty stable.
  
  SOUND: The sound affects are very good. The sound of hitting the ball, birds, the crowd and such 
 ,are nicely done. The commentary on the other hand, is not so great. It's basicaly the same as 
 last year with a few extra comments. But the guy (whatever his name is) throws out the dumbest 
 remarks, and is often sarcastic.
  
  THE VERDICT: As a hole, this game is very well done. The graphics, gameplay, and sound are all 
 a step up from last year. And the addition of six more courses (equaling a total of 12) , and more 
 players is nice to see. If you liked last years game, you'll like this one better. And if you've 
 never played a Tiger Woods game, I think you'll be pleasantly surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmielnik
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 28, 2006 11:43 pm PT
Review:  EA needs to understand that realism is cool but doesnt have to be forced onto eevrygame they release. 
 EA has basically ruined Tiger Woods. DOnt get me wrong i love the series in fact 05 and 04 are 
 two games on my list of my top 15 favorite games. Unfortunatly EA has decided to not make this 
 a glof video game, but a golf sim. If I wanted a realistic golf game I would go about 1.5 miles 
 southwest and go to the golf course and go play a few games. When I buy a video game I dont want 
 it to be that real. Instead of buying stats you have to train for them. THis was acceptable but 
 after gaining 10 points in each attribute I could no longer gain stats but gain potential WTF!? 
 So EA your saying I have to stop being a rookie to realize my potential? Acceptable. But wait I 
 have to do good in order to realize my potential! I cant play good with out attributes! You see 
 the irony? EA has basically screwed us.
  
  Lets see who EA has ruined the series.
  -No more buying attributes. This is one of the best factors of the game and allows you to fully 
 customize your character and your playing type. This was a fun and easy way to get your character 
 better.
  -They managed to destroy the putting system. I loved to putt. 1.5 feet right and 10 in up. Remember 
 that? I did and I mastered it. Now you have grids. I despise grids, I have went over tutorials 
 again and again but still dont understand it.
  
  I refuse to buy another Tiger Woods until the fix this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocket7676
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  I love the new tiger woods and it has so much effect on the person playing it. You first start 
 out as a scrub and i always loved doing that but know there new create a person is real cool because 
 you can add a lot of stuff to your character. It is kind of hard at the beginning because you really 
 dont know what the hell your doin. But as you go on practicing and practicing you will finally 
 start to get good and start to go in tournements against the best in the world. The music fits 
 right in to the golfing era. I hate when they put like Hard Metal on like a Tennis Game. The music 
 will put your head into the game. When u are on like the middle of the course and u can see the 
 green you will have a circle circuling around the green. When your a scrub and u start off in games 
 your circle will be big so its going to be hard to get it on the green but it still has the effect 
 of going on the green or going into a green side bunker. The good about this game is that it is 
 a totally different game from all the others. There isnt really a lot of bad except that you might 
 have to practice awhile. So when you have your first tee off at Sawgrass or your final game at 
 Pebble Beach you will have a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hilldd
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 26, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  Graphics..
  Two TVs setup.. One with HDTV the other plain Jane.. It was kind of like playing on indoor/outdoor 
 carpet with the old set, and the HDTV we could actually see the blades of grass move with the wind. 
 Reflections of clouds can be seen on the fairways and greens. Menu system looks much improved from 
 last year.. As far as UCAP technology, well Tiger looks more realistic, but the other golfers look 
 almost as good.. You will be hard pressed to find major differences between the two.. I have noticed 
 at times that the crowd will do a slide instead of walking, it happens about every 6 to 7 holes.. 
 No major flaw it just looks stupid.. Another small flaw is the wind blowing left and the flag going 
 right.. Sound..
  During game play you have tons of crowd noise and comments.. Same commentary that you have grown 
 used to over the years.. However, I havent noticed anything new from them.. If you have a good 
 sound system planes flying overhead actually have movement from speaker to speaker and seem more 
 realistic.. Birds can be heard in the background as well.. Contact with the ball sounds much different 
 than last year, it sounds fake more than realistic.. Game play..
  The new item for this years version is the FedEx point system in PGA tour.. You have the option 
 of creating your personal golfer or starting as a young Tiger Woods.. They have also brought back 
 the Tiger Challenge from years past.. The addition of 6 new courses are nice.. Some will give you 
 a good challenge on higher levels.. One of the biggest changes is the new aiming system.. As a 
 rookie starting out this can be extremely challenging, but as you hone your skills it becomes easier.. 
 No matter what your skill level, the game can be tailored to match your skills.. You can progress 
 your golfer 2 ways.. Either by playing on the PGA tour or playing Training mini-games.. Something 
 new is a progress limiter.. It will actually limit your golfer until you either finish a tournament 
 on the tour or beat a person in the Tiger Challenge.. The jury is still out if I like this or not.. 
 Tilt..
  Is the game worth $60..? If I knew what I do now, I would have waited a couple of months when the 
 priced dropped and bought the game.. Playing my first Tiger Challenge I watch Mike Wier hit it 
 out of the water.. The Middle of the water.. It wasnt even close to the edge.. Another flaw in 
 the game is from time to time the sounds will freeze and repeat.. So for 7 holes I listen to me 
 hitting my driver every second.. I finally had to turn the system off to get stop the insanity.. 
 The deal breaker for me is this, you can never use more than one controller. So if you and your 
 friend wants to play be prepared to pass it around.. Very much tailored for online multiplayer, 
 almost as offline multi was an after thought and just thrown in.. Over all the game is solid, but 
 there are a lot of flaws in the 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stafonb
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 25, 2006 4:45 am PT
Review:  In comparison to rival 2K, even though EA can not get the NBA Live series right (or even Madden 
 for that matter) , EA does a remarkable job developing Tiger Woods Golf 07. The courses are created 
 with profound realism. The depth in which you can create golfers is second to none. The the feel 
 of the game play is also laid out very well. This is a game to definitely have for the holidays.
 
  
  The one thing I have'nt had a chance to try and hope that is different from last year is the on-line 
 play with self developed characters. That was a big disappointment in Tiger Woods Golf 06. If EA 
 has incorporated this into the on-line game play, then this game really has no flaws. Good job 
 on this Electronic Arts!
  
  Chem Professor 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shark75
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 21, 2006 11:50 pm PT
Review:  Well I am about a 3 handicap golfer and have been waiting for a game to allow me to play a round 
 like I would in real life. You should need knowledge of the game to shoot a low score. Hitting 
 18 greens in reg and shooting a 56 every time is not my idea of a fun golf game. Luckily, EA finally 
 got wind of this and put all the crazy scores to an immediate halt with Tiger 07. If you are a 
 golfer, do not waist your time renting this game first... just go to the store and buy it!!!!! Yes, 
 you will not find a better way to spend $60. With the new aiming system, you are going to have 
 a real hard time shooting the low scores in games past. You will now have to use course management 
 (yes in a Tiger game) and think your way around the course. If you never played a round of golf, 
 play it on the easy levels. Everyone else, play it on the tour level (the toughest) and have the 
 most realistic golf experience available on a gaming system.
  
  Now although I am not crazy about the graphics (except for Tigers face... thats amazing looking) , 
 the gameplay makes up for it big time. Being able to open/close the face gives a realistic feel 
 to the game. You can now hit the shot you'd play on the real course. Ad the new aiming system to 
 the mix, and you have one fun game. The career mode is great. I am in the process of building up 
 my customized golfer and preparing him for the tour... I cant wait to start playing the FedEx style 
 schedule! This game is going to keep me occupied for HOURS!
  
  Looks like EA is getting real close to making the ideal golf game. They are now focusing on realism 
 and making a golf sim like the real thing... a struggle and fight to shoot a good round of golf. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gouldsc
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 21, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  This is a big improvement over years past for EA, and it's good to see them heading in the right 
 direction. The aiming mode on woods/irons is a big circle that shows where the shot could end up 
 and increases/decreases in size based on the type of club you're using, your skill and other factors 
 like wind speed (might be wrong about the wind though) . I much prefer this system to the pinpoint 
 accuracy in previous versions of the game. Also diving the ball straight is no longer a total cakewalk 
 either as it is now much easier to shank your drive. Also putting is much improved with the grid 
 system (although i'd almost prefer the original system to a certain extent, I'm still getting used 
 to it) . The new loft stick feature is actually pretty good and comes in handy at times. All in 
 all the game-play is beginning to approach perfection (in my opinion) for the series, and it's 
 a buy if you've been holding off for something more challenging.
  
  On the bad side, the game seems to lack some polish. For example they added a fully 3d crowd that 
 follows you around the course, but they don't really seem very real, nor interesting (almost like 
 a crowd of robotic zombies) . The crowd does have a couple animations when they get pelted by your 
 ball (which actually affects your lie btw) , but they make no effort to get out of the way when 
 it's coming at them. Also there are tv towers and such lining the course, but there are no camera 
 guys in them or banners on the towers like in real tournaments. It just doesn't feel exiting, like 
 your in a tournament people care about (perhaps during some of the major tournaments this will 
 change, but from what i've seen so far it's been very barren. The same is true of your competition, 
 I remember in 2004 each opponent had a background story with an introduction and goofy animations 
 between shots, but this year there are a few spartan comments between shots, but it's highly repetitive 
 and there are only two voices, a male and female that are varied in pitch only so everyone seems 
 kind of soulless if that makes any sense at all. Also, much of the customization is gone too. While 
 the gameface thing is cool, it's still missing a lot. Back in 2004 you could add tattoos (and custom 
 design them too) , had an infinitely larger variety of junk to deck your dude out in etc. Maybe 
 EA is holding out on this junk for an extra $5 download in the future, who knows. But for the most 
 part the vast majority of the items you can buy are serious so the game looses some of it's fun 
 with the ridiculous outfits you used to be able to put together. A few other annoyances here and 
 there (like the menu structure and other little UI things can be annoying) .
  
  All in all EA has actually done a good job with this. Especially in the gamplay arena, which is 
 by far the most important part. Hopefully we'll seem them continue to polish the game engine, and 
 make it more real, build some hype into the game like they do with their other sports titles, add 
 some variety to the voices, animations, announcing, and costumes. Put some guys in the tv towers, 
 and show some banners, TV vans and other little touches in the backgrounds to make it seem like 
 were' in a real tournament. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IllReadIt
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 21, 2006 2:45 am PT
Review:  Okay, first of all I am not a golf-head, I can't play it to save my life, however Links made me 
 interested in it, and i finally got to number one (whew) . I didn; t like earlier Tiger Gold because 
 Links had so much better graphics and gameplay, I decided to get Tiger 2007 because I miss playing 
 Links and had to fill the void. I was pleasantly surprised on how much it has improved since I 
 last saw it, The graphics are on par , no pun intended, with Links, and the training mode is quite 
 similar to the Links challenges, which is welcome and cool. As with Links, I went to full sim mode 
 right away, and although it will prolong the advancement of my player (as in Links) , it will also 
 prolong my playing and enjoyment of the game (I don't play games in puss mode, I want the real 
 deal (sim) , which is why I buy it.
  
  As far as the gentleman in the other review complained of, the crowd not moving out of the way 
 and getting hit, and that being unrealistic, well, it's not like a golf ball is the size of a football, 
 and is easy to track to avoid. I have seen people moving out of the way in proper response, and 
 of course sometimes getting hit, so I haven't seen anything to complain about in that aspect.
 
  
  The left hand analog for swinging is cool by me, I prefer it, and is like Links, and Outlaw Golf 
 2, I didn't like Outlaw Golf 1, because it made me use the right analog stick, so that is a preference 
 thing, some will like it, some not, and the rest will adapt.
  
  As far as the nitty gritty of golf, I don't know enough about it to surmise the technical aspects 
 of the game, however, I can say, tha tif you are a Links fan, looking to harbor your golf fix, 
 Tiger Woods 2007 will not disappoint you, it is a good game, and wel lworth the expenditure.
  
  Niow about the Live download extras we have to pay for, well, that's nothing new, and as with 
 most games, we have to put up with it. It is my opinion taking advantage of us, which is why it 
 is an option for us to chose to purchase such downloads, it's a drag I know, but I don't see anyone 
 even considering changing that rip off , and yes, it is a shame. EA in my opinion has to evolve 
 at a quicker pace with their games (all of them) because in the near future, a competitor is going 
 to grab their honey pot, and leave them wondering what went wrong, when it's obvious, they just 
 got lax in their commitment to be the ultimate game. I am a 2K fan at heart, and even they need 
 to improve. By the way, who's better? Well, 2K definitely has the basketball title between the 
 two, football? 2k beat thenm out with 2K5 easily, and the hockey is simply a matter of opinion, 
 I myself played both, and stuck with 2K, but that isn't because I am a 2k head, again, it is simply 
 preference, nothing more, nothing less.
  
  Enjoy this game, it has a lot to offer, it is a good game, that will not disappoint.
  
  Seeeee 
 ya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omakizhur_basic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  Tiger Woods 07 is definately the best TW to date...
  
  Previous TWs were definately on the easy side... and did not have a very good connection with real 
 golf. 07 is more along the path of greatness. There is a professional feel but still has a little 
 bit of edge that adds fun (such as some wacky but satisfying celebrations and botched shot animations) 
 Pros: Just about everything...
  
  The graphics are excellent. I could only wish for a little more detail and variation in the hundreds 
 of spectators... which is not an easy task. G
  
  The gameplay is excellent... I only play on Tour Pro mode so all my comments relate to that. Much 
 more strategy is required (especially during the early part of the career mode.) Each shot must 
 be carefully anylyzed if you want to have a overall good round. The computer controlled golfers 
 give you a challenge, but still vary in their skills in different areas (some are great chippers, 
 putters, or may have lousy appoach shots) Cons: Not much here.
  
  Shot camera angles are very deciving.... mostly for shorter shots... its not terrible but it will 
 take some getting used to.
  
  Spectators (at least a few of them) need to run away when they are in danger of getting smashed 
 with a 200 yarder. They sometimes turn your opponents horrible shot into a not so bad chip from 
 the light rough after a bounce off of their coconuts...
  
  Fade and draw shots are nearly impossible... This statement many not be true... It may be my personal 
 flaw but I can not do a good one consistenly to save my life...
  
  Overall...
  Fantastic game... oh yea CAP is great too... my player looks so much like me its eerie... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcdope66
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 20, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  This game could have been the greatest golf game ever made, but for one fatal flaw. There is no 
 reason to get better. If you go in as a rookie to the first tournament, and shoot a 92 for the 
 opening round, everything is realistic, you are in last place and roughly 26 shots back from the 
 leader. Here is where it all falls apart. Second round, you improve slightly as people tend to 
 do as they practice, and after just one round you are shooting only 10-12 over par and end the 
 round at +32. But, the pro golfers who make up the leaders for some reason shoot in the low 90s.. 
 ALL of them.
  
  So you are not too far out now, and by the end of the 4th round, you have a chance to get a top 
 5 finish and.. win it?
  
  In my humble opinion, this is not in the game. It stinks. It makes me not want to play because 
 what is the challenge? Why should I try and get better if I can go out as a rookie, with no power, 
 putting, accuracy, etc, and get 7th place with a 50 over par?
  
  Im so bored.
  
  Of course, the visuals are great blah blah blah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andersonjimmy
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 19, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Tiger Woods is clearly the most dominant player in golf today, but the Xbox 360 version of his 
 annual game leavs a little to be desierd. Graphics:
  Tiger and the rest of the crew look better than ever. This is clearly the best looking TW game 
 to date. Player models are great and the courses are as crisper than ever before. The trees, which 
 were some of my major complaints from older games, actually look like they have depth to them. 
 Gone are the days of flat looking trees.
  
  Gameplay:
  EA has added and dropped may different takes on the game of golf. However this year the 360 seems 
 to have been shorted again. This version only carries 12 courses while the Xbox and PS2 versions 
 get more. This is not to say that it isn't fun, it's fun on a smaller number of courses. The addition 
 of the aiming circle this year is a needed device. The laser like precision that was available 
 in previous versions led to laughable scores, but the aiming circle somewhat takes care of that. 
 As you begin your career you will likely be frustrated with the frequent misses. When you become 
 a better player your ability to put the ball where you want it increases.
  
  Overall:
  This is a great game for the TW and golf fans, and for anyone who is looking for some good old 
 golf sim fun. TW07 has made some big steps from the first 360 iteration. I'm hopping that EA continues 
 to improve the game and add courses and options. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: breenie
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 19, 2006 6:16 am PT
Review:  There are new courses and bigger crowds in this version, but what makes it better is how much more 
 challenging it is. You can play according to your skill level by setting it to easy, balanced (default) , 
 hard or pro tour. The biggest differences that make it so challenging are: - Can't switch the swing 
 stick to the right analog anymore... stuck with the left one.
  - Your aim gives you a very WIDE circle of where the ball will land, not a pinpoint like previously. 
 So if you are pitching onto the green, your landing area might cover the whole green!
  - Putting is extremely difficult and the controller is super sensitive. I missed quite a few 2 
 footers with a small break... no gimmies here!
  - The fairways and rough play a lot like a real course... much more realistic than before
  
 
  I also like the training area that allows you to improve your skills through different challenges. 
 It allows you more control over what you need improvement on and let's you be more competitive. 
 All in all, I would highly recommend this if you are a fan of any previous TW games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlavetodaBox
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 18, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe how good this years Tiger is compared to last years. The play is real easy to grasp 
 and there are tons of things to do such as the mini games and training. This is by far and away 
 the best Tiger. If you are an avid golf franchise fan and own a 360 this game is a must to your 
 collection. The only draw back to this years version is all of the online add-ons that you can 
 purchase through Xbox arcade. I feel at 59 dollars a game they could give you some of those add 
 ons for the price included. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
