-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tiger Woods PGA Tour 09
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/tigerwoods2009/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Real-time swing feedback.
 Dynamic skill progression works well.
 Fun and extremely addictive gameplay.
 Improved gamernet integration.
 Four-player simultaneous play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Still can't skip CPU golfers.
 Same number of courses as last year.
 New announcers are just as bland as the old ones.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 26, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.4, 39 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 440 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Tiburon
Genre: Golf Sim
Date: Aug 26, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Friendlier controls and a host of other improvements make Tiger Woods PGA Tour 09 great. 

  Tiger Woods 08's touchy controls, iffy online play, and a general lack of new content made for 
 one disappointing game. But just as Tiger didn't let torn ligaments and a broken leg keep him from 
 winning the US Open, EA Sports hasn't used the short development cycle associated with yearly games 
 as an excuse. Instead, it has worked to make the controls more user-friendly and further integrated 
 the online gamernet feature. The result is a game that's worthy of carrying the Tiger Woods name. 

           Now you can evaluate your swing in real time.      

  Tiger Woods 09's controls aren't vastly different from TW 08, but they're much more forgiving. 
 You start your swing by pulling back on the analog stick and then strike the ball by moving the 
 stick forward. A more traditional three-button-press option is available at any time by clicking 
 the right analog stick. Last year, the slightest deviation left or right during your swing would 
 result in a terrible shot, particularly if you were using a golfer with low skill attributes. This 
 year, not only are you punished less severely if your swing isn't perfect, but you also get instant 
 feedback via an onscreen meter that shows exactly how you moved the stick. By monitoring this feedback, 
 you can learn how to straighten your swing or compensate for your natural swing by adjusting your 
 aim or by adding a draw or fade to the ball with the press of a button.  

  The addition of Tiger's own coach Hank Haney to TW 09 makes hitting the ball easier as well. You 
 can now head to the driving range and adjust each of your clubs to best suit your playing style. 
 For example, if you're struggling for accuracy off the tee, you can increase the sweet spot on 
 your driver. This will help ensure that your drives stay on the fairway, but you'll sacrifice some 
 distance. This level of customization is often intimidating in sports games, but here, the process 
 is simple and worthwhile.  

  TW 09 includes 16 golf courses, which is the same number as last year. New courses include Wentworth, 
 Sheshan, Wolf Creek, and Bay Hill. The Gary Player Country Club in South Africa is an excellent 
 addition to the mix, but it's disappointing that there aren't more courses -- especially when you 
 consider how quick EA was to charge for downloadable courses in 08. The roster of male and female 
 professional golfers is about the same as before, but there are a few new faces, such as Se Ri 
 Pak and Darren Clarke. Like previous iterations, you can create a golfer using the game's deep 
 customization tools, and you can even import your own photos to make a truly lifelike version of 
 your mug (you can even add eyebrows this year) .  

  Money is earned by playing on the PGA Tour or by completing events, such as beating golfers head-to-head, 
 driving the ball a certain number of yards, getting a particular score on a group of holes, and 
 more in the Tiger Challenge mode. Cash can then be used to buy new gear, some of which carries 
 a small skill bonus. Unlike in the past, you'll actually have to earn most of your attributes on 
 the links with the new dynamic skill-progression feature. After each round (and most challenges) , 
 coach Haney will raise or lower your driving, accuracy, short game, and putting attributes based 
 on your performance. Rather than punish you for playing poorly (though he still does that) , Haney 
 gives you the chance to earn a few points back with brief challenges where you try to hit the ball 
 into a large circular target. The new system isn't perfect -- sometimes Haney will tell you to drive 
 into bushes, put you in an impossible lie, or lower your putting attributes even when you set a 
 course record -- but it's a great way of making character progression feel organic.  

  No dramatic changes have been made with regards to online play, but a few tweaks and additions 
 go a long way. The most notable change is that you can now play with up to three other people at 
 the same time online. Being able to all hit at the same time really speeds things up, even if the 
 colored trails that show other players' balls are sometimes distracting. With the gamernet feature, 
 you can quickly upload a shot, hole, front or back nine, and even a whole round with the press 
 of a button. You then are able to go online and play a nearly endless stream of challenges. You'll 
 have to filter through some ridiculously easy and impossibly difficult shots for the best experience, 
 but even if you don't feel like searching, you can still enjoy the feature thanks to periodic challenges 
 (long drives, closest to the pin) that pop up during single-player rounds. Last year's game had 
 a ton of problems when it came to playing online, downloading photos, and uploading gamernet clips, 
 but so far, all of TW 09's online features work great.  

           Coach Haney will give you feedback on your game. You'll have him missing Tiger in no time. 

  Friendly controls and excellent courses, as well as a plethora of challenges and game modes, make 
 for outstanding gameplay, but there are a few areas that could have been better. Putting is still 
 a bit easy, although you are punished a bit more than before if you go left or right with the stick. 
 For some unknown reason, you  still  can't skip the turns of CPU golfers, which makes head-to-head 
 play take forever -- especially if the AI can't figure out how to get around a tree, which happens 
 from time to time. Courses and golfers generally look fantastic (especially the water, which is 
 gorgeous) , but nonexistent preswing-to-swing transitions and some glitchy load screens are unsightly. 
 A new announcing team takes to the microphones this year, but it's about as dull as its predecessors 
 and will lull you to sleep in a hurry. You're better off just listening to the game's soundtrack, 
 which is excellent.  

  The real-time swing meter, club tuner, and advice of Hank Haney make getting the perfect swing 
 easier than ever. Dynamic skill progression, while not perfect, is a welcome addition; not only 
 because a new system was needed, but also because it makes every swing important -- even if you're 
 winning or losing by 10 strokes. Some more courses would have been nice, but otherwise, there's 
 very little not to like with Tiger Woods PGA Tour 09. It's amazing how a few small changes can 
 make a game so much better.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2009 2:06 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to do a review in my typical format, because I haven't explored it in depth.
  And I'm probably not going too. I don't really play Tiger Woods, I just find it relaxing somehow.
 
  Even though I suck at it. So I'm going to talk about the game a little bit, I'll attach a score 
 at the end and you can read into it whatever you like. Or don't.
  
  The first thing I did upon loading up the game was create my character, except I didn't really.
 
  I let the Xbox Live Vision camera do it for me.
  I bought one the other day with this game for pretty much that sole purpose: to exploit this feature 
 and use it in other games that have a similar feature, like Rainbow Six: Vegas for example.
  
  So it asked to take a picture of me for the front and optionally one from the side for greater 
 accuracy. So I did that. It took about 15-20 minutes to process it, so it can be quite a wait.
 
  If you just wanted to get into the game you can just use a generic dude or quickly make your own 
 guy, but I wanted to play as me.
  
  To begin with I didn't really think it looked a lot like me.
  The limited hair styles you can 
 choose from don't help.
  My hair is long long. A bit below my shoulders long. I don't even think theres just shoulder length 
 hair for guys. The options are all fairly conservative. All different variations on short hair.
 
  Kind of limiting, but what can you do?
  You start out with a bit of money to buy clothes and accessories, including improvements for your 
 clubs like better grips and shafts. Hehe. Shaft. Some of these are purely cosmetic changes, others 
 can have an impact on your game by improving one of your four stats.
  
  These are power, which as far as I can gather mostly impacts your drive.
  Accuracy, which seems 
 self explanatory.
  Short game, how well you hit the ball less then 100 meters from the pin? Something like that.
 
  And putting. Also self explanatory.
  
  The other way to improve your stats is to simply play the game, which makes sense.
  But when 
 you play as crappily as I do you'll occasionally wish for a more traditional XP based system wherein 
 you keep whatever skill you earn. As is it's constantly fluctuating.
  Play good and you'll keep solid stats. Play crap and you'll be less solid.
  I have my good rounds, 
 but mostly I'm not great. So my stats are up and down like a roller coaster. It rewards consistency, 
 but it can be difficult to keep up the pace.
  
  I'm generally pretty solid but if the wind picks up more then a mild breeze then it screws up my 
 game, I'm generally pretty shoddy at estimating where I should aim and how far in that direction 
 I should aim to make up for the fact that the winds blowing like friggin' mad.
  
  Playing the game hasn't changed much from the 06 edition, that being the last golf game I've played. 
 The left stick is pretty much your club. You pull back to swing. How fast and whatnot impacts how 
 hard. What direction you wind up pushing the stick in when you go to whack the ball can impact 
 which direction you hit the ball somewhat. It took me a while to figure that out, so when I wasn't 
 hitting as straight as I would like and the wind was non-existent I would sit there wandering what 
 the hell was going on. But it was me.
  
  I don't think this was in the 06 edition, but now you can press in the right stick and opt for 
 the old fashion "3 click" system most old golf games used before people thought to use sticks and 
 wii remotes and other new fangled technology. Once to start up the bars charge, once for the shots 
 power, once for accuracy and off it goes. If you haven't played a golf game in a while and you 
 don't care to learn the stick, then they've got you covered which is nice.
  
  My main complaint would be the commentators, who I am pondering muting.
  I'm sure they're fine 
 if you play well, but because my skill is all over the place well I get a lot of "Well that's a 
 terrible shot" "I bet he wish he could take that one back" "Grab your beach towel, it's heading 
 for the sand." "Looks like it's heading straight for the rough". I get this ALOT.
  I get it so much that when they DO say something good I get the nagging feeling they mean it sarcastically 
 and the tone they use when they say pretty much EVERYTHING comes off as sarcastic.
  
  Anyhoo, I'll stop rambling.
  I'm not a sports person in the slightest, perhaps especially when 
 it comes to golf.
  But theres something relaxing about it. Pretty much since my own 360 died I've been on my bros, 
 playing golf with some good music in the background. It's all very zen and such.
  I recommend even if you generally don't like sports or sports games, at least giving it a rental.
 
  Or pick up last years edition for real cheap seeing as how it was probably more or less exactly 
 the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: immortality20
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 8:54 am PT
Review:  (Reviewer's note: I always play all games to the point where I feel I can review them fairly) .
 
  
  PROS:
  Excellent online, your oppent's shots are based by ball trails so online has never been so fast!
 
  Interesting characters (some fictional) , achievements and courses.
  Real time character boosts (power, accuracy etc)
  
  CONS:
  Playing against the computer is 
 boooooring. 
  Still some shots that make you go "huh?" as they land nowhere's near their predicted point.
  
 Real time character boosts....
  
  Upon picking up Tiger Woods, I have totally skipped the last year's entry into the franchise. I 
 came in with high hopes, and was not disappointed. You start off your carreer with a swing coach 
 who takes you through the generals, and then you're thrown into the PGA Tour. 
  
  If you have access to a LIVE camera, you can throw your face into the game. If you don't, you are 
 treated to a very well put-together character manager. After your first couple rounds you'll notice 
 that depending on how "good" you did during said round, your character traits will excell or decrease. 
 If you couldn't find the fairway off the tee, your power goes down. If you can't hit the green 
 in regulation, your accuracy goes down. If you can't sink the winning putt, your putting goes down. 
 This sounds like such a good idea but it is fundamentaly broken.
  
  You'll find yourself putting up some of your best scores only to watch your hard earn stats decrease 
 by mere tenths, or curse as you watch it go down up to two points.
  
  The other thing that doesn't make sense in this entry is why playing the computer must be so boring. 
 As you play through Tiger Challenges (tests of skill and rounds against pros) , you'll be forced 
 to play against the computer multiple times. And none of them are fun. They are slow and boring 
 to watch after you're used to playing online and not forced to watch your adversary! When online, 
 their progress is marked with a real time ball trail, why can't this be done against the computer, 
 it would of easily earned this game another .5 score.
  
  But we digress. As you can tell, the game has plenty of good to offer. The best selection of courses 
 yet, the most stunning graphics, the best online, the Tiger Challenge will take you a long time 
 to beat, and you'll have to play at least 15 hours to get your pro good enough to win a tourney 
 at a higher difficulity level.
  
  For any golf fans out here, this game has a few flaws, but it is well worth your troubles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bperdue
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Tiger 09 features controls which have been standard throughout most of the recent series, 
 so veterans of the series will be able to pick up the controller and get to work quickly. Thankfully, 
 EA got rid of the super sensitive controls of 08 and brought back the more reasonable controls 
 of previous years. There are no game ending glitches as in Tiger 08, but there is a slight pause 
 in the gameplay sometimes when you make a putt. You can create your own character with the in-depth 
 create-a-character system and then take that character straight to the Tiger Challenges. Completing 
 these tasks raises your character's attributes (you can only buy small attribute adders this time 
 around) . Hank Haney dishes out the attributes which can rise or fall depending on how well you 
 play. This works ok most of the time, but sometimes you will be punished on a certain attribute 
 when it really doesn't make sense. Also, with the exception of the power attribute, the attributes 
 don't seem to improve your player but are actually more of a marker of how good you are. I like 
 this system, but it seems to punish the player too much for not pulling off tough risk v. reward 
 shots. Because of this, it would have been nice to have the ability to practice the courses before 
 you play them. As you might expect, your putting attribute will remain high due to the fact that 
 putting is extremely easy in Tiger Woods. It would have been nice to see more courses and golfers 
 this year. There are too many good courses for EA to limit them to 16. As in previous years, you 
 will destroy the best golfers in the world as you march to victory through the Tiger Challenges 
 and PGA Tour. That being said, your biggest enemies in the game are the harder golf courses. The 
 PGA Tour is quickly played because you do not play against other CPU golfers in a group, but instead 
 play alone as you decimate the competition. The real gem of this game is multiplayer play where 
 you can play against tougher opponents.
  
  Graphics/Sound: The water and players look really nice. The gallery looks surprisingly detailed 
 as well and will sometimes react to your shots as you play. On the sound front, the sounds of the 
 golf course are great. However, the new announcers are worse than McCord and Feherty who where 
 usually fairly comical. The new announcers make horrible attempts at humor and seem very bland. 
 In addition, they make comments that don't always fit the shot you just made and are sometimes 
 late on commenting.
  
  Multiplayer/Online: As stated before, this is the best part of the game. As far as online is concerned, 
 you play against up to three others online. Their shots are represented by colored ball flight 
 lines. It is a really quick way to play multiplayer golf and can be very challenging. As always, 
 you can play against your buddies at home and will have to take turns making shots (depending on 
 which game you play) . This is definately the most enjoyable way to play Tiger Woods golf as you 
 can pick from many different types of golf games such as stroke play, captain's choice, battle 
 golf, or one ball just to name a few. 
  
  Overall: This game has a few problems, but most of them are problems consistent with the series 
 and are easily overlooked. If you liked any of the other previous Tiger games then you will like 
 this one as well. The replay value on this game is extremely high due to the endless gameplay possibilities. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxbababooeyxx
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Ea has done it again..... made another broken game. Every year Madden gets released with problems, 
 then their basketball games get released with problems and now the golf. Golf games are the easiest 
 games in the world to make its really not that complicated but EA screws up the whole system. I 
 should say first that the game offline is pretty good , its actually fun and i would rate it maybee 
 even as high as a nine but online its a disaster. the biggest problem with the online play is that 
 players can hit the ball 400 yards! every par 4 becomes reachable in one stroke. its just totally 
 unrelasitic. if you play in a tournament, the winning score for 18 holes is usally around 44! thats 
 right 44 strokes for 18 holes that is the most unrealistic aspect ever in game. the simple fix 
 is to just make it relaistic. make the longets possible drive 350 yards. and bla bla i give up 
 trying to critique EA they never listen and whats the point. lucky for me i only rented. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulcold
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  What What What 
  
  The information in this file is designed to address most of the
  problems you may encounter when 
  The information in this file is designed to address most of 
 the
  problems you may encounter when The information in this file is designed to address most of the
 
  problems you may encounter when 
  The information in this file is designed to address most of the
  problems you may encounter when 
 
  The information in this file is designed to address most of the
  problems you may encounter when 
  The information in this file is designed to address most of 
 the
  problems you may encounter when 
  The information in this file is designed to address most of the
  problems you may encounter when 
 
  The information in this file is designed to address most of the
  problems you may encounter when 
  
  
  
  What What
  
  
  
  The information in this 
 file is designed to address most of the
  problems you may encounter when The information in this file is designed to address most of the
 
  problems you may encounter when The information in this file is designed to address most of the
 
  problems you may encounter when The information in this file is designed to address most of the
 
  problems you may encounter when 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spicydee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  Improved where it was needed from '08. Simultaneous play is a great addition. Wish you could turn 
 off pre shot routine and skip CPU golfers, but oh well. Improved where it was needed from '08. 
 Simultaneous play is a great addition. Wish you could turn off pre shot routine and skip CPU golfers, 
 but oh well. Improved where it was needed from '08. Simultaneous play is a great addition. Wish 
 you could turn off pre shot routine and skip CPU golfers, but oh well. Improved where it was needed 
 from '08. Simultaneous play is a great addition. Wish you could turn off pre shot routine and skip 
 CPU golfers, but oh well. Improved where it was needed from '08. Simultaneous play is a great addition. 
 Wish you could turn off pre shot routine and skip CPU golfers, but oh well. Improved where it was 
 needed from '08. Simultaneous play is a great addition. Wish you could turn off pre shot routine 
 and skip CPU golfers, but oh well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pgmonkeeuk
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2008 12:44 am PT
Review:  Ok, so EA have had a year  a whole year, to give us something mindblowing. To do something exciting. 
 To give us something so unbelievably spectacular, that we would never even consider straying from 
 the Tiger Woods franchise for years to come.
  
  Have they done it? Erm. not quite! There ARE some pretty sweet ideas, the usual top-notch representations 
 of the worlds' finest golf courses and Xbox Live is buzzing with tonnes of stuff to get your teeth 
 into. But strip everything away and EA still have trouble with just the basics.
  
  TW09 is prone to glitches galore  and it isn't a new problem either, it dates back years. Some 
 errors make you feel like EA haven't actually tested the game at all and have just thrown it randomly 
 together at the last minute, whilst drunk, juggling kittens at the same time. 
  
  I mean, come on EA  how hard can it be? Although there's plenty of detail in the graphics to admire, 
 why does a simple loading screen make a loud popping sound when complete? Why do screens freeze 
 when you put the ball in the hole? Why do some characters literally bend over backwards taking 
 shots? (See the various videos doing the rounds) . Why, when taking part in coaching sessions, does 
 your tutor want you to hit balls in a water hazard to pass? This type of tomfoolery is slipshod 
 at best.
  
  So, we can put a man on the moon (allegedly)  but EA can't do a loading screen correctly? Gimme 
 a break!
  
  On a further note of complaint  why do EA continually subject us to the same three of four courses 
 year in, year out? Where have the fantasy courses disappeared to? Nevada's Wolf Creek is the closest 
 thing to a fantasy course, but it's actually real! Where's the ingenuity that brought us The Predator, 
 Highlands and Black Rock Cove for example?
  
  It's a shame, as it does detract somewhat from what really should be an excellent game. In this 
 review, I should be raving about GamerNet (where you can instantly challenge or post the best shots/rounds 
 online) . I should be salivating about Simultaneous Stroke Play  which is by far and away, the 
 best thing ever to grace the Tiger Woods series.
  
  I should be going crazy over coaching, which is a helpful addition for Newbies and Old TW war-horses 
 like me  but can get a little too repetitive. I should be banging on about how the Game Face is 
 still the best in the business, and how much online gameplay has improved beyond all recognition 
 over past attempts.
  
  But instead  I'm moaning about the negatives! Maybe it's me? Maybe after seven years, and ten 
 different versions (on varying formats) , I've come to expect something more, something ground-breaking.
 
  
  I'll try and surmise this review with two scores (and average it out)  if you have never ever 
 picked up a Tiger Woods game before, or if you haven't played one in years, then TW09 will blow 
 you away. There isn't a golf game out there that can match the standard and substance that EA can 
 set. So for Newbies, it's a 9/10  there will still be the same glitches, but you'll be so captivated 
 in your own little Tiger Woods World, you won't particularly care.
  
  But, boy oh boy  if you're a seasoned campaigner and have your own EA Tiger Woods shelf at home 
 for previous games. The glitches and gaffes will hit you in the face like a hot frying-pan as you 
 play around Pebble Beach for probably the 1,000th round in your lifetime. The only hope is DLC 
 and the prospect of new fantasy courses for the futureyou got more chance of Sam Torrence (on 
 commentary) actually getting excited about a shot!!
  
  The game is 7/10 at best if you're a TW regular. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: suicidaldys
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 15, 2008 2:57 am PT
Review:  My house mate bought this game as iv never really liked the whole golf thing and I have to say 
 its really fun and a good laugh.
  Only played the single player a few times, its really easy to pick up if you follow the instructors 
 guides and do the separate challenges to better yourself. The game it self is really good specially 
 if your a diehard golf fan only real problem I found is its not very addictive, I found myself 
 skipping a few rounds as it just gets repetative and not very challenging.
  The graphics are pretty good I like how you can hit the crowd and seeing there reactions. 
  Online 
 - Amazing!! I dont really play with random people online as a full round of golf with a total stranger 
 can get a little boring but playing with people you know is a real laugh specially when you put 
 real wagers on. Best thing about the online is you can play at your own pace and no one has to 
 wait for the others to take there shot all can be done at the same time. 
  Theres so much to say about the game so many different functions and extras to go into I could 
 talk about it all day! I recomend you rent it first to get a good feel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comet302
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  the game is good... or should I say, ok.... i have played most of the previous TW's... and this 
 series is getting somewhat better.... but i personally have had many headaches with EA along the 
 way - some which are still not resolved.
  
  The first problem was not having my gamertag linked to my TW09 player... but EA fixed it - thanks
 
  
  The second problem happened when my gamertag lost and not being linked again... but EA did fix 
 it - thanks
  
  The third problem was that I could not get the Gameface to work... i tried everything.. low-res 
 pictures.. nothing worked.. but, it seems the recent patch has fixed it, now my gameface works 
 - thanks
  
  Now the biggest problem I have... when I first started playing I could connect to Gamernet... it 
 was great.. trying to win challenges brings it to a new level of play.. especially if you play 
 on Tour Pro difficulty - which I do not...
  
  Anyways, it seems after I got the achievement for "playing as a fantasy player" my game got a major 
 problem.... I can no longer connect to Gamernet... and it seems that EA does not want to help me 
 out this time... it's been over a week now and still no Gamernet... Here is my little story about 
 this...
  
  When I am playing Tiger Woods 09 on my 360 and in the menu I can go to the EA leaderboard and then 
 click friends and then I can see 2 of my gamertag in the stats... one with the gamernet wins and 
 posts and
  another exact name which has only 2000 gamernet points but shows no wins or posts... my other gamertag 
 in the stats has over 6000 points.. but its seems to me that somehow my TW09 has a problem and 
 and has now made
  my player split into 2 gamertags with the same name but with 2 different stats... and all the new 
 instant gamernet challenge points are going onto this 2nd gamertag.... but without giving me the 
 stats to say I beat the challenges...
  
  hopefully u can understand what i am trying to tell you... my gamertag has now been split into 
 2 different players on the stats... the 2nd one is all screwed up and can not connect to gamernet 
 at all... it's like the first one has been replaced... but not erased.... the first one only exists 
 on the stats.. and does not gain any more points.. it's like the 2nd one has taken over and can 
 no longer connect to gamernet!
  
  This is all I need fixed... lol.. get me back connected to Gamernet.... Please EA?
  
  BUT, 
 other than not being able to play one of the main parts of Tiger Woods 09, it's a pretty good game... 
 graphics are great... gameplay is good... the multi player works well - everyone hits together... 
 I would give this game a much higher rating... but until I can connect to Gamernet... the score 
 stays low... really low...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4girls1man
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  i`ve been playing golf games for years now.
  this is as good as it gets at the mo.
  play in a darkened room and the graphics expload with realism.
  only complaint is the many tedious 
 loading and saving pauses.
  the online options are great also.
  also got my face in the game and after some slight changes a very good comparison.
  i missed 
 08 because there was no leap in improvement over the last few years .
  i play on the most difficult settings , hitting the faiway off the t is a bit to easy , playing 
 into greens has become a bit more difficult (good) , and putting , i never use the target thing 
 , is a big improvement ,especially when you need to hole that 10ft par putt, it seems like a bit 
 of tension kicks in !!!
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendlyCrono
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  First things first, if you played any Tiger game from the last few years, your experience with 
 that one will be the same with this one. This is a great golf game. The controls are great. It's 
 not over sensitive like it was in '08
  
  The Gameface feature still rarely works. (I haven't got it to work yet in either game)
  
  The 
 graphics are better than last year, but it's still only a decent looking game.
  
  This won't affect whether you buy it, but there are less of the wacky items for your character 
 to wear. This time, there are only about 8. They are nice, but they are super expensive.
  
  The solo mode is different. Like always, you create your character with the same full featured 
 system. Instead of raising your points with money after playing a round, your stats go up or down 
 depending on your performance on your last round. This includes when you play alone, and in online 
 or offline multiplayer.
  
  If you like Tiger Woods golfing games, definitely pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bennyb808
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Tiger Woods 2009 is a breath of fresh air after years of being the same old game and I was not 
 expecting much when I bought this game last week. On starting the game I was pleasantly met by 
 a good title tune. As with most of EA games they always seem to have a descent sound track. The 
 menus are quite easy to use and easy viewable. On first looking through the menus I was amazed 
 at how many new options and gameplay modes there were. The 1 player mode will keep you occupied 
 for at least a couple of months. The graphics have been improved and the water looks great. The 
 player models also look very realistic with the option to add your own photo to the players face. 
 The new coach mode and the ability to customise each indivdual club to your style of swing is another 
 fantastic feature. The online games are also fun with 4 players being aloud to play simultaneously. 
 
  
  Since the first Tiger Woods was released it has easily been the best Golf game but EA have never 
 really added enough features to make it worth buying the new versions. Tiger Woods 2009, all in 
 all has been revised enough to recommend fans of Tiger as well as new players to buy this game. 
 
  
  I know I will look forward to playing this game for quite sometime,
  
  GAME ON!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RONTAYAN
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  This game is the best of the series to date. I have a lot of fun playing this with my brother and 
 friends alike. Learning curve is slightly better than the previous editions of Tiger. The driving 
 range or club tuning makes it alot easier to get your stroke down. Tuning the club makes it easier 
 to hit the balls sweet spot. The better you get with the stroke the higher the reward. Simultaneous 
 play in online mode makes it much faster than waiting for your friends or other players to hit. 
 Which in the other editions if you were in a match online you had to wait for your competition 
 to hit the ball. There were some times when the person left there 360 on and playing and you stared 
 at there screen yelling into your mic before finally quitting. A lot of improvements. If your a 
 fan of the series or if you have never played Tiger before you should pick this up and give it 
 a try. You will not be disappointed. Fun to play at your own pace. If and when frustration sets 
 in just play through it. Its happened to me already but then it turns around on you and you can't 
 put it down you want to try another challenge or play another hole. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gouldsc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 10:18 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is getting pretty close to perfect for the Tiger Woods series. I love the way you 
 can calibrate the stick to your particular swing, last year's edition was borderline unplayable 
 for me because I tend to go back right to front left on my "swing." Tweaking the various clubs 
 is very cool too -- it's nice to see EA working on improvements that are useful refinements of the 
 core gameplay instead of gimmicky add-ons. I'm still not sure if I like their putting system or 
 not. It's pretty much the same as years past, and I like the way you have to read the green, but 
 it seems too easy to make ridiculously long putts, and likewise, can be a bit too hard for shorter 
 putts at times. I can't think of how they could do it better, but it and the chipping system feel 
 like the weakest link in terms of gameplay.
  
  I haven't messed around with online play just yet, so I don't have anything useful to contribute 
 on that particular dimension of the game.
  
  The photo game face thing can't be accessed from a Macintosh right now. I uploaded my photos last 
 year from my Mac and the whole thing worked fine, so I'm not sure why they decided to screw with 
 it and break the site's compatibility by using code that isn't standardized. They say that Mac 
 compatibility is coming, but there's no information that I could find beyond that. I'm surprised 
 that a company as large as EA doesn't have the resources to make sites/web apps using the generally 
 accepted standards of the web -- perhaps they're just incompetent.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsox07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  This version of TW is really great -- great game play, excellent replay value, fun online play, 
 and fantastic presentation. There are dozens and dozens of little improvements that really add 
 up, making TW09 far and away my favorite console golf experience. The most significant features 
 that make TW09 rock are 1) online simultaneous play mean no more hour-long matches and watching 
 everyone take their shots, 2) visual swing-stick feedback indicator which shows exactly how you 
 used the left stick, and 3) on-the-fly selection of either swing stick OR 3-click meter, for more 
 precise control of those 30% type shots. I also love Hot Shots 2: Out of Bounds on the PS3, mainly 
 for the online play and the overall presentation, but TW09 pushed that game down a notch for me, 
 especially the much improved online play. I suggest you buy the game if you are a golf fan at all 
 -- I rented it and realized it was a purchase within an hour. Fore! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gjagiello
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  This version of TW is really great -- great game play, excellent replay value, fun online play, 
 and fantastic presentation. There are dozens and dozens of little improvements that really add 
 up, making TW09 far and away my favorite console golf experience. The most significant features 
 that make TW09 rock are 1) online simultaneous play mean no more hour-long matches and watching 
 everyone take their shots, 2) visual swing-stick feedback indicator which shows exactly how you 
 used the left stick, and 3) on-the-fly selection of either swing stick OR 3-click meter, for more 
 precise control of those 30% type shots. I also love Hot Shots 2: Out of Bounds on the PS3, mainly 
 for the online play and the overall presentation, but TW09 pushed that game down a notch for me, 
 especially the much improved online play. I suggest you buy the game if you are a golf fan at all 
 -- I rented it and realized it was a purchase within an hour. Fore! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volcomstoner180
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 8:25 pm PT
Review:  I got Tiger Woods 09 the other day, and I have to say its the best golf game I have ever played, 
 and also one of the best sports games ever. I dont golf very frequently, usually a couple times 
 a year, and Im not horrible, but damn my golf game is good in this game. This game is addicting 
 and a ton of fun, I hadn't liked the last couple years in this series (I think the last one I enjoyed 
 was 2004) but EA has found its touch again with this game. There are online challenges you can 
 play to try and beat others best shots, drives etc. One of the best parts of the game is that when 
 you are just playing career or anything, you will see challenges from gamernet pop up on the fairway 
 or green to add an extra challenge to the hole, and its completely up to you if you want to try 
 and beat it or just take your shot and ignore the challenge. 
  
  Another much needed addition was made to the mulltiplayer, where now instead of having to wait 
 for all the people to talk their shots, you can all shoot at the same time. Check out the pic below, 
 you can see the other players shots marked by coloured lines that follow their ball. Anyway this 
 game is great and I highly recommend it to anyone that even remotely likes gold and has played 
 the previous Tiger woods... this one is the best ever, and by saying that it also means this is 
 the best golf game ever.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robtats94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  ive played the tiger woods series since tiger woods pga tour 99 and watched the game get better 
 through the year, but this for me this is the best golf game ive ever played. there may not be 
 much different from the last one in the series but this one feels better than the last one. The 
 graphics look better, the gameplay is superb, the new club tuner is a real help when your just 
 starting out and the in game gamernet challenges add a little more exitement if you have been playing 
 the game for a long time and are too good for the game.
  
  Overall i think this game is one of best game ive played in a long time. I cant wait for Tiger 
 2010.
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrPhotz
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the Tiger Woods golf series since it first came out and the game has gotten 
 better and better each year... except for last year. Tiger Woods '08 was basically a rush-job to 
 get a next-gen version together and it showed. Sure the graphics were great but the game-play was 
 horrible! This year they've made a ton of improvements in the game-play making it somewhat easier 
 and absolutely more enjoyable to play. The introduction of the training coach and more importantly 
 the club tuner has made the controls fully-adaptable to anyone's playing style. My only gripe is 
 that the game face system basically sucks this year for some reason but considering all of the 
 game-play improvements I don't really care as much that my character looks like the golden child. 
 The ever-changing player attributes is also a much more realistic addition to the skill system 
 making every shot important. Putting is something I still need to get better at in the game (as 
 well as in reality) but that'll come eventually. The GamerNet is also a beautiful feature that 
 simply tops it off so this year's installment of Tiger Woods golf is the best one yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fleener
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  This is easily the best Tiger Woods game to date. Everything that was wrong, or not perfected from 
 2008 has been fixed or at least addressed. The graphics, as always, are great. Animations are smooth 
 and realistic, but that's to be expected with a Tiger Woods game. The multiplayer is great. Everyone 
 can play at the same time, meaning you can play with friends without having to wait. This is great 
 for a quick round against friends. The game is also pretty easy to pick up and start playing. This 
 means that if you've never played a Tiger Woods golf game, you won't be completely lost. But, the 
 game is also hard, so veterans of Tiger Woods PGA Tour games will find plenty to do with this new 
 installment. The new Gamernet feature is cool too. Now you can compete on shots against other people 
 online. Overall, this is my favorite Tiger Woods video game and easily my favorite golf game ever 
 made. I own all the Tiger Woods PGA Tour games for xbox and xbox 360, and Tiger Woods PGA Tour 
 2009 is a must buy for any golf fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  I've been playin Tiger every year since it's been out and I gotta say that 09' is AWESOME. Other 
 than the expected visual upgrade, the gameplay is fantastic. You can actually swing in real time. 
 meaning.. that you'll "see where your swing is" on the back side , whether you want a straight swing 
 or else this is a MAJOR improvement.
  Getting to play on LIVE is a joy. You get in a game on quick match as quickly as you would playing 
 offline. I was hesitant on purchasing this year's game but the improvements are vast enough to 
 warrant the cash outlay. Everything from the improved graphics to the fast interface that allows 
 you to swithch from different gameplays within the offline mode.
  This is a MUST for your XBOX library. I gotta say that EA is doing a great job in the sports department. 
 Games like NHL, Madden and NBA are really good games now. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
