-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tiger Woods PGA Tour 06
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/tigerwoodspgatour06/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 More challenge adds life to the game.
 Great-looking models and environments.
 Gameface is a tinkerer's dream.
 Load times are pretty quick.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Only six courses.
 Frame rate issues crop up here and there.
 Tiger's lost his time-travel powers.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 22, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 7.1, 50 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 1,109 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Golf Sim
Date: Nov 16, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
What it lacks in features and courses, Tiger almost makes up for in pure challenge. 

  The Xbox 360 version of Tiger Woods PGA Tour 06 features a picture of a dead-serious Tiger, his 
 right arm raised in defiant celebration. Clad in his familiar final-tournament-day red, Tiger strides 
 along, confident in his ability to finish off an opponent -- perhaps with a 20-foot putt or a 300-plus-yard 
 drive. The expression on his face says he's all business and very little fuss. That's also an accurate 
 description of the game this photo appears on. While Tiger Woods PGA Tour 06 for Xbox 360 is missing 
 many of the features that round out the game on current-gen platforms and the PC, what remains 
 is a challenging, enjoyable game of golf that, in some ways, exceeds the more fleshed-out versions. 

          PGA Tour pros and created golfers mix and mingle in Tiger 06 for Xbox 360.     

  Tiger 
 Woods 06 for the Xbox and PS2 was a matured and well-developed title, with plenty of game modes 
 and a tuned-up control system that added some life to a swing mechanic that had gotten stale over 
 a few iterations. What the game lacked, however, was any sort of serious challenge. One putts were 
 commonplace, 300-yard drives straight down the middle of the fairway were routine, and the competition 
 you faced didn't frequently play much like PGA Tour pros. Because of all this, you had a lot of 
 great features that you just didn't stick with for very long. In Tiger 06 for the 360, you have 
 fewer features, but considerably more challenge.  

  The dual-analog swing system from the PS2 and Xbox versions is still used here. The left analog 
 controls your backswing, while the right analog stick is used to influence the spin and fade or 
 draw of the ball when it's struck. The shape stick works just as promised, and there seems to be 
 more of an emphasis on its use here on the 360. Perhaps it's a function of the courses found in 
 the game -- the tight, hazardous confines of TPC at Sawgrass comes immediately to mind -- but applying 
 spin to the ball has never seemed more important than it is here.  

  Though swinging the club is controlled the same way, two significant changes keep things feeling 
 fresh. The first is that the sensitivity of the left stick seems to have been upped considerably 
 this time around, meaning it's more difficult to nail a straight shot. If you aren't mindful of 
 your swing, you can shank a ball to the left or right with relative ease. Things get more complex 
 when you compound that with the second control tweak: The power-boost and spin-boost controls have 
 been assigned to the left button on the 360 controller. As a result, maintaining a disciplined, 
 solid backswing with the left analog while rapidly boosting on the left button is very difficult. 
 It took us aback at first, and we shanked plenty of balls into the woods as we got used to it. 
 Eventually we modified our virtual swing by using our right hand to boost on the left button, which 
 freed our left hand up to concentrate on the backswing and follow-through. Just like our real-life 
 golf swing, it doesn't look very good, but it works.  

  We're big fans of this subtle but effective control tweak. Challenge in the game of golf comes 
 from every angle -- from the course itself, from the competitors playing against you, and yes, from 
 your constant struggles with your own swing. The added sensitivity of the left analog stick coupled 
 with the power-boost switch means that even routine shots have a chance -- however slight -- of going 
 awry. And that feels more like golf to us than Tiger Woods for consoles has in a long time.  

 
  The putting controls are unchanged from the console versions of Tiger 06, and as a result, judging 
 distance is still too easy. Judging the break seems tougher this go-around, however. You can still 
 use the ideal-putt cam to pick your ideal approach angle (but why can't you turn this option off 
 in online matches?) , but putting doesn't seem to be as automatic a process as on current-gen systems. 
 The biggest challenge we had with putting in Tiger 06 was spotting the hole on non-HDTV setups -- the 
 cup itself seems to get obscured a bit on standard televisions.  

          The game's control system feels the same but is tweaked for difficulty, to the game's credit. 
     

  The core of Tiger 06's single-player game is the career mode. There's no time-travel theme such 
 as that found on the PS2 or Xbox, nor are there the weekend foursomes with your virtual buddies 
 like in the PC game. Instead, there's a much more straightforward approach that has you create 
 a golfer with the familiar gameface system, then launch into a number of skills challenges that 
 will test different aspects of your game, from putting to playing out of the traps. That probably 
 sounds familiar if you've played Tiger before, but where things differ this time around is in the 
 increased difficulty of these challenges. Certainly, some of them you can beat in one or two tries -- putting 
 challenges and other short-game tests being two examples. But some of the long-drive competitions 
 can only be passed after you've jacked up your power attributes appropriately; and a couple of 
 the single-club tests -- playing a few holes with nothing but a seven iron, for example -- will require 
 a deft touch and plenty of patience in order to pass.  

  Indeed, getting through the four-day Q School tournament and earning your PGA Tour card in the 
 process can be a grueling trial (though you can save your game after each tournament day is complete, 
 which will let you start over if you don't like how your day is going) . Your opponents won't give 
 an inch, and you can expect that same level of challenge to continue when you move on to the PGA 
 Tour proper and start competing in weekly events.     

  So, there's a good amount of challenge to be found in Tiger 06. Unfortunately, that challenge will 
 only take place on a mere six courses -- Riviera Country Club, Pinehurst No. 2, TPC at Sawgrass, 
 Carnoustie, Turnberry's Alisa Course, and, of course, the ever-present Pebble Beach. When compared 
 to Tiger 06 for the Xbox, which featured a full 14 courses (when you count the fantasy courses) , 
 this represents the most significant gap between the current-gen and next-gen versions of the game, 
 and for most players will likely be the deal breaker when deciding whether to buy the game. In 
 that same vein, there's also less stuff to spend your tour earnings on in the PGA Tour shop than 
 before. If sheer quantity of courses is your thing, Tiger 06 for the 360 is tough to recommend. 
 On the positive side, the courses that  are  in the game are diverse and challenging, and they 
 also happen to look great.  

          Complex shadows and lighting effects convey a real sense of depth to tree-lined courses. 
     

  That look comes thanks to a sense of depth and detail that simply isn't possible on the PS2 or 
 Xbox. The biggest difference is the quality of lighting and shadows. Take the first hole at TPC, 
 for example, with its honor guard of trees that line both sides of the hole, casting dappled shadows 
 across the length of the fairway all the way to the green itself. As the tree limbs shift with 
 the breeze, the shadows they cast move slightly as well. It's not perfect -- those same shadows aren't 
 cast on your player model when he or she stands underneath a tree, for example, and there is some 
 shadow-texture pop-in as your ball travels through the air; but on their own, the shadows add depth 
 and texture to the courses to great effect.  

  Player models in Tiger Woods are hit or miss. Some, like Tiger himself, are amazingly lifelike, 
 with bulging veins in their forearms and spot-on facial modeling that makes the virtual golfer 
 nearly indistinguishable from the real thing. Others, such as John Daly, don't fare nearly as well 
 and look more like vaguely upgraded PS2 or Xbox models. There is also a sense of plasticity to 
 some of the skin textures, and the less said about the poor hair modeling the better, especially 
 when it comes to created players. The game also has periodic frame rate issues, often during the 
 backswing, which can affect the swing's delicate timing. Crowds will line the course during tournaments, 
 and it's nice to see that they aren't just static models -- you'll notice some walking around in 
 the background. Even better, you can whack a gallery member with an errant shot, which simply never 
 gets old.  

  Tiger's Dolby Digital 5.1 support is best served when playing amid a full crowd of tournament onlookers. 
 Hit a blast off the tee and the crowd will roar in appreciation (including, of course, the knucklehead 
 who feels it necessary to shriek at the top of his lungs) ; shank a shot into the woods and the 
 crowd will mutter in disappointment. Beyond that, you've got Gary McCord and David Feherty sharing 
 announcing duties, and once again, the duo does a decent job of announcing the action on the links. 
 Their commentary isn't always accurate -- they sometimes call a match play "dead even" even if you're 
 up three holes -- but at the very least, their calls are entertaining. A slew of EA Trax tunes don't 
 get in the way and won't have you reaching to unplug the MP3 player connected to your 360 anytime 
 soon.  

          Online play adds some life to the game, provided you can put up with the periodic lag. 
     

  Online play in Tiger includes your standard quick-play and custom-match filters. You can create 
 matches based on a number of different game types -- stroke, match, skins, best ball, four ball, 
 alternate shot, and three-hole minigames. The game keeps track of your online stats and has weekly 
 overall leaderboards for stroke and match play, as well as the minigames. There are also daily 
 tournaments to take part in, and the game highlights weekly money winners, golfers of the week, 
 and tourney winners. When it comes to game performance online, there is some lag to speak of, and 
 some of it is consistent. Unfortunately, it's one stroke at a time online -- the ready-play option 
 in the PC version, which lets you take your next shot as soon as you're ready, can't be found in 
 the 360 version of the game.  

  In the end, many consumers will judge Tiger 06 by what it lacks -- courses, game modes, and extras -- and 
 these are fair criticisms. What it doesn't lack, however, is challenge, and a feeling that things 
 could slip out from under your control at any moment -- something you couldn't really find on the 
 current-gen versions of the game. If you played Tiger for the Xbox or PS2, you won't find enough 
 here to justify spending an additional 60 bucks on. If you're desperate for next-gen golf or haven't 
 played Tiger in a while, you'll find a game that, at least in terms of control and difficulty, 
 is making strides toward becoming a more complete and realistic facsimile of golf. It bodes well 
 for the future of the series.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (69 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: reavesb
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 3, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  I got this one on the bargin rack so it didn't hurt quite as bad when I wished I had went ahead 
 and purchased the 07 version. Guess I shouldn't be such a cheap scape! Don't get me wrong, it wasn't 
 aweful, but it could've been much better. The good points are being able to customize your player. 
 The controls were aweful, however I found trying to make the power shot a waste of time. The bad 
 was the graphics and the AI of the players. Some of their comments reminded more of Rainman than 
 of a golfer. "Yea, definately got to get on the green. Oh, the rough, rough, yea definately not 
 the rough... ohhh) I thought it was about 5 years behind in graphics and AI. Load times were a little 
 slow based on the quality of the graphics.
  
  Now that 07 is out, I would recommend that you follow ol' Cheap Scape's advise and purchase the 
 improvement. 
  
  I, of course, turned the voices of the commentators down as that I would've shot them if I could 
 find who was making those annoying comments. Yes, I suck at golf almost as much on the computers 
 as I do in real life. 
  
  So, if you want a cheap, bargin rack game to hack some golf balls around got to your local gamer 
 store and take it off their hands. If your looking for a good golfing experience, spend the money, 
 you tightwad! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thewillsmith
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 26, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  This is a fairly solid game, as most all EA Sports titles are. The graphics aren't the best, but 
 they are better than average. The career mode gets very repetitive and way too easy. After a short 
 learning period and enough time to jack up your character to max potential, the game is a pushover. 
 It is impossible to be beaten after that point. The online multi-player is amazing. The daily tournament 
 alone is enough to make the replay value infinite. It does take some time to play a full round 
 with a foursome, but you can quickly bolt through a 3 hole mini-match. Hands down, the best sports 
 multi-player of the video game era. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameogameo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 13, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  You might expect from someone who is crap at golf and doesn't actually like it to be interested 
 in golf games, well I wasn't, that was until Tiger Woods 06 came along. Its a fun and immersive 
 game, where should I start.
  The graphics are surprisingly detailed and colourful, unfortunately there is no change in the sound 
 and the commentators are still annoying. But you'll be spoilt for choice over what do do first, 
 especially the new stuff on career mode. The online is nice and simple, with a steady frame rate 
 too. The game's value is slightly lowered from previous installments of the franchise, this is 
 mainly due to the fact that there are only 6 courses to play on throughout the whole game. Never 
 mind though.
  
  Tiger Woods is still an enjoyable game and should be given a fair try by everyone before dismissing 
 it completely.
  THANKS FOR READING. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xelalex24
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 20, 2006 5:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. First of all, there are so many game modes that you really can't get bored. 
 I find myself with bunch of friends playing non-stop as we all compete for prestige.
  
  The graphics are really great, I just wish they would have refined them a bit as something it feels 
 the colors are a bit mute. Then again, this is so minor that it becomes insignificant.
  
  The gameplay is great. It gives you the right challenge without cursing because you can't hit the 
 ball right.
  
  There are some neat background sounds, but I think they could have added a bit more sounds effects, 
 and i would ahve loved to see them expand the voice recording for each characters... some of them 
 are funny!
  
  All and all, this game has a lot to offer, and especially since most of EASports game for the xbox360 
 have been junk (except NHL) , it was nice to see another excellent sports game where it doesn't 
 make me go in a rant about EA evil plot to rule the world. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tdouglass
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 6, 2006 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Ok, not bad. I was kind of skeptical going into this, having played the previous season on PS2, 
 but PGA Tour '06 pulled off what the other games could not. As a 360 title, it looks very impressive, 
 and the standards for High-Def gaming has not forgotten this sport. The gameplay is not very sophisticated, 
 but then again, neither is the sport. You hit the ball into the hole, fill your Gamebreaker meter 
 and pull off some unfair hole-in-one shot that screws with everyone else's game, hence "Gamebreaker". 
 This title is more diffiicult than the previous, since the "Tiger Vision" mode, where you see the 
 putt through Tiger's eyes, essentially acing every putt, is removed. This makes putts, chips and 
 pitches actual feats, and adds some incentive to keep practicing such shots. So overall, it's a 
 good golf game. But, it's also just that. There are no funny minigames, no unusual tidbits to ease 
 you away from golf, just an awful lot of annoying commentation, which can luckily be turned off 
 after a minute of listening to him insult your every move. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djord02
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 1, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  The Tiger Woods series of golf games has always managed to provide a fun and attractive portrayal 
 of the sport. I've loved the previous versions on the original Xbox and when I saw the updated 
 graphics for the Xbox 360 version I was instantly excited. 
  
  Upon popping in the game, my first impressions were very good. The graphics were sharp and the 
 game was a little tougher than previous versions -- a good thing.
  
  However, as I began to explore the game's features, I started to get the impression that EA didn't 
 invest a lot of time on this one. For example, there are relatively few one-on-one matchups with 
 real golfers, and there are no fun, make-believe characters to compete against and unlock -- a 
 staple feature of previous Tiger Wood's games. Furthermore, I noticed that the selection of courses 
 available to play was pretty sparse. It feels like EA was in such a hurry to get the game out that 
 they decided to leave out all the bells and whistles. 
  
  You can't even play cooperatively with a friend in a tournament during your PGA season, which was 
 a fun feature from previous versions. Unlockable items, clubs and other paraphernalia.
  
  However, online play is pretty fun. I give EA credit for at least creating a functional and competitive 
 online experience. However, the game-breakers simply have to go. 
  
  Some eople have modified their characters so that they can generate a game breaker (move that ultimately 
 guarantees you a hole-in-one or eagle) after every couple holes, providing a drastically unfair 
 experience.
  
  Overall, if you love golf games you will probably still enjoy Tiger Woods. But if you're just now 
 entering the Xbox 360 scene, wait till the new Tiger '07 comes out in October. I have the feeling 
 it is going to be much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameman45
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 24, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Golfing games have come a long way over the years such as Jack Nicklaus Golden Bear chalenge. Tiger 
 woods pGA Tour 06 is a real improvement. me being golf fan makes me picky on golf games and this 
 meets up to my standards. Excelent carrer mode and math play. Specifics- The gameplay is overall 
 very good. The feel of the analog stick is a great advantage to the game. The graphics are really 
 good and have great facial features. The sound is really good and so is the slow motion. The anounncers 
 are funny as usual with fairway farady and Gary Mcourd. The Value is good especially if you love 
 golf. i recomend this to all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdrillnfill
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 19, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of the Tiger Woods golfing game but for some reason this one just didnt grab me 
 and make me want to play it until completion. The graphics are next gen and the commentation is 
 great however, there just didnt seem to be anything new that really made this game any different 
 than 05. Besides the minor tweaks they made in the swing and the putting change, I thought I was 
 playing 05 with better graphics. Ohh, and where are all the courses. I think there are only like 
 6 or 7. A good game but I will wait for the reviews on 07 before buying that one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muffdiver1982
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 13, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  To me this game lacked significant content. The graphics didn't look any different then they would 
 have on regular XBOX. Gameplay is always fun, but the gamebreakers ruin everything. Especially 
 with online play. If you learn the secret to getting 4 or more gamebreakers a game, it can turn 
 a mediocre player into a superstar. People online have shot a 39 in the daily tournaments which 
 is completely bogus. Let me break it down for you. On an average 72-par course there should be 
 4 par-5's, 4 par 3's. and 10 par-4's. let's assume that a player can get achieve 4 gamebreakers 
 and stategically use them all on the par-5's for double eagles, then birdie the rest of the holes, 
 playing a flawless match. The score should come up to 46. Now that to me is ridiculous! Not to 
 mention that I've seen people shoot 7 strokes below that. I'm pretty good, and shoot between 16-under 
 and 22-under with usually one or two gamebreakers. I like the old style where skill and luck played 
 a huge factor, and seem to be non-existent in this game. It is next to impossible in this game 
 to sick any shot without using a gamebreaker. Let's not forget that this game carried only six 
 courses; not including the great equalizer, The Predator course. I'd like to see someone shoot 
 below a 50 on that course, regardless of gamebreakers! This game is great yet horrible at the same 
 time; offering a ton of hours of replay with little to no change from '05. In fact it had less. 
 All Achievements are on-line also, and most of the achievements are next to impossible to achieve, 
 unless you can manage average rounds of 46 or better. On-line play is difficult, because you always 
 lose connection when in a match, which leaves you with a sour taste in your mouth when your resume 
 states that you left all those games early. '07 better be a huge step in the right direction, because 
 this game took a couple steps back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogokun
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 9, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Tiger 06 is alot of fun, but its weak presentation and dubious value hurt what could have been 
 a great next generation debut. Instead these flaws bring it down from the rank of "next gen", and 
 make it a game that can, at best, be described as adiquete. 
  
  The gameplay in Tiger 06 has been revamped to add more strategy and skill by cleverly mapping the 
 mechanism to the left analog stick. What happens here is you pull back on the stick to start your 
 backswing, and push forward to execute the swing. How hard you hit the ball depends on how fast 
 you pust the analog stick up, and how far you go into your backswing. If your analog stick is pushed 
 a little to the left when you push forward, just like in a real swing the ball will drift a little 
 to the right. This is quite a revolutionary mechanic for golf games, and it brings us out of the 
 timing meter age. Also, with the right stick you can select which part of the ball you want to 
 hit, which adds even more strategy to the gameplay.
  
  As far as graphics go, this game is unimpressive. Sure, there is alot more detail in the player 
 model than the current gen versions, but the courses look identical to the current gen versions. 
 Even the player models look mediocre at times because of the wonky skin textures. The sound does 
 much better than the visuals because of the wonderful ambience whenever you are on the course (birds 
 chirping, waves crashing) , and the humorous commentary. The only problem with the commentary is 
 that there is not much of it, and not all of it is timed well. Also, crowd noises are weak. There 
 is a pretty good soundtrack in the game, but you'll only hear the songs during menu time.
  
  As far as value goes, this game can hold its own. The single player is fun and the multiplayer 
 is solid, but the inclusion of only 6 courses is inexusable. Still, this game could last you a 
 while.
  
  Overall, Tiger 06 is a fairly good attempt an next gen golfing, and while the graphics aren't quite 
 there yet, the gameplay makes up for this in more ways than one. Recommended to golfing fans.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TanRam13
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 2, 2006 12:23 am PT
Review:  Rented this one from Gamefly after hearing a couple of iffy reviews about it and unfourtunatly 
 they were right. This Tiger Woods game is unlike any other in the series. When I first started 
 playing there jsut seemed to be a total difference in the way it was. 
  
  The graphics dont look next gen like most of the EA Sports games for the 360. But the very detailed 
 charecter creator was a blast to work with. However it ended there once I actually got into the 
 game. 
  
  The gameplay has you going into alot of like training games to bring up your charecters skill level. 
 Which is very boring and repetitve. Also unlike the previous Tiger Woods games there are only 6 
 courses which is a huge let down. When I was done with my charecter I decided to check out the 
 variety of onlline options available on LIve. When I started playing I found the real reason for 
 Tiger Woods was online you work your player up so that he is good enough for online and then you 
 can get all the achievements which are for the online mode. Online itself is a slow and frustrating 
 process with so much lag it was hard to time my swing to get the best shot.
  
  Overall this game is a nice start for what they can do with Tiger Woods 07 if they improve the 
 courses, extras that were in the later games, and make the whole experience of the online games 
 I think the future is bright for the TW games to come other wise skip this one unless you are a 
 hardcore TW or golf fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hydrolite
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 24, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  When you play this game do not exspect a walk in the park. In fact don't exspect anything. Sometimes 
 your shots that looked destined for the fairway will hit a hazard you never saw coming. Once you 
 reach the green don't exspect an easy trip to the bottom of the cup. There are some greens that 
 are so slanted that you don't know the ball managed to stop in the first place. Overall though 
 this diffiultie will keep you back for more. The shot stick responds fairly well to your actions 
 and usually you know right away if your going off course or not. Gameplay is enjoyable but flawed 
 in some instances. Sometimes when you move your aiming reticle it will still act as though it was 
 aimed where it first was. So that beautiful shot you spent precious minutes lining up might go 
 squirly.
  
  The character creation process is one of the most thorough ones ever found in game. There are seemingly 
 endless ways to make your character as ugly or good as you like. As you travel through career mode 
 you will find even more ways to make your charactor your own.
  
  Career mode thrusts you into a dream of a situation. Your on the 18th hole of Pebble Beach and 
 you have a partner. He's just your everyday golfer named Tiger Woods. He's there to bail you out 
 of the rough, sand, or whatever else you will find in that course. This starts you on your journey 
 to becoming a professional golfer. The career mode is full of entertain and different events to 
 really bring some variety to the gameplay. Sometimes the profession opponets are anything but professional. 
 Somedays they will play great and somedays they can't make a two foot putt. Many times however 
 you will find that the goals and competitions are just way too demanding. They seem to be able 
 to just one up you all the time, planting that seed that if you wouldn't have errored that last 
 hole you would've won. 
  
  Tiger Woods PGA Tour 06 is a worthwhile venture into next gen consoles. With the very challenging 
 play it may not be for the less patient among us. If you can withstand this torture you will find 
 a good time in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 20, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  My first impression of Tiger was that it was a good golf game with sweet graphics and a cool career 
 mode. I later found out it did lack some more courses but that didn't bug me at all. It's still 
 a very fun game.
  
  Graphics - Player models could be a touch more realistic but the courses are insanely beautiful! 
 I also love the crowd being there and the ability to hit them. Those are some funny animations 
 to say the least!
  
  Gameplay - It's a tougher game which makes it more fun! The animations and ball movement are spot 
 on. Looks oh so good!
  
  Sound - Great golf sounds. Bad player voices. 'Nuff said.
  
  Overall it's a fun game that is worth buying (unless the new one is out because it will have more 
 courses and better player models) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrpieper17comet
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 14, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Ive always liked tiger woods games. Theyre always fun challenging and realistic. This one is very 
 similar to other versions as far as play goes. However the single player is completely different. 
 Its much more challenging and kinda hit or miss. In this version its much more difficult to max 
 out your stats. And you cant play tournaments until you pass a school. It really is a good setup. 
 Unlike other games where you could play and win tournaments at a low level this one you will get 
 demolished. THe graphics are ok for a launch day port but kinda rough looking. The online play 
 is fun. It doesnt have any major lag but it does run a little slow. The highlight of the game howwever 
 is shanking the ball into a crowd and dropping some old guy. Definatley a good buy for fans of 
 the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 7, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Tiger Woods PGA Tour 06 is a welcoming change of pace from Everybodies Golf and SuperSwing 5000! 
 but the license could be used alot more ... good. For example you should be able to design courses 
 and golfers, involve merchandising and perhaps squirrels in the trees (sorry, just speaking my 
 mind) .
  One of Tiger Woods PGA Tour 06's main problems is an unstable frame-rate, which, quite franky, 
 is complete bogus, because if games like Oblivion and FarCry can run smoothly (-ish) then a small 
 white ball on screen should run like water, just don't hit it in the water, he he he ... ugh (so 
 very tired) .
  Tiger Woods PGA Tour 06 is (currently) the best golfing game around (just) and, considering you've 
 got live, can be a treat to behold, online tournaments are "da bomb" and "groovy".
  
  Tiger Woods PGA Tour 06 ... 'nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Parker626
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 5, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  As with any of the 360 games, of course this game is going to have great graphics and pretty smooth 
 gameplay, but what everyone is interested in is the replay value of each game. When someone drops 
 40-60 bucks on a game, they want to know if they are gonna get their money's worth or not. Well, 
 since this game is now down to 40 bucks to purchase, I can finally highly recommend it to people 
 who not only love golfing, golfing games, or sports games, but games that are simply a challenge. 
 
  
  This is one of those games. No two matches will be the same because of the shot stick that has 
 now been incorporated into the game. It is all new level of a way to learn how to swing and therefore 
 brings a new aspect to the game. This is a great game for those who love to play golf games and 
 also for those who just love getting the value out of their games that they drop the money for. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clcougars33
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 5, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  The Xbox 360 version of Tiger Woods PGA Tour 06 features a picture of a dead-serious Tiger, his 
 right arm raised in defiant celebration. Clad in his familiar final-tournament-day red, Tiger strides 
 along, confident in his ability to finish off an opponent -- perhaps with a 20-foot putt or a 300-plus-yard 
 drive. The expression on his face says he's all business and very little fuss. That's also an accurate 
 description of the game this photo appears on. While Tiger Woods PGA Tour 06 for Xbox 360 is missing 
 many of the features that round out the game on current-gen platforms and the PC, what remains 
 is a challenging, enjoyable game of golf that, in some ways, exceeds the more fleshed-out versions. 
 Though swinging the club is controlled the same way, two significant changes keep things feeling 
 fresh. The first is that the sensitivity of the left stick seems to have been upped considerably 
 this time around, meaning it's more difficult to nail a straight shot. If you aren't mindful of 
 your swing, you can shank a ball to the left or right with relative ease. Things get more complex 
 when you compound that with the second control tweak: The power-boost and spin-boost controls have 
 been assigned to the left button on the 360 controller. As a result, maintaining a disciplined, 
 solid backswing with the left analog while rapidly boosting on the left button is very difficult. 
 It took us aback at first, and we shanked plenty of balls into the woods as we got used to it. 
 Eventually we modified our virtual swing by using our right hand to boost on the left button, which 
 freed our left hand up to concentrate on the backswing and follow-through. Just like our real-life 
 golf swing, it doesn't look very good, but it works. We're big fans of this subtle but effective 
 control tweak. Challenge in the game of golf comes from every angle -- from the course itself, from 
 the competitors playing against you, and yes, from your constant struggles with your own swing. 
 The added sensitivity of the left analog stick coupled with the power-boost switch means that even 
 routine shots have a chance -- however slight -- of going awry. And that feels more like golf to us 
 than Tiger Woods for consoles has in a long time. The putting controls are unchanged from the console 
 versions of Tiger 06, and as a result, judging distance is still too easy. Judging the break seems 
 tougher this go-around, however. You can still use the ideal-putt cam to pick your ideal approach 
 angle (but why can't you turn this option off in online matches?) , but putting doesn't seem to 
 be as automatic a process as on current-gen systems. The biggest challenge we had with putting 
 in Tiger 06 was spotting the hole on non-HDTV setups -- the cup itself seems to get obscured a bit 
 on standard televisions. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dillyhox
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 2, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that this Tiger Woods game is totally different from the last few installments. It 
 has some pros and cons. So lets start with the pros. Well for being on a next gen system, the graphics 
 are a bit better. The online game play is pretty fun. I really enjoy the daily online tournaments. 
 Except its crazy to see some people get in the low 40s. Its ridiculous. Now with the cons. There 
 are only 6 courses in this one. That is pretty sad accounting 06 on xbox had like 10+ or something 
 like that. They had a good thing going with there putting system in earlier games and they changed 
 it, and I must say it sucks. I am terrible with it and it takes forever to get used to. The swing 
 system seems to be a bit trickier this time around. It seems to be less forgiving. In TW05 I could 
 get in the 50s golfing and this one I dont think I have ever gotten under par. It is soo much 
 harder. Maybe it is just me but I think they ruined this game and just rushed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badge21
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 24, 2006 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Tiger Woods could have been a good game and in fact I have played some good golf games in my day. 
 Only once actually playing real golf but that is beside the point. This game had the potential 
 but none of the the real fun that is involved in a golf game. For one I am not a hardcore golfer 
 and I got it to relax and just enjoy it. Boy was I wrong, this game left me wanting to throw my 
 controller out the window. Why do you make a game so ass stupid hard that casual gamers cannot 
 enjoy it? Why cause people to have a stroke (no pun intended) over something like this? The putting 
 game was flat out awful, I love the shot stick, I really do but why do you make it so hard that 
 Jesus himself would be left wondering where the Divine Power comes from? Put your money into something 
 else, maybe the current gen version that gives you ten times the bang for your buck which is bearable 
 even without wonderful graphics. And if you just want to have fun, go elsewhere, this game will 
 leave you pissed off at the Golf gods for letting this game slide by and call itself "fun". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NorthernSolo
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 23, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  Tiger 06 for the 360 is a mixed bag of a game. And I don't mean golf clubs. 
  
  Visually a treat to the eyes, with fluid gameplay and a fast enough engine to play a full round 
 at Pebble in under 30 minutes. This being said, the glaring omission of a career mode (a la the 
 PC version) and a severe lack of courses detract from making this game a perfect line drive. 
 
  
  Footage of the graphics engine for the 07 iteration means we're all in for another dose of eye 
 candy in the coming season, but let's hope that EA has also taken heed from the fanbase to boost 
 the card up to at LEAST 12 courses for the next time out.
  
  The bottom line?
  
  The best (and only) golf for the 360. Despite the lack of courses, it's still a challenging game 
 with a lot of replay value when you have the gang over on a rainy afternoon. 
  
  Solo's Rating: 88 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wallymartin
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 20, 2006 10:51 pm PT
Review:  It would have nice if this game had more than just courses. But when you add in everything else 
 this game offers, a shortage of courses is easily overcome.
  
  First of all, I was able to create an almost perfect accurate version of me in the create-a-golfer 
 mode thingy. So it gets big points for that.
  
  The graphics are great. Tiger is perfectly modeled and the courses look fantastic. The other golfers 
 are fairly accurate, but hey, you probably wouldn't recognize them in person either.
  
  I had never played a golf game before, so I'm not sure how the gameplay compares to that of previous 
 versions or other golf games, but I do know that it was quite easy to learn how the game works 
 and that it was very functional. So in my book, that's good.
  
  Most importantly, the difficulty of the overall game is perfect. Even when you have maxed out all 
 of your stats in a well done career mode, you'll still find yourself battling from behind half 
 the time, which puts more emphasis on the decisions you make in how to play, such as club type 
 or how you hit the ball. 
  
  Golf fans will probably love this game. I myself am not a golf fan, but this game is both very 
 fun and highly addictive.
  
  Now if only we had a golf cart mini-game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warmack1
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 18, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Tiger Woods PGA Tour 06 for the 360 brings a slightly new control scheme and some next-gen graphics.
 
  
  The game modes are pretty much the same as all the other past games in this series. You have the 
 PGA Tour season, multiplayer, lessons, but the new twist instead of a match play tournament like 
 the others ( I believe it was the Tiger Challenge or something like that in the others) you have 
 skill challenges and some head to heads with players and all of the available courses in the game. 
 
  All that said that's were it fall all over itself. While the graphics are next-gen and so is the 
 price you get 8 courses as opposed to 18 on the last and 20+ on the PC version. So the next-gen 
 price tag is not warranted at all. The game will give you just the same experience as on the last 
 installments of the series and with the new graphics Tiger and the others never looked so good. 
 
  
  The create a player feature remains the most detailed, in depth customizable options in a video 
 game. 
  
  The multiplay in nice online and with a few friends. Overall I would wait for the next one when 
 they have put the proper time into the game and not rushing it out for launch like they did here. 
 But it is still a pretty good game, just not worth the extra price and not enough gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 13, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Tiger woods 06 is a fine game for those die hard golf fans who love the game and video games. sort 
 of an odd combo there. for those who are new to the game this is a challenge with career mode you 
 work you way up..... and i mean WORK. the challenges eventually make you the golfer that one day 
 will be on the PGA tour.
  
  gameplay- quite simple... once you get use to the system. using both analog sticks to swing make 
 it easy to just lay the golf ball almost anywhere you want to. however. if you want to add some 
 spin, curve, or a solid roll... get ready to practice. 
  
  overall- unless your a golf fan you didn't touch this. this game beat me up completely and the 
 achievements are ridiculous to achieve. the point i am trying to get across is go ahead and rent 
 this game if your looking for a challenge.
  
  ONLY RENT!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slappnuttz
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 4, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  I was very surprised when I started to play this game. I was not expecting myself to enjoy it as 
 much as I do. I was looking for a game to take up some of my time other then Oblivion. I figured 
 there was no way that any game out right now could ever be able to match the greatest game ever. 
 Now it didn't match Oblivion (of course) but I've found myself playing it none stop and realized 
 last night that I hadn't played Oblivion in a week (OMG) . If you enjoy golf or just enjoy sports 
 games, this is a great addition to your 360 library.
  One of the best parts that makes me play this more and more is the fact that in the career mode 
 you actually have to finish some side tasks before you can compete in Q-school to see if you can 
 make it to the pro level. In the past golf games I've played you just started playing tournaments 
 and usually you got your a$$ handed to you. With this game you build up your different attributes 
 and have to practice different parts of your game before you can play in the tour. 
  The game play and controls are very user friendly also and are at the perfect difficulty so you 
 can't just master it right away but at the same time you don't suck right away either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamie_w_91
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 30, 2006 4:05 am PT
Review:  Tiger Wood PGA Tour is back again with a big improvement from last years 2005 edition. This year 
 has the same baselines with the "Legend" Section but offers a variety of more PGA golfers and improved 
 Gameplay. I think the game is top class and is very enjoyable for golfing fans and non golfing 
 fans. The Season mode is the same but still very much enjoyable. Next Years Tiger should improve 
 on this but this 2006 edition was brilliant and I enjoy playing it.
  
  In 2007 we can expect much of the same but with added tweaks possibly a enhanced roster and graphics. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cecx
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 21, 2006 4:35 pm PT
Review:  In this version of Tiger Woods, many of the features that gamers loved about the current generation 
 version are ditched, but EA tries to make up for that by improving the graphics and making the 
 game harder to master.
  
  The biggest addition to the game when it was ported to the 360 is the graphical improvements. The 
 game looks way better than the older versions in mostly all aspects. The courses look terrific 
 with blades of grass sticking up in the rough, the water looks fantastic (especially along the 
 ocean at Pebble Beach, and the player models look much closer to their real life counterparts. 
 I was amazed at how much Retief Goosen looks like himself in the game, even his expressions... except 
 the angry ones as he hardly ever gets angry in real life.
  
  The other big improvement in the game is the raised sensitivity of the thumbsticks making shots 
 go off-track more often than in the older games. The transition at the top of your swing is also 
 more sensitive with only a slight pause causing you to lose distance. The ball flight also seems 
 to be more realistic making using the shapestick a necessity (especially to get over those bunkers) . 
 This added challenge makes up for the loss of Tiger-Proofing which often lead to ugly courses anyway.
 
  
  Power boosting has been made far more challenging than ever before. They used the left bumper for 
 power this time meaning you'll have to use your right hand on the left side of the controller. 
 This in itself can make your shots far less accurate leading to shots that actually go into the 
 rough... hard to believe with the other versions of this game being so easy.
  
  Putting has remained the same using supposedly both thumbsticks, although putting with just one 
 is fine for most situations. Putting is pretty easy unless you have it on professsional difficulty 
 and have the green hardness and speed turned up, this can make the putting system far more delicate 
 making missed putts a common thing.
  
  As for a story mode, there really isn't one (One of the features dropped) . Your character you create 
 plays in a Pro-AM.. well not really, just one hole. You then start working on getting to the PGA 
 tour by doing a series of short challenges. Once on the PGA tour, it is really just a bunch of 
 tournaments like in previous versions leading to extreme boredom.
  
  Luckily the online mode has returned leading to more value in the game. The online portion of the 
 game is simple to navigate but it's often hard to find a match without lag. There are also online 
 tournaments to compete in, although you never really see the other player, you simply play by yourself 
 and you score gets posted. Be warned though, the tournaments are very hard to win unless you're 
 a TW master as winning scores are often 40-42.
  
  Overall, TW 06 for the 360 is a great game of golf. This time around it may only have 6 courses 
 (Beautiful looking I should say) , no Tiger-Proofing, and no real Story, but it more than makes 
 up for it by having an increased difficulty and better looking visuals. For this game I'd recommend 
 a rent before you purchase it, but if you really want a good golf game go ahead and buy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTAG-daver999
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 20, 2006 6:29 am PT
Review:  I went of the tiger woods series for the old xbox because I couldnt stand how unrealistic it is 
 shooting about 20 under par every round and also there was no xbox live. So when I saw this coming 
 out for the 360 I thought great hopefully it will be a big improvement with the new technology 
 and I saw it can play online so I bought it for $60.00 when it first came out and it was the biggest 
 mistake Ive ever done. When I played it I was like where are all the courses???? The game had 
 glitches on and was clearly an unfinished game. And also I found you can still shoot 20 under par 
 but now its even easier with the game breaker that you fill up by making good shots and when you 
 use it you can hole any shot thats within reaching distance. For example a 200 yard second shot 
 on the par 5th last hole press A a few times hole out no problem double eagle for a 25 under par. 
 Now to xbox live the only thing that makes this game average. But still if you go to enter the 
 only tournament thats available you look at the leader board and theres someone whos shot a 
 45 on almost impossible conditions thats how easy the game is. Then I started playing against 
 people in stroke, match play ext and I thought not that bad the only reason I can think of that 
 anyone would enjoy this game but still a load of rubbish I mean if someone is loosing all they 
 have to do is quit and it doesn't even go down as a win on your record which got me very frustrated. 
 As if this game couldn't get worse I started getting booted from games because of a problem with 
 the EA servers. I give it a week and it still didn't fix so I thought thats it and demanded a 
 refund on this game and got fight night 3 instead which is better by 100 miles. (I sent this game 
 back a month ago so Im not sure whether the EA server problem is fixed)
  
  To finish off I warn you do not buy this game until it comes down at least $20.00 and by then a 
 much better golf game will be out
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jahrael
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 20, 2006 12:56 am PT
Review:  EA has shown a serious lack of respect to gamers in releasing this one. This is a Beta version 
 of a game that would have been fantastic had it spent another few months getting the kinks out.
 
  
  Call it a love hate thing from a players perspective.
  
  "Computer Golf" is fun and addictive but it almost seems like EA is trying to put a stop to that.
 
  
  "Want to save your game?"
  No worries, you'll get more game save opportunities than tee shots.
  After each game skill challenge 
 or any change to your character you'll receive a pop-up asking you if you'd like to save your game. 
 Every time you save your game you go through an annoying five step process. This gets old very 
 fast.
  
  "Want to control the camera views?"
  Sorry, you're out of luck.
  Most of the time this isn't a bother but one out of 20 shots will give you some silly if not ridiculous 
 "camera angles" at your golf shots which can screw up your game.
  ... Like just as you tee off, the camera switches to a shot of your leg from the knee down, or a 
 look at your ball through a fish-eye lens. Not exactly the best thing when trying to adjust spin 
 on your ball to keep it out of the sand or water.
  
  "Want to go into options and correct some of these annoying things?"
  Ha!
  Your options to 
 customize your game play are as sparse as Old Mother Hubbard's Cupboard.
  
  This is just a taste of the stupid glitches you'll discover should you go buy this one. And I don't 
 use the word "stupid" like an 8 year olds new favorite word. Most of the flaws in the game could 
 have easily been cleaned up by experienced programmers in a relatively short amount of time, but 
 wasn't.
  
  Last time I buy an EA game, just like the last time I'll buy anything under the "Adventure Company" 
 logo. EA hasn't sunk that low yet but if they release anymore Beta versions like this, they'll 
 lose market share in a hurry.
  
  Sorry but this one is a turd in a punch bowl.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboi25
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 16, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Ok first, let me clear somthing up. 6 courses doesnt seem like much, but its getting blown out 
 of proportion. You get 6 good solid courses that dont get old. The career mode is still solid. 
 The online is pretty good except for the fact that not many people are ever on! It is the same 
 game as the xbox version with just less courses and better gameplay. They even eachother out to 
 make almost the same game. I wish the online had doubles matches or whatever you want to call them. 
 The best part is that there arnt team rosters, so the rosters are never updated, or need to be. 
 A very solid game overall though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodimous
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 3, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  The 06 version of Tiger Woods PGA Tour for the XBOX 360 lacks courses and gamplay features. The 
 updated game face creator does not allow as many options as the 05 version did. Only six courses 
 are available. The new button set-up for the 360 controller does not appear to be addressed. Those 
 who preferred the XBOX version over the PS2 version are basically getting the same game. The only 
 differences is some updated graphics. The reason we play Tiger Woods is for the arcade qualities 
 which seem to be missing, most people do not buy this game to have a true golf sim experience. 
 The fun seems to be missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austingamer
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 22, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  This game has much more to offer the 05 Tiger Woods. The graphics of this game are pretty damn 
 good. Which I have yet to see a game come out from EA that they haven't done a good job on graphics 
 on any console. I like the fact that you do even more with game face, to me that makes the game 
 very distinct. With game face you can make your personal golfer look exactly like you and I think 
 that is pretty cool espically when you are playing online. The golf courses are even better looking 
 on the X360, I like the detail of making the grass move with the wind speed. I still think that 
 that they could have done a better job with the way a player looks when he or she is actually in 
 move ment ( when in back swing ) . But all in all the graphics have gotten better and they are still 
 impressive. The sound is still well done but there is no improvement. The slection of music was 
 what was expected from EA, but not improved. I still like the sound they produced when hitting 
 a ball with cretin clubs still gives you a good effect of playing golf. I still think that they 
 need to have a option to be able to play the music that EA offers while you are playing a golf 
 tournament or a golf round. Game play is very tight and exciting. I like the idea of being able 
 to hit the ball with back spin or keeping it low to the ground, I also like how they use the play 
 of the fade and hook. But I don't like that when you go to hit the ball with back spin, fade, or 
 hook you can't use you power at it's fullest. But I like it better than using the D pad for you'r 
 fade or hook, it should be that if you don't swing the club straight that you get a flop of a shot 
 rather than just a slice or a hook, it's more like real golf that way. I also like how they made 
 the glof greens harder, putting has always been to easy when actually it is the hardest part of 
 golf. They are making you not only take the slop of the green in affect but also the wind and direction 
 of the grass. The gamebraker is awsome idea because you can use it in many diffrent ways and it 
 dosn't affect just putting, you can use it for chiping, short game, or long game. The online game 
 play is fare but it is not exciting, not much to say on that subject. But all in all the game makes 
 me come back for more and it is challenging no matter how good you get or how many time's you play. 
 And it's a good game to have friends over and you all can play and get drunk doing so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redsam
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 19, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  I have always loved golf sims, and this is what we got on the 360, only game in town. 
  
  First if you love golf sims, it is a gas. 
  
  But if you are tired of EA's half ass attention 
 to detail, sloppy dev, glitch crazy early release that they do, then there are a few things that 
 will drive you nuts. Feels very reminiscent of the first Tiger release on PSP, fun but production 
 issues.
  
  While it looks very nice, it is not one of the games that will floor you. And honestly the number 
 of frame rate issues are mind blowing, not like there is a lot of stuff flying around the screen 
 in a golf game.
  
  Courses are nice, but some of the texture in background like buildings, club-houses etc., feel 
 like short cuts.
  
  Game action is good, real swing is solid, draw/slice good. Not sure yet why I am earning money 
 though as I have yet to be able to find a place to spend it?
  
  Some of the AI around VO in reaction to shots is broken, they will call out what a great shot, 
 and it goes into a trap or rough, or vice versa what a terrible shot and you just stuck it within 
 feet of the pin. So, same old limited voice comentary that plagues Tiger games, turn it off.
  
  So you need a golf game, get it. And then hold on that maybe next release EA get's their act 
 together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erikgus
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 8, 2006 11:55 pm PT
Review:  I love Tiger Woods Golf. I played Tiger Woods 05 for countless hours. My only complaint about that 
 game was that it got too easy. Apparently too many people had that same complaint, because I just 
 finished my 2nd day of playing TW 06 for the 360, and will be returning it and never playing it 
 again.
  
  The create a player was not better, it was more complicated and put the create features in an order 
 that made it impossible to tell how your character was turning out as you made them. That combined 
 with the annoyingly loud "tink, tink, tink..." as you moved the slowly loading slider bar, was 
 enough to make me mute the game, and settle for a character that did not look like me, as opposed 
 to 05 where my character looked like I had downloaded a picture of myself into the game.
  
  The tutorial is non-existent, along with no help from the 6 page manual that comes with the game 
 having no explanation on controls or game types. It starts you off and says, "here try to hit and 
 chip like you did in the last game, but we made it much harder like you wanted. You're welcome." 
 Also, we made putting impossible, took out the tiger vision that you complained about, and then 
 added gamebreakers that are equally stupid and for cheaters.
  
  Imagine if you will, going to hit a drive, and having your character lined up away from the fairway 
 into the trees, and then having to pick your club and direction with no help from the game. That 
 is what putting is like, because it starts your cursor 10 feet past the hole, with an almost impossible 
 to read grid and no idea on proper distance or speed because the " (not-so) ideal putt camera" only 
 shows you break, and not distance. Worst system ever out of the 20 golf games I've played. I would 
 rather go back to EB and buy back my used copy of Outlaw Golf 2 (which was horrible) and play that 
 instead of this game.
  
  The game is harder, so will be much more enjoyable for those of you that can stand playing it until 
 you get good, but I tried this game to start over and earn achievements, not to feel like a one 
 handed 4 year old. "In case dual sticks is not hard enough for you, we have placed the power button 
 above the left stick, just because we hate you and want you to shank to the right consistantly 
 like you do in real life." It feels like the creators were secretly mad at EA, and so decided to 
 ruin one of their most popular franchises right before they quit to work for a competitor.
  
  I would never quit a match, and detest people who do, and so nearly cost myself a $50 wireless 
 controller becuase I just played a 3-hole mini round and 9-hole stroke round, and WAS OVER PAR 
 MORE HOLES THAN MY LAST 50 ROUNDS IN 2005. I wish you could cuss on gamespot.
  
  Why try online before mastering the offline version first you ask? Because there are about 12 achievements, 
 and they are all centered around online. It would make sense to have achievements for beating players 
 in game, unlocking trophy balls, and also winning online matches, but apparently not to EA. Instead, 
 its online points only that matter. Instead they make it waaaaay to easy to earn the points in 
 their other games, and make up for it by making it impossible like perfect dark to get them all 
 in this game. Instead they decide to drive the masses away like the pied piper with rat poison 
 in his flute.
  
  Too bad too, becuase I really thought I found something better than Mario Golf when I picked up 
 2005. Lets see, ruined Madden, ruined Tiger, ruined NBA Live, oh well, I hear they haven't ruined 
 Fight Night yet since it hasn't been out enough years for them to overanalyze it, so maybe I'll 
 try that.
  
  Graphics - good of course, although the create a player was too complicated.
  Sound - sorry to 
 be a comparison only reviewer, but not as good and not impressive.
  Gameplay - need you ask
  Value - 360 version worse than others, and more expensive. I would say 
 that makes it the opposite of value.
  Overall - Hopefully you haven't taken the shrink wrap off yet. I have a friend with over 12,000 
 achievement points, who plays everything through to the end, and even he has only 375 points on 
 this game. Why? Because one of the achievements (for an unheard of 200 points) is gain a #1 online 
 ranking in any game mode. So, get the game first, or don't get full points. Gotcha. Thanks EA. 
 Why don't you go buy off another sports franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juicymongoose
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 6, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Im not going to give a long speech cause there isnt much too this game. While it is fun, it needs 
 more modes and stuff liek that. Being abit of a golf fan though, I enjoyed this game. If you like 
 golf you will enjoy it, if you dont like golf, this wont change your mind. Tiger Woods is neat. Tiger 
 Woods is neat. Tiger Woods is neat. Tiger Woods is neat. Tiger Woods is neat. Tiger Woods is neat. Tiger 
 Woods is neat. Tiger Woods is neat. Tiger Woods is neat. Tiger Woods is neat. Tiger Woods is neat. Tiger 
 Woods is neat. Tiger Woods is neat. Tiger Woods is neat. Tiger is the best golfer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xJellyBirdx
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 8, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  I don't normally do this but I think it will be easier for everyone to see what this game has to 
 offer if I break it down to "pros" and "cons" as this game varies between the 2 extremes.
  
  Pros: Shot accuracy- it is much tougher but this is a good thing because it makes it feel more 
 relaistic for us true golfers. 
  Career mode- totally revamped into a PGA tour and a challenge system. As you do each event a day 
 goes by so you have to manage your time wisely and do the events that will be the most rewarding.
 
  Tours- Good competition in the PGA tour as many of the people compete right with you, unless its 
 head to head
  Putting- Grid system that tells you the breaks. This is much better than previous years with caddy 
 tips and a solid white line. It feels much more interactive, as you really have to "read" your 
 puts.
  
  Cons: Graphics- virtually no upgrade from the Xbox version as the people look odd and there is 
 nothing spectacular about the trees or grass. There is no real excuse for the lackluster graphics 
 sense this is not a real interactive game.
  Sound- These annoncers are awful. Not only do they make the wrong calls, they also can drive you 
 insane and throw off your game (this sounds rediculous but its the truth) . As well, nothing great 
 about the sounds of the ball hitting the pin or the bototm of the cup to. This could be so much 
 better.
  Head to Head in Career- The computer just cannot compete. They are constantly finding themselves 
 in water hazards and bunkers and on occation they will get stuck where they hit it in the water, 
 take a drop, hit it in the water... until the reach the stroke limit of 15 (feels like forever) . 
 Yea, you will most likely get the win now, but its not even worth the wait.
  Courses- A gigantic drop in the number of courses from close to 15 to now 6. No real reason for 
 this that I can think of except rushing to get the game out. So this means you will not be seeing 
 your tropical and majestic courses with castles and island holes but instead you will hav ethe 
 privledge of playing at Pabble Beach...
  
  Thats about it, I speak of gameplay, Graohics and Sound above (virtually all the gameplay is the 
 "Pros") . The Value is high because its the only golf game for the 360, not to mention one of the 
 few 360 games in release. Poeple generally give it an 8 so so did I for Reviewer's Tilt. 
  
  Recommendation: Not a terrible game but you must be either a Tiger Woods PGA Tour Golf fan 
 or just a golf fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gizmo24
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 5, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Now this is the first golf game for Xbox 360 and its a good game. The graphics are extremely good 
 for the 360. The characters are so life like that at some points you really feel like you are watching 
 a real golf match. I have to say if you have a PC and can get the game for it then do so, because 
 the game is much bigger on PC version then the 360 version, by that I mean there are more courses 
 on the PC then the 360. There are only 6 courses on the 360 witch is a bad thing because you can 
 get tired of the game so fast unless you are a golf fanatic then this is a must have for you. The 
 game face of the game is outstanding because if you take youre time to make the character look 
 just like you it will end up looking like you. The controller in the game is kind of hard to learn 
 and that is a good thing because then it take some skills to play this game. If you really like 
 golf you will end up spending many hours in this game. The best thing I can think of with this 
 game is the online gaming because that is really fun if you are any good that is. Overall I have 
 to say this is the best golf game I ever played even though they have removed so many courses and 
 is so much shorter then any PGA games they have made before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: topherstud
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 28, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  After playing Madden 06 for the XBOX 360 I began to wonder if the company decided that it actually 
 hated its fans and wanted to see just how bad of a product they could release on the market that 
 would still sell. Tiger Woods 06 has more than redeemed my faith in EA's ability to release fun, 
 addictive sports games that are the best in the world. The graphics are fantastic for an early 
 next generation title, especially the appearance of sand and rough that actually resemble their 
 real life counterparts. Course detail is fantastic as ususal, and though the Gameface feature has 
 taken a slight hit compared to the current gen versions, it still offers a healthy amount of customization 
 for your golfer. Sound wise the commentary is excellent as usual, and the music is mellow enough 
 to fall into the background without ever being distracting. The game controlls well, has a huge 
 variety of tournaments and challenges, a slew of online game modes including a daily tournaments, 
 and all in all is an impressive package. The game is very challenging at times, but the difficulty 
 never becomes frustrating, but in fact enhances the games enjoyability. The only real knock agains 
 Tiger Woods for the 360 was EA's failure to include many of the courses found in the XBOX or PS2 
 versions. Limited courses aside, Tiger Woods 06 is a must have game for 360 owners who are either 
 sports or golf fanatics, or for anyone who is looking for a challenging enjoyable title to pass 
 their time with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_hodges
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 25, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  To sum this up. GREAT graphics and animations, realistic sound right down to the invidual grass 
 blades, but not enough golf courses! What also is missing is Tiger Proofing your own set of 18 
 holes. 
  
  Right off the bat, the first thing that should catch your eye are the rich, detailed graphics. 
 Assuming you're playing on an HDTV, you should be an utter awe. Throw in spot-on sound effects 
 and you will feel like you're right on the golf course with the best golfers
  
  Gameface once again allows you to spend COUNTLESS hours on customzing your character right down 
 to the details. Forsome, it's important, yet for others they just want to play golf. If I wanted 
 to dress my player and tweak his look I would've bought the Sims. Sorry EA, but I think you should 
 the detailed features of GameFace and put more effort into the actual game. 
  
  Although, there are only 6 courses total to play, online play makes up for the lack of content. 
 Engage in up to 4 player games of all types. Set shot clock timers. Make wagers and call your shots. 
 Play fair and gentleman like and you'll earn respect of fellow golfers. 
  
  Overall, '06 was shortlived for me. I hoped for more golf courses. After I played them a thousand 
 times each, I just about ripped out all of my hair. What is even more disappointing is no downloadable 
 content. Here's hoping the '07 edition will have more content and downloadable content! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BWSTSW2K
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Tiger Woods on the Xbox 360 makes for a decent, if not all around great game golfing game, though 
 it is far from perfect. The first question you may ask however is this: "Is it Next Generation?" 
 The most straightforward answer to that is a simple "no". Sure the visuals are easy on the eyes, 
 but it is clear that this game (along with the entire EA launch line-up) was a rushed production. 
 
  
  The visuals are nice and crisp in HD, and all character models, environments and elementals are 
 superior to previous generation efforts, but this is hardly showing the capabilities of Microsoft's 
 new wonder box. As a matter of fact, Tiger Woods PGA Tour 06 is going to be looked back on as rather 
 hideous when the sequel rolls around several months from now. 
  
  Still, what we have here is the best-looking game in the series, so now you must be wondering if 
 this actually makes it the best iteration of the long running and hugely successful franchise. 
 Again, the answer would still be a "no". The reason? Well, this game - much like many of the other 
 launch games EA delivered - has been hacked down to a smaller size than its predecessors. In order 
 for them to ensure plentiful sports games were available from day one, they had to make some cutbacks. 
 Gameplay has suffered, visuals are choppy, and the controls are not as tight and accurate and so 
 on and so forth. 
  
  But fear not, in spite of those complaints, EA deserve credit for their efforts with not just this 
 game, but also Madden, NBA, Fifa and a few others. They had a few short months to make these games, 
 and their efforts should be applauded. As a starting point for the future of sports titles on the 
 next generation, EA have delivered a flawed but still satisfyingly good line-up. Tiger Woods PGA 
 Tour 06 is one of the best games in this line-up, but as previously mentioned, you'll look back 
 on this game with loathing a few months from now when every aspect of it (visuals, gameplay, feature 
 etc) will be showcased in a vastly superior shell. 
  
  So, do you buy it? If you don't already have it on a previous generation console, sure. It is a 
 great way for you to get into golf for the time being. If you still have a copy of it lying around 
 somewhere, don't trade it in for this. It might be visually superior, but you'd be better waiting 
 until EA unleash their 2007 range of sports titles. 
  
  Overall Score:
  
  7.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puddy
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 20, 2006 1:04 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 6 
  
  The shape stick is a nice addition, but Links 2004 already had it. EA can be real sly in their 
 marketing pretending they invented the shape stick. Fact is, Links 2004 had it and it works much 
 better in Links.
  
  Putting is a slight attempt to mimic Links 2004, but swing power is broken down into 10-yard increments. 
 This ruins having "feel" over a put. Again, inferior to Links 2004.
  
  Power control is the left shoulder button. OK, I get it, it is hard to use your left pointer finger 
 and thumb at the same time. This is really lame trying to control difficulty this way. Links had 
 a power up feature that did need some tweaking of its own, but was still better.
  
  Online still does not have the 4-player simultaneous mode that Links had, which was a HOOT!
  
 
  Graphics: 6
  
  Gameface is back and is a nice feature and your character looks good. The courses look OK, but 
 nothing special. I am shocked not to see any weather effects, no divots, no ball marks. It really 
 looks just a small step up from the XBOX versions, but lacks some basic things that you will see 
 in other golf games. I mean Hot Shots Golf on Playstation has divots that remain from game to game.
 
  
  Sound: 7
  
  Farady is fun, but you can't survive on him alone. No custom music (again as found in Links 2004) 
 and nothing special in the effects.
  
  Value: 4
  
  Only 6 courses and flawed gameplay make this a game that is near worthless to me.
  
  Tilt: 
 4
  
  If you haven't noticed by now, I am not happy with this game. I held of buying it for a while (with 
 the $60 tag) . I found it used for $45, and am disappointed I wasted that money on it. It is inferior 
 to Hot Shots Golf 3, Fore, and Links 2004 golf games that have been out for a long time. The basic 
 gameplay elements are flawed and are not up to what is already out. And besides that... this is 
 SUPPOSED to be a next-gen game! Where is the innovation???
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TBRM
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  Tiger Woods 06 for Xbox 360 is yet another example of EA Sports dominance in the sports world of 
 video gaming. With great graphics and a very challenging single player mode, the only thing lacking 
 in gameplay (I think) is diversity. By diversity, I mean course selections and length of the single 
 player mode, while it is challenging it is somewhat repetitive. Other than that, Tiger Woods upholds 
 the next-gen game expectations, and the new putting interface is amazing. My main, and only real 
 pet-peve of this game, is the laggy and slow online multiplayer. From personal opinion, I could 
 not concentrate playing online with the sheer skipping and pausing. Aside from this, TIger Woods 
 is a good buy for golf fans all around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beeman1979
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 15, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  If you have played and mastered any of the previous Tiger Woods games on any of the other consoles 
 this one will be very easy to pick up and master in a short period of time. It hooks you in, but 
 once you max out your created golfer the game becomes far too easy in the single player mode and 
 even in online mode. 
  
  The Gamebreaker is a interesting addition to the gameplay, but at the end of the day it is nothing 
 more than a cheesy function that is a joke to use once your created player is maxed out stats wise. 
 Hole is Ones are simple to get with it, and it's nothing to chip a shot past the hole just to watch 
 it come flying back to the hole from 50 feet out for an eagle or double eagle. Don't use it if 
 you want to keep the gameplay somewhat fun. 
  
  Pick this game up if you're a golf nut, but if not just rent it and wait until next years version. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperRacerC91
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 31, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  I love this game and I had it for my original XBOX which is practically forcing me to go this one. 
 This game is great, on the 360 it's even better with improved graphics and out of this world scenery. 
 The achievements however are so incredibly hard it would probably take a year or two to even come 
 close to achieving 1000GS on this. The charcter cusomization area is incredibly immersive and you 
 may find yourself spending well over an hour or two just picking out the right look for your player. 
 I don't really understand why everyone says that the putting system is wierd, I play 05 and found 
 this system a million times better because of how it has the real time slope perceptions and everything 
 to go along with it. You need to buy this game if you play golf, just get ready to hive some seious 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtk2k
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 4, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  An awesome game. Game play is terrific, graphics are amazing, and it's a great challenge. I usually 
 hate golf games, like the piece of crap Outlaws Golf (the producers of that game should be forced 
 to play it, then shot.) The only golf game I really felt was decent was Hotshots Golf. But this 
 game blows it out of the water. Its a hard, and addictive game that leaves u stunned at the awesomeness 
 it has. It doesnt contain many courses though, and the announcers are annoying, and can be mean. 
 It is a great game though, even with the announcers mocking your power and accuracy constantly. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeh1995
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  While there are no great advances made in this series, I still find it to be very fun to play. 
 This one pushes all the right buttons for entertainment, form adjusting the look of your golfer, 
 to dressing them in the right golfing attire (I am a fan of the plaid pants) , to selecting the 
 clubs in your bag. 
  What would have been nice is more courses. It's rather boring playing the same ones over and over. 
 Also, when you shoot 25 under par over the course of four rounds in a tournament and still finish 
 8th, it can be a bit frustrating.
  Overall the positive and negative animations are enjoyable as well as decent play by play. And 
 the gameplay is solid enough to make it playable until they come out with next years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterchief0292
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 28, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  if u all were wandering to get tiger woods for xbox 360.. here is my verdict i bought the game 
 becuase i love golf which is the main reason anyone else would buy it i had high expectations but 
 i was happy with it at first but the career mode has all this liek mini game u have to do which 
 are tedious the game is harder which is good but the putting system is weird takes a while to figure 
 out. but the main prob is tht they are only six levels which suxs but once u manage to get into 
 the meat of the game is the full blown pga tour it is a blast the ai and players will keep u on 
 the edge of ur seat it is a hard game but it is a amzing feeling when u win a match overall if 
 ur a huge golf fan pick it up if ur just a average golf game fan it is worth a rent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cerick
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 15, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply lots of fun. the most fun is had when playing with friends its difficult and 
 games can be very close and exicing. one of my favorite 360 games. from last years game they took 
 away the tiger vision putting which makes putting more difficult. The fact that its easy to mess 
 up a shot makes the game more difficult which makes the challenge even more fun. there is a lack 
 of courses to play but hopefully there will be add on courses in the future. one thing i dont like 
 is the gamebreaker its too easy to get a hole in one because that have luck factors and a well 
 swung club will guarentee a hole in one with the gamebreaker 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onesint
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 15, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  Random camera angles makes viewing your shot frustrating. Occasionally, the putting read is not 
 available on shots that do not seem overly difficult. Lighting angles obscure the cup making it 
 nearly impossible to see. Since Tiger Woods 2004, there has been less and less forgiveness in the 
 stick control making this game incredibly "not fun" for people participating in a pick up game. 
 Lack of variety in courses available and no fantasy courses take away from the replay factor in 
 the previous TW games. All in all, do not waste your money! The realism makes the game interesting, 
 but if I wanted realism, I would spend my $60 on green fees. I do not need a $60 golf game telling 
 me I am horrible at golf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MortalMoxie
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 15, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  TigerWoods being on the cover can do anything for any golf game. No matter who the developer. But 
 when teaming up with EA Sports, the creators of Madden Footbal, NBA Live, and other top of the 
 line sports franchises, what you have is a sure hit. 
  
  The gameplay is easy and quick to get into. The controls are very smooth, and the use of both analog 
 sticks is a brilliant idea for total ball control. 
  
  The graphics could be alot better though. When you see games like Gears of War, or FNR3, you really 
 have to wonder how those games pushed the system to far, but TIgerWoods could only acheive subpar 
 graphics. Player models are not very high poly, and the face modeling is attrocious. Tiger Woods 
 looks like TIger Woods 10 years older, and on hard drugs. 
  
  Online play is tight. The courses are beautiful. The sounds are lovely also. The gallery cheers, 
 natural sounds surrounding, and airplanes up in the sky make you feel like your controlling the 
 PGA Tour on ABC. Excellent stuff. 
  
  I've enjoyed the game tremendously, but I really hope they put the 360 through it's paces next 
 year. 
  
  Also, when are they gonna let is drive golf carts in a golf game?!?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trunks35
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Tiger woods 06 is definalty a nice looking a game.. but theres a few flaws kinda drag this game 
 down for the greatness it could have acheived. The graphics are great except for the fact that 
 Tiger just doesnt look right to me. When driving the ball it isnt consistent in how far it does 
 even if you hit it the exact same. During some points of the game when u slice the ball and it 
 goes in the crowd the ball will go right threw the people and other times it wont. The thing that 
 bugs me the most is the fact that most of the accievements are online only and the other ones like 
 get 100 birdies get 50 eagles and get 25 hole in ones dont give you the points once you get them. 
 The voices for this game are good and overall this game is worth getting if you enjoy golf games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stride01
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 5, 2006 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Tiger Woods. Plays great golf, endorses a great golf game. The fancy new 360 version doesn't take 
 the massive leap you would expect on a next gen console, but then it doesn't need to. The graphics 
 are superb as you would expect and the new game face is very versatile. There are only six courses 
 in this version but that's no bad thing. Lets face it, some of the courses on previous outings 
 of Tiger's have been just plain silly. 
  
  All the classic courses are there and are immaculately reconstructed. The game plays beautifully 
 and although it is a touch on the easy side (as always) , there is a big challenge to unlock everything. 
 The new tour season is well constructed with qualifying tournaments and a full rota of events, 
 including all the major championships. 
  
  There is plenty in here to keep you occupied for some time and by the time you complete all the 
 career challenges you should be an expert. There are some nice touches, like the crowd around the 
 greens and fairways cheering you on during tournaments and what happens if you accidentally hit 
 one of them! 
  
  On the down side, the commentators can get a bit annoying at times and the new speech from your 
 own golfer is just plain lame. Some might argue that the game needs more courses but surely six 
 of the best courses in the world is enough for any man or woman.
  
  Add the fact that Tiger 06 is fully playable online (although lag can be a bit of a problem) then 
 rest assured you have yourself a top notch golf game worthy of a place in anyone's collection. 
 
  
  All in all this is a great game, one or two minor flaws, but still one hell of a good golf game. 
 If you like golf - buy it, if you don't - buy it anyway and invite your mates round, or play them 
 online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkersideblah
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 3, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  This game is extremely fun, besides the fact that they changed the putting system... which makes 
 it harder to make that eagle or birdie. This game will provide you with a great challenge and keep 
 you entertained for quite awhile... as long as you like to play golf games. This game is great and 
 i suggest it to all fans of the game! If you feel the need for quite a challenge and you need a 
 game with a great online play, and just a great feel this game is for you! The power/spin button 
 is quite hard to pull off while the swing with the new controller design for the 360, but with 
 enough practice you can have it down in no time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickrep1
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 3, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  Now I like to consider myself a hardcore gamer, hell Ive been gaming since the days of the Intelevision 
 and never had a hard time figuring out a game.
  
  However when it comes to EAs latest version of Tiger Woods PGA tour for the XBOX 360, its downright 
 frustrating! Sports games or any game at that should not be difficult to a point where you want 
 to throw it out the window because you cant get the controls down. To make matters worse the manual, 
 which is meant to be a point of reference is no help whatsoever and consists of about 10 pages, 
 legal notices and credits included.
  
  Ive been playing EA golf games since the days of Sega Genesis and have always enjoyed them. I 
 should not have to be Tiger Woods to play Tiger Woods golf on my XBOX 360! Period!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedBuffy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 1:02 am PT
Review:  For all of you that played Tiger in the other versions you are going to find this game enjoyable. 
 First at all we have goorgeous graphcs. Its amazing how it looks Pebble Beach, the sea looks as 
 real as its possible. and also the other fives courses. Yeah its right we only have 6 courses but 
 it dossent matther when you are playing this game in your HDTV because every hole looks amazing. 
 This game plays better than never before, now you can miss your shots and go to the rough or to 
 the sand if you dont make the movement of the stick right. Also putting in this game it could 
 be a headache because the green are sometime very hards to beat.
  Look if you like golf this is the game that you must have. You can make your virtual version of 
 yourself like never before. 
  The best part of this game is to play on line. 100% enyoyable.
  Im pretty sure that the next 
 yera this will be perfect game. But for now its only great.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWinman
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 28, 2005 8:34 pm PT
Review:  I have the 360 version and I am well aware that due to time constraints that this version would 
 be low on features and courses. I have taken that into account in this review.
  
  graphics: Some of the 360 potential is showcased in this game. THe grass, the water , the trees 
 and the players look very good. AS I was hitting my tee shot into the water on the Sawgrass #17 
 island hole, I could even see the bottom of the lake and saw a golf ball on the bottom. 
  There is also a few glitchy or quirky things going on with the graphics. At certain times the trees 
 are blurry, I walked through a flag stick and a couple other minor things. Hopefully, with more 
 time they can fix this.
  
  sound: Pretty good sounds, still a little too repetitive with the same sayings. Sometimes an announcer 
 my say something really different then what actually happened, not often but it does happen.
  
  value: With only 6 courses, no rivals mode, no real PGA tour season and many less challenges 
 then in previous years, I can see this getting boring in a few months. I should not have to pay 
 full price for a watered down version of a game, and this is watered down a bit. I wish we could 
 download more courses and features in the upcoming months. Free of course!!!
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  positives: It is harder and more realistic. If you don't execute the swing perfectly 
 you will not get a shot straight down the pipe like n previous years. It is less forgiving and 
 golf it should be that way.
  You will hit errant shots more often then in previous years and it never happens at a good time. 
 :) 
  THe putting is also more difficult and I am still figuring it out.
  
  negs: THe game does not want to accomplish certain challenges. I was doing a par 3 challenge and 
 I was -1 after 3 of the 4 par 3's. On the tee shot for the last par 3 , I executed the swing with 
 the joystick perfectly. Geez, I shanked it right big time, next shot was also shanked. I ended 
 up getting a DB and failing the challenge. Stuff like this happens too much.
  
  Some recoveries are impossible, I thought this kind of BS was long gone in golf games. It has reared 
 it's ugly head again. You had a bad tee shot, end up in a bad place with a bad lie. YOu try everything 
 and up exceeding the number of shots on the hole. 
  
  I did like that putting was harder, but you need to be an engineer to correctly learn how to perfect 
 putting. IMO Just way too much going here.
  
  overall, the gameplay is harder which I like. It get's tiresome getting course records on every 
 course, but the gameplay is at its worst in this series in a few years, again maybe with more time 
 to work on TW2007, this will be fixed.
  
  bottomline': I would rent it first to see if the quirks bug you or not. If not, then it could still 
 be a fun game to own for some of you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twgeoff
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2005 5:57 am PT
Review:  This is the first edition of Tiger Woods on the next-gen consoles and it gives people a great insight 
 to what to expect in the future.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  The gameplay is similar to Tiger Woods 06 on the PS2 only that it gives a greater challenge for 
 which, if you've played Tiger Woods before, you will have found that it was too easy after a while, 
 this is not the case here. With the new detail and ball physics, even the slightest slope will 
 affect your shot so you have to plan carefully. You can mess up at anytime even if you are on a 
 good streak, which is exactly like real golf. There are some drawbacks though. There are limited 
 game modes, courses and players due to EA rushing to get Tiger Woods onto the shelves with the 
 XBOX 360 launch. Only 6 courses and 9 Pro's (although you can create as many players as you want 
 with the GameFace system) . Also if you're new to the Tiger Woods series, the learning curve will 
 be about an hour, if not then there isn't much change.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  What can I say. Unbelievably good. You can see every blade of grass and every leaf in a tree. The 
 lighting effects are superb. Everything has a shadow and as trees sway in the wind so do the shadows. 
 The player likenesses are excellent as well, Tiger especially. Though sometimes the skin on the 
 player looks a little too 'plasticy' but that isn't noticeable. The course likenesses are spot 
 on as well. Also new to the courses are the crowd who are everywhere. They all have individual 
 motions and voices. You can even hit a spectator with an off-hit shot which can never get old. 
 
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  Pretty good too. The crowds are most impressive with individual voices and the odd person who screams 
 at the top of their lungs when you hit a good drive. The actual clubs all sound like their real-life 
 counterparts. They all have slightly different sounds instead of the same sound for all of them 
 - which was in the previous gen consoles. It gives it a much more realistic touch.
  
  Value: 8/10
  
  Probably the worst part of any XBOX 360 game. Tiger Woods is normally priced 
 at 44.99 - which on average is 5-10 more expensive than PS2 or XBOX games and will off-put many 
 gamers off next-gen consoles. But in a way it will be worth it because of the tremendous graphics 
 and attention to detail.
  
  Buy or Rent?
  
  If you own an XBOX 360 and are new to the series you should rent first to see if you like it. If 
 you already have played the Tiger Woods series and liked it, then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afterburner1313
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 27, 2005 9:52 pm PT
Review:  This game starts off with extremely good graphics truly bringing out the 360's starting performance 
 (not best but good) . It has tons of brands to choose from and tons of courses to play. whats really 
 fun is the online play which really teaches you to critque your skills. Overall this is the best 
 golf game on the market, not just because its on the newest platform, but because it brings the 
 most to the table and is pound for pound the best golf game out there.
  
  The tiger woods golf game line never lets us down
  
  But there is another side to this game 
 it also kind of copys itself over and over it hasnt really given many new features it, after a 
 few hours of sitting on your recliner playing it, gets kind of boring. But if your looking for 
 a fun and addictive golf game buy tiger woods it keeps you begging for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rckuhn68
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 20, 2005 10:57 am PT
Review:  What can I say...
  
  If you don't own Tiger Woods 2005 for Xbox then get this game, it has excellent graphics and gameplay 
 offline is great !
  
  If your looking for a great online golf experience.... well, don't expect much.
  
  If your playing 
 a foursome, it may take longer to play a round than an actual golf game... o. k. maybe not ! but... 
 you should expect lag.
  
  If your not itching for that xbox 360 golf experience... then wait for Tiger Woods 2007 or whatever 
 the 2nd generation 360 golf offering is.
  
  The gameplay and online experience will probably improve and certain little minor graphic / audio 
 buggy items will be fixed... ( for instance )
  
  * after the ball has already gone in the hole, the audio commentary to encourage a good putt still 
 continues...
  
  * after your player has made the putt and picked up the ball, the player proceeds to walk right 
 through the flag stick...
  
  * in several instances, I have made a shot that is say 50 to 100 yards from the hole... when the 
 game lines up for the next shot, you are totally turned 180 degrees from the hole...
  
  * a few times, I have had a decent round going and an errant shot will end up in the rough... when 
 trying to recover, you end up reaching the shot limit trying to get the ball out because it is 
 just impossible... ( trust me I tried several different strategies, including chipping the ball 
 only say 20-30 feet out of the rough... to no avail... ) 
  
  I can say that the shot difficulty level from the 2005 version has improved and there seems to 
 always be the possibility of bad shot... just around the corner.
  
  Still worth the money if you want a Golf game and don't currently own one ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LLCoolKo
Rating: 3.9
Date: Dec 12, 2005 2:24 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is awful, graphics are not as good as they could be, gameplay is awkward, sound 
 is boring and overall a bad game. This game is totally uninspired and if your a fan of golf as 
 i have to say i am not in the slightest but kind of like theg ames. Im not rating this badly because 
 i dont like golf, its the game that is really really bad! If you want a decent game go back Top 
 Spin 2 for the 360 if you dont like tennis maybe project gotham racing 3 is very good. But certainly 
 I would not reccomend this.
  
  Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 101problems
Rating: 1.6
Date: Dec 4, 2005 9:03 am PT
Review:  2 words... boring and stupid i dont see what every1 see's in this stupidly long pointless and ages 
 to master --dont buy -- boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring 
 boring boring boring boring stupid stupid stupid stupid stupid stupid stupid stupid stupid stupid 
 stupid stupid worst game on xbox you could find!!!! this game sucks sucks sucks sucks sucks sucks 
 sucks sucks sucks sucks suck sucks dont buy dont buy dont buy dont buy dont buy ive played alot 
 of games in my time but golf game always apperae "meh" to me but usually you can get a little but 
 of fun out of but oh no not the tiger woods sereis especially for the xbox 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01morreyl
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 3, 2005 8:35 am PT
Review:  This game is boss way better than the ps2 and xbox version and the gameplay is sweet and there 
 is plenty of challenging features to keep you going for a long while its a bit harder than the 
 previous games but better got more to think about and makes it a better gaming experience!!! You 
 have a great time on the game with all your family and friends and for me its way worth the wait 
 and again it looks spectacular probaly in my top 3 best improved games!!!! Also the game face looks 
 real and loads of clothing and accesories to put on your fantasy and going to be perfect golfer!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lions24
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 1, 2005 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Tiger woods is a great game. this game is good with or without HD. I know there are only 6 courses 
 to play but you will for get there are only 6 because how good the gameplay is the texture is unbeliveable 
 and the graphics are far better then any other tiger woods game. the grass really does look like 
 grass. before it looked like a big green of turf that was put down. the trees look even more like 
 trees. and now there are people standing on the course watching you golf. big improvement from 
 the other games most people would say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lakers
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 30, 2005 8:01 am PT
Review:  Man I use to think that golf was stupid, but I gave it a try one time and its like one the best 
 things out there. But this here, Oh Boy!!??. Let's start with the Game Face. I try 2 create a blk 
 person and he look like a Spaniard not to mention everybody that tries to create a blk person all 
 of them would look alike. Nobody's blk person would look different. Please take off that "Tiger 
 Vision." If your going to put Tiger Vision on, make a street style golf game because Tiger Vision 
 is for little first time players that cant even putt. Golf is suppose to be a difficult game, its 
 not supposed to be a little "Anybody Can Play Game" its takes skill. Its impossible to hit a tree 
 because of that "Raise Your Ball Thing" which is also for unskilled golf players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linkef0
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 28, 2005 3:52 pm PT
Review:  This game has sweet graphics but why did they took so many things out, like I cant play Rivals 
 Mode and there is only 6 golf course come on so i hope you can download more features in the future 
 or i have to wait till 2007.
  I dont care about the graphics but make something with rivals mode or something like that because 
 what is the point playing 6 courses in a season mode. But about time they can talk in this game 
 and the 2006 xbox version you can hear the people but where is the people and this game you can 
 see the people about time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hobojoe86
Rating: 1.6
Date: Nov 28, 2005 5:08 am PT
Review:  I recently set out to find a quiet sports game to which i could relax to and have some fun with 
 my friends. however from the moment this game loaded, disapointment after disapointment occured.
 
  
  The graphics are reasonable, lush and textured however the improvement is barely noticable unless 
 you analyse to the point of exaustion.
  
  The game play is no different to its predesessor and games can be tiresome with repetision.
  
 
  I am afraid to say that after one day of play my friend Chris attempted to smash the game out of 
 sheer despair. I soon to this game back to my local store, luckily i got a full refund.
  
  On the plus side with enough players when a tournament is set up can be fairly exciting and a real 
 sense of competition sets in.
  
  If i was to play this in public to be honest i would no doubt feel like a lemon. This overall has 
 let me down however i will be the 1st person to have a party
  If updates are placed in the xbox live service.
  
  If you are a keen golf player, the simulation 
 aspects are impressive. It depends on what you feel is worth 50. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jergernice
Rating: 4.2
Date: Nov 27, 2005 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Anyone wanting a realistic challenge, or even a hint of acutal golf-this game is not for you. There 
 is absolutely no need for shaping any tee shot ever. I was hoping that missing the fairway was 
 an option-no chance. In real life Tiger (not me) misses like 45% of his fairways. 0% in this game. 
 Let's see-Golf with no challenge is not congruent to golf much less a good game. I can't imagine 
 any real golfer liking this game. the only fun is approach shot, but again shaping shots is not 
 necessary, and definitely not with the swing stick. I had more fun playing Arnold Palmer Golf. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atarii
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Is it just me, or does this game seem way to easy? When I'm playing as Tiger Woods I can easily 
 get a birdie or even an eagle on nearly every hole. Anyway, the game is still great fun to play 
 (especially now that you can hit the folks in the gallery which is super funny) . The double swing 
 mechanic makes its way to the lastest Tiger Woods game, but with mixed results. The controller 
 for the XBOX360 is very comfortable so playing this game is a breeze except for trying to do a 
 power shot. You need to click the left shoulder button and swing the club which is very hard to 
 do at the same time. The graphics are good, but nothing mind blowing. The presentation is, like 
 always with EA games, top notch. The menus are clear and easy to navigate. The feature to build 
 your own golfer is amazingly deep and intricate. You can just about create anyone you think of, 
 it's kind of scary stuff.... the animations are fun and sometimes crazy. I love watching my golfer 
 celebrate after making a difficult putt. If you're like me, and can't get out in the winter to 
 actually play golf, than Tiger Woods 2006 is the best excuse to stay inside this holiday season 
 and play a round or two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cobber99
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 26, 2005 5:48 pm PT
Review:  (review text taken/modified from "A Letter to Tiger Woods", posted by Tiger Woods Online at: http://www. tigerwoodsonline. com/phpbb2/viewtopic. php? t=7725)
 
  
  I would like to preface this review by stating that it is indeed harsh in text while my number 
 rating is good. This is because the rating system does not ask about online playability - and that 
 is almost entirely what the following review covers.
  
  EA Sports has had a history these past few years of releasing what I consider to be a mediocre 
 gaming product. Its apparent to me that they dont put their best effort into this game when compared 
 to some of their other titles but it has always been playable and my love of the series keeps me 
 coming back. I realize that every game has its glitches, and even though PGA Tour always seems 
 to have more than its share, I have continued to play for the ONLINE experience. 
  
  But unfortunately this years version is another story all together. Its become completely apparent 
 that EA Sports has allowed this game to take a back seat when it comes to development and testing 
 before release (this is an area that we consider to be of the utmost importance in a console version 
 of the game as it cannot be corrected later as in a PC version) . Instead of each years version 
 getting a bit better as it does in EAs other titles, ever since TW03, it has been a slow and painful 
 decline, bottoming out with the latest release of PGA Tour 2006. (this is unacceptable in regards 
 to ANY video game if you plan on keeping a players interest from year to year and earn their repeat 
 business) . 
  
  1) The Online Server  
  
  a) EA Sports advertises that it offers broadband capabilities for the TW06 game. Yes it does, but 
 poor server service makes it almost unbearable at times. This game is based 100% on swing timing, 
 spin timing, etc, etc. as all video games are. The online server produces so much lag that correct 
 timing is nearly impossible. At one moment a swing might take 1.5 seconds.. the next, it can literally 
 take the golfer 3 seconds just to take a back swing. This, of course, is the #1 pet peeve of any 
 video gamer. 
  
  b) The Daily Tournament does not record any scores and if it does, they are randomly erased throughout 
 the day. 
  
  c) EA Sports did not release a stat page for this game, meaning that no one who plays online has 
 any clue on how well they are doing. This is inconsistant from all other EA Sports games. 
  
  d) Passwords for created rooms are inapplicable this year. Players cannot create a room and 
 lock out unwanted guests with a password. 
  
  2) General Game Play  
  
  a) Occasionally when a ball is hit into the hole, the game will tell you that you just hit it into 
 the water and you are penalized. 
  
  b) Occasionally, a ball hit in a bunker will magically appear on the green. This is very specific 
 to certain holes in the game, its as if they decided not to include those bunkers as hazards on 
 certain holes. The same goes for shots landing in the rough and around water on some holes. The 
 computer will just put a players ball out of harms way for no apparent reason. 
  
  c) The tour mode option initiates a random glitch that for no apparent reason, will make the ball 
 roll directly over the hole as if there was a sheet of glass over the hole; some reports have even 
 experienced that ball hovering over the center of the hole without falling in. A similar glitch 
 can be observed with a ball that misses the hole by inches and miraculously gets sucked backward 
 into the hole. 
  
  In conclusion - I would sum the game up as:
  
  GREAT offline - HORRID online.
  
  * Again, I sure wish that there was a rating category for 
 "Online Play" - especially with XBox games on Live. Had there been this category - it would be 
 a 1 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silentfall
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 24, 2005 5:44 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to say that Tiger Woods PGA Tour 06 couldn't have been better, but it still isn't a bad 
 title. The game play is fairly smooth and has a lot of neat features. It's the perfect game for 
 a group of guys over with a case of beer, but it's nothing I'd stick on for months. The graphics 
 are decent, though there are many animations that are absolutely awesome. The textures and surroundings 
 in the game could have been much better, but this is one of the first releases of the new console, 
 I didn't expect anything perfect.
  
  Overall, the game features a lot of good gameplay and good looking courses. It's a good game to 
 own, especially if you're a golfer. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
