-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: TimeShift
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/timeshift/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The ability to pause, slow, and rewind time is interesting.
 Weapons are cool and very satisfying to shoot.
 Solid online mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 There are four-panel comic strips with better stories.
 Mission objectives are generally uninteresting.
 Combat can get repetitive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  1, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.1, 68 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 1,603 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Saber Interactive
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date: Oct 30, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
An interesting time-shifting mechanic and fun-to-shoot weapons can't make up for the rest of TimeShift's 
 run-of-the-mill first-person shooter gameplay. 

  Given TimeShift's long, tumultuous development cycle that saw the game change platforms, swap publishers, 
 and miss several release dates, it's surprising the game has made it to stores at all. So it's 
 too bad that TimeShift isn't really worth the wait, thanks to a barely-there story, extremely rudimentary 
 puzzles, and tired first-person shooter objectives like going through an entire level just to push 
 a button. It does have some redeeming features, though. It's fun to pause time and whale on helpless 
 soldiers, and some of the weapons are really satisfying to shoot.  

           Let's do the time warp again.      

  If you need more out of a game's story than "shoot 
 guys until the credits roll because an angry soldier and a computer voice say so," you're in trouble 
 here. If you piece together the fragmented cutscenes, scour the manual, and read the back of the 
 box, you'll learn that a certain Dr. Krone has stolen a special suit that lets its user travel 
 through time. This has created an alternate reality, which is a bad thing -- you'll have to trust 
 the game on that, because it's tough to figure out just what has happened that's so bad, other 
 than a big robot spider that shoots lasers terrorizing the city. (OK, maybe that  is  bad.) It's 
 up to you to take the other, experimental beta suit (ohhhh, dangerous!) , travel through time, and 
 stop Dr. Krone from doing something sinister -- which he has already done, so you want to undo whatever 
 it is he's done... or something.  

  Even though the story is an incoherent mess, it's still possible to enjoy TimeShift. Why? Because 
 you can time-shift. Your suit has the ability to pause, slow down, or even reverse time -- kind of 
 like a TiVo you can wear. This lets you pause the action, run up to a guy, and shoot him to bits. 
 Or if you're feeling like humiliating him before you kill him, you can steal his weapon, restart 
 time, and watch as he wonders where the heck it went, and then make him dead with a barrage of 
 bullets. It's even possible to regenerate health by seeking cover and pausing time. You can't rewind 
 time and prevent your own death, but if you're quick you can reverse it and unstick a grenade from 
 yourself. You only have a limited amount of time you can manipulate before the suit's energy runs 
 out, but it regenerates quickly. The game promises all sorts of other "exciting" uses for altering 
 the flow of time, but it never really capitalizes on the potential of the mechanic. Rather than 
 challenging you with complex puzzles that require you to think outside the box or use the game's 
 quality physics engine, you're mostly limited to slowing down time so you can press two buttons 
 in quick succession or pausing time so that you can get through a door before it closes. Thank 
 goodness for technology.  

  Other than the time-shifting stuff, the rest of TimeShift plays like a linear, run-of-the mill 
 first-person shooter -- and a dated one at that. Most of the level objectives are routine tasks like 
 finding a button that opens a door or, sometimes, locating a lever that opens a door. Heck, sometimes 
 you have to do both! There are a few scenarios where you ride around on an ATV and some others 
 where you man a turret on an airship, but most of the time you'll be moving from checkpoint to 
 checkpoint on foot, taking out wave after wave of unintelligent foes. It's good, then, that the 
 gunplay is entertaining. This is mostly due to the game's powerful weapons that are so much fun 
 to shoot. It might not be exactly challenging, but it's fun to pause time and take the crossbow 
 that shoots an arrow that sticks in the target and then blows up, and then unpause time and watch 
 your foe explode into a charred, bloody mess. There are other cool weapons too, like the automatic 
 gun that looks like it shoots bullets, but these bullets cause the target to burst into flames 
 when they hit, and then the dude screams like a little girl as he fries. Even the basic machine 
 gun is powerful and useful all the way through the game. There's always plenty of ammo to be found, 
 so you never have to be conservative with your bullets.  

  It's too bad that these powerful weapons, combined with the ability to manipulate time, make it 
 all too easy to fall into a rut of approaching every situation in the same way. Even on the harder 
 difficulty settings you can be successful finding cover, pausing time, unleashing a few shots, 
 and then retreating to cover while your suit and health recharge. Enemies won't always stay back 
 and wait for you to cap them, but their aggressiveness actually makes things easier. You can hide, 
 watch their dot on the radar get closer, and then shoot them as soon as they come around the corner. 
 There are a few instances where you'll have no choice but to seek shelter behind destructible cover, 
 but those situations are rare, and there's usually someplace safe you can scramble to once you've 
 been flushed out.  

  In addition to a lengthy 10- to 12-hour single-player campaign, TimeShift offers a full-featured 
 multiplayer component. A modified version of the single-player game's time-shifting ability is 
 found here, too. You can slow, pause, or rewind time by throwing one of three different chrono 
 grenades. Everyone within the blast radius of an explosion is affected. It's a neat idea, but one 
 that people seem all too keen to rely on -- they just throw them like crazy when they see another 
 person. You can play ranked and unranked matches in a wide variety of game types. There's deathmatch 
 and team deathmatch, one-on-one, capture the flag, and a few unique modes. King of time has you 
 try to gain control of the time sphere, which makes the person who holds it impervious to time 
 effects, allowing them to rack up kills with ease. Another is called meltdown madness. This is 
 a team mode where you try to prevent the other team's machine from counting down by throwing chrono 
 grenades at it. You can also create your own fun by using the multiplayer modifiers. These let 
 you increase players' running and jumping abilities, reduce gravity, or play alternate game types 
 like rockets or snipers only, vampires, or last man standing. The multiplayer mode isn't exactly 
 amazing, but it definitely has its moments.  

           If nothing else, it sure is satisfying to blow guys to bits in TimeShift.      

  One 
 of the reasons TimeShift was delayed so long was because the visuals in the early versions of the 
 game weren't up to par. It's not an amazing-looking game, but the graphics have improved significantly 
 over time and there are some nice visual effects to be seen. Explosions look fantastic, especially 
 when viewed while the game is in slow-motion or paused. It's not just the explosions that look 
 good, but the object being destroyed as well. Crates will splinter, bad guys' limbs will fly in 
 all different directions -- there's plenty of carnage. The rain effects in the first level are good, 
 too, though they feel overdone, as if the developer were showing off how hard it had worked on 
 making the game look better. The quality of the rest of the game's visuals depend on what system 
 you're using to play the game. The PC version looks best thanks to higher-resolution textures and 
 a fast, smooth frame rate. The Xbox 360 has markedly lower-quality texture work and the frame rate 
 experiences frequent hitches, especially in the first few levels.  

  It's ironic that TimeShift had such a long development cycle, because the game really could have 
 benefitted from more time in development. If the story had been fleshed out more and the developer 
 had made the decision to challenge players with tougher puzzles and mission objectives, this could 
 have been a very good, if not great game. Instead, it's just another ho-hum first-person shooter 
 with an interesting gimmick.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (106 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KingKippins
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 13, 2009 7:01 pm PT
Review:  The core gameplay is Abysmal at first. You can slow, stop, or rewind time in small chunks, and 
 the otherwise basic combat is supposed to be enhanced because of it. Catching bad guys sitting 
 in their chairs at evil work, then pausing time, putting two pistol bullets in the back of their 
 heads, and resuming time only to see them drop dead instantaneously is a treat that gets more sour 
 the more times it happens
  The fast recharging times on your suit also do a good job of encouraging frequent use of your abilities, 
 and the basic puzzles pop up a lot to actually force you to go 4D. Unfortunately, both the time 
 powers and puzzles are lacking in variety. Most involve pausing time to sneak through spinning 
 fan blades that would otherwise tear you to bits or one of a couple other basic formulas, and they 
 never challenge you to incorporate more than one time element.
  TimeShift is also guilty of being all-too-formulaic. You'll run into your standard vehicle and 
 gun-turret levels in the middle areas of the game, which do serve to break up the action, but not 
 in a way that's more fun than what you were already doing. (sitting on the couch) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goolbox
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 7:48 pm PT
Review:  The weapons were great, the graphics were very good, the idea/concept awesome, the game play... terrible. 
 AI is cornerstone of any FPS. Timeshift needs a lot of work. Mission objectives for each level 
 were very dull and it seemed like there were a million of them that could have been cut out. "Flip 
 this switch", then "jump over here", "hit this button". Very annoying. 
  I am a FPS addict. I don't care what score a game receives, I'll play it. This time, I should have 
 believed the reviews. The only reason I played the game as long as I did was to earn achievements. 
 The next day Timeshift was on the trading block. This is the first real review I've written on 
 a game, and I am surprised I felt the need to pen a review about a negative experience. Like any 
 gamer, I try to find the good in every game. I can sacrifice good sound, graphics, weapons, even 
 level design. However, I can not deal with a game that makes combat so tiring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaskaville
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 16, 2009 9:06 am PT
Review:  The Good: The ability to pause, rewind, and fast forward time is awesome, satisfying array of weaponry, 
 fantastic UI.
  
  The Bad: Hardly any story at all, overdone graphics, tough enemys.
  
  The two things that really gripe me about Timeshift is that there is hardly any story at all, it's 
 like starring at a wall and shooting it in the same spot over and over again. The graphics are 
 horribly overdone expessaly the shadows, for example if a shadow is on the ground it looks like 
 someone spilled tar onto the floor. The weapons are really satisfying to shoot, there's a grenade 
 dart gun if you shoot in into an enemy he will just explode. I was really impressed with the UI 
 because in your average first person shooter the UI would just stand there and shoot at you but 
 in Timeshift the UI is everything but average, the UI will be clever and hide behind something 
 and throw electric grenades at you. The UI is great but the enemys are just simply to hard to take 
 down, I'd be standing there shooting the enemy in the legs and head and he still would not die. 
 If your a hard core fan of first person shooters Timeshift is for you but if your looking for story 
 I would go elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damodar_thade
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 10, 2009 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Timeshift has great potential but the levels get boring and the time puzzle's can be very irritating 
 and could have been done better. There was also some points i found the game needed to give you 
 a point in the right direction and spent some time just trying to find a vent to crawl down.
  
  Some of the weapons while they look good are not very practical and i ended up using the shotgun 
 and crossbow most of the time except when i need to take out helicopters with the rpg weapon.
 
  
  The voice over acting was done well but got very repetative during missions you got alot of npc 
 just shouting the same things at you over and over again
  
  The timeshifting is very cool for combat and was alot of fun, The story was confusing and allmost 
 non-existent while the cut scene's were top quality.
  Overall i get the impression the game is missing alot and has been rushed out it could have been 
 alot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermanmega
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 3:50 pm PT
Review:  i think this is the best fps to date. i love this game, its long, its got awesome guns, the time 
 powers are awesome, the AI its great, and the story was great. the only thing i didnt like was 
 the multi player but the single player was so good i can over look that. useing your time powers 
 was really fun and it was cool how the enemies used time powers too. its over 10 hours of game 
 play and there is almost never a dull moment in any level. even the multi player is fun for a while. 
 its hard to find people to play with but if u do it can be fun for a good hour...... and the best 
 part about this game is that you can blow people apart and then rewind time to put them back together! 
 this game was just amazing i think its way better then halo and even gears of war (which i love) 
 and seeing as u can get it for less then 20$ its definitely a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2009 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Part of me wants to love this game. It is one of the best looking games I have played in a long 
 time and has some great game play mechanics. Another part of me wants to give out a strong warning 
 to other potential players. The level design is less than inspired and some of the puzzle segments 
 can be annoying.
  
  First and foremost, this is a shooting game. You get a bunch of different guns and shoot as many 
 bullets as you can at the bad guys who are trying to do the same to you. Nothing new there. There 
 are some interesting guns, but I favored the traditional weapons because they were the easiest 
 to use. Sure, some of the futuristic guns are cool to watch, but their fire rate or shot trajectory 
 is crap compared to the basic guns. The game gets original when it comes to using the time shifting 
 techniques. Due to some completely unexplained scientific procedure, you have the ability to slow, 
 freeze, or even reverse time (unless you die; can't reverse that) . It is quite entertaining to 
 throw a grenade and slow time to watch a guy fly at half speed through the air or run behind a 
 group of guys and mow them down before they can even turn around. Freezing time can give you the 
 opportunity to steal the guns out of your enemies hand. When time returns to normal, they looking 
 around in pure confusion. I didn't use the reverse function very often, although it is quite funny 
 to fire a rocket at a guy and reverse time after it hits him to watch him blow up over and over.
 
  
  While the time shifting is a blast in normal combat, the puzzles using those abilities are downright 
 frustrating. Many of them require perfect timing. It seems odd that in a game where you have total 
 control of time, that you can miss a jump because your timing was off. Several of the puzzles almost 
 require you to die just to find out how to complete it on your next try.
  
  The level design is also a bit disappointing. There is only one path through a level but there 
 are hundreds of locked doors. It kind of kills the realism of the experience when you know going 
 into a room that only one door leads out. Most of the levels lead you along a twisting maze through 
 a building that makes no sense because of locked doors or conveniently collapsed passages.
  
  The story is probably the weakest part of the game. You and another scientist named Krone (probably 
 derived from Kronos in order to be as cheesy as possible) discover how to make suits that control 
 time, although it is never explained how. Krone uses his suit to go back in time and take over 
 the world. Again it is never explained how. He kills everyone else on the project and you use your 
 suit to barely escape. Your suit transports you back in time to where Krone went, although it doesn't 
 make sense that you suit could do this since you can't do it in any other time during the game. 
 The rest of the story is told through confusing cut scenes that average under five seconds. The 
 game tries to end on a shocking cliffhanger, but since I had no idea what was going on, I couldn't 
 bring myself to care.
  
  The graphics are best I have seen in a while. There is absolutely no clipping problems and the 
 colors are vibrant and varied. It is raining in several of the levels and when you slow time, you 
 can see every rain drop fall slowly in complete detail. Freezing time gives you a chance to actually 
 walk up and look at every bullet flying through the air. In the first level, I watched a guy run 
 across a room, jump on a table to peak out a window, duck down to avoid gunfire, then open the 
 window and climb out. The whole sequence was so fluid that it was impossible to tell where one 
 animation stopped and another started. This game looks so amazing that I am tempted to go back 
 and lower my score for Medal of Honor: Airborne. If TimeShift can look this good, it is complete 
 BS that Airborne looks that bad.
  
  The story is crap, the puzzles suck, and the levels are confusing. Even with all of this, I still 
 recommend this game to FPS fans. The action is fun and frantic and is worth the hassles the game 
 puts you through. Even though I had alot of bad things to say about the game, I gave the rating 
 a boost because you can really tell the developers wanted to make a good game and actually cared 
 about the product they were putting out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 3:21 pm PT
Review:  In this game you are this one person who is signed up to be put into this suit and help out the 
 city from the enimies. The suit allows you to stop, rewind, fast foward and pause time. You need 
 the to use these 4 controls to get past each level. The game deons't have the best levels to use 
 with these controls. I think the game has alot of cool weapons but the controls in the game are 
 abit sterile. I think the game could be better by adding in less enimies and more puzzles to solve 
 by using the 4 controls. The missions in this game don't make the game any better cause they are 
 really terrible. Some missions (mostly in the middle of the game) it is abit glitchy.
  
  The good of the game is that there alot of good and cool weapons to use. The controls are really 
 intersting. The puzzles make the game alot better to play.
  
  The bad of the game is that you don't use the four controls that much. The missions don't make 
 the game any better. Some of the levels are a bit glitchy. 
  
  Overall this game is not a must buy game I really think you shouldn't get this game to start off 
 with because it is terrible and alittle messed up. I rate this game 4.5 outta 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Timeshift is a First Person Shooter based in a world where Time Travel has become a reality. Featuring 
 such science defiying powers such as pauseing, speeding up and reversing time which gives the the 
 handy idea of if in a no win situation... just rewind.
  
  The story is very simple yet still interesting if not much. Man invents time travel. man decides 
 to use it to conquer the world in the past. Other man says hell no and goes after him. After finding 
 him his travel ability goes haywire and he must travel from and unknown time and location to find 
 the bad dude, who by the way has a huge hi-tech army.
  
  Althow the Idea of time traveling sounds risky it really works out great. the ability to use upgraded 
 agility makes you run around laying waist to entire enemy squads in less seconds. The game dilivers 
 great action and awesome weapons to wreak havoc with from machine pistols to time granades.
  
  Now i havent played the actual game for more than tyhe first three levels i have however stacked 
 loads of time into the demo over Live before my actual purchase. Its a great game with a great 
 look, both design and graphics but it no halo sequal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  The story in this game is lame... The series "Timesplitters" has a better story about the past 
 and better options.... The online is just the same vanilla 1st person shooter most games are with 
 options to freeze time.... The single player has standard weapons and you can freeze time and stuff.... 
 The graphics are good, but the main character is like a mix of master chief, the dude from half 
 life 2 and the dude from timesplitters.... All in all rent this game or download it for free on 
 the 360 dashboard.... because this game is really not that good and rent it at the most or if it 
 is on sale for like 5 dollars it would make a good ash tray for camel cigarette butts, a frisbee, 
 or a coster for a drink.... you decide.... well its your choice and pick up a quality game like 
 timesplitters 3 or unreal tournament 2004, halo 3 or gow 2 or some more interesting fps than this...... 
 its basically a waste of time and money and in our economic times you can find better games to 
 play.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laliberte11
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong it was a great game until after the first level. The game iself was dissappointing 
 but the time powers alway messed me up on other games because iwould try to use them on games like 
 halo and assains creed. Anyways I thought this game was a wanna-be Halo and Half-Life put together. 
 You think it sounds awesom right? Well the gameplay was easy, the AI wouldnt put up much of a fight 
 and you can blow up a helecopter from 100 feet away with a shotgun. This game WILL mess up your 
 gaming for other games, I had this for a week and returned it so that I could get Assassins Creed 
 instead (Assasins Creed is now one of my favorite games) . All Im trying to say is that if you like 
 it, good for you, I like individual people, TimeShift just wasnt for me. I like Halo but not so 
 much Half-Life, and I cant stand how over-rated BioShock is too. I can understand how you would 
 get mad if I insulted your beleifs but I hope people act the same way back towards me. P. S. this 
 review wasnt made to offend anyone, I was just saying what I thought of the game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Back in 2007, Time Shift was hyped a lot. People said that he game would revolutionize first person 
 shooter, and you will never look at an ordinary shooter the same.
  But most critics beat Time Shift to the ground in their reviews. Problems were that the game had 
 a terrible story. Now let me start out by saying that the story does suck, but the over all game 
 play rocks. Time Shift may not be the best shooter around, but it is one great game.
  
  You play a scientist, I think, like I said, the story was not so great. Any how, another doctor 
 named Dr. Aiden Krone who has stolen a time alpha suit, and blows up a lab, and makes a time jump. 
 You jump in an beta suit and follow him. From there you fight a bunch of soldiers, and use your 
 time powers to get closer to killing Krone.
  
  The game play in Time Shift rocks. You basically run and shoot, only this time, you have a time 
 suit. The time suit allows you to stop, slow down, or rewind time. These can be used to kill your 
 enemies, or solve a few puzzles in the game. The problem with this is that most of the time, you 
 will play it like another shooter, and then the game turns into a plain old shooter, because, your 
 time powers have to recharge.
  But, you have a big arsenal of guns. The guns includes assault rifles, shotguns, electric cannons, 
 etc, and all the weapons feel really powerful.
  
  The graphics in Time Shift look really good. Character models look good, but environments look 
 awesome. Certain parts of walls can be blown up. There is a lot of detail in the world, and if 
 you slow down time, you can see each individual rain drop hit the ground of another person or your 
 gun, and splash.
  
  The sound in Time Shift is good to. The voice acting is not the best, and certain sound effects 
 sound funny, but when things blow up it sounds good. Guns sound pretty good.
  
  Time Shift's single player takes about 8 to 10 hours, but there is a great muti player after that. 
 There is basically all the modes you would find in a normal first person shooter, deathmatch, team 
 deathmatch, etc. But in the multi player, you have time grenades, which you can throw, and they 
 will make a bubble that will have the effect. The multi player is also really fast pace. The multi 
 player is not deep, but it is fun, and will keep you entertained for a while.
  
  Time Shift has a good single player and a great multi player. The single player does not have a 
 lot of replay, ut the multi player is a lot of fun. Not to mention the col time shifting abilities 
 in this game. If you want a good shooter, that is a little bit different than other shooters, the 
 you will want to gie Time Shift a try. Not to mention, you can get this game for only a few bucks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DVIENT
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Being a shoot'em up fan it is hard to say that this game was a complete letdown, but it is.
  
  The story line is terrible and at times you find yourself lost and confused as to what is going 
 on. The flashbacks and cut scenes do not really mesh well enough for you to figure out what is 
 going, besides the fact that the timeline has changed, your part of a resistance and that you have 
 this cool time altering suit. And by the end of the game you are still feeling confused and also 
 a bit jilted by this game.
  
  The only aspect of this game that I enjoyed was the game play but at the same time a bit repetitive 
 as I found myself constantly either slowing down or rewinding time. Which in my opinion while cool 
 a bit frustrating.
  
  Overall this game was a complete letdown, frustrating, annoying and a waste of time. If only I 
 had the suit to get back those hours I spent playing this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ekimis
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 14, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  A fair rating for this game is a bit light. While I agree that the story could have been executed 
 better it's still a very good game that of course had the potential to be great. The game was also 
 plagued with several landmark releases that came out at the same time like Call of Duty 4 for example 
 which added to it's less than stellar debut. But if this had come out earlier in 2007 I believe 
 it would have made a bigger impact. Without repeating what reviewers have "positively" said about 
 this game I'll suggest this... If you're currently looking for a game to fill in the time between 
 the major upcoming releases this is one that will not disappoint. Plus its around $25 used now. 
 I tend to play a lot of "the games" that got lost in the mix of major titles during those off months 
 and I'll be pleasantly surprised more often than not when I do pick up a game that got mediocre 
 reviews. And you have to remember the people that review these games for a living tend to get a 
 little more callus than rest of us. One suggestion to those who frequent the FPS genre, turn up 
 the difficulty to elite. Even then it can seem pretty mild at times if you're always using the 
 time shift mechanic which is a blast. I really hope we see more from this franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flyer80
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  Having read all the bad reviews for this game, i, like most people stayed away from it, that was 
 until i saw it for less than 10 - what a steal.
  
  While the game isn't perfect, it is very playable and fun. In some ways it reminds me of a poor 
 mans Half Life 2 ( a bold thing to say - but true ) . The game try's very hard to emulate what VALVE 
 did, but fails hugely with its story and how they present it.
  
  Honestly, a 4 year old could write a better story on the back of a postage stamp, and as for the 
 story telling, well its the worst i've ever seen.
  
  But thankfully the gameplay is really good. I've read that some people say it takes a whole clip 
 to kill an enemy, this simply is not true. Once you have the crossbow, its one shot kills all the 
 way. There is a good selection of weapons and some interesting levels.
  
  The graphics are also very well done, while not the best ever, they can hold their own with some 
 of the big boys. You'll see bodies explode, people on fire and so on. The weather effects are pretty 
 good too. On the whole it just looks good.
  
  Now for the sound, not so good! Yes all the weapon effects sound fine and so does the chatter from 
 the NCP's, but that's it, minutes after finishing i can't remember any of the music - none!
  
  All in all, Timeshift is a decent shooter but not a classic. Its got some really good gameplay, 
 but awful sound, along with the worst plot in history. 
  If you see Timeshift in your bargain bin, and have nothing else to play, it'll keep you playing 
 till something better comes along. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaleem80
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 19, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Timeshift is about killing your enemies by slowing, reversing or stopping time and then just reaching 
 your objective. Repeat this towards the whole campaign to beat it. Impressive? I'd say total letdown. 
 The game's story is a mad scientist makes 2 time shifting suits, the alpha and beta. With beta, 
 you can do unlimited time shifting. The alpha has a meter in which you must wait for the meter 
 to recharge before you can time shift again. Unfortunately, before the scientist takes the beta 
 suit destroys a whole facility in which you are in, you jump in the alpha suit and reverse time. 
 You must stop the doctor all of a sudden or else he will take over the world. 
  
  Controls of the game are good, whether you are driving a vehicle or running on foot. In the game, 
 you have many weapons at your disposal, and you must sometimes use your time shifting abilities 
 when facing many enemies at once. Puzzles are probably one of the few good things in the game which 
 would always require you to use time shifting. Multiplayer in the game is decent and reminds you 
 of halo's multiplayer. There is deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the flag and some other time 
 modes. Overall gameplay still sucks.
  
  Overall, timeshift looked like a real good game before it came out but when it came out, it was 
 a total letdown.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojowonderdog
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 2:35 am PT
Review:  I very rarely rate games as low as this. 
  Even games that others have deemed rubbish (see TMNT) I still can manage to find a playable charm 
 in them.
  
  But then we get to TimeShift and it just makes you want to cry.
  The main problem is that it doesn't know what it is, what the storyline should be or how to make 
 use of a great idea like being able to mess with time.
  And so what you end up with is a game that fails to deliver time and time again. And a single person 
 campaign that does everything in it's power to make you want to pack it in.
  
  If this all sounds like too much doom and gloom then here are some of the good points.
  1: The 
 Crossbow weapon kicks ass. You never get bored of shooting one into a paused enemy, starting time 
 up again and watching their whole body blow to pieces. 
  The Timshift function can be fun, especially when you can pause enemies and take the weapon out 
 of their hands.
  
  It's just a shame that more wasn't done with it. The enemies take forever to die, regardless of 
 how many times you shoot them directly in the head. The graphics, though acceptable in places, 
 lets the whole game down with flat almost cartoon like surfaces and past gen texture wrapping.
 
  
  I'm not one who always needs a story to move me along in a game (Lost Planet is fantastic) but 
 I do need SOMETHING there to keep me playing. 
  
  There's a reason it's so cheap. 
  If you are going to buy a FPS then to be honest there are alot of run of the mill, average ones 
 on the market that are more enjoyable than this.
  
  5.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: j-games741
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  time shift is a brilliant action pack fuel ride that keeps you hook to advance through the game. With 
 its great gun mechanics you can really feel the guns momentum. Oh it has got such good ragdoll 
 afffects there just funny watching a guy flying in slow motion or blown to bit by a grenade, rocket 
 launcher etc.
  
  timeshifts not all about the cool ragdoll effects and guns it has fun objectives and a great storyline 
 that fits right in to place its just got that feel that makes you continue.
  
  Its great muiltiplayer allows you to use time grenades to slow your opponents and its just so fast 
 paced and exciting you just wanna shoot anyone and everything.
  
  in my verdict timeshift is the best fps shooter ive ever played its just such a great way to us 
 time slowing, stopping and rewind powers it just leaves you with the choice to use them in your 
 own advantage.
  
  so overall timeshift is a fast fuel rided fps game with a great storyline and game mechanics theres 
 those tiny little things that you notice but it barely does nothing to the great game that it is. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Far_cry-sniper5
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 28, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  this game was fun at first but then it started to get a bit rediculous when the bad guys kept coming 
 at you non-stop until you were to freeze time and run past them. the driving was alittle rough 
 like when you would drive 10 mph and hit a rock you would go flying 20 feet away, but once you 
 were to get the hang of it you would be able to drive at high speeds with out crashing. the game 
 was overall good some little game twitches that are unnotisable but no one really spends their 
 time looking for all these thing. the shooting was pretty accurarte except for the fact that you 
 can shoot right through the fence usually you would have to make sure you get lucky enough to get 
 it through the hole. for most people i find that if you rent this game before you buy it you might 
 really like it or hate it to oblivion. the use of the timeshifting ability is very inovative because 
 if you got shot in the head youll be able to rewind every thing or just do some tactical moves 
 to get the guy you shot you in the first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff917
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Warning: The opinions expressed in the following review are NOT endorsed by anyone at Gamespot 
 or any professional reviewer. I'm not paid for my reviews and I do them for fun. They may contain: 
 Foul Language, Violence, references to farts, A lot of references to the word "Poo" totally bodily 
 function loss, or possibly the total collapse of civilization as we know. Oh also reading these 
 reviews you may feel the need to toss a Midget or start a Cripple fight. There is a longer list 
 of things that could happen but I don't feel like posting them here. You have been Warned.
  
  Learning Curve: 30 Minutes
  
  Score: 5 out of 10
  
  I first saw this game as a demo 
 on XBL and I had high hope for this, than I got it and.... boy was I disappointed. Why is it Demos 
 always focus on the best aspects of a game? they should be honest and give what they have. You 
 start off on a mission to try and apprehend a guy a who stole the perfect time shifting outfit 
 and your using a crappy Beta version of the suit which only has limited time altering abilities. 
 You find yourself in a city that is war torn due to the person who stole the suit, he has made 
 himself into something like a head bad guy. I don't remember and I really don't want to remember 
 because now that I think of it this game is pissing me off again. Mainly for the fact I spent $59 
 on this waste of a game. The Visuals and graphics were nice along with the concept of controlling 
 time, one thing I loved was the fact you could use your time abilities to steal your enemies weapons. 
 Now, I'll let everyone know that I didn't finish this game. If I did I think it would have scored 
 better the main reason I didn't was that I got stuck on a boss battle I was fighting a helicopter 
 and it seemed that my shots would have landed but they never damaged the helicopter so after constantly 
 dying I gave up. So I guess poor hit detection was another issue. If they took a little longer 
 to fix this game and polish it I'm sure it would have been nice. I also liked the weapons, the 
 shotgun and Machine gun were a nice touch also the fact that there were mechs in the game was a 
 nice change. Overall those things I liked saved the game it gets a 5 out of 10. If you like games 
 with a lot of blemishes than you'll like this. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: llyte_1up
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 6, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  When you start playing Timeshift, the first thing that comes to mind is Half-Life 2 if you've played 
 it. The environments are very familiar, especially with that doctor talking on the giant monitors 
 all over the place.
  
  The story isn't the most attractive aspect in Timeshift. In fact, it's probably the worst. You're 
 not really briefed on the mission when the game first starts so you don't really know what's going 
 on. Unfortunately you pretty much have to figure it out for yourself because the game doesn't do 
 a good job of helping you. 
  
  However, the one aspect of any game that can make it worth playing even with a lackluster story 
 is gameplay. The gameplay is really good. Shooting the weapons is a lot of fun and the ability 
 to manipulate time is a nice change from typical first person shooters. There are also lots of 
 points in the game where you need to utilize your timeshift ability to get by or through obstacles. 
 This is nice because it makes timeshifting a nessecity. 
  
  The visuals in Timeshift are also very nice. Some of the game takes place outside in a rainy environment 
 which looks fantastic. There are other nice effects like water and blood splatter on your helmet 
 visor which look cool too. The warping effect during timeshifting is also presented well.
  
  The level design not exactly the most imaginitive so all you really do is fight your way through 
 hordes of enemies only to get to the next level and do it all again because there aren't many missions 
 where you actually have special objectives.
  
  TimeShift is a better-than-average first person shooter that offers an effective, special ability 
 that makes it even better. If you look at it as just another typical first person shooter rather 
 than expecting a great story then you'll see that TimeShift is suprisingly good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celtic1962
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  I first became aware of Timeshift when I checked out the trailer for it on Xbox Live. It was a 
 very impressive trailer with slick graphics and exciting possibilities with your character's ability 
 to manipulate time itself. When the game came out it received fair to good reviews from the pro 
 reviewers and when Gamestop had a recent promo that dropped the game to $20 I wasted no time in 
 picking up a copy.
  
  GAMEPLAY (8.5) - Your character has a special suit that not only can control time but can even 
 travel through time. You are chasing an evil scientist that stole one of these suits and traveled 
 through time to create an alternate reality where he is ruling. Your job is to help the rebels 
 overthrow the tyrant, but the story really isn't too important. Obviously the selling point of 
 this game is the Timeshift abilities. You can pause, slow or rewind time to help you in puzzles 
 or in combat. Most of the puzzles will be quite obvious, for instance stopping time for a few seconds 
 to get by a pipe the periodically shoots flames. However there were a handful of occasions that 
 did take some thought in figuring out just how to use my abilities to get past certain obstacles. 
 Combat is the main part of the game and the timeshifting is what raises this to another level. 
 There will be many times when you will be extremely outnumbered and the timeshifting will be your 
 salvation. For instance you can pause time, throw a grenade into one set of enemies, launch a rocket 
 at another then shoot the rest to pieces. Naturally you only have a short amount of time in which 
 to timeshift so you need to plan a bit before you use it up, though it does slowly replenish after 
 use. It is a lot of fun to stop time, basically destroy a group of enemies, and then watch what 
 happens when it returns to real time. You even have the ability to run up to an enemy and steal 
 his weapon while time is paused if you wish, which results in some humorous reactions when he frantically 
 tries to figure out what just happened to his gun! There is a decent selection of weapons, some 
 of which are quite exotic and futuristic and all have secondary attacks as well. There will also 
 be a few occasions in which you'll operate a vehicle or man a turret on an aircraft to give a change 
 of pace. The controls were very smooth and intuitive, as good as any FPS that I've played on a 
 console.
  
  GRAPHICS (8) - The game looks very nice with great lighting and water effects. Certain areas will 
 have rain, and this looks very impressive during the timeshift moments. Cut scenes are top notch, 
 and enemies, while repetitive, are detailed and react realistically to being shot. Certain areas 
 will be very detailed and interesting, though unfortunately other areas fall into the warehouse-factory 
 levels that we've seen a million times.
  
  SOUND (6) - Nothing particularly impressive here. Background music was alright, though certainly 
 not memorable. Same for speech. Again, it was humorous to hear surprised reactions from enemies 
 but other than that there wasn't much effort put into this area.
  
  VALUE (6) - A relatively short game, it probably took 6-8 hours to complete. It does offer multiplayer 
 which takes advantage of the timeshifting abilities so there are some enjoyable experiences to 
 be had in that realm, but based on just the SP aspect you may be disappointed in how quickly you'll 
 reach the end.
  
  SUMMARY (7.5) - As other reviewers have stated, it was tough for Timeshift as it came out in the 
 same era that saw Halo 3, Call of Duty 4 and The Orange Box, games with which it can't really compete. 
 However, if you are a fan of FPS and are looking for a game that offers something a little different 
 with decent production values this can at least be considered as a rental or a purchase if you 
 can get it for a relatively low price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 26, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Monolith's departure from Sierra has removed perhaps some of the greatest parts of the company, 
 but there is still plenty of great ideas that have come to blossom. Just like the expansion packs 
 to F. E. A. R., Timeshift is a game that has become unappreciated. And just like Extraction Point 
 and Perseus Mandate, Timeshift is easily worth a look. 
  
  Although similar to F. E. A. R., Timeshift is not quite up to the quality of one of the greatest shooters 
 created. Starting off with the story, its both difficult to decipher, and unclear. Basically, a 
 man named Dr. Krone has stolen a suit that allows him to travel through time, and together with 
 the Magistrate army, you must defeat him and use the power of time to get there. The plot is more 
 or less a moot point, and it pales in comparison to the great game plots out there. Slanderous 
 plot aside, the game is all about one thing, the Beta Suit. This suit essentially allows you to 
 manipulate time; you can slow it down, pause it, or even reverse it. 
  
  This time-manipulating is a lot of fun. Pausing time and stealing an assault rifle from a soldier 
 to use it against him, slow time to dodge a tank shell, or even reverse time to remove a clutch 
 grenade that has been thrown at you. Time-use may seem overpowering, but its compensated by massive 
 amounts of enemies as well as heavier artillery. To mix up all the shooting and time-use, there 
 are plenty of obstacles and mini puzzles that challenge and frustrate you. 
  
  Timeshift is certainly not without its issues. The lack-luster plot, dated graphics and generally 
 dumb A. I. certainly hurts it's value. Timeshift, just like Sierra's Extraction Point and Perseus 
 Mandate, has been misjudged and is definitely worth a look from fans of sci-fi and shooters alike.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjamonkey872
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Timeshift's story could've been better and the campaign was alright in length. Timeshift had different 
 companies working on it and at one point completely changed the story on it. The weapon arsenal 
 that you use in the game is good and also let's you use secondary fire for almost every weapon. 
 The multiplayer online is fun and would be even more fun if lots of people played it online . If 
 you want a new online game to play don't get this game. On the other hand, achievements in the 
 game are quite easy to require so if your interested in boosting your gamerscore. This game is 
 easy to get achievements in except the online achievements might require a little help from somebody 
 else. Overall you get your money's worth out of the game if you buy it for $30 dollars. Don't buy 
 it at full price wait for it to go down if your interested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PeaceTucan
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 15, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is very underappreciated for its unique use of engineering that allows the alter of time. 
 its games like this and Portal from The Orange Box that become revolutionary precedents for future 
 games.
  
  as if the combat isn't awesome enough, adding time alteration makes this game highly enjoyable. 
 the only flaw is that the combat can sometimes get boring after a while similarly to the half-life 
 series. what i do is play awesome thrasher metal while i play to get the combat going more, using 
 music can motivate you to play all day long. 
  
  the game offers classic weapons such as an automatic rifle, shotgun, pistol, sniper rifle, and 
 a rocket launcher. but don't worry, futuristic weapons are not left out. Combat can get very intense 
 because of the A. I.'s intelligence. on the hardest difficulty you need to hide and take cover A 
 LOT, this is particularly tricky because sometimes, if the enemy moral is high, the enemy squad 
 chases and searches for you. this keeps combat alive and intense
  
  as far as graphics go, the game delivers the best. explosions are amazing, enemy soldiers spray 
 tons of blood when shot, and explosions can reduce soldiers into chunks of goo and blood
  
  the only flaw is the story. there IS going to be a sequel, but the end was somewhat disappointing 
 and the game does not explain a lot about the development of the time suit or how he got into the 
 future, but the graphics, combat, and soldier A. I. make up for it
  
  usually i go for shooters with great story lines such as Halo (my favorite game) , BioShock (my 
 second favorite game) , and Gears Of War, but this game set the bar for good old fashion shooters 
 and adds the little twist of time control. Overall a great game with a couple of flaws, i would 
 rent it first though, cause it gets mixed reports
  
  i award TimeShift 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half_Size
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 10, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  I found this game fun to play and thats the reason why i buy games.
  But it is true that the final battle was dissapointing and seemed very rushed and the game felt 
 short, and the story was quite weak but the gameplay was great.
  
  A game where you have the power to manipulate time might make it sound easy for a fps but it worked 
 really well. You can't just walk into a battlefeild stop time and take every one out because the 
 npc's are in tactical positions and your powers wouldn't last long enough to work out where they 
 all are. You can take different approaches to battles, which may not allways seem to obvious. 
 
  The puzzle aspects arn't say as good as they are in half life but theres no repition and it's 
 keept challanging.
  
  It's not too easy to review because it's not good in the typical way everyone would expect a good 
 game to be, just stay open minded and you should enjoy your time playing it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ben399
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  Time shift has a good number of missions all of which feature some easy yet amusing puzzles, a 
 very good multiplayer mode (time shifting grenades-hell yes!) and good difficulty levels. of course 
 the star of the game is your ability to shift time, or time-shift. whether you're using your suit 
 to change the time around you or throwing a time grenade to screw up your opponent, it's always 
 fun to see the affects of a time shift ( my only problem is that you're allowed to move around 
 freely while rewinding time. i think you should either go back to where you were five seconds ago 
 or have to stay in one spot) . the enemy AI is very good -- you can here enemies talking to each other 
 about flanking, surrounding or trapping you. in multiplayer you throw one of three time grenades 
 that will either reverse, slow down or stop the time of anything caught in it's blast radius. this 
 is a lot of fun and, when combined with the huge variety of games and customizations makes multiplayer 
 loads of fun ( although I do wish they would have given you a split screen mode) .
  
  the second best part of time shift is the weapons -- there is a good variety featuring a number 
 of completely original weapons, all the standared ones and a couple improvement on weapons normally 
 found in an fps. there is a storyline, although you don't have to pay attention to it. and the 
 final moment makes it clear that there is going to be a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haven79
Rating: 6
Date: May 27, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  so i thought this would be great. all the previews made it look amazing, but i was HORRIBLY dissappointed. 
 some parts were a lot of fun, but there were just the same as any other game. and when you had 
 to do the timeshift to go over something, it was done poorly. you would get a warning RIGHT before 
 something happened, and when the warning was long enought to react, you had no idea what was going 
 on. some parts there was a ton and enemies and no cover. it was lame. 
  
  i still dont know what the story was, and the cutscenes were lame. the only good things were sometimes 
 slowing and stopping was fun, but there wasnt enough creativity with it that you would expect. 
 with all the potiental it could have had, i really thought were could be more to do, but there 
 wasnt hardly anything that made me want to play. after like an hour at a time, i had to stop. please 
 dont by it, rent it, then forget it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8
Date: May 24, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  Timeshift has basically only one somewhat original idea in it, but still the overall package is 
 done well and you should give it a shot.
  
  Story of Timeshift is interesting, if a little far-fetched. You play as a nameless respected physicist 
 working in a project concerning time travel. Your colleague Krone steals the Alpha Suit and makes 
 a jump to the past, while destroying everything in the lab. Well almost everything, because you 
 take an earlier prototype Beta Suit and go after him. Game begins in late 1930's and Krone now 
 rules the world. You'll team up with a group of rebels in order to bring Krone and his government 
 to his knees. Unfortunately the end of the game already makes some way to a possible sequel, which 
 is not a good thing. It would have been a lot more enjoyable and rewarding to see that the story 
 comes to a closure.
  
  Story is told through very short cutscenes, which are more confusing than they are informative. 
 You really need to do some unnecessary thinking on what's happening. Over all this kind of futuristic 
 setting would have required more time to develop the background and characters behind these events 
 that take place later in the game.
  
  While story is pretty engaging, why would a small rebel group take a nameless guy in a high tech 
 suit as part of their group and openly trust him immediately with some important missions? But 
 maybe it's better not to think too much. We have a world to save.
  
  Graphics are much like they were in Quake 4, which is to say pretty good and detailed, but on the 
 other hand the destructibility of environments is very limited. Also for some reason it all looks 
 in a weird way a little plastic or artificial. Still Timeshift is a good looking game and you'll 
 see many colorful effects on screen. Sound design works and aside from little too often looping 
 comments from your team mates the game succeeds in creating a living world around you.
  
  Gameplay is linear FPS, but on the other hand there's no chance getting lost either. Timeshift's 
 idea is to manipulate time by either slowing it down, stopping it or make it go reverse for a short 
 while. It's fun and also very necessary part of the gameplay all the way through, which will take 
 around 10 hours. Controls are solid and they work just like they should.
  
  Save system uses checkpoints, but you can still save anytime anywhere you wish. Just remember to 
 make sure that your game is actually saved, because occasionally you'll see "failed to save the 
 game" pop up. This free save system is really needed, because you'll progress mostly through trial 
 and error: you 1) rush forward, 2) see what's in the area, 3) die, 4) respawn and then 5) make 
 a strategy on how to proceed.
  
  You'll definitely need to do some tactical thinking, because rushing forward with guns blazing 
 is sure way to get yourself killed. There are no separate health packs, because your energy shields 
 and time generators will regenerate after a while, just like they do in Halo 3.
  
  You can carry up to 3 weapons at a time and usually the best combination is KM 2103 Karbine (assault 
 rifle) , ShatterGun (shot gun) and an Echo Rifle or ThunderBolt (sniper rifle) . This may not be 
 the first thought that pops in your mind, but Timeshift has a lot to offer to those who enjoy sniping 
 in games.
  
  Aside from shooting on foot, which makes the bulk of this game, there are also a few vehicle levels 
 (just like in Half-Life) and some on-rail shooting sequences (just like in Quake 4) . These are 
 nothing special, but still they break up the usual run-and-gun action nicely.
  
  Timeshift is not a difficult game on a standard difficulty setting and your Beta Suit will give 
 regularly some information about what's ahead. So actually your own suit acts as a hint system.
 
  
  There's also a multiplayer mode in the game and it too reminds a lot Halo 3 and Quake 4. Otherwise 
 it's a very typical FPS multiplayer, but now you can use time bubbles, which will stop time to 
 anyone who is inside it. Maps are colorful and entertaining and on Xbox Live Marketplace you can 
 download more maps to extend gameplay time. Unfortunately there are not that many people playing 
 Timeshift online, because there are so much better games to choose from when considering a multiplayer 
 FPS game, namely Halo 3 and Call of Duty 4.
  
  Timeshift would otherwise be a very standard FPS game, but the ability to manipulate time is done 
 well and it's been used throughout the game. I recommend you to give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solideagle13
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 23, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  First of Timeshift is a FUN game. Not necessarily a good game just fun. There are some good qualities 
 to it though. Obviously one being the time shifting abilities. 
  
  The 
 
  Once again the abilities are really cool. They are, slow, rewind, and stop. One of my favorite 
 things to do is pause time and stick a grenade on someones face and unpause. Catch my drift? There 
 are some pretty cool weapons too although it takes awhile to start seeing new ones. Surprisingly 
 the alternate fire on the guns are actually pretty helpful. Such as on the shotgun it fire two 
 shells at once and the assault rifle fires a grenade that can either explode on impact or be delayed. 
 The game has some pretty spectacular moments too. I don't think this should give anything away 
 so, I was on an ATV (my other favorite part of the game) and I was crossing a bridge. Suddenly 
 the bridge started to fall and I began to plummet to certain doom. But, thanks to the Beta Suit, 
 I was able to rewind time and regain passage on the bridge. Thanks Beta Suit! Moments like this 
 are ones that give this game its spark. 
  
  The Not So 
 
  Despite all those goods up there, there is a lot of things that bring Timeshift down. First off, 
 the story is barely present. All I've gotten from it was that some Commiesh dude has taken over 
 and you're there only hope or something. Otherwise it hasn't mentioned anything at all. Oh, and 
 a typical mission consists of run, shoot him, shoot him, shoot him, and oh! Shoot him. There is 
 no break between fights. Well maybe 30 second ones but thats all. Not the gung ho Rambo type of 
 guy? Well then you're screwed cause it is IMPOSSIBLE TO SNEAK. Repeat, IT IS IMPOSSIBLE TO SNEAK. 
 No matter what or where the Commies (I like to call them that) are looking at they will see you. 
 The suit's timeshifting powers don't last long either and that can really screw you over.
  
  Well, at least give this one a rent. Maybe you'll like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furnaps1
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 19, 2008 11:34 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game from Gamefly and played it for a day or two then got bored of it but after I 
 forced myself to start playing it again as the game got further along it got better and I started 
 to like it more.
  
  Choosing a harder difficulty might not be something you want to do if your not good with fps games 
 because on harder difficulty's this game can get fairly intense and you will find yourself dying 
 alot.
  The graphics are good as far as character models and buildings and such but the textures could 
 use alittle work.
  
  The time shifting can be pretty hard to get used to at first and it gets confusing to remember 
 what key is used to slow, pause, or reverse time. The complaint I have about this system is that 
 you have to bring the menu up for it almost every time because it doesn't remember your selection.
 
  
  I'm not finished with the game as of yet but so far the story could use more added to it so hopefully 
 as I get further into the game the story becomes clearer.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaindog666
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  I don't know how this game keeps getting such low reviews. 
  It's a fantastic game. Sure the graphics are not up to the COD4 standard and the multiplayer is 
 nothing like Halo 3. 
  Can we stop comparing every FPS to COD4 and Halo 3 please?!?
  
  Why don't people rate games on the fun factor anymore?
  This game is damn fun to play. The weapons 
 are fantastic. You can only carry 3 weapons at a time which sucked for me because I wanted to use 
 them all. Pick any 3 weapons in that game (even the basic pistol) and I'd happily play through 
 the whole game with them. They're all fun to use.
  The hardest part for me was deciding which ones to choose because I wanted them all.
  
  I haven't 
 even mentioned time powers yet! Who can say that rushing into an enemy camp and slowing down time 
 to blasting everyone before they can react isn't fun? Or what about stopping time, running up and 
 stealing someones gun, and then watching as time resumes and they beg you not to kill them?
  One of my favourite things to do was to enter a room, pause time and then kill everyone before 
 they even knew I entered the room. lol
  
  Don't get me wrong, you can't do that all the time. The time pause ability only lasts a few seconds 
 (otherwise, yes I would agree the game would be stupid) . The time slow last quite a bit longer 
 (maybe 12 seconds??) which is perfect for almost any situation.
  
  The time reverse I didn't use much myself (because I'm not very creative) .
  
  My ONLY complaint 
 with this game's fun factor is that the puzzles are pre-solved for you. You walk up to a puzzle 
 and it tells you right on screen which time power to use. Come on guys, there are only 3. I think 
 I could have figured it out myself...
  
  Anyway, yes I agree with other reviewers about the graphics. They aren't fantastic. Who cares!
 
  
  I never play games twice. I've played this game two times already, and I know i'll play it at least 
 once more.
  
  This game is damn fun. If you want to play a game that's fun, get this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshi-Fan
Rating: 2.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Timeshift is a first person shooter that tries to get up with the likes of call of duty 4 and other 
 modern shooters but its fatelly flawed by poor programming, stupid AI and lack of variety. The 
 Online portion of Timeshift is also poor with the lack of interest and notions that no one cares. 
 Its a shame because its actually the most interesting part of the game. If you need to play this 
 game badly RENT IT. Its not worth the time or the money. While this may not be the prettiest of 
 360 titles, it has some interesting features that you certainly won't see elsewhere.
  
  
  Offering a unique twist to the first person scene, Timeshift looked like it was set to be up there 
 with the best FFPS though it fell flat on its face. 
  
  The good- Playing with the fabric of time, Some of the cool weapons.
  
  The bad- The need to 
 use the time shifiting frequently, Some very bland looking visuals 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmulvaney
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 27, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Yeah so after listening to what other people were saying about it, i decided to stop listening 
 to only the 'professional' reviews and paid more attention to player reviews... I sure am glad 
 I did!
  
  First, i hate it when games throw you right in to it and you get blown to bits or whatever because 
 from that point on you automatically have some negativity towards the rest of the game. Yeah it 
 makes for good storytelling but keep it brief and then start the game from the beginning and open 
 with some frigging training for Christ's sake! If you thought about it, wouldn't that amazing, 
 brief, firefight the suit just sucked you away from leave the player salivating for more?
  
  Aaron Thomas said it best before me: "Another standard FPS with a gimmick". However, that 'gimmick' 
 requires you to think in a fourth-dimension that no one has ever really thought in when they play 
 an FPS. Time! And I am sorry to say that if you think playing any of the newer Prince of Persia 
 games will prepare you for this type of experience, you are sadly mistaken. See, in PoP it just 
 freezes or rewinds or speeds up all the while your character is somewhat unaffected by the phenomena. 
 In Time Shift you character is able to freely operate within the phenomena. It ONLY effects your 
 environment! And not just your immediate environment but the entire game is reversed, or slowed 
 down or frozen. Buildings rebuild themselves, bullets and projectiles are returned to the barrel 
 from which they came, allies are revived and now because the enemy is dead they will not die when 
 you resume normal time. 
  You would think that with such a 'godly' ability, strategy is thrown out the window, that all you 
 would have to do is freeze, kill, and continue on your merry way. However this game requires more 
 fore-thought and split second decisions than one would care to imagine. Also, the developers were 
 smart to make the duration of 'pause' to be shorter than 'rewind' and 'rewind' shorter than 'slow'.
 
  
  Aside from your perspective. You also have to think about the enemies strategy. This is some of 
 the best AI I have ever encountered. Of course, there will be moments where you can freeze time, 
 sneak up, take the weapon and blast them away with out anyone being the wiser. Now try pulling 
 that on a well-sized group, hidden from view, with a single turret under their command or several 
 snipers up above you? When that gauge runs out you will most definitely find yourself standing 
 out in the middle of the field, flanked, with a barrage of bullets coming at you. Sorry noobs, 
 back pedaling will not help much in this game. The whole point of that is to put distance between 
 you and the enemy. Kind of hard to do when they are not only advancing on you, but taking periodic 
 bouts of cover and moving so they nail you from all angles or from behind or at least the sides. 
 These guys are smart! Taking cover and waiting for that 'opportune moment' almost never works, 
 because they will not give it to you.
  
  So in summation, pick this game up! Play it the first time on easy to avoid frustration and to 
 put you in the mindset of thinking of changing the flow of Time as a weapon. Your gonna need it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakes3425
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Time Travel check, a Mad Scientist bent on world domination check, guns, lots lots and lots and 
 lots of guns check. Sounds like your typical FPS/HALO Clone, and while Timeshift does have the 
 feel of another masked hero trying to steel Master Chief's thunder, this HALO Clone actually includes 
 elements of what has made HALO so great, including a very immersive story line, and some well developed 
 characters, and of course white hot graphics and lots of guns.
  
  But the best feature this game has: The Time Powers (Slow, Stop and Reverse) these are the player's 
 ace in the whole, but it is wise to use them sparingly, since the use of one power, has the tendicy 
 to render the other others useless until they recharge. This is the game's major flaw, since the 
 recharge time is long, and the ammount of charge, affects the strength and durration of the time 
 powers. 
  
  The main character, unlike Master Chief, is even more mysterious then HALO's masked hero, right 
 down to the point where you don't even know if it's a he or a she, since the character is never 
 shown outside of the BETA Suit, let alone anything about the character's past before the events 
 of the game's cutscenes, even in the cut scenes you never once catch sight of the main character's 
 face. The one factor that adds even more mystery to the character is the lack of a name. Never 
 once though out the game is the main character's name even spoken, let alone alutted to.
  
  This aura of mystery about your character harkens back to something that very few games use today: 
 forcing the player to use his/her imagination about the character they play. This combined with 
 the game's cool time powers, weapons, and graphics serves to make Timeshift a very sastifying experience 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pete360gow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Timeshift is a pretty standard shooter with some nice futuristic weapons. But where the game stands 
 out is the timeshifting option. You can stop, slow down, or reverse time. It makes a challenge 
 almost easy but you'll really have to use it when the odds are against you. It could also be really 
 fun stopping time and stealing the enemy's weapons and watching them run for there lives. The graphics 
 are amazing and the weather effects are really good , the story mode is long and will keep you 
 on your feet , and online multiplayer is fun too. It's no halo 3 but it's definitely worth a look. 
 
  
  
  pros:
  1. great graphics
  2. really fun timeshifting options
  3. the battles all fell fresh
  4. nice level design
  cons:
  1. your timeshifting powers run 
 out too fast
  2. might seem a little bored sometimes
  3. can get confusing
  
  overall: 8.5/10 - great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FullDragon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay : 9.0
  I love all parts with the time control like Slow, Pause, and Rewind , but it can get kind of repetitive. 
 It has a good amount of weapon choice. The puzzle in the game are fairly simple. The Pause and 
 Slow gives the player to grab the opponents guns and use them.
  Graphics : 9.5
  It looks fantastic, no framework issues, The cutscences are just gorgeous.
  Story :7.0
  The 
 story was pretty bad, it doesn't make much sense. Questions aren't even answered at the end. 
 
  Sound : 8.5
  The sound of the gunfire is great .The voice acting is ok. The rain sounds so realistic.
  Multiplayer
 
  I Don't have Xbox Gold so i can't comment on this, put they don't even give you local Multiplayer 
 option.
  Length
  It about 11 Hours long which is a very good amount of gameplay. It has pretty good length of per 
 level.
  Overall
  This game is great fun. This is the most underrated first person shooter.
  I would recommend 
 to buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Timeshift was set to release not to long after the 360's release. Near 2 years later and we finally 
 see it on the store shelf. What the hell happened? Apparently they decided to give the whole game 
 a overhaul and push it back nearly two years. This helped the game but also hurt it. Pushing it 
 back allowed them to revamp the graphics and make them beautiful, and tweak the gameplay a bit. 
 But pushing it back meant that it had to compete with the big guys and allow far better FPS to 
 release before it, letting them set the new standard for FPS gaming. 
  
  THE STORY is not too interesting nor that original. it features a mad scientist stealing a time 
 suit and trying to rule the world, while you use the beta suit to manipulate time and try to stop 
 him..... typical indeed. But honestly, this game's story is simply forgettable and easy to lose 
 track of. 
  
  THE GRAPHICS are actually not too bad. They offer some great lighting effects and nice weather 
 effects. I will say that this game looks a helluva lot better than it did back when it was first 
 scheduled to release. The only flaw is that some character models look a little stupid (i. e. faces) 
 and some pieces that look gorgeous from further back until you get too close and then they turn 
 into a little blur. Other than those little gripes the game looks very pretty. 
  
  THE GAMEPLAY is where this game starts to makes you like it and makes you don't. When you first 
 begin the game you have a whole lot of fun pausing and slowing time to tear your enemies apart. 
 Seriously, how cool is that you can pause time, go take the guy's gun out of his own hands and 
 then shoot him in the face with his very own weapon. Or slow time and stick someone with a cluth 
 grenade (Timeshifts version of a sticky grenade) and watch the dude flip out in slow mo and then 
 get blown to pieces... literally. No joke, this game deserves its M rating for its blood and gore. 
 However, this can only go so far. You begin to realize that to take down your enemies your gonna 
 be using the same tactic over and over which is indeed slowing down time. Puzzle solving is another 
 issue because the game sloves the puzzle for you pretty much. If you near a puzzle, the game will 
 automatically switch to which time power you'll need. Take for example, walk up to a bridge that 
 collapses right in front of you, the game will automatically switch to rewind for you. It seriously 
 is like an idiot button. The game isn't tough at all but it is kind of long, which is not a good 
 thing since you begin to get tired of the repititous gameplay. This game would've benefitted deeply 
 from Heavenly Sword's length of gaming. Luckily the A. I ain't too bad here. Theres a few instances 
 in where you blow a guy apart and his comrade next to him almost doesn't even realize it. But luckily 
 most of the time they seem to have knowledge of whats happening and will often try to flank you.
 
  
  THE SOUND is decent. The music is fine and all the sound effects are good as well. The only problem 
 is that, as with most games (Red Steel I'm looking at you here) the enemies all sound like morons.
 
  
  OVERALL the game is a good fun game. Simple as that. Its not great and doesn't set any benchmarks 
 but it does get the job done to the point where its enjoyable and does give you good thrills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 25, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  The Good: TimeShifting is cool, cool weapons, decent graphics
  
  The Bad: TimeShifting powers are poorly used, mediocre game play, stupid story that goes nowhere 
 fast, bland multiplayer, kind of short
  
  I had high expectations for this game, and I was quickly let down. When you first enter the game 
 you in a war-torn city trying to help rebels lead a resistance against a growing power (think Half-Life 
 2) . You are a physicist who enters into a TimeShifting suit to stop the secret facility from blowing 
 up, but winds up in a time paradox where the man trying to blow the facility up... is now in charge 
 of the entire world. You have to help lead a resistance to stop this man. On to the TimeShifting, 
 it's not as exciting as you think. You can stop, slow down, and reverse time to get an advantage 
 over the enemy, solve simply stupid puzzles, and so on. You can stop time and grab a weapon out 
 of an enemies hand and shoot them with it. This is pretty fun at first but gets old quickly. The 
 stupid puzzles are extremely annoying. Try slowing down time to get away from a bomb that only 
 has 2 seconds on the timer. Try pulling a lever and slowing down time to quickly get on before 
 it moves away... very very dull indeed. The weapons are pretty cool such as a machine gun that sets 
 enemies on fire with a flamethrower attached to the bottom, a crossbow that sticks to enemies and 
 blows them up, you even have a cool self guided rocket launcher (think Half-Life 2... again) . While 
 this is just OK it's good for a weekend rental (coming in at 8 hours completion time) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: double_dos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  i know every one has been saying that this is not a good game but all i have to say is THERE WRONG, 
 hands down one of the best games ive ever played. The weapons are awsome, the levels r pretty rewarding, 
 the only bad part is the enemies all r about the same and once u learn there weakneses u can pretty 
 much do it easy. But, if u ever even thought about getting it, do it, it is awsome, not to mention 
 ofcouse the time control which is very rewarding. The other bad thing is the story, it is very 
 good until the end because he just comes out and does it and u have nothing else to do other than 
 watch, u didnt know it was coming and u kinda dont even know exactly how or why it did, but, if 
 u like halo, call of duty, gears of war and end war and frontlines, things like that, youll love 
 Timeshift!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denolitions
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 13, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  there is a lot you can say about timeshift, sure its time controlling idea is good and plays well 
 but its story line is what lets it down here. the first cutscene in a game (whether its story based 
 or not) would explain where you are whats going on and who you are. all i got with timeshift was 
 this confusing video that left me even more confused once the first level started! i also found 
 it frustrating whenever i flipped a switch, activating whatever it might be only to find out that 
 i needed to use the reverse time ability to continue but wasting too much time figuring it out, 
 being forced to load a checkpoint a few times. i did find it entertaining killing enemies and reviving 
 them by reversing time then killing them again. some of the weapons here do stand out from other 
 games such as the flame-thrower rifle thingy and the energy gun but others such as the crossbow 
 are popping up in a lot of games recently so it doesnt feel that new. also am i the only one that 
 thought this was some futuristic version of medal of honor? i mean c'mon just listen to the3 music 
 they play in the main menu! and also the fact that you rarely meet allies and soon depart from 
 them later! all in all a fun game (if you skip the cutscenes) with nice toys to play with which 
 is enhanced by the time-shifting abilities but with its ultra-confusing plot i say its only worth 
 a week long rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _SMYLEY_
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 2, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  Its just ot happenin. Something about the gameplay makes me feel like i have played it about seventy 
 thousand times before. The only really interesting part of this game was the time shifting mechanic, 
 and even that just had a bland ideal of innovative. Some mechanics seem brilliant and new, but 
 when played, they just seem so off or unusabe, almost like its an effort to use them. These new 
 variables should be fluid, like they were meant to be there or just plain fun and exciting to use. 
 They can, however, be corrupt by something like TimeShift simply because the visuals arent that 
 good, the timeshift effect isnt fleshed out or incorporated seamlessly into the game. They should 
 never stray too far from simplicity while searching for new stuff, because that is when surplus 
 material is added and nothing is worse than surplus material in a videogame. You have to introduce 
 what the gamer will use, not confuse him with odd and one-time idioms, you have to keep the visulas 
 an HUDs to a dull roar, dont go overboard with great colors and fluxuating, easily variably affected 
 sights, or other factors that are better the way they are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_007_k
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 24, 2008 11:18 pm PT
Review:  TimeShift is a fun game. There's no other way of putting it. 
  
  Good things:
  
  - The weapons in this game are very good, ranging from pistols to all sorts of bizarre futuristic 
 weaponry. They sound great and are a treat to use.
  
  - The A. I. They take cover, work together and actually create some sort of challenge to the player. 
 The A. I. was so good that at one time, one of the guys jumped over a set of boxes to evade a grenade. 
 Within seconds, thinking he was dead, he flanked me from behind a truck.
  
  - The Time Powers. Something new and innovative to bring to a genre that is starting to get a little 
 repetitive. Slowing, stopping and reversing time is interesting.
  
  - Fun. TimeShift is always fun to play. Whether it's stopping time and placing a Clutch grenade 
 on an enemy or reversing the falling death of another.
  
  Bad things:
  
  - Story. At some points in the story, I just thought that some of the stuff that this guy had to 
 do was pointless and plain stupid. After a while though, you just forget about it.
  
  - Graphics. Even though this game went through an extensive makeover, the graphics seem not even 
 close to any other XBOX 360 game on the market. For example, Call of Duty 4 and Mass Effect.
  
  Overall: TimeShift is an excellent game to add to your XBOX 360 library.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kieffdaddy
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  The game isn't too bad i guess, but i had been following it for awhile and when i finally played 
 it i was really disappointed. Could have been so much better if they had A.) had a story, and B.) 
 added some more content. It seems like they thought the time shifting would make of up for the 
 lack of other elements that make a quality game so they just didn't bother. I mean, freezing time 
 and trowing like 5 grenades on some guy can only be funny so many times. I will say the i played 
 it for about 15 hours before i really started to feel like i was wasting my time, but with some 
 hindsight, i really i had been doing something else. The big reason i kept playing it because i 
 thought maybe they were just delaying reviling the story until later to make it more interesting... 
 not the case. They just don't have one. Which is really sad actually. even if they had come up 
 with a crappy story and just told you what it was, or mad it a little easier o figure out... it 
 would have scored higher, I'm sure. Rent it or watch some one else play it, but don't waste too 
 much time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imkain
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  This game reminds me of Blinx a bit, in the nature of time streaming, after that moment passes 
 it feels like Quake. I thought they did an excellent job balancing out puzzles, gun battles, and 
 time streaming choices throughout the game. I am upset with some of the framerate issues, including 
 the fact that most of the games on the 360 can usually get a solid 30-50 fps. All in all the level 
 designs were nice, and mowing down guys while either pausing time or slowing it down are always 
 very rewarding. I will state that as soon as you can get the crossbow weapon, definitely dump the 
 sniper rifle, that crossbow packs a nice explosive touch, and you can bet to see some nice rag 
 doll physics when it connects. All in all I have enjoyed playing this game, but then again I love 
 time travel to begin with, and it may not have the best story line, but that's why there is Gamefly. 
 Rent it, beat it and then send it on it's merry way :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gammit10
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  I remember testing the original Time Shift, when it was about to release a year or so ago. The 
 premise was great, even if the non-time features and presentation were so-so.
  
  After a year of cooking (in a rare move by the publisher) , this game now boasts improved visuals 
 and a more simplified time-altering mechanic.
  
  And that's what broke the game for me.
  
  Your character's timesuit now has a built-in AI (S. S. A. M) , that determines which timeshift 
 power is most appropriate for the moment. All that is left to do for you, the gamer, is to press 
 the time button. It's like the "win" button essentially. Granted, you can still choose to override 
 the suit's AI, and choose your own timeshift power manually, but I doubt many people will utilize 
 that level of control.
  
  With this alteration, what little fun was once had solving environmental puzzles, and out-thinking 
 the AI is now gone.
  
  At least the visuals improved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for christmas and beat it a couple of days ago. Sure it may not be a long game, 
 but it's a game that I really like and will play through again on harder difficulties. The xbox 
 live is pretty fun, how it works is that instead of time powers, you have time grenades. It's kinda 
 weird but fun, you pick a time power than if you have grenades, you throw them and it makes a bubble 
 and anyone in the bubble gets afftected with whichever power you picked. Its weird as I said before, 
 but it's fun. The regular campaign is really fun. The levels are very different from each other 
 and the enemies get really cool. You eventually encounter these guys that can also slow time, so 
 you can see what it looks like to the other people when YOU slow time. It is really really cooll 
 to just see a yellow blur zipping around. Also eventually later on, you encounter guys that can 
 stop time. You just see a little bolt of blue lighting then they appear, they have a super powerful 
 lightning gun that can literally blow up then enemies because of the high voltage. All the weapons 
 that you get to use are cool, the time powers are cool, the sounds good and the graphics are pretty 
 good. Overll, I think most fans of the FPS genre will like this game, I know I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuIgI_MaStR
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing! You can freeze time, reverse time, and fast forward time. This game is filled 
 with people who just out of the random pop out at you. It's scary! They just start shooting away! 
 Most people would say that this game doesn't at all compare to Halo 3, but it does. It has a much 
 better story along with a better story mode. I was definitely suprised when I poped this inside 
 my 360. Did I mention that the sound in this game is awesome? Well it is. If you like to be scared 
 and if you like shooting people, well don't just stand there...... get up and get this game!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake6phw
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 23, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  I was pretty pumped about the release of TimeShift. For two reasons; I love shooters, and I love 
 Prince of Persia. So a shooter that let you control time like in Prince of Persia should be pretty 
 good right? Wrong. 
  
  The Time Mechanics are alot of fun to use you can slow, pause, and rewind time without having to 
 suffer from the effects of any of those. So you can slow time as you run through a crowd of guys 
 blowing them to bits as they all unload their weapons on where they thought you were. You can pause 
 time, walk up to a guy and blow him to pieces as he stand there frozen and helpless to stop you. 
 Pause sounds like the best to use, but it is a real drain on your time power meter so you never 
 get much time to use it, maybe one or two kills. And rewind allows you to rewind everything around 
 you in case you need to rewind the throw of a grenade and move yourself out of the area or rewind 
 the collapse of a bridge as you run through it while it rebuilds itself. Although rewind sounds 
 like alot of fun, you will hardly ever use this power and the game only lets you do the cool bridge 
 rewind once. Bummer. 
  
  I would say TimeShift has a lame story but theres one problem. It practically has NO story. There 
 are a few useless cut scenes with flash backs to you and some random girls romantic relationship 
 and theres a guy you don't really know ordering you around. Fun. The game could have been so much 
 better if only it had a coherent story that 1.) Made sense. 2.) Actually developed its characters 
 and 3.) Existed. All you know is theres a bad guy and you have to kill him and the only reason 
 you know where you are going is because of your mini map. TimeShift's story was a real disappointment 
 because when you have a story that involves time travel the options are limitless. Instead a guy 
 uses his power to go back in time and take over the world. Original.
  
  The gun play in TimeShift is pretty good, the guns are fun to shoot especially since you get to 
 watch their devastating effects in slo-mo, and freeze-time. 
  
  I had a few other problems with TimeShift. The first one applies also to alot of games on the 360. 
 The text and HUD is TOO SMALL TO SEE. It is very annoying that I have to sit right on the coffee 
 table to play this game because I can't read the text or see how much ammo I have left. Sorry Microsoft, 
 but not everyone is as rich as you and can afford an HDTV. TimeShift also features a nameless character 
 who doesn't speak. In this day and age it is getting a little ridiculous when you have a bunch 
 of guys speaking to your character and giving orders, he doesn't utter a word of conformation and 
 the characters seem fine with that. That was okay back in the duck hunt days, but these days I 
 need to know that I'm actually playing a video game with a living character and not a corpse. Except 
 in Zelda games. Don't ever give Link a voice Nintendo.
  
  The multiplayer I can't give an opinion on because NOONE plays it! 
  
  Overall, TimeShift was 
 a huge disappointment. It was a game I was actually looking forward to, but even with the first 
 level I knew I wasn't going to get what I wanted. If you are looking for a shooter with an interesting 
 twist, you've got it; but thats all you are getting. No multiplayer, no story, no character development, 
 just fun time shifting mechanics and satisfying guns. Buy it used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakesommersHP
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 1:17 am PT
Review:  If you want a shooter where you can complete it quickly and trade in look for timeshift. If you 
 want an in depth shooter like bioshock, you are out of luck. But whilst i was playing, timeshift 
 was extremely good.
  
  Firstly the story. There is basically nothing to say about this. Its about this guy who steals 
 a timesuit and you have to go after him or something. The story is made up of five second clips 
 that make no connections to what you are doing. One movie was 3 seconds long. Next the gameplay. 
 You have three time powers: Slow, Stop, and Reverse. Slow it used for most of the game, and is 
 very useful in firefights. Stop is also used during firefights, but there is less time to use this 
 and so slow helps more, but stop is used during most puzzles. Reverse is almost never used, and 
 there are only about 3 puzzles in the whole game that use it. Most of the puzzle take no thinking, 
 because the suit chooses the right time power to use, so all you need to do is press the button 
 and see what happens. Also you get on a quadbike for a few missions, and this reminds me of Far 
 Cry.
  
  This game is good while it lasts, which isn't very long. But it is a good rent, but a buy if you 
 really want it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_zelda_dude
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 16, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Graphics-
  The Graphics are decent, but everything just has a cheesy look that almost screams out mediocrity! 
 The godawful character designs and animations are embarrasing. The Recycled levels cannot be hidden 
 through a new coat of colors and weather. And to top it all up some of the textures are just not 
 acceptable. Gameplay- This is where Timeshift peaks a small light. The gameplay is pretty good! 
 The weapons at your disposal is the highlight of the game, they all look cool, reload cool, and 
 kill the crap out of your enemies cool. Theyre not extremely different from other weapons youve 
 used in other games, but there pretty darn fun to use. The Time powers are meh, you could get through 
 the game with only your slow motion power, with the exception of some pointless puzzles that require 
 time pausing and rewind. Sound- The weapons sounds are pretty well done, voicework not so well 
 done, and story also not so well done. Mediocre at best. Overall-
  After playing this game I felt as though I wasted my time, and when a game leaves that last impression 
 on you, its not good. Timeshift was never meant to be a revolutionary game, but it will keep you 
 entertained for a bit. Yet I cannot reccomend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  TimeShift could of been one Amazing Game if done right and its not. Frist off the story like What 
 story boring so that brings down the Game. Then This Evil man that talks in the background over 
 some loud speaker in the Game all the time i wish they would of left that out what person thought 
 that would make the Game better well it dont. then this check point to check point with nothing 
 to break it up seems like you are just playing in one big level. now the Timeshift stuff is fun 
 stoping time slowing time playing with that is Awsome, the weapons are very cool the shootouts 
 are fun lot of fun here. this Game needed more time like a Great summer Game 2008. now we just 
 have a Game with missing stuff that makes a Game a lot better. Timeshift is not worth 64 bucks. 
 Good for 19.00 bucks on sell in 2008 game are a Great Gamefly rent for a week. thats my views on 
 Timeshift thanks mars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: needs-a-life
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  great game, ok story, the controls on the atv are a bit to sensitive but blowing people to bits 
 or stealing there weopns never gets old, also it is fun to throw grenades at people in time freez. 
 one good way to have fun is to rewind time after killing an enemy. it never gets old just messing 
 with time. other wise its an okay game. some of the puzzles are diffuclt some easy. and the hole 
 thing about the suit making a choice on the situation is can be deactivated so you dont have to 
 do that just trust your instincts. and if you dont like fine do what you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: docprufessuh
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  To be honest i thought timeshift was pretty fun but only really cause I like shooters. I had my 
 friend come over and try it out but he was more into platforming and rpg's and he hated it but 
 he did enjoy halo 3. It rwally just isn't that much different than other first person shooters 
 except the ability to control time. It is a fairly easy game even on the skilled difficulty I didn't 
 find it much of a challenge until the last boss at the end.
  
  The Good
  ========
  -The game has a good variety of weapons, even if they're over powered they are still fun to shoot
 
  -The ability to control time is fun and awesome and it's fun to trick your enemies
  -Since you have the ability to control time it makes sense to make your enemies smart and they 
 did your enemies Artificial intelligence is awesome they really do smart things.
  -There is also a wide variety of enemies
  -The graphics are decent
  -weapons and explosions 
 sound great
  
  The Bad
  =======
  -The story doesn't have much depth if you just play the game you might need to read the manual 
 and the back of the box like GS said
  -The multi player is not very solid
  -The timeshifting puzzles aren't really interesting and are usually the same over and over again
 
  -The game gets a little repetitive
  -The games not much of a challenge
  -Need to be a fan of fps's to really enjoy this game
  -Any time you really need to think in this 
 game the answer is always simple it's pretty linear
  
  Timeshift gives you a good campaign with a good length and will satisfy fans of first person shooters 
 but it doesn't feel like the game went above and beyond to make a great game even if it was delayed 
 multiple times. So if your a fan of fps shooters give it a rental to see how you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve_59
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is a nice mix of gameplay with the twist of changing time some of the challenges take 
 a little thinking through on how to get past an obstruction or enemys. I think i would lasted longer 
 if I tried it on a harder level. The end was a slight let down but there must be a second game 
 as there is quite a few question left unanswered. For me it was a worth while game to play. I realy 
 enjoyed the differnet locations and the graphics were good and the story line was good with a few 
 twist to keep you quessing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carmine_Gow
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  From this company i mean Sierra i've just played the F. E. A. R and i loved it on that time but TimeShift 
 is better than that . by my self i've got fun when i Paused the time & put my self in 3 meters 
 or less infront of enemy and then starting to empty my rounds on his face .... and i started to 
 see a bunch of bloods on my Monitor. afters this u can tell ur self U r Rock man :p 
  Great graphic and sounds . the enemies are smart-ass tey will take cover so good , and even when 
 you steal their guns they are trying to find a weapon to blast your body !? The guns are Amazing 
 and they are Hell of a good , when u r Reloading you'r Gun its like u r getting a boost to bring 
 down you'r enemy ,and in middle of a game u like to reaload you'r gun every minute . if u r familiar 
 with sci-fi FPS i recommended to start the game on Hard difficulty . Even in Hard difficulty u 
 can't feel thehardness in game cuz with Time shifting you can do what ever you want, Slow takes 
 a little energy from ur time bar but reverse and stopping time takes a lot .and finally about Achievments 
 : In single player when u r playing on hard difficulty you can get 500 GamePoints but in multiplayer 
 depends on you ! the power point of TimeShift is on multiplayer cuz there is a lots of fun on it 
 Dude !!? 
  in this month we got Blacksite too . but if you want buy one of this i preffer TimeShift Cuz Blacksite 
 Sucksss !!? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tacosrule193
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 30, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  meh, its an average game. same good crap.. u can control time . its fun to mes with time, but they 
 could have worked better on other things like shooting and stuff. if this game did not have time 
 crap , the game would suck. but if u have some money and want to spend it , and u already have 
 all good 360 games then this is for u. u wont be disapointed or excited, u will just be in middle... 
 
  
  good
  time shifting
  nice voices
  many guns
  and other that kind of things
  
  bad
  first level u will enjoy then u start getting bored
  needs better graphics
  longer 
 time stopping ability
  and other things
  
  this game, the best thing if u want to try it out is to rent it. it will keep u busy. if u want 
 to buy it, then wait till the price drops to like 29 bucks then buy it. so yah, thats my review 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BattleSword1
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 2, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  TimeShift is Sierra's new FPS that allows you to stop, slow and rewind (that's right, rewind) time 
 to get an edge on your enemies. What's really amazing about it is how much it has changed since 
 its previous showing; do you remember years ago when Official Xbox Magazine ran the first playable 
 demo of the game on their disc? You will no doubt notice how much it has changed since then. The 
 problem with the game is that the story mode is very short (with an anti-climactic ending,) there 
 really isn't much to do once you've beaten it. The multiplayer is, surprisingly, a decent payoff; 
 rather than regular time powers, you have grenades (called "time grenades," no less) that cause 
 time to slow or stop in the immediate area, allowing you to frag opponents. You'll enjoy TimeShift 
 for its awesome time powers and entertaining gameplay, and then you'll just return it to Blockbuster. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zim000
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Ok I'm going to make this quick i Though this game looked good i was looking forword to it but 
 i forgot to put money done on it i put my money done on Assassins Creed But that dusent matter 
 At the Moment . Alright I'm Glade i dident buy this game i Rented this game it looked good the 
 first couple of levels in the game for fun getting into the game and all that but when i started 
 going forword it just started being the same thing over and over again i mean really each lvl looked 
 the same you were outside in the rain all the time and why the hell is it Raining all the Good 
 dame time . so i liked the time Stuff but it was the same thing over and over again the game i 
 fun when it started but it dident last. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thepowermonkey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  This game is class:-
  
  It looks great, and you get a good feeling of scale as you look up at towering, giant war machines 
 stomping past in the distance, or running though vast factories. and the deformable stuff is cool, 
 like you hide beind a pillar and huge chunks keep getting blowen off leaving an obscuring cloud 
 of dust floating about for a few seconds
  
  Sounds awsome, great gun blast noises, your squad mates shouting at you, the enemys shouting, the 
 noise of bullets hitting dieffent surfaces give diffrent noises aswell etc
  
  the bad guys are for the most part clever and will run for cover and duck and dive etc.
  
  
 only bits i didnt enjoy were a couple of parts where you need to reverse time to complete a jumping 
 onto moving platform sequence, i needed to check out a faq for more info. but thats cos i'm a bit 
 thick! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ollie456
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Well the conept of timeshift is that you are some random guy with the ability to contol time with 
 the suit you are wearing. 
  This game I am sad to say is good, but not even close to being special or different in any way. 
 The game play as I said on the review deck is F. E. A. R redon. Everything from the need to use slow 
 mo or time changing skills in order to win to the basic envirment has F. E. A. R written all over 
 it. The only real difference it maybe the reversing time and stoping time aspect of the game.
 
  Not to say this game is complete garbage. It has fairly fun aspects to it and the non stop shooting 
 gives it a rambo type feel but, as I said its just repeating everything about run and gun shooters.
 
  The creaters of this game I feel got lazy. There is abosolutly crap for a story and they did NOTHING 
 to tell you controls or anything. All they did was throw you into the game.
  The games difficulty level is pretty hard. Even on casual you will find you're self dieing or having 
 trouble figuring out objective's (again a result of lazy proudicing) .
  This game has a fun but, repetitive feel. Graphics aren't special, Gameplay isn't special, The 
 Game is not speical.
  I suggest renting it, you may have some fun, But, buy it and you will be disapointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anabiosis
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  I don't know, probably, half of your editors is missing in action. Or too busy playing games. But 
 I cannot understand why do you give such ridiculous ratings to actually good games.
  
  Okay, Timeshift has lots of flaws. Both in graphics department - too much bumpmapping and ugly 
 explosions, and in gameplay department - the overall balance is kinda lacking. 
  
  But hell, it's fun to play. Timeshift game mechanics are kinda unique, not just slow-mo, and it's 
 actually USED throughout the game to solve puzzles, though firefights and ability to steal weapons 
 using timestop are cool, too.
  
  It seems that, with all the respect, you haven't spent enough time to play the game. Cause you 
 really hate it the first 30 minutes (since you get killed all the time) . But then it sucks you 
 in - and you can't stop playing. At least it happened to me and all my friends.
  
  ...
  
  And one more thing to add. I dunno why you gave 8.5 to mass effect, compared to 9.5 awarded 
 to halo 3. Any ideas? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S_a_r_g_e
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Time Shift fails to make itself different from others but that doesn' t mean its boring. when u 
 start playing game you find yourself in a different experience which changes the time you move 
 on. the levels are designed well but there are some parts missing which kicks it out from calling 
 a FPS 2 like Bioshock. i think game studios are trying to make things innovative now a days but 
 only few of them succeed in achieving to make something that is worth playing. same happened with 
 Time SHIFT although the time pausing idea and reversing idea is great but the designers fail to 
 en power it with more innovative approaches like speed, an element that must have been added to 
 it was to speed up your run like light so that you can hide when encounters multiple enemies at 
 once. plus a lot more might have done with it. All in all the game play isn't bad its OKAY to play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soundgavel
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  A great concept ruined by a terrible story, poor mechanics and long load times. The idea of manipulating 
 time as they have in the game was inspired but needing to use it in every engagement ruined the 
 novelty of it. The poor aiming mechanics make it very frustrating and the ability of common enemy 
 foot soldiers to take a double tap in the head while in time freeze only to start shooting you 
 in the back as you move on ruined any enjoyment this game did supply. With the ample supply of 
 excellent shooters available no one should waist good money on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starjackerseth
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 7/10. They aren't particularly great, but they aren't bad either. The graphics during 
 the actual cutscenes are good.
  
  Sound: 6/10. The sound isn't all that great. The guns are good. But I could barely hear the voices. 
 It's like you have to set the music and sound effects to 20, and voices to 100. They could have 
 done better,
  
  Gameplay: 8/10. It's pretty fun. You can control time. It would have been a bit better if you had 
 a longer time meter. Also some of the parts were REALLY tenacious. I mean have to do them time 
 after time after time. Because you didn't know which power to use, or you just kept dying. But 
 the "puzzles" I could figure out most of the time. Even if it took me 20 times. The only part I 
 actually needed to look at a guide was the last "boss" battle.
  
  
  Story: 2/10 Let's face it. There is no story, and if there is, it's hard to find. Even with what 
 they give you, it's pretty confusing, if you're looking for a good story, this is the absolute 
 wrong place to look for it. All they do is show 5-10 second cutscences. You never know what's going 
 on. You just know what's vaguely happening.
  
  Fun factor: 8.5/10. Even though several parts are hard, and confusing, it's still fun. I mean, 
 you can stop or slow down time. It's always fun stopping time, grabbing you're enemies weapon, 
 and watch them be defenseless, then shoot them with the scatter gun.
  
  I wouldn't buy this game, but it's a good rent. Good fun. While it does have it's bad moments, 
 I think Gamespot was a bit too harsh on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isthisnametakn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  From the moment I first saw the TimeShift add, I felt that they were on to something. And when 
 it came out I was taken aback at the score that Gamespot gave it. Then when I saw the rest fo the 
 reviews I thought, "Crap; there goes a cool concept." However the next week a friend of mine rented 
 it and kept telling me it was awsome. So I played the demo and immediately decided that I HAD to 
 have this game. Sorry Gamespot; you're pants-on-head retarded. TimeShift Rocks.
  
  Good
  
  The concept: This is, easily, the coolest concept I've ever seen incorporated into a shooter. 
 And how Sierra executed the timeshift mechanics were brilliant. If you couldn't guess by the title, 
 you can pause, stop, and reverse time wich is not only incorporated well into actually playing 
 the game; it gives you so many cool ways in which to play. You can spend hours devising the most 
 elaborate methods in which to kill your enemies. Throwing a nade under someones feet and watching 
 in slow mo as the do a matrix backf flip never ceases to entertain me. 
  
  The weapons: Timeshift has the most satisfying weapons I've ever used since the Halo games. Even 
 just the basic pistol and auto rifle are so entertaining. This game has the best shotgun I've ever 
 seen in a game. I could easily go the entire campaign on just those three main weapons, but they 
 also have an incendiary SMG (forgot the name) that doubles as a flamethrower as well as an awsome 
 rocket launcher and .... a crossbow? Yes; that motherf***ing crossbow is the ****. Getting to go 
 rambo style is so hilariously fun. You can stop time, fire an arrow into several men at once, then 
 watch as time resumes and they all simultaneously blow up. 
  
  Story: Shallow my a$$. I love Orwellian stories. Sure the game can get sort of vague at times but 
 the main plot (that you're basically V in a timeshift suit) is cool. Perhaps I don't know what 
 makes a good story but I was ampley satisfied.
  
  Multiplayer: This game has some of the most chaotic Free-for Alls of any shooter that I've played. 
 Admittidly, when I first played the MP, I was sort of turned off. However, If you find the right 
 games with the right settings it can be very fun. The map Blow Me on Low Grav is awsome. The map 
 designs are also really good. Also in MP you get a special grenade that replaces your timeshift 
 abilities. When you throw it creates a small time warp in it's area and everything in it is slowed 
 to a near stop. This frees you to kill you opponent in the most elaborate way you can think of 
 (within the next five seconds) . Of course, everybody starts out with two of these so many times 
 fire fights boil down to who can throw their time warp grenade first. This keeps the field even 
 but I could also see it as an annoyance to anyone that would rather play the game more like a conventional 
 shooter (sans Keano Reeves) .
  
  
  
  Bad
  
  ...?
  
  ... uuuuh.
  
  Graphic death animations: Actually I'm not joking. Body limbs go flying everywhere. When you shoot 
 someone up close blood sprays onto your. visor. I know that this is technically more realistic 
 and can display a games good graphics but it just doesn't appeal to me. I bought the game thinking 
 it was T, not M, so I was a little suprised. Although I shouldn't complain because I play Gears 
 and it's even more graphic. 
  
  Jumping: This may sound funney but the jumping in the games campaign can get frustrating. It has 
 a brick jump and there is a lot of hopping from one spot to another so I'd incidentally fell and 
 had to try again in a lot of areas. Yea it was an annoyance but it was still just a minor one.
 
  
  I'm not sure but I think this game may have a few framerate problems. Sometimes it seems to speed 
 up then slow down or get real etchy in the movement. I could be wrong though. Also my console practically 
 never freezes but on this game it did once. Now I don't claim to be an expert on this stuff; I'm 
 merely mentioning it for the people that are knowledgeable in that area. It may mean something 
 or it may not. I just figured I'd throw it out there.
  
  
  If you couldn't tell, I'm groping for bad things to say about this game. There are many minor aspects 
 that keep me from giving this game a phenomenal score, but I can't think of them at the moment. 
 They have mostly to do with the "feel" of the game, if you can understand what I'm saying. Small 
 things that happen in the game that you just don't like but immediately leave your head the next 
 second. However, the good heavily outweighs the bad. From the astounding timeshifting to the "fun-to-shoot" 
 guns, TimeShift is creative, it's innovative, and it's above all just a fun game to play and I'd 
 recommend it to anyone who likes shooters. It's definately worth at least a rental and to me it's 
 totally worth the sixty bucks. Buy it, borrow it, rent it, I don't care. At least give this game 
 a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bronowm
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  It's a good game. It gets to be a bit long when you keep doing the same thing. The ability to control 
 time rocks though!!! Most of the achievement's points are online though, so if you don't have live, 
 don't get this game to get easy points. I don't think it's the type of game I would play again 
 though. I would definitely rent first. Really cool weapons in this game. The ATV is kind of hard 
 to drive at first though. You'll know what I'm talking about when you get there. They should have 
 made it so you can shoot while driving it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lokar
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  This game puts you in a future world where civilization has fallen to pieces, and an evil force 
 has taken over. You are given a powerful suit, a rifle and a group of trusty friends to make it 
 through. Can you liberate humanity and return light to the world?
  
  Hey, can you just find the light switch?
  
  I couldn't see a thing in this game. I know they 
 wanted to create a fitting environment, but if I see one more game where they think this means 
 you shouldn't have a light source besides the one in your room, I'll pop. Also, the DIMS -- Doom 
 Induced Motion Sickness, for the stomach-churning camera style where the view follows the walking 
 steps of the player, a system which began in the game Doom -- is here again. Some gamers may like 
 authenticity, to the point where they want to feel that they are the person in the game, but pardon 
 me, I like my breakfast to stay right where it is. 
  
  After you get through all the aspects of the setting, it's just another first-person shooter. Yes, 
 you can move through time. They could have made a game about this theme where it's not based on 
 racing through each scene and gunning down whatever moves, but then again, that would require thinking, 
 and I guess the teenage boys who have a stranglehold on the industry aren't into that. Sorry, the 
 game scene is *not* synonymous with callow youth, and anyone else who falls outside that category 
 should just start turning it off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Name654321
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:01 am PT
Review:  It's been a long time but Timeshift is finally out, only to have some harsh reviews by people who 
 were expecting more. And yeah, since the game's been in development so long they have every right 
 to expect more as the storyline is verging on non-existent, the enemies seem to be all clones of 
 the same guy and you can't even blow their heads off. The graphics are good but let down by boring 
 scenery and drab colours. It's obvious Timeshift isn't going to be a gaming legend. But it is fun! 
 It's very, very fun! The reactions of the enemies after you've paused time and stolen their gun 
 right from their hands almost excuses the fact that you don't actually know why you're killing 
 them. So yeah, it's fun. It doesn't get boring killing people in slow motion and then killing again 
 by rewinding time. The AI is fairly good, the enemies will try to flank you, and if they get their 
 gun taken away they'll beg for mercy until you have your back turned when they'll grab another 
 gun and start attacking you again at which point you wonder why you let them live in the first 
 place. But technically, it's a pretty average. It's failed to be such a masterpiece as bioshock, 
 half-life or oblivion but it's definately worth renting as it'll get you a few laughs and a good 
 several hours of gaming fun.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EskimoJoe33
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Timeshift is a good game don't get me wrong but in a market with good first person shooters like 
 Halo 3 or Bioshock , Timeshift ranks moderate on the food chain. Timeshift brings cool new concepts 
 to the table like being able to stop time and all the things you can do while time is frozen. The 
 multiplayer is good, pretty fun, and has cool weapons. The multiplayer reminds me of the Quake 
 4 multiplayer, which I enjoyed. It has ok graphics i mean I wasn't blown away by them. Overall 
 i think this game is a rent or wait till the price is around $30. This game gets an 8 in my book. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JFannn
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 6, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  It's common for action games to borrow from one another as new ideas emerge and higher standards 
 are set, but Timeshift is a bit more blunt about it than most. It's a first-person shooter in which 
 you play a mysterious quantum physicist wearing an advanced hazard suit (Half-Life) . The suit has 
 a recharging shield and built-in 'female' AI that helps guide you around (Halo 2) . The suit also 
 gives you the ability to manipulate time (Prince of Persia) . The game takes place in a war torn 
 dystopia full of jackbooted thugs and robots, with a reassuring overseer broadcasting propaganda 
 on massive screens (Half-Life 2) . You run from checkpoint to checkpoint, sometimes with a squad 
 following, attempting to overrun Nazi-esque bunkers and liberate facilities (Call of Duty) . Even 
 the weapons feel more than a little familiar, from the standard SMG with under-slung grenade launcher 
 to the blue-glowing 'clutch' grenades that can be stuck to enemies.
  
  
  This checklist of features taken from other games has at least been well implemented, so the game 
 certainly isn't a bad one, but it does struggle to be unique. To be fair, the actual time shifting 
 adds a new twist in that, when you reverse time (you can also pause and slow it) , you yourself 
 are unaffected, leading to some bizarre situations and even a few puzzles  too few, actually. 
 Timeshift is an enjoyable shooter with a decent campaign, but both the story and the time manipulation 
 elements  i. e. the bits that actually do make the game unique  are a little too underplayed. 
 The between level cut-scenes seem to have an average running time of about five seconds and in 
 the end almost nothing becomes clearer beyond what was already obvious  you're chasing a rogue 
 scientist back through time to undo his mischief, a la Timecop.
  
  
  In the game's many fire-fights you'll want to slow down time, enabling you to run around causing 
 carnage with nigh invincibility. You can only use it in short bursts, of course, shorter still 
 if you choose to stop time entirely. Doing so enables you to pull the weapons out of enemies' hands, 
 tag several bad guys with explosives or even just run away and hide for a while. Reversing time 
 is of little use in combat beyond unsticking grenades from yourself, since you can't cause any 
 damage (and can in fact undo it, but not to yourself) , but you can do things like jump on a train, 
 ride it backwards, then jump off again at the previous stop. Puzzles like these come in several 
 forms, most often requiring you to stop or slow down time to avoid deadly traps or push two switches 
 at once, but with the excellent Portal having so dramatically raised the bar for FPS puzzle dynamics, 
 the simplicity of Timeshift's approach (it even suggests what power to use) will likely leave you 
 feeling seriously under-challenged, although you may find yourself stuck in the game, only to find 
 out that the answer was right in front of you.
  
  
  The story doesn't really help this game out either. You have one of the two suits that can stop, 
 slow down, or rewind time, only yours is screwing up a bit. Instead of just wearing the suit, you're 
 sent to a future time, where the man who stole the other of the two suits, has made an army, and 
 basically is taking over the world. Dr. Krone, better known as Regular old Villain with a Dr. on 
 the front in most games, is your nemesis. Although the story is good at first, you'll care less 
 and less with each abruptly short cut-scene. Although, it doesn't really make sense that both you 
 and Dr. Krone were able to go back and forward a matter of years, when during the gameplay, you 
 can only stop, rewind, and slow down time for a matter of seconds. Somewhat odd, no?
  
  
  Unlike the game's original, unreleased incarnation, Timeshift's engine looks really good, and it's 
 clear a lot of thought has gone into how the world might appear in slow motion or paused entirely. 
 Things like explosions, weapon flashes, destructible objects and even rain drops are more than 
 just the generic effects you might expect. Still, by the end of the single player campaign, which 
 totals about 9 hours, you'll feel like you've seen and done it all just a little too much, and 
 be disappointed that the premise's excellent potential has gone somewhat unfulfilled. Other than 
 a handful of puzzles, time reversal doesn't really have much use, and your suit's apparent ability 
 to jump to alternate points in time doesn't come into play either, so you'll be stuck in the same 
 industrial-looking environments for the whole game.
  
  
  Your suit's awesome powers don't get upgraded during the game, but you'll find they have a slightly 
 unbalancing effect on gameplay anyway. In the corridor sections it makes it all too easy to pause 
 time, kill a few enemies and move on, while in the large outdoor battles the only real tactic is 
 to sit behind a rock, plinking away with an explosive crossbow while some rebel fighter irritatingly 
 keeps telling you to get a move on. Don't get us wrong, time manipulation is fun in the game, but 
 it could and probably should be more fun than it is. There's a slight feeling that the game doesn't 
 quite know what it wants to be: there are times when it teases you with what could have been awesome 
 stealth scenarios, and others when it tries to pressure you into rushing, but doesn't actually 
 give you a time limit.
  
  
  The multiplayer is pretty solid, but won't be going up against the likes of Halo 3 or Call of Duty 
 4. The most interesting aspect is that the time powers have been converted to grenade form, allowing 
 you to create bubbles affect any player caught within them. It's another bold and original idea, 
 and while not enough to carry the online experience, it at least gives you a reason to play it. 
 As well as standard deathmatch, there's a King of Time mode, where one player is 'it' and can't 
 be affected by time powers, and a team-based mode in which the aim is to use time grenades to assault 
 the enemy team's base and slow their machinery down.
  
  
  By sheer plagiarism, Timeshift manages to pass itself off as a solidly entertaining FPS. It has 
 a fun albeit familiar selection of weapons, enjoyable combat, good looking graphics, decent AI 
 and just enough meat on its bones to keep FPS fans satisfied. The greatest shame is that developer 
 Saber Interactive wasn't bold or ambitious enough to really capitalise on the one or two good ideas 
 they actually had, and that's ultimately the difference between a game that is just good and a 
 game that is great. Oh, and I'm taking into consideration the ending of the game which is one of 
 the most anti-climactic endings since those old NES games where you'd beat the insanely hard game, 
 and all you'd get is your character looking at the sunset! Although, it does set it up for a sequel, 
 and my only question is, can I fast forward time and play it sooner? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrinaxodon
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  You got overrated FPS shooters like halo 3, but you also got underrated Fps shooters like (in this 
 case) timeshift.
  Critics make this game look bad, but i really don't understand why they criticise a solid game 
 like that, is there something wrong with the graphics, well no, not in the vision how i see the 
 game with my own eyes. 
  the graphics are stunning and solid, from pouring rain to warehouses it still keeps you mesmerising 
 on graphical aspect.
  On sound perspective i must agree with the critics, the sound effects are uninspired.
  The same 
 could be said about the gameplay, but the gameplay is pretty solid and smooth even if the gameplay 
 elements are stolen from other games.
  The single-player feels like a combination of half life, fear, gears of war, halo 3 and painkiller.
 
  The multiplayer is different compared to the singleplayer, i don't know how the creators did it, 
 but the multiplayer feels like a sort of unreal tournament combined with some stranglehold elements.
 
  
  Lasting Appeal:
  The singleplayer is stunningly beautiful and easy to play.
  And the multiplayer is strongly recommended (mostly for people who like unreal tournament) .
  
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: clean1984
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  First of the graphics are amazing. look up at the leafs blowing in the wind, as well as for the 
 grass it's like oblivion. the only thing that i dont like about the game is im doing these missions 
 and i have no clue what the game is about. im lost of what my hole objective is. trying to chase 
 a guy threw time i think. why? i dont know and one more thing that could of made this game top-notch 
 . i thought you would be able to actually go back in time and in the future and switch what year 
 you were in but that is not the case oh well. anyway either than that this game is excellent. after 
 my confusion in the game and dissapoijnted in that one erea i think the game realy does deserve 
 a 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ballistica
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying Gamespots 6.5 review of this game is a joke. This shoter has been the 
 best game I've played on my 360 in a long time. It is ADDICTIVE. The weapons are a complete blast 
 and have real ooomph behind them. Even the basic machine gun is playable throughout the entire 
 campaign. The graphics are great and while a bit blurry in some places overall they are superb. 
 This game gave me a great sense of EXPLORATION... I kept wishing it was some sort of FPS RPG because 
 I kept getting to explore new areas and locations. The time stop ability is fun and the puzzles 
 are cool to solve but I would have liked more of them, and more complex puzzles. This game reminded 
 me of HL but more of a run and gun and way more gore. The gibs in this game are the best this side 
 of GoW. Sure HL has a better presentation but the combat in this game is more fun to me. I have 
 to reiterate that the weapons are the best in a shooter in a long time... they really feel like 
 killing machines.
  
  You will not be disappointed in this game, go get it and enjoy it. Gamespot needs to chill out 
 a bit as the 6.5 given to this game makes no sense what so ever.
  
  I hope they make a TS2, I need more missions! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spacefan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  The Pros: You can time shift your way out of a sticky mess or save your fellow "rebels" (or whoever 
 these guys are) by timeshifting. I disagree with the Gamespot reviewer in the observation that 
 the story line is thin. It was pretty clear to me that Krone went back to some point prior to 1939 
 and set himself up as a "new" Hitler. Krone created an alternate reality that the hero of the game 
 had to correct or the rest of history would follow this alternate reality. Imagine if a Hitler-like 
 dictator actually took over the world in 1939. Now, imagine it's 2007 and you see where this game 
 is going. In this new 1939 reality anyone who dissents is a rebel and subject to execution whenever 
 the bad guys feel like it. By the way, the physics in this game are stupendous in my opinion. When 
 you slow time, drop a grenade on a bunch of bad guys, then run away and look back at the mayhem -- you'll 
 know what I mean.
  
  The Cons: If imitation is the sincerest form of flattery then this game is the epitomy of that 
 adage. However, the first part of the game seems like a Half-Life 2 wannabe with this guy Krone 
 talking endlessly through a public address system about of "registering" so that you can be considered 
 a proper citizen. Hmmm, no, I don't think I want to register. Another game that gets imitated is 
 Halo (any of the fab Halo games) because of the most common grenade that is used in the game. It, 
 apparently, sticks to people if I could ever throw the damn thing correctly. I always nail Grunts, 
 Elites, Hunters, etc, but I can't "stick it" to the broad side of a barn if I tried in this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lilass
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  Hey, i played the game yesterday and i was fun and i mean alot fun, yeah maybe the graphics arent 
 that good! but man the gameplay and the weapons are just awesome and also the multiplayer! and 
 please dont think what im saying is bullshit. When i play a game i know if it sucks or not and 
 this one definitly doesn't suck !! no how no way ! im sure if you get it you will have major fun 
 and you will thank me after buying it ! and one more thing in the game you can stop time and forward 
 time and rewind time which is tottally awesome! you can dodge a gernade by rewinding time and you 
 can stop time and hit your enemys and plus you can outrun all your foes by farwarding time, i dont 
 want to spoil the fun for you but go buy it now before it runs out of stock! you dont know what 
 you are missing ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS360Fanboy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  Like many of you, I have been playing the demo constantly since its release on Xbox Live and have 
 loved every second of it.
  I'm probably being biest because I love anything to do with time travel, time bending and shifting, 
 but seeing as there are pretty much NO games which meet this genre, I can not help but marvel at 
 this game.
  I have been reading mixed reviews about this game and out of the bad ones, I can only disagree.
 
  The graphics are crisp; the scenery looks amazing, the characters and their reaction to being 
 shot along with the blood that comes spewing out is rather outstanding, I would see myself comparing 
 this game's look to Gears of War but a little less gritty.
  Each weapon is fun to use as the majority of them have a cool secondary function and seeing as 
 there are more than a fair amount of enemies to pump that lead into, you're never short of ammo.
 
  Obviously there is the time shifting element (which I personally never get bored of) which allows 
 you to stop, slow down and reverse time. This is especially fun when you are in a room with an 
 enemy, he spots you, takes aim and then you pause time to run around him and then resume just to 
 see his reaction to your disappearance. Either that or you can steal his gun and watch him cower 
 in the corner begging for his life.
  Another great aspect of this shooter is you can save your friends! Your man just been shot??? Rewind 
 time and destroy his perpetrator!
  The game does not just impress at the single player, it also has a very strong multi player.
 
  Like Halo 3, there are many different game modes you can play here and where people are wondering 
 how the use of "timeshifting" would work on multiplayer, it is actually utilised very well. You 
 ultimately throw a grenade at a player and if he's in the vicinity of the explosion, he will be 
 held in a bubble of time. So where someone throws a slow down grenade at you, you get the effect 
 as you do in the single player but you can see the attacker outside of the bubble moving as fast 
 as lightning pumping lead into you. I guess the only downside to the online game play is everyone 
 relying on them and it pretty much turns into a frag fest of time.
  "So if you think this game is so amazing, why give it 7.5???" I hear you ask!
  I think my disappointment 
 lies in the story line being rather plain and the puzzles being a little too easy.
  When you're playing around with time, I would expect the story line to make you think a little 
 more "outside of the box" and whenever you do come across a puzzle like needing to hold a button 
 down to keep a door open, only to pause time to make it stay there whilst you run through, that's 
 about as inventive as it gets.
  In conclusion, I think this is an amazing game that is worthy of being in any FPS fan's collection. 
 It will give you hours of fun both on and offline.
  Whilst the story could have been a little more fleshed out, the good points out weigh the bad and 
 its one heck of a game... Roll on the sequel.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dn3datomiced
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  I've been pushing for Timeshift ever since I first heard of it. I got my hands on the old demo, 
 and I've been eagerly awaiting its release with bated breath, so bear in mind, I'm not an automatic 
 hater. In fact, I was quite upset when I saw what it was rated. I thought, no way, it couldn't 
 be possible. So, I went and found out for myself...
  
  Timeshift is a first-person shooter with a twist: You can control time at the push of a button. 
 A mechanic rarely seen in games, let alone a first-person shooter, you can really have some fun 
 with it, in theory. It's true to a certain extent in Timeshift, though, the amount of fun you'll 
 have with it directly correlates to how much fun you make with it yourself, as the game design 
 rarely puts anything in your path that makes you love it. You're just going to have to enjoy stealing 
 enemies' weapons right out of their hands, running circles around your foes, 'magically' disappearing 
 from them, or rewinding time to kill them a second time out of spite by yourself. You make the 
 fun you have.
  
  It might seem unfair to compare Timeshift to The Orange Box, or more specifically, Half-Life 2, 
 but you can't shake the impression that Timeshift wants to be just like it. The game is played 
 out in a fashion which tries to tell a story, all the while testing your brain with puzzles directly 
 linked to your unique abilities, as well as giving you a contact that helps you navigate the future 
 of the past, but it does none of these things terribly well. The game also feature a vehicle, the 
 quad, but it's basically like driving a wheeled brick with nos. At least it's fast.
  
  The story is threadbare, giving you glimpses of your former life in confusing and disconnected 
 flashbacks, and all the while, reminding you that the people you're remembering will never exist 
 if you don't complete your mission, which is being impersonally barked to you by a soldier you 
 don't even know, and who barely acknowledges you in a positive light. It's up to you to connect 
 the dots between your memories, but even then, you're missing half the picture. Even the ending 
 is unsatisfactory in nature, and all the while, you know that the world you're helping save will 
 just vanish in the blink of an eye once you achieve your goal, and that will leave you pretty unsatisfied, 
 and probably pretty annoyed. This is all considering you manage to wade through the 10-14 hours 
 of gameplay Timeshift offers.
  
  That's not to say Timeshift has no upsides. Not the case at all. The graphics are quite gorgeous, 
 with several high quality details, such as rain-drops that stop in midair when you halt time, or 
 trees and grass which cast highly-accurate shadows on everything in sight, or the beautiful effects 
 you see as the rain pounds on the pavement in the city. The explosions in the game are quite nice, 
 too. They're not quite on the level with, say, GRAW, but they're better than most out there. The 
 enemies are worth noting too.
  
  The enemy AI in this game has the distinction of being some of the coolest yet dumbest AI I've 
 ever seen. Half the time, they seem to be thinking. The other half, they seem to be reaching into 
 their pocket for a bullseye to put on their chest. When the AI is doing it right, they are taking 
 cover behind boxes, strafing from one point of cover to another as they advance on your position, 
 firing from a prone position when they are knocked off their feet before getting up (which is something 
 I have not seen in gaming until now and is worth noting) , and are generally pretty good at acting 
 like they're surprised at your abilities. When they're not doing things right, they're standing 
 out in the open, saying things like 'he's got a crossbow', and then almost consciously rolling 
 into the shot.
  
  The weapons are fairly good, though none of them give you the urge to play around with them. They're 
 fairly straightforward, including a carbine that lobs grenades, a pistol with a burst fire, a crossbow 
 which explodes on contact, and EMP gun which fires jolts of energy that can be charged, or a bolt-gun 
 which spews fire, for example. The game also features a grenade, though it's one of the increasingly 
 commonplace "blue- glowing sticky" types of grenade. The gunplay is straightforward, every gun 
 feels serviceable, and you can carry three of them, so feel free to throw away the more common 
 ones, knowing you can always steal one back from your typical grunt, if need be, and that ammo 
 is fairly plentiful, due to ammo boxes strewn about the game that refill anything you've got except 
 one weapon.
  
  Throughout the game, you'll mostly be running from button to button, it seems like, and the only 
 time that ever changes is when you're either placing explosives, or trying to alter time to render 
 a lethal or prohibitive situation passable. It doesn't help that your suit, which sounds like a 
 12-year-old eunuch, essentially holds your hand through every potentially hazardous situation. 
 It takes all the fun out of thinking of a solution yourself, and as an added slap in the face, 
 automatically chooses the right power for you. Granted, when you start getting tired of the campaign 
 and just want to slog through for the achievements, you'll come to appreciate that you don't have 
 to hurt your brain over trying to figure out which power to use when SSAM (the computer) takes 
 you along for the ride.
  
  The multiplayer is an animal of a different breed. This is easily where the game's greatest strength 
 lies, though we're not talking flawless here. You have your typical match types, like Deathmatch, 
 Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, etc, and some new-ish ideas like King of Time, which is similar 
 to Halo's Juggernaut gametype wherein you are unaffected by time manipulation as you rack up points 
 by killing other non-kings. You die? You're outta there, and you have to find the new king and 
 liquify him to get your spot back. There's also Meltdown, in which the object is to get your reactor 
 to count down first, and you achieve this by bombing the enemies' reactor with time grenades, slowing 
 it down. This mode sounds cool in theory, but in practice, I was unable to find a way past the 
 reactors' defenses to peg it with a grenade (more on those in a minute) to slow it down, and I'm 
 no slouch, so step could have been taken to make that a little more clear.
  
  Now, doing time in multiplayer is dicey. Stranglehold is a good example of how not to do it. Timeshift 
 does this almost perfectly. The solution was to create grenades fueled by time energy to generate 
 bubbles of dilated time that affect only the occupants, leaving everyone else unharmed. There are 
 four settings to time powers in multiplayer: Slow bubbles, Stop bubbles, which are a bit more expensive 
 and are smaller in diameter, Reverse bubbles, which aren't really as cool as they could have been, 
 and Time cancel, which renders you unaffected by time as you slow others the closer they get to 
 you. These grenades do a lot to change the basic formulas of multiplayer and really are a treat 
 to play with. Besides, there's nothing like trapping your opponent in time, and lining up a dozen 
 rockets around the perimeter, just waiting for time to resume as your hapless victim watches his 
 inevitable (usually) doom to arrive. Awesome.
  
  If there's any recurring theme throughout Timeshift, it's missed opportunity. Non-stop pacing that 
 doesn't really offer you a break or a chance to do something different very often, enemies who 
 just aren't smart enough to stay out of the line of fire, despite a great deal of effort to make 
 them do really neat stuff, a severe emotional detachment from the world you're trying to save, 
 a computer that does all the thinking for you, and puzzles that rarely require you to think more 
 than 2 steps ahead all lead to the same road of what should have been. If I could go back in time, 
 I would actually go back further than just the game's release. I would go back and help Saber Interactive 
 make this game what it could have been... a revolutionary game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 9, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  This game has it's problems, but they don't keep the game from being boring. First, I'll start 
 with the gameplay. Typical first-person fair, with time"shifting" powers. You have your guns- machine 
 gun, pistol, shotgun, sniper rifle, and they are pretty cool with their secondary functions. (The 
 machine gun doubles as a rocket launcher) . You are also up against the typical futuristic military 
 baddies in a post-apocalyptic world. So far the game is average, and offers nothing new. But this 
 is where the time-shifting powers come into play which make the game fun. If it weren't for the 
 powers, TimeShift wouldn't be anything more than mediocre boredom. So the powers must be fun, right? 
 They are. 
  
  Shooting enemies in slow-mo never gets old, and stopping time to move and fake out enemies is a 
 nice edition. It adds a whole new element to the game. Can't seem to defeat those machine gun wielding 
 jet pack enemies? Slow time down and take him out with a headshot. Can't get past the electrified 
 water? Stop time and walk on it. So while the gameplay is average, the time shifting makes the 
 game very cool. 
  
  The big problem that keeps the game from being great is the level design. It's kinda bland, and 
 the game seems to not include cover when you really need it. It's not a big problem, but it keeps 
 the game from being perfect. It also has driving and shooting parts, which are taken from other 
 FPS games such as Far Cry. Now for the graphics. While they aren't superb, they are pretty cool. 
 Stopping rain in the air is a nice edition, as is the second-to-none blood effects. The sound is 
 average and adds nothing new. Kind of a disappointment. The story is un-interesting, dumb, and 
 predicable. I have yet to play the online multiplayer, but it seems to look very fun. 
  
  So overall, while the gameplay is average, the TimeShifting makes this game worth a rent, but nothing 
 more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fanirama
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - Good gameplay, although linear design. But many games are linear that way. ( Even Halo 
 is linear. Run from point A to point B, killing everyone in sight. ) There controls are decent 
 and gameplay is engaging. The whole manipulate time concept is well done and exciting. There are 
 shortcomings here that could've elevated it to revolutionary. Maybe in Timeshift 2. Graphics - 
 are superb. Really convey the next-gen gaming feel. The way the water falls, the blurrying in water 
 and focussing when you zoom in are all nice. Sound - nice sound. nothing spectacular to write about.
 
  Multiplayer - Coop is lacking, but multiplayer is there and is super fun.
  Tilt - definitely a buy. This is something you can revisit and enjoy again and again.
  
  This 
 game is underappreciated like how Black and Psi-Ops Mindgate conspiracy were.
  Gamespot reviewers are biased when they review games. Maybe the game producer/developer shunned 
 them and its payback ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlkcoil01
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  I suggest to rent video games at local video stores to drive home a point to the game makers, which 
 is to produce quality games for the price expected. $59 on a game should provide the purchaser 
 a game well worth his/her hard earned money. A buggy game is not a fair trade for hard earned money.
 
  
  TimeShift had potential, but falls well below the point of a masterpiece. The potential was there, 
 but the ball was dropped. due to poor quality management once again. At start the game's special 
 effects looked great, but the linear approach to each mission with pursuit of simple state of the 
 art objects have made this game pretty much unrewarding. Better to place some revolutionizing objectives 
 into the design. Looks to me that most game makers today are just trying to capitalize on making 
 bucks by using dated concepts. Why not revolutionize. TimeShift could have become a leader in the 
 revolution, if it had more time to be developed correctly. [Quality management missing.]
  
  After playing for a few hours, I finally got to the point of the crash site, but could not get 
 past it due to a BUGGGGGG!!!!! 360 kept locking up when I tried to go to the next stage. Quality 
 management needs to be shot in this case. Tried several times, but to no avail. This game is simply 
 an okay shooter. All the hype was poorly represented by this game. I've got to put my money to 
 better use for now on. Tired of giving it away to game makers that fail to complete the games correctly. 
 These days quality should not be an issue, but yet it is and issue for this game. I don't enjoy 
 buying lackluster games for about $60. Wait a minute --I didn't buy this game, I just rented it 
 at my local video store for $7.00. In that case the game was worth playing, even though I didn't 
 get to finish the game due to the BUG problem. Ten percent of the cost of buying it makes it worth 
 the $7.00 spent and that's it. This game is no Halo 1 or Halo 2 or Half Life. Nope! Doesn't fall 
 into the league of good games at all.
  
  Game makers, need to wake up and realize they are making plenty of money and can afford to make 
 the quality based games. If they expect us to continue buying their games, then they need to produce 
 games of quality, rather than sugar coating a game just to get a person to buy it. $69 plus taxes 
 for a game is too pricy for a plate holder, such as TimeShift that could have been a good one. 
 Nuff said! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason320
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is not very good. Especially if you like shooters and lokking for a good one then you 
 might as well go for something like Halo or Gears of War and all those other great games. The story 
 is ok, original. This game is a letdown graphicly and gamplay wise. I would not recommend this 
 game to anyone unless you are trying to play all the shooters in the world or yeah lol. But seriously 
 Sierra really let us down: (. I don't have alot to say actually there is really not much to say 
 about this game. It's not the worst shooter in the world, but it could be better, or could have 
 been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaySplasher
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  What happens when you mix up Sierras gaming technology, the ability to manipulate time, and a 
 smooth frame rate? You get TimeShift. Your objective is to hunt down a renegade scientist, Dr. 
 Aiden Krone, who has jumped through time and created a dystopian future. Ever since I played the 
 demo, I was in love with this title from the very beginning. The AI is pretty smart. From following 
 you into corners, from getting back-up to take you out, this title has an interesting way of making 
 you use your wits to outsmart your foes. The graphics are very solid. The lighting effects are 
 shown in detail when you see rain fall on the pavement and the raindrops are beautiful when time 
 is stopped. Weapon load out comes with typical shotgun, assault rifle, and so on. I wont get into 
 it since I dont want to ruin it. You have the ability to stop, slow, and reverse time in the game. 
 Play the demo and you will see it for yourself. Gameplay is very smooth and I have yet to have 
 any problems. I only had one freeze up but it was not that big of a deal. The multiplayer is very 
 addictive. To ensure gameplay balancing, time grenades, in the forms of slow grenades and stop 
 grenades against your foes, can trap your foe in a time field and will causing them to either slow 
 down and stop altogether; giving you the chance to rip them to shreds. Standard modes include CTF, 
 DM, Team DM, 1 on 1, King of Time and Meltdown Madness. Meltdown Madness put players into team 
 in order to slow down their opponents reactor. This game has a lot of potential and although it 
 isnt the next BioShock, Halo 3, or Call of Duty 4, its most definitely a sleeper hit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vscarloni
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  I found in Time Shift a great game in terms of graphics, gameplay and some innovation whith the 
 system that we can rewind and forewind the time. It&acute; s true that the game have some slowdowns 
 and bugs, some times looks like the game is not on 60hz, but with an update it will be fixed. I hope 
 very soon, one time that the update came out already for PC. Hope the producers use Gamespot. com 
 to read the critics and to hear the opinion from the players to fix problems and to do better next 
 time. They have to visit this site very often, to fix problems as soon as possible because we buy 
 the games, we love the games because we spend money on them, and we have the right to have quality. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  I got this game despite the poor review by Gamespot as I thought is sounded interesting and refreshing. 
 I'm glad I did as the review is indeed poor, but not the game.
  
  How they could give Halo 3 a whooping 9.5 and this game 6.5 is just plain insane, even labeling 
 Timeshift as a run-of-the-mill FPS. I got bored by Halo 3 after 30 minutes, and this game I could 
 not leave until I played it through. I think that answers which game is more run-of-the-mill in 
 my opinion. So, unless you are a brand-whore who just likes games that are hyped and have a marketing 
 budget big enough to buy a small country, then check this game out! Ok, enough ranting... :)
  
  About the game: The big new thing in the game is as you know your ability to control time. 
 Unlike other games that has introduced slow-motion effects already, you can in fact now both stop 
 time completely as well as reverse it. This leads to some interesting puzzles, and fun strategy 
 elements.
  
  The flow of time also has an effect on how you interact with your surroundings. So you can for 
 example walk on water while time is frozen, or go through fire unharmed. Some puzzles use time 
 in a pretty clever way, for example in one level you need to reverse time in turn for airflow from 
 a vent to reverse so that you can be blown to the right direction.
  
  Although the game has various time-based puzzle elements, its first of all an action game. The 
 puzzles never keep you for long, and you will soon be back into action. During action scenes time 
 control is an important factor as well. The difficulty level is quite high, so without controlling 
 time you will be toast pretty soon. Your time controlling ability make you pretty much God-like, 
 however it's balanced well by only allowing you to use it in short bursts. At first I was a bit 
 disappointed by the strict limitation, but after some time it's pretty clear the feature is well 
 balanced and gives you the exact right mixture of time-changed and normal gameplay.
  
  I like the graphics as well, the real-time shadows looks exceptionally cool on some levels, and 
 it has all the newest graphical features you would expect as well as great animations. The graphics 
 is not exceptional like for example Bioshock, but neither mediocre like Halo 3.
  
  The story is pretty poor, and you are talked through it by some voice that's pretty uninspiring 
 and also very low so you probably wont notice it at all through all the sound effects and background 
 chatter. But, who cares about the story anyway? The game flows pretty well, and there's not much 
 backtracking or getting lost.
  
  There's a large and well balanced arsenal of weapons that needs to be picked wisely as you can 
 only carry a few at a time. Most weapons has a secondary fire mode, and your survival is often 
 dependent on your ability to use the various weapons and modes wisely. Running and gunning like 
 mad will get you killed pretty fast.
  
  If I were to criticize the game, I would say the whole time shifting idea is interesting, but in 
 practice you will most of the time only slow down time to score easier kills. So, in fact the whole 
 foundation of the concept is a bit weak. But, it somehow pulls it off through the various time 
 based puzzles.
  
  All in all, a very entertaining experience, and I'm glad I gave this game a chance! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrojanLB48
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is so fun and innovative! Everytime I solve one of the time puzzles I am reminded of 
 how fun it is to control TIME! The weapons are also pretty good in my opinion: the Shotgun is just 
 perfect when you're Slowing or Stopping time; the Crossbow is fun to use because it blows enemies 
 to pieces and when you're enemies see you they start screaming, Watch out! he's got a crossbow! 
 ; the Plasma cannon is also fun to use because it blows baddies to pieces; the Fire gun (forgot 
 the name) is great because it can be used as a normal assault rifle with fiery bullets or as a 
 flamethrower; The sniper is like any other sniper in FPS's; The Surge Guns and Rocket Launchers 
 are your heavy weaponry. Stopping time is my favorite thing to do beacuse you can wipe out several 
 enemies at once and then the rest of the enemies are like, Did you see that!? Time Stop is also 
 used to walk on top of water, walk through electricity and fire, and sometimes just to give your 
 shields time to regenerate. Time slow is great and if you have the shotgun you are unstoppable. 
 Time Reverse is just amazing. You can use it to get to places that seem inaccesible, I saw a video 
 where a guy shot a barrel down from a platform, hopped on top of the barrel and used time reverse 
 and the barrel carried him to the top of the platform. You can also use it when a grenade is about 
 to kill you, you simply use Reverse and the grenade will return to its owner but now you know what 
 he will do. The multiplayer was pretty fun but I have only played a few games of it so far, but 
 the time grenades are awesome. The story in SP is dissappointing because everything is a mystery 
 and the end only adds more questions and does not answer any questions.
  Overall, this game is just FUN! A Must-Have 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake0457
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  TimeShift is finally here, and no one ever thought the day would come. Unfortunately TimeShift 
 isn't the unique, time bending shooter we were all waiting for, instead it feels like a mash of 
 popular shooters into something that, while fun at times, falls far short of greatness. The story 
 in TS is existent... barely. Dr. Krone has made a suit that allows the user to travel through time 
 and manipulate it. Apparently something went wrong and he used the suit to go back in time to set 
 up some sort of alternate reality... or something like that. You somehow come across the secondary 
 suit (the Beta suit) and decide to put it on to escape death by jumping through time... which lands 
 you square in the middle of Krone's alternate reality 40 something years in the past... I think. 
 Once you sit through this cutscene, which is actually somewhat entertaining from a cinematic standpoint, 
 you're dropped in a city after a failed time jump. Why did the jump fail? We don't know. Why did 
 it pick this particular place to fail? Because... the game said so. The gameplay in TS is simple, 
 the core of the game will consist of gunning down enemies with a variety of generic, sometimes 
 cliche weapons. They're fun to shoot, but some of the feel under/overpowered, and some feel like 
 straight up rip offs. The crossbow that fires arrows that explode when hitting a target... exploding 
 violently, sounds alot like the Torque Bow from GoW. The ammo for these weapons is practically 
 unlimited, given every enemy will drop ammo when they die, beyond this the game even throws in 
 ammo boxes which fully reload all of your weapons. Of course the real draw to TS is the shifting 
 powers, which are fun to use in combat and slightly less interesting everywhere else. During combat 
 you can slow time, pause time, or rewind it. The pause is by far the most useful of all 3, allowing 
 you to run up to enemies, snatch their weapon, stick them with a Clutch grenade (Halo Plasma Grenades 
 anyone?) , pass by an area unnoticed, or just unload onto them until they die. The slow time is 
 used mainly when you're pinned down, slowing time and increasing your speed so you can run away. 
 You'll rarely use the slow time unless the game forces you to, which is why it is also the least 
 draining power you have. The rewind function is somewhat useful, but again you won't use it much 
 unless forced to. You can rewind time to unstick grenades from your body, or clear a path through 
 a recently (previously?) destroyed area. The rewind feature is arguably the most fun of the 3, 
 you can cause mass chaos, explosions, dismemberments and hit rewind to watch the pieces reassemble 
 (or disassemble) , before doing it again. Try disarming an opponent, shooting him in the head, then 
 rewinding to watch his body swing back up, and repeat. Its stupid fun. The graphics are pretty 
 well done, however at times they suffer from the same 'I've seen this before' factor. The beginning 
 level looks like something from Gears of War, while a later level looks like something ripped directly 
 from Bioshock. The graphics are crisp and have a decent amount of detail to them, and the game 
 maintains a playable framerate even when rewinding. The sound is average, but does a decent job. 
 Voices all sound realistic and have a natural tone to them, guns fire loud, bullets hit correctly. 
 The best part about the audio is the fact that when you slow time, the sounds around you slow as 
 well, including voices... unfortunately when rewinding, this effect is lost and the scene seems 
 almost quiet as you watch it. As you play through TS, it's hard to not see the elements of several 
 other games... the game itself plays something like a mix of Quake 4 and FEAR, and it doesn't end 
 there, at one point the game even throws a giant spider robot at you which looks almost identical 
 to the Scarab from Halo. The multiplayer in TS is average as well, but still playable and somewhat 
 fun. There are the standard DM, TDM and CTF modes along with modes that revolve around time and 
 the slowing of it. Each player is armed with time grenades which slow the time around them... I 
 think you have unlimited time grenades, but the game doesn't really explain that. TimeShift spent 
 a lot of time in development, and it's clear that the developers tried to take elements from highly 
 successful games and shift them into this alternate universe. It's worth a play, and as long as 
 you don't mind a by-the-numbers shooter, TimeShift will keep you occupied for a few hours at least. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bpasculet
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  This game its better than I expect! cool play style and graphics, story line interesting and a 
 lot of fun. but i saw in this game other 3 top games: gears of war (the enemies suits are almost 
 the same) , halo (life charging, and same game play almost......) and the game what its the most likewise 
 its half life you will live again the feeling what half life created for us. anyway the game its 
 very interesting   
 ................. enjoy. worth the  hope that times2 
 it will come soon. in the end i have a question why time shift have only 6.5 on game spot I don, t 
 understand or it's a joke (tell me that it's a joke please 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgjohnstud17
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  I rented the game and after only maybe half an hour i wanted to own it, i dont usually rent first 
 person shooters but i had seen a preview on TV and the most would think they only show the best 
 parts of the game on the commercial... Wrong this game is action packed like no other game i have 
 ever played this is well worth the couple bucks i paided to rent the game and may have to rent 
 it again if i cant beat it in time, i hope more games like this are released visuals, sounds, gameplay, 
 controls, all excellent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Osiris2386
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 4, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  Rudimentary at best, would accurately describe **** level development and game play. Although fun 
 to mess around with the time shifting features, it doesnt warrant a second look at the game. Each 
 level almost a carbon copy of the first person shooters from yesteryear. The time shifting abilities 
 seem to make the game a breeze being able to slow time and one-shot your enemies with your shotgun 
 or tag them with a grenade. The sever lack of death penalties make the game elementary. If your 
 are looking for a solid story line and gratifying mission objectives then this is the wrong game 
 for you. The story line seems to be almost non-existent and as far as mission objectives go, they 
 could bore even the most inexperienced player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karimbus
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  If you like fast past shooting action with a twist and really cool visuals and an MP mode that 
 is fast and innovative. This is the best game of the season. Ignore the jerk who reviewed the game 
 for this site, he is clueless.
  
  This game is actually selling very well and is worth the but for MP alone. I had to go to 3 gamestops 
 to find it and it is backordered online. If you don; t believe me, check out the avg rating on gamefly. 
 This game is destined to be a cult classic and will surely have a large following of those who 
 understand the technical excellence behind the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrimsonSheep
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 4, 2007 1:56 am PT
Review:  Time Shift is just a poor excuse for an Xbox360 game. I rented it hoping for at least a decent 
 FPS. The first level does a good job at making you like the game. The rain effects are beautifully 
 rendered and the environments are dimly lit to show texture. The frame rate is also very smooth 
 though I can recall a few graphical glitches during fire fights. However, as you progress to about 
 the second or third level, it seems as though the developers give up on the graphics. The forests 
 look like crap, the dirt is unrealistically colored, just things that seem to diminish your enjoyment 
 of playing. On the good side though, the enemies look fantastic as do the weapons. This game features 
 the basic weapons. A machine gun. a pistol, a sniper rifle, a rocket launcher, ect. but the there 
 are also some futuristic style weapons thrown in the mix in attempts to arouse your interest. Too 
 bad it fails miserably. Theres 2 different other machine guns that shoot... lava balls? If you can 
 think of something better than message me or something. Anyway, one shoots, slow moving orange 
 balls, and the other shoots fast moving orange balls. Either way, I never bothered to use them 
 since you can only carry 3 weapons at a time and I wanted to use the better ones I already had. 
 Then theres this crossbow that shoots arrows with time bombs on them. I have to admit I had a lot 
 of fun with this for a while. But it seems an awful lot like a rip off of the Torque Bow form Gears 
 Of War. The story, if there even is one, leaves a lot to be desired. My father came in the room 
 and asked whats this? ........ .. TimeShift ............ whats it about? .......... I have no freakin 
 idea . Now, the biggest problem with this game is its LACK OF INNOVATION. I mean come on, how many 
 games allow you slow time??? Hers a few: Blinx 1, Blinx 2, Max Payne, Dead To Rights 1 and 2, Jet 
 Li's Rise To Honor, Strangle Hold, FEAR, and probably many more. This game exists to rip off other 
 games. The Clutch grenades look and act exactly like plasma grenades from The Halo games, and the 
 online multi player is a bad imitation of Quake 4's online play. The puzzles that require you to 
 use your time powers rank are tedious at best. It isn't a fun challenge, it's just really annoying. 
 And using these powers gets unbelievably repetitive since you will end up using time slow in every 
 contact you make with enemies. All in all, this game just blows. To the point where I couldn't 
 even finish it. 6 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rozzano
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  TimeShift is a very sweet and awsome looking game. The graphics arent as great as some games like 
 Halo 3. The gameplay really draws you in with really awsome guys which each have 2 functions. The 
 time reverse, slow-mo, and pause is the most fun in the game tho. You can run up steal there guns, 
 there all like' What the **** The guys blow up with the crossbow. The battles are really intense, 
 some many guys at one time. If you havent tried TimeShift download the demo or go rent it. Or if 
 you want buy it, it is really long and does not get boring like the review says. It is a game to 
 own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raikoh_
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so Adien Krone has stolen the alpha suit and made a time jump and taken control of the world. 
 It's up to you and your Beta suit to stop him.
  
  The gameplay is very fun to be honest. The time mechanics make the gun fights a blast. I don't 
 know about you, but, I enjoy stopping time, stealing a guys weapon, then, punching him in the face 
 with it. As far as shooters go it's pretty linear. Shoot this, go there, press that, kill them, 
 go here, etc. That's not saying it isn't fun though. I actually looked forward to gun fights. One 
 problem I have though is that the game doesn't really encourage you to use any different weapons 
 except for a few fights. I ran through most of the game with the crossbow because it's pretty much 
 a one hit kill and some of the puzzles were pointless because your suit holds your hand through 
 the entire thing.
  
  The A. I is ok.... Some of them stand out in the open. Some of them run away and dive for cover. 
 It's not horrible but it's not great either.
  
  The graphics are excellent. Maps had a real feel to them, like the Alpha district. You can really 
 tell it's been hit pretty hard by war. TimeShift's audio is also top notch like when you slow down 
 time, everything will slow down. That's including sound.
  
  In terms of story it isn't much. All you ever really find out is that you're trying to stop Krone 
 from taking over the world in the past which is awfully futuristic. The cut scenes barely reveal 
 anything except for a little bit of a back story. You learn nothing about the main character except 
 for the fact that you're a highly regarded physicist who has a hidden past and you learn that while 
 the game is loading up. The game is also pretty short. You can beat it in less than 10 hours on 
 Elite.
  
  TimeShift has easy controls. Anyone can pick up the game and play it without much difficulty. The 
 only confusing part is when you want to manually use your time powers. You have to hold the Left 
 Bumper and hit A, B, X, or Y.
  
  The game is good but you really should consider renting it unless you're a really hardcore FPS 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3videos
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 3, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  The game trailer we saw earlier showed a cool looking good guy stopping time to lay out a handful 
 of guys. That was a wow moment.
  
  Then you play the game and see that the stupid first person setup doesn't really show anything 
 cool. Sure, you stop and reverse time to kill people, but all you see is the bad guys. Why not 
 make the game pan out a little to see you running around frozen bad guys? First person view in 
 that instance is a huge waste of time shifting. That alone makes this game a waste of space. Sierra 
 essentially came up with an innovative feature then handcuffed it by years of mediocre ones. Silly 
 rabbits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gifteddie
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for about $20 at a bargain store thinking this game wasn't going to be much but 
 I was surprise......... a little. The time travel gadgets you use in this game is alright but it 
 gets really boring and repetive after awhile. The graphiics in this game I was most mpressed with. 
 They were very smooth and the games framrate was great. The weapons were just like every other 
 shooter game. Rifle, submachine gun, pistol, sniper rifle, and a shotgun, nothing new but played 
 out pretty good. Story was very predictible and corny. Earth in the future controlled by government, 
 you are a unique super soldier who must help the resistance save the world. I think I have played 
 this about 1,536,172,1628 times sure I'll try this one too. Out of all this game was okay even 
 though it seems like a terrible game in my review. If i were you I would rent this first or download 
 the demo off xbox live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Took long enough but the game is finally here. After Atari passed on this game a while back the 
 developers kicked out most of the game and started over. Now what we have is a game that looks 
 fantastic and plays just as good.
  
  The gameplay is standard shooting, but the time abilities (slow, rewind, stop) really add a lot to 
 the game and make it much more enjoyable. There are several elements where the powers are needed 
 to progress through the game's 24 missions. The powers are useful for stopping enemies in their 
 tracks and taking their weapons, shooting them in mid-air and anything else you can think of.
  
  Going back to the graphics, the game is running on a brand new engine, and it shows. Honestly, this 
 game has amazing lighting and weather effects. This is also the first Xbox 360 game to upgrade 
 to the new Havok 4.5 and the death animations are some of the best you'll see.
  
  The multiplayer has tons of options and is a lot of fun with no lag at all.
  
  If you want 
 a fun FPS that looks great then check this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RetreatHell
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  I don't care what Gamespot gave this game, I'm giving it a 9.0! They complain about the story line, 
 but I hated the long story in Halo 3 and that stupid voice in the game always interrupting me and 
 halting my game play to give me some dumb message! I LIKE just running and gunning, and having 
 lots of people to kill and blow up..... it's FUN!! So I say thank god for no story, and thank god 
 for lots of shooting and violence to keep me entertained until COD4 comes out!
  
  And I thought the graphics were very good as well. The extra time they had to work on this game 
 paid off very well. The timeshifting abilities were very fun indead, and never got old. Maybe it's 
 just me, but it sure was a blast to , well, blast some enemy in the face while time was paused 
 and then watching his body and blood and guts fly when time was resumed. I would recommend anyone 
 who likes fps to buy this game ASAP! It is well worth the money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: segaswirl
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Highly recommended - this one is lots of fun!!!
  
  There are many cool achievements and playing online is so much fun.
  
  The single player campaign 
 mode is fun and long. My favorite weapon is the crossbow with the exploding darts. It is so much 
 fun to shoot a dart, slow down time, watch the dart explode, have the victim explode up into the 
 air, hit them with another dart in midair, and repeat the process.
  
  There are several cool uses for the time control powers. In addition to taking out enemies during 
 combat, it also makes water turn solid and is helpful in puzzles. I especially like the killer 
 moving laser maze puzzles!!!
  
  I hope they make a TimeShift sequel!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thadragon23
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  This game can be easly overlooked due to the crazy game schedule this holiday season but it has 
 plenty of fun stuff that will make this game standout. It gives you the power of time which is 
 a cool mechanic to use. the power of time adds to the game play the single player story is a lil 
 weird but still fun none the less. the Multiplayer is awesome just crazy 16 player madness with 
 all the time powers available you can't ask for a more addictive multiplayer. this game will be 
 overlooked due to No hype and releases such as COD 4, Mass Effect, And assasins creed but this 
 game is worth the $60 hands down. If you have some extra cash laying around pick it up you won't 
 be dissapointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SikStix
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 2, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  Well, like many other shooters, the story is so shallow I can see the end when I begin. A decent 
 concept (shifting time) , but the entire game revolves around this making it quite boring after 
 the first hour into the game. And now, like the ever-dilluted bullet-time, I hope to never see 
 this in a game again. Why is is soo hard to make a shooter with substance, replayability and revolutionary 
 weapons, fighting styles, etc....
  The one saving grace with this game was the weapon physics. It was nice to be able to feel the 
 difference between shottys and machine guns.... the recoil wasnt bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmcanada2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  Overall timeshift is just a run of the mill shooter, with a very unique and intersting twist - 
 the ability to control time. Previous games such as Max Payne game the gamer had only the abilty 
 to slow time down, however in Timeshift the player can reverse, pause as well as slow time. This 
 makes for some interesting and geniunely enjoyable gameplay. There is nothing like freezing time, 
 pickpocketing a gun from an enemy, and blasting him in the face as he wonders whats going on. Firefights 
 are exellent and intense, and the enemy AI is quite good, as they use cover and work as a team. 
 the graphics are average, as is the audio. Where the game is hurt is in the storyline. The potential 
 for an exxelent plot are definately there, but its a rather scatterbrained that was perhaps overthough 
 or not thought about at all. Gameplay can get repetative, due to how powerful the crossbow is, 
 in pretty much any situation, freezing time, and shooting bad guys with the crossbow will win. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gelatinator
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 2:21 am PT
Review:  I am a very big FPS fan, enjoying games such as Resistance: Fall of Man, Bioshock, Halo, Gears 
 of War and many others. As we all must realize by now, this holiday season is shaping up to be 
 one of the biggest release windows in years for games. There looks to be a TON of great games coming 
 out including COD4: Modern Warfare, Half LIfe 2: The Orange Box, Assassin's Creed, Mass Effect, 
 Uncharted: Drake's Fortune, Haze, Super Mario Galaxy, etc....... the list just goes on and on and 
 on. I have pre-ordered ALL of the aforementioned games, as well as several others for all 3 consoles. 
 I hadn't given TIMESHIFT much thought until playing the demo on on the current OXM Mag disc (Official 
 Xbox Magazine) . Man, was I surprised! GAMEPLAY: This game has a VERY fun Single Player mission! 
 The time manipulation controls might sound like a cheesey or gimmicky type effect to those who 
 have not played the game or given it a chance. BELIEVE ME... they are not cheesey in the least! 
 They are highly entertaining and VERY addictive. The STOPPING of time, as well as, the SLOWING 
 UP of and REVERSING of time is very cool and makes gameplay fresh and inventive. I am sure there 
 have been other time manipulation games (which I have not played or am not aware of) , but I have 
 to say that the gameplay here is greatly enhanced and VERY interesting when using the time controls. 
 At times, I found myself using rewind for just a second, then moving quickly to time stop mode 
 in order to best one, or several of my enemies. Also, time slow mode is very interesting.... slowing 
 the audio as well like a slowed down record (voices get pitched low and slow down and the sound 
 effx are drawn out, pitch-wise, as well) . The 3 time manipulation modes also have nice visual effects 
 that simulate the time change choice picked. The visual effect in time slow mode is especially 
 nice..... a little like certain scenes in the first Matrix movie, but almost more liquidy and spacey 
 looking..... great eye candy! So, you can stop time and grab guns from your enemies and then they 
 are toast. Also, you can literally reverse time to help you get through areas you would not be 
 able to otherwise. Finally, you can manipulate time to solve light puzzles, that smartly, NEVER 
 get in the way of the foreward momentum of the game or the gunplay. It's as if the developers made 
 the puzzles light NOT because they were lazy, but because they smartly kept the focus on the time 
 mechanics and the gunplay. The first time you use time slow mode to blast one of your enemies... and 
 then you see him fly into the air in slow-mo... believe me, you will be like... WHOOOOAA!! Rockin' 
 the house! LOADS of fun...... ENEMY A. I.:
  This game has some really good enemy A. I. There are titles out there that are reviewed as AAA, 
 but quite frankly, their A. I. leaves MUCH to be desired. In this game, the enemies will ACTIVELY 
 look and follow after you. They will throw grenades down a tunnel if they know you are hiding there. 
 They seem intelligent and NEVER just walk into walls and get stuck and start shooting at nothing 
 (at least in my play experience) . GRAPHICS:
  The graphics in this game are very eye-pleasing. The lighting is very beautiful, with nice textures 
 throughout. Also, even though some textures might be low-rez if you view them more up close (such 
 as standing close to some walls in hallways) , when you are farther back they have a nice reflective 
 sheen and great color saturation and don't seem overly mudddy or washed out. This gives the game 
 world a very uniform and polished look. Games like Resistance: Fall of Man have the same thing.... lower 
 rez textures mixed throughout with higher rez ones..... but still never taking away from the total 
 look or appreciation of the next-gen graphics engine. These graphics DO look next gen, there is 
 no doubt about it. Early on in the game, the water and rain effects are superbly done as well. 
 ART DESIGN:
  The Art Design in this game gives me an emotional sense of impending apocalyptic doom, mixed with 
 a sort of cheery color.... a unique combination that gives this game world a sense of unease, as 
 well as, excitement. Sometimes, when playing a game, these types of feelings are hard to pin down... but 
 PIN DOWN is exactly what this games does in terms of the graphic look and feel. It creates a very 
 enthralling world that had me dragged in from the word go. You are in the world of an evil dictator 
 named Dr. Krone, and the world reflects a sort of retro-nazi aesthetic, as well as, shades of deco 
 and 1930's building architecture (think NYC cityscape buildings from the 30's such as the Empire 
 State Building, as well as, the old Chrysler building from 40's era downtown Los Angeles) . As you 
 walk through hallways and buildings, you will enjoy the SOLID feeling you get from the crates (the 
 proverbial game stand-by.. hehe) , the benches, the pillars, etc... In other words, this worlds feels 
 strong and evocative of the energy flowing through it and the madman at the helm. The future elements 
 look futurustic, while never looking too techy like some games. Mix this look with the colorfullness 
 I mentioned earlier and you have a slightly retro-future thing going on. Nice indeed.
  
  MUSIC:
  A couple of the reviews of this game I have already read said that the music was nothing 
 to take note of. I can say that I TOTALLY DISAGREE with this. Being a score composer myself, I 
 look at the score as FIRST and foremost being a way to establish mood in a game or movie. I think 
 too many people want score music to always be something that they can later relate to in a melodic 
 or hummable way, and thus, that would make the game more entertaining. Well, a good score works 
 on many levels, yes, but mood is usually king... even more so when being immersed in a good video 
 game. Yes, the music in Timeshift is not your typical Bruckheimer-Hans Zimmer school of action 
 scoring... where you have lots of rhythmic riffs and action motives. Instead, it makes use of synthesizers 
 and sound samples to nice effect to create mood and otherworldly ambiance. As far as the music 
 goes, this is what I LIKED about it... instead of having your usual run and gun orchestral stuff 
 from games like Gears of War (which was good music too, just different) , they went the synth route 
 mostly. People will and have already knocked this choice.... for me it works great though. Creating 
 a sense of dread and adventure through musical sound design is a lot harder than people realize.... when 
 it is not done right it will sound chintzy or too synthetic. When it is done right (as it is here) 
 it will really lift the mood of the game towards the direction that the developers intended. DIALOGUE 
 AND SOUND EFFECTS:
  While the dialogue in this game is nothing earth shattering or ground breaking, is is nowhere near 
 as bad or laughable as some reviews have said. Believe me, I have played some games where the enemy 
 dialogue seems like it is almost on a 1 or 2 line loop. Not here though. The dialogue works fine 
 in the game...... nothing stands out too much one way or the other. Also, the sounds effects work 
 is nice throughout. Again, nothing super unique or earth shattering, but works fine. Not broken 
 in the least. STORY:
  You know that excited feeling when you played an awesome game of Mario on NES or SNES back in the 
 day? That is the same feeling I get here. Almost NO STORY to hinge my game on, or at the least, 
 it is a bare bones skeleton of a story that we have all read before. You know what? At the end 
 of the day it does NOT MATTER, since what is moving me forward in this game is not originality 
 or depth of story, it is Gameplay, Eye Candy Graphics and the WOW factor that many other games 
 out now JUST DO NOT HAVE. NEGATIVES:
  -Some of the inside interior levels will only allow you to pass through water, hallways, etc, by 
 using your timeplay mechanic. Once you do use it and pass an area, the game will automatically 
 load and put you in another room. I would have liked for the game NOT to do this. But, it is a 
 minor gripe.
  -Yes, some of the puzzles are nothing more than using your time mechanic to QUICKLY get through 
 an area. Could have used a little more thought and variety and complexity in these, but once again, 
 does not affect gameplay or the fun factor in the least.
  -Slight frame rate slow down in certain areas on the Xbox 360 version. Although, I have never experienced 
 it yet during shooting (like I did in Bioshock) .... which is nice. -Some of the lip-synch from the 
 characters in the game could have been more tightened and polished. -Could have had even more weapon 
 variety and involvement. CLOSING:
  I HIGHLY recommend this game to ANYONE who likes FPS games. Don't let the hype about all the other 
 games coming out make you miss this game! If you don't want to buy it like I did, at least rent 
 it. Believe me, it is well worth it. I have not even gotten to Multiplayer mode yet, and I have 
 heard great things about that. Looking forward to spending more quality time with TIMESHIFT. I 
 predict, as a couple other people have, that this game will have an underground following. NOT 
 because it is so unique or new or unusual in terms of an FPS, but because the gameplay and environment 
 are very fun and interesting. Future iterations of this game could really develop a great backstory, 
 as well as, a future longevity of story with the zippy concept and ideas. I see a bright future 
 for this I. P. Let's just hope it sells well and does NOT get lost in the crowded market that is 
 gaming right now. But, for now, GO BUY TIMESHIFT AND PLAY IT! Don't miss out........... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stealthgyro
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2007 12:34 am PT
Review:  only thing stopping this from a perfect 10 are 2 things the fact that the multiplayer was DOA cant 
 get in a game with any more than 4 players... but with the size of the maps i think 10 would be 
 the perfect # if that was even possible. and dedicated server edition to the game is nice, which 
 some ppl are actually doing when afk or something which is awesome less lag... the single player 
 is real nice fun to play just so entertaining to pause time take the enemies gun then see him cower 
 because he is unarmed and then beat him to death with his own gun.... but that gets repetitive 
 like everything in the first 2 levels you can do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluebillybob
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Just played MP for 4 hours straight. I cannot believe how cool it is when you master the time grenades 
 and swarm grenades and other stuff. This game will likely be a sleeper/cult hit because I have 
 seen zero hype for it and hype is what drives reviews more than substance.
  
  The single player campaign has great AI and cool weapons. The time mechanics are cool and really 
 put to good use in battles. The puzzles are simple but thats cuz the focus is on action first. 
 I hope that this game does well and gets a sequel. I played the crap demo from a year ago and can't 
 believe what these guys have been able to pull off. Its like they made a new game in a year.
  
  I can't comment on story because I skip the cut scenes and head right for the action. If you 
 like old school action done right, then this game is for you. You will need to really mess with 
 the time powers to master the game's sandbox battle style, but once you do it becomes addicting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peepop
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I just got back from a gamestop in NJ where they ran a multiplayer session of the gam on LAN. I 
 can't believe how little hype this game is getting. The time control mechanic in the MP setting 
 is one of the most innovative and cool things I have seen in FPS MP in a long time.
  
  I played through the first 10 levels or so of SP and while I haven't finished it yet, its right 
 up my alley. The AI is smart and actually reacts to your use of time powers and the visuals are 
 outstanding in the early levels. I think the story if cool too, but its not entirely clear and 
 is somewhat separate from the game.
  
  The time powers definitely add a new twist to the game that most games lack. I know that the press 
 would rather play Halo or HL2 or COD4 again and that their opinions are influenced heavily by hype 
 over substance, but this game is stellar. Its really worth a 9 but I am giving it a 10 because 
 it needs more attention than it is sure to get... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: please_send_me
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  TimeShift may not be Halo 3 or The Orange Box, but with its entertaining single player game and 
 cleverly implemented multiplayer, its well worth a look. In fact, with a decent online community 
 this could become one of the most interesting multiplayer shooters out there. Still have doubts? 
 Chances are they; ll disappear around the time you sticky grenade an enemy twenty metres into the 
 sky in slow motion, separating him from his weapon, which spins gracefully through the air into 
 your waiting arms. Or perhaps itll be the first time you stop an opponent dead in his tracks with 
 a perfectly thrown time stop bubble and unload clip after clip into his soon to be dead body. Good 
 times. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
