-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: TMNT
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/tmntthemovie/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Platform-heavy gameplay that's interestingly designed.
 Attractive art style.
 Solid voice work.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Camera and controls conspire to make some sequences overly obnoxious.
 Combat is dumb as a stump.
 Graphics aren't much of a step up from the last-gen versions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 20, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.4
Critic Score: 5.7, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 872 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: Mar 20, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
TMNT has some legitimately neat platforming sequences, but it's more frustrating than a kid-oriented 
 game ought to be, and the combat is completely brain-dead. 

  Think of Ubisoft's first attempt at a Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles game as Prince of Persia for 
 the kiddie set. Based on the upcoming CG Turtles movie, TMNT earns this descriptor because it plays 
 a whole bunch like developer Ubisoft Montreal's most recent Prince of Persia games, relying heavily 
 on platforming over fighting. In this case, Montreal has lessened the difficulty of the various 
 jump puzzles that Price of Persia is so well known for (seemingly to make it playable for the younger 
 audience that's likely to latch onto the film) , yet the game is still far more frustrating than 
 it ought to be, due to a faulty camera system and sometimes unreasonable controls. Toss in that 
 the combat is only slightly more complex than the legal-aged TMNT arcade beat-'em-up Konami and 
 Ubi recently rereleased on the Xbox Live Arcade, and what you've got is a game that doesn't properly 
 suit any individual audience.  

          The platforming sections take up the bulk of the game, and they'd be pretty cool if it 
 weren't for that pesky camera.     

  Since the  TMNT  movie isn't out yet, it's impossible to gauge exactly how much the game has in 
 common with it. Suffice it to say, it features all the principal characters (though seemingly none 
 of the film's celebrity voice talent) and touches on some of the same basic themes as the film. 
 The whole game is told through a disjointed form of flashback narration, with the titular Turtles 
 each chiming in at random intervals to explain some chunk of the story in the past tense (usually 
 skipping over details that might actually make the whole thing make sense) . The dialogue and voice 
 acting is fine for what it is, but as far as providing a satisfying Turtles tale, you're out of 
 luck here.  

  If you're more accustomed to Konami's last few attempts at the Turtles license, you're in for an 
 awakening with TMNT. In some ways, it's a good awakening, in the sense that this game isn't altogether 
 terrible and actually has its fun moments. Those fun moments come from the hop-happy platforming 
 sequences that make up roughly two-thirds of the gameplay. Each stage is laid out in such a fashion 
 as to force you to jump, double jump, wall jump, wall run, flip, and monkey bar your way through. 
 Some of the stages are quite elaborate, relying on a lot of quickly timed movements and jumps that 
 are reminiscent of what the recent Prince of Persia games have been all about. Some areas are built 
 for specific Turtles to navigate, like walls that Raphael can climb using his sai and longer jumps 
 that require Michelangelo to use his nunchakus like helicopter blades to float over. All told, 
 there's a surprising amount of intricacy to the level designs in TMNT. Of course, the relative 
 difficulty of these levels has been scaled back significantly, and none of the stages take more 
 than 10 or 15 minutes to blow through.  

  It was good of the developers to scale the difficulty back, as this is clearly a game aimed at 
 a younger audience. The problem is that they didn't quite scale it back enough. The main frustrations 
 with the platforming sequences stem from the fixed camera the game uses. Because of the way it 
 angles shots, it sometimes makes it impossible to properly judge the distance of a jump, leaving 
 you to guesstimate and trial-and-error your way through certain sections. There are also times 
 where the controls can get away from you. You're jumping around so quickly and so often that you 
 may find yourself instinctively pressing the jump button too many times, ultimately overshooting 
 your goal. Frustrations like this are palpable enough to the standard gaming audience, let alone 
 younger players.  

  On the flip side, the combat mechanics have been scaled back to the point of making them incredibly 
 dull. You really only have one main attack button, as well as a jump-kick button that operates 
 independently of the primary combo system. Each Turtle only has one combo to speak of. It's typically 
 a lengthy combo, but it's the same combo again and again. There are special tag-team moves that 
 come into play from time to time, where by holding down a button, you can call in a fellow Turtle 
 to pull off some flip-happy, electrifying attack that takes out a bunch of bad guys at once. This 
 is basically the game's way of making up for the fact that there are no computer-controlled Turtles 
 onscreen with you while you play, and it's not an altogether bad methodology. The problem with 
 it mostly stems from the enemies you fight being so utterly inept. Throughout the game, you fight 
 wave after wave of pacifist thugs and ninjas who seem content to just swipe in your general direction 
 from time to time. All you've got to do is mash endlessly on the attack buttons and pull together 
 the occasional tag-team move, and you're pretty much never going to die.  

  TMNT has a slick look to it that translates better on some platforms than others. The graphics 
 aren't so much cel-shaded as they are modeled after the CG look of the Turtles in the movie. All 
 the characters animate nicely as they leap and fight through the various levels, and even the levels 
 themselves are relatively pleasing to look at as you play. The frame rate has a tendency to dip 
 in all versions of the game (the 360 version is the most erratic of the bunch) , and the aforementioned 
 camera issues are a real bummer, but otherwise, TMNT is a pretty solid-looking game.  

  As tends to be the case with movie-licensed games, TMNT is out on a lot of home gaming platforms, 
 including the PlayStation 2, GameCube, Wii, Xbox 360, and PC. The core game is identical between 
 all of them, though there are some subtle differences. The Wii version is probably the most drastically 
 different, simply because it includes motion controls. Unfortunately, these controls feel hopelessly 
 tacked on. All you do is wiggle the Wii Remote back and forth when you want to do a primary attack 
 and jerk the Nunchuk in one direction or another to kick. These mechanics get extremely tiresome 
 very quickly, and on top of that, there's a weird sensor issue with the Nunchuk. If you're just 
 playing the game and happen to tilt the Nunchuk too far in one direction or the other, your character 
 will crouch like he's readying an attack, and then stay like that until you hold the Nunchuk straight 
 again. Of course, there's nothing in the game to signify that this is what's causing the issue, 
 and you may find yourself initially confused as to what's causing this.  

          Conversely, there's nothing cool about TMNT's combat. It's just boring.     

  The Wii 
 version also happens to look identical to the GameCube version, blurriness and all. Despite support 
 for 480p and widescreen viewing, there don't seem to be any visual enhancements at all between 
 them, which is more than a touch disappointing, because the Wii should be capable of more. The 
 Xbox 360 version predictably looks the best of the bunch, though not to the degree that you might 
 be hoping. The 360 version is brighter, a bit crisper, and features more in the way of environmental 
 detail, such as added grass textures and foliage. The 360 version also supports more enemies onscreen 
 at once, though somehow the combat doesn't seem any more challenging with more enemies to dispatch. 
 There are also achievements to consider, but they also happen to be incredibly easy to acquire, 
 with many of them relegated to points for beating levels and pulling off individual special abilities. 
 Even still, the better graphics and achievements ultimately make the 360 version the best by default. 
 But if you'd rather not spend the extra $10, the PS2 version looks quite nice. The PC version is 
 solid, too, though you really need a dual-analog gamepad to play this game properly.  

  Between the overly simplistic combat and sometimes-obnoxious platforming sequences, TMNT is like 
 a man without a country. Younger audiences are likely to balk at some of the more frustrating elements 
 of the platforming, and older players are going to be bored to tears by the effortless fighting 
 mechanics. The moments when you actually do find yourself having fun with TMNT are just frequent 
 enough to prevent the game from being wholly unadvisable to fans of the film desperate to take 
 part in some interactive Turtle adventures, but for everyone else, TMNT is one you can safely pass 
 on.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (90 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: waferlawrence
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 1:40 am PT
Review:  Remember the late 80s and early 90s? If so, you probably knew about the TMNT explosion. Everyone 
 wanted to be a sewer dwelling, pizza eating mutated turtle that happened to know Ninjitsu thanks 
 to an overgrown rat. 
  
  Games came out all the time, the anger of that electric seaweed, the awesomeness of the arcade 
 game it was all great.
  
  In the late 2000s, they made another movie. I was 24 and I never saw it, but I at least knew the 
 concept. Someone, these guys are still teenagers, but I guess calling it YAMNT wouldn't have worked 
 as well. Shredder and Krang are gone and there's no Vanilla Ice Rapping in your ear. From what 
 I gather, it wasn't a great movie, but not the worst either.
  
  Like every overhyped movie, there was a game as well, and that game brings us to our latest review. 
 I got TMNT for the 360, mainly because it was used and 18 dollars. Why not, right?
  
  Well, it's a plat former beat em up of sorts. Kind of the same genre of God of War and Prince of 
 Persia. Do you like those games? Well don't get excited. The game is boringly linear. In games 
 like God of War, you can travel back, find secrets, all that good stuff. Here, you get a level, 
 beat it, and then you're thrust into the next level. They look like they tried hard on the graphics, 
 but it kind of failed. I wouldn't be impressed in the Xbox/PS2 era with these graphics. Then there's 
 the storyline that basically kept most of the attention on Leonardo and Raphael. If you're a Mikey 
 or Don fan, this will frustrate you. 
  
  I'm looking for good points, so how about the actual game play? No. The camera nearly ruins the 
 game. You can't move it and it will keep itself at an awkward angle for most of the game. It'll 
 make you mad. Storyline? Boring. Multiplayer oh yeah, with a game with four turtles and obvious 
 online potential they didn't do that. Online? Nope, none of that either. The platforming is obnoxious 
 and repetitive. So how about the fighting? They're ninjas. No. You basically sit around a tap B. 
 The only time where you'll need to do it differently is the final battle. But that battle is short 
 and rather boring.
  
  Well, at least it will entertain you for a while, right? No. 5-6 hours of game play tops. You can 
 go back and play the exact same levels or play the eye burning challenging stages, but trust me, 
 you won't want to. 
  
  There's no secrets, no equipment upgrades, no leveling anything like that. You can collect coins 
 to buy like video clips but there's no real challenge to it and there's really no fun in it.
 
  
  Gameplay  5.5
  The camera is annoying. The platforming is boring. The fighting is too simple. There's really no 
 fun in it. The most promising part was the last bit of platforming that seemed a little innovative, 
 but an annoying set of pipes and some broken controls ruined the last bit of it for me. 
  
  Also, you don't die, which I don't understand, If I get beat up in a fight, why can I just come 
 back to life. Why can I fall down the same hole 45 times and not get a penalty. There's a boring 
 ranking system, but you simply don't care about it after the boring levels.
  
  Graphics - 6
  Very mediocre. There were some good possibilities, a real good skyline scene at 
 the end that was boring and ruined by fog. Why even try to look good if you don't care? It's not 
 ugly, but it's rather blah.
  
  Sound  5.5
  The music is generic, and no epic TMNT classic music. The talking and rephrasing are annoying as 
 crap and really not that entertaining.
  
  Value  5.5
  Don't expect a lot. If you love achievements or love TMNT, find it cheap, but don't get it for 
 a quality game.
  
  Tilt  6
  At least it's a an easy 1000 achievement points on 360. Why would you buy it for any other system, 
 I really don't know. There's nothing to keep you playing after the end. I'll probably never put 
 it back in my 360.
  
  
  Online/Multiplayer  N/A
  
  It's an absolute sham that this game had no online or multiplayer. It's an obvious and good selling 
 point. That's like opening a burger shop and not carrying cheese. It's like selling PS3s and carrying 
 no games or bluray discs. It's like going to dodger stadium and they have no concession stands!
 
  
  What would Wafer change?
  MULTIPLAYER and ONLINE first of all. If if it wasn't great, it would have added something to this 
 boring game. I'd try to get some sort of leveling system, make the fighting more involved, something 
 to make the fighting. fun.
  
  I'd make the camera moveable or at the very least less awkward. Isn't this the same generation 
 games like Metal Gear Solid 4 and Little Big Planet? You can't make a decent camera?
  
  I would have also made this game have some decent tilt. I might like searching around for hidden 
 items. I'd like to play as unlockable cahrecters. Hidden stages, anything!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: immortality20
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Let me get one thing straight, I did not buy this game because I wanted to play it, I bought it 
 because it was 3.99. That said, there is some fun to be had in this short and frusturating adventure. 
 
  
  You start the adventure as the (arugable) leader Leonardo as he is training in the jungle. The 
 game shows you the basic tutorials (double jumps!) and right away you'll catch onto the most annoying 
 flaw of the game, the voice over. Or lack of voice over. Leo and all the rest, only have one phrase, 
 or maybe two, I honestly tuned out early, they repeat over and over and over and over, and, well, 
 you get the point. Mikey's is the most annoying cause almost every jump he'll yell enthusiastically 
 "super spectacular awesome man!" or something to that annoying extent. 
  
  The next flaw you'll inevitably run into shortly after picking up your controller is the combat. 
 Heck, why make a good game on combat, when your whole theme is about ninja turtles? This question 
 must not of entered any of their minds. You have very limited combos, and the whole button mashing 
 thing won't work, because you have only one attack button. 
  
  There is some team based missions where you will switch between turtles and do a limited team combo, 
 but they are not rewarding. Each turtles has their own "special" move that you might utilize once 
 an hour. Oh, and you get an easy achievement when you do this. All achievements are easy in this 
 game. 
  
  The adventure loosely follows the movie, and lasts about 6 hours. Give or take. There is some overly 
 annoying platforming here. Where you will fall and fall and fall for about ten minutes while you 
 watch your timer go up. This is an adventure best suited for a low price point, I would reccomend 
 not paying over ten dollars for this hardly worthwhile piece of shell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09231991
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 9, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  TMNT is basically a game adaptation of the new movie. The game follows the movie as well as it's 
 own thing to. The game's length is like 4 or 5 hours so it's not a very long game, it's not worth 
 purchasing unless your a die-hard fan. The game's platforming elements are true to the genre and 
 range from very easy and basic to difficult and hard. The game's overall combat system is your 
 basic beat'em up style. You can play as all four turtles by selecting which one you want to play 
 as during levels. Every character has his own special ability to help you get through certain obstacles 
 which definitely adds to the gameplay. The game also has the usual humor you'd expect from anything 
 Ninja Turtles. Overall, TMNT is not really worth buying unless your a die-hard TMNT fan, but for 
 an average gamer, it's not worth purchasing unless it's like $10. Other than that, rent it first 
 if your curious about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genius2469
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 25, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles are great. Not this game. This game bites off your nose and sets it 
 on fire. The first problem is the voices like "Here's Johnny" repeat over and over and it really 
 messes this game up. Another problem is the combat. You get hit way too easily. While you're attacking 
 you aren't able to dodge. That is so incredibly lame. The other part is the levels are repetitive. 
 All you do is jump until you find someone to fight. There are occasional traps but they suck and 
 you can easily get past them. Don's level is way too difficult for an average gamer. I game too 
 much. The other problems are that you forget everyone's powers. By the time you remember, you're 
 too late. You fall into every pit unless you can see some retarded bar you can climb on or if you've 
 mastered the wall running thing. Some of the level design is so difficult to see [horrible camera] 
 that you have to die a few times until you see something really stupid. That sounds like it might 
 be hard but you get infinite lives so it doesn't matter if you die. The challenge maps suck because 
 it's just frustrating hard and there's more combat. Those are pure insanity test. THIS GAME SUCKS. 
 Not only that but it's all been done before!! BOOOOO!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carljohnson3456
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 9, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  I dont want to write alot about this game, just enough to acknowledge it. 
  
  I had this game for the Wii, and actually liked it better. Maybe it was the motion control, I dont 
 know. But I think the Wii version is better. Maybe it's just that it "fits" on that system better... 
 the whole cartoonish vibe. Who knows? All I know is I enjoyed this game better on the Wii.
  
  The game is pretty fun as a platformer, but terrible as an action game. The combat system is 
 terrible... something you would think that would suck in a Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle game. You 
 dont fight enemies here and there... you fight them in groups. And when you fight them in groups, 
 you cant get away. You have to kill every respawning annoying enemy before you can advance in the 
 level. It's not fun, but most everything else in this game is.
  
  As far as graphics go, it's not ugly, but it's not great looking. It's a cartoonish game, so you 
 cant expect too much.
  
  And finally, this is probably one of the more decent movie licensed video games I've ever played. 
 It could be better, the cutscene could actually be movies, the combat could be tweaked, and a multiplayer 
 option would have been nice. 
  
  Overall, I recommend this game to any turtle fan or anybody looking for a decent platformer... 
 but not anyone looking for an action game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pfilosophy
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 12:02 am PT
Review:  I don't know how many people who would look at this and actually want to play it since it's based 
 on a "kid's movie" and it's in no way at all like the TMNT of yore. Now, I'm not old by any means 
 but I'm old enough to have watched and loved the old school TMNT before all the time traveling 
 power ranger whatever nonsense and french faux-anime design that's been plaguing all the old comics 
 and television shows that are still watchable to this day if only today's generation would give 
 it a chance. The movie was disappointing and the story was insulting, so I didn't expect the videogame 
 tie-in to be any better. I was mainly drawn in for 2 reasons: My mother was interested in checking 
 it out and we both wanted to complete another game's achievements in a day or two.
  
  So I put it in, beat the first of 16 stages within 9 minutes and get my first taste of the game. 
 Right off the bat, the camera (or lack of one) pissed me off as you can't control where you look 
 or even know where you are in relation to your surroundings at times. At most times, actually, 
 since the later stages only got more frustrating. You speed through like Sonic with fewer load 
 times, get into force-fed battles with either the Foot Clan or a new, wimpier group called the 
 Purple Dragons. The combat, like the platforming, doesn't seem finished and is more of a chore 
 than anything else. In fact, it feels as if the combat was more of an afterthought. One button 
 pretty much does everything but it's not even as much fun as Avatar's simple combat. It's just... 
 ok, I'm blindly punching something. The most insulting part of all this is the fact that you cannot 
 die.
  
  You fall into a pit or 2 floors to the ground, you "die." And by "die," I mean you start from where 
 you left off 3 seconds prior (checkpoints save every 5-9 seconds) and keep going as the timer keeps 
 counting. All that really means is that you get a lesser grade for completing the stage but the 
 rewards are merely coins you can spend on big head cheats or "weekend weapons" such as a broom 
 for Don. No thanks. You get beaten by 10 people who all look alike since there's 2 models per enemy 
 type and you "die." This calls forth a mini-game in which you tap A until another turtle pal picks 
 you up, says something encouraging, and runs off as you continue the fight. This no death, no surrender 
 system even holds your hand through the final boss. Hell, the whole game holds your hand. If you're 
 in doubt when you see a gate which only Leo can get through and are unsure if it's the appropriate 
 time to press a button to progress, you'll see the blue flashes that prompt you to understand. 
 Wait a second and you'll even see the commands displayed for you on the bottom left of the screen.
 
  
  Thinking isn't necessary for this. I don't think it's even meant for kids so much as it's meant 
 to simply be an extension of the movie because, c'mon, no thinking or skill development in a platformer!? 
 And Ubisoft is responsible for this? After such great action platformers like Prince of Persia 
 and Assassin's Creed, I just feel bad. I felt even worse though as I couldn't concentrate with 
 whatever turtle on-screen constantly saying the same exact reaction loop over and over again. I 
 jumped and Michaelangelo flipped out like I'd just ripped some gnarly foam, bro... I hate him...
 
  
  5-7 hours a piece later, mom got her 1000, I got my 1000, and we traded it in for like $2 which 
 I put on Mercs 2. Good times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steven_Beynon
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Platforming is good when the camera works with you. Easy achievements. Attractive art style, 
 and top notch voice acting.
  
  Cons: Several control issues become fairly frustrating over time. Bland backrounds. Cookie cutter 
 AI. Short single player. No multiplayer to speak of. And combat is as dumb as can be.
  
  TMNT is based on the spring CGI movie of the same name, and takes you through a mediocre adventure 
 full of frustrating platforming and flat out boring combat.
  
  The story is basically told as a flashback, while the turtles look back at how they became close 
 brothers and a team that works together. Unfourtuanitly the story doesn't ever really explain well 
 on why your doing what your doing at the moment. On the flip side the game treats the player 
 
  to very well done voice acting. But your out of luck, if you came here for a well told turtle 
 tale.
  
  TMNT is very platform heavy, you'll spend the bulk of your time swinging on monkey bars, jumping, 
 wall scaling, flipping, and swinging your way through the games 16 levels. Which should take about 
 15-20 minutes to complete each of them.
  The levels are fairly well made with all the platforming in mind, but the decent platforming is 
 cursed with an annoying camera that doesn't always allow you to judge accurately on how far or 
 where you need to jump. But when the camera doesn't get in your way, the platforming is satisfying 
 and half way fun. Combat is straight forward, you basically tab the attack button over and over 
 until all your foes are down.
  
  Each turtle does come with a special move where they call in another turtle and perform a team 
 attack, but you are in very few situations where you need to do this, because the combat is so 
 easy. You do have a few attack which include kicking, a jump attack, and there is a very basic 
 combo system. In some levels you only control one of the turtles that the level revolves around, 
 but in most levels you have all four turtles but not on screen at once. You can press X to tag 
 another turtle in, but there is only one turtle on screen at all times. So there is no co-op multiplayer 
 to speak of, which would have aided this game a great deal if added. 
  
  Graphics are somewhat nice too look at, with a animation style but not really cel-shaded, and combat 
 and platforming animations are fairly well done.
  But with easy combat, frustrating camera, and short campaign this game falls short. TMNT does have 
 some fun moments, but you'll quickly find yourself bored to tears.
  
  Steven_Beynon
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 17, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  INTRO
  I have to admit one of the reasons I started playing this game was because of the movie. I really 
 like the story and the CGI. Added bonus was getting easy achievement points. Now after watching 
 the opening credits I see the game was made from Ubisoft Montreal, this is the same place that 
 developed and produced Assassin's Creed. Immediately my expectations became very high. When the 
 intro started and the opening sequences appeared, I started to realize I was wrong.
  
  Game play:
  The game play is rather basic but fun. You control the turtles with each having his 
 unique weapon and special move. There are not many fighting moves. Pressing the same button repeatedly 
 does different attack moves but does the same damage. Only in the later stages you will get to 
 switch between turtles. There are 17 Stages in the game, the locations might be different but you 
 basically do the same thing. You navigate a turtle across obstacles such as buildings, sewers, 
 lane ways and pits while trying to fall to your death. This reminds me a lot like Tomb Raider style 
 games. While most obstacles are easy, some do damage to you. Usually after a few obstacles you 
 end up in an area where bad guys are waiting for you. These guys are extremely easy, you usually 
 get more damage from toxic slime than these foot ninjas. The bosses are even easier as their AI 
 is very weal and they do the same sequences of moves very 30 seconds.
  
  Graphics: 
  Decent graphics. A jungle is a jungle and a building is a building. You do get the sense of heights 
 when walking around. You can tell it's a water fall or a sewer water running. Obstacles and walls 
 that you can climb on and over do look realistic. One thing that is very hard is the camera angles. 
 You cannot change the view, it's a set view that makes it hard to know where the next ledge is. 
 Also the static view makes it a little difficult to se all the bad guys around you.
  
  Sound and Music:
  Music score is pretty decent nothing grand but does not annoy either. The sounds 
 are pretty good, the splash of water are realistic. The grunts from fighting are there. I even 
 like when one of the foot ninjas whistles and tries to call you over to fight him.
  
  Difficulty:
  There is not difficulty setting. The game does not get harder as the game goes on. 
 You can do all the special moves from the beginning; there is no leveling the turtles to get stronger. 
 There are only a few moments where bad camera angles make it hard for you to know where to land. 
 Even then if you die you start from the last saved checkpoint and continue. There are unlimited 
 continues until you get the job done, so you try anything without fear of losing position.
  
  Final Thoughts:
  Wish it was longer, I finished this game in about 4 hours of gametime. This 
 game could have been a lot better. The turtles could have been improved to have different attacks 
 or combos. There is no multiplayer not even a co-op, this is wasted opportunity since there is 
 4 turtles that could be used at the same time. The bosses could have been a lot harder. Free roaming 
 the city and the city sewers would have been fun. Random encounters also would have been great. 
 The cut scenes could also have been animated instead of them flipping through a comic showing scenes 
 while talking about it.
  This game had a lot of potential but failed to capitalize on it. It seemed something pieced together 
 to get release date to coincide with the movie premier. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fudger2
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 13, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  You know at some points of this game it actually is fun. I mean yeah it turns into a button masher 
 but it gets to be fun when you can tag team and stuff. Everyone says its the king of achievements 
 and they dont lie. Theres only one you dont get by beating story mode so calling all achievement 
 who***!!! Anyways i enjoyed the game except dodging obstacles. What makes this game bad is the 
 camera. If you played it then at the begginning its like this cameras good but enter battle and 
 the camera changes happen and you cant see. not to mention the big fight in the way at the beginning 
 of a battle. Yeah this game is incredibly easy, it took me 2 hours to beat all but the last level 
 which was hard until you know what to do. This level almost took me a whole hour so think hard 
 about it. tdk the names but the best turtle is the orange one because he can fly and the wackest 
 is the purple because hes just horrible in fights. Tag team moves are fun to kill enemies. And 
 the nightstalker? missions are lame and boringest part of da game except avoiding stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  Good visual design and presentation; Voice acting is well done; Solid controls; Slick animation; 
 Story expands well upon the movie.
  
  The Bad:
  Graphics aren't up to 360 standards; Combat and AI is too simple; No challenge; Characters voice-overs 
 repeat a lot; Odd level design. Camera can be a problem sometimes; No co-op.
  
  The Turtles are back, dude! One of my most beloved childhood memories has returned to the big screen, 
 and has a new video game to go along with it. The story is the same as the movie, and actually 
 does a fairly good job of expanding upon it.
  
  But the problem is that, like the movie, TMNT game has a mixed audience. It's designed to be kid 
 friendly, and for that purpose it does well. However, this game is going to be too simple for adult 
 gamers, and only the most dedicated TMNT fans are going to get anything out of it.
  
  GAMEPLAY  7
  One thing that TMNT does will is how it presents itself. Right from the very start, 
 it all has a very comic book feel to it. All the cut scenes are handled using pre-rendered comic 
 book style art. Even the menus look slick.
  
  Although the controls are responsive, the combat is too dull. You can only control one Turtle at 
 a time, but you can perform special moves and attacks that use the others in some very cool ways. 
 The B button handles all your attacks. That's it. Just one attack button. Although this may seem 
 nostalgic from the 1989 TMNT Arcade game, it's just too simple for a modern brawler. There is a 
 kick button, but it's basically pointless as all it does is push enemies away.
  
  Speaking of enemies, you'll frequently encounter dozens of enemies to fight at a time. The only 
 problem is that the AI is so dumb, that they'll rarely attack you. Which means that most of the 
 time they'll just stand there until you beat them down.
  
  The platforming fairs a little better, but it's nothing that hasn't been done before. Running along 
 walls is cool, but it's very clich. The levels, although interesting to look at, are oddly designed 
 when it comes to platforming. Part of it is because the camera will frequently pullback for a wide 
 shot, but this also makes timing jumps difficult. I couldn't see a lot of jumps coming up until 
 I had already fallen into them.
  
  GRAPHICS  7
  The graphics, like the gameplay, is a mixed bag. On one hand, the artistic style is great. The 
 presentation is nice, and the characters have a nice comic book feel to them. The animations also 
 are very expressive, and give more life to the Turtles.
  
  But technically, the graphics are sub-par for the 360. In fact, this game could have looked identical 
 on the original Xbox. Although the characters look good, background objects are blocky, low-rez, 
 and static. You'll frequently see unfinished parts of the level that are covered in fog to hide 
 how bad they look.
  
  SOUND  6
  The sound doesn't fair much better, although the Turtles are voiced well in the cut scenes, they 
 have a tendency to repeat lines over and over again during a level. I can't tell you how many times 
 I hear Raph say "Here's Johnny!"
  
  The sound effects are the usual cartoonish battle sounds that you'd expect, and don't really add 
 any life to the game. Same goes for the music. There's very little to speak of, and you wont remember 
 it when you do notice it.
  
  VALUE  6
  The biggest problem with TMNT is the lack of co-op, or any kind of multi-player. This is strictly 
 a single-player game. This is a shame because one of the core themes in all the different versions 
 of the Turtles is teamwork. Nearly all of the past TMNT games have had multi-player, and it's a 
 real shame that it's missing here.
  
  The game is way too easy as well. If you die from missing a jump, you simply reappear back a few 
 steps to try again. If you lose all your health, you can simply press the A button repeatably to 
 have one of the other Turtles help you back up. There's just no real penalty for dying.
  
  The achievements also don't add any kind of lasting value. In fact, TMNT is one of the easiest 
 games on the 360 for achievement points. Granted, they had kids in mind when they designed it, 
 but you can unlock all 1000 points in under 4 hours. You pretty much just have to beat the game 
 to get all the points. There are a decent number of unlockable videos and art, but only the most 
 die-hard TMNT fans are going to invest the time needed to unlock these.
  
  Overall, TMNT is just average. It was clearly designed for kids, but even then the game is so easy 
 that it wont take them long to beat it. The developers were clearing working with a limited time 
 frame and budget as this game just feels rushed. It's not that it feels unfinished, but it's just 
 uninspired. TMNT is a decent game for kids, but only the most die-hard TMNT fans are going to want 
 to invest their money in this. Rent it, or buy it used if you're looking for some TMNT action. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slamdunk787
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 5:13 am PT
Review:  This game is without a doubt an excellent game to play just for the fun of it. Sure, this game 
 isn't too heavy on the fighting, since there is so much platforming. But what they do have is good. 
 You jump, flip, wall climb, double jump, tag-team, and double-team a lot in this game.
  
  There are only 16 levels, and most are fairly easy to go through. You don't really get penalized 
 for dying, you just start from there, unless you fall into a pit, where you would start at your 
 last checkpoint.
  
  The bosses in the game are pretty simple, save for the last battle, where it can take awhile to 
 figure out, but is not completely hard.
  
  The graphics are good. They capture the feel of the movie very authentically. Ubisoft did a good 
 job in this department. Sure, it's not up to current gen games, but you can only do so much on 
 a franchise like this, especially the movie it's based on.
  
  Sound is good. All voice work is excellent; and the turtles, as well as splinter, speak a lot throughout 
 the game. The music is basic action-film type fare. It actually fits the dark mood of this game 
 based on movie pretty well.
  
  All in all, this game is a great rental. It's not worth a full game price, but I would pick it 
 up for $25 if I had a chance. Try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 25, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  TMNT is a game based on a CGI-movie of the same name, and despite its faults, its still one of 
 the better movie games out there.
  
  Story of course follows the movie, in which Leonardo has left to jungle in order to be a better 
 leader, while the other three turtles have found something else to do besides crime fighting. Things 
 get a little busy when a millionaire guy collects these weird statues and for some reason the town 
 is crawling with strange beasts and monsters. And you guessed it: soon the fate of the world will 
 be in the hands of four turtles.
  
  Graphics are pretty good, but they could be better: the game forces the player to follow one narrow 
 path, so there is some room for graphical improvement. Sound is just what you would expect, if 
 you saw the movie, so its nothing ground braking, but it works.
  
  Gameplay is very simple and centers mostly on platforming and some frequent battles. It all works 
 well, but is also very easy: it took me just 4 hours and 33 minutes in one sitting and theres 
 nothing to do after beating the game once.
  
  This game also appears to be region-free, because an NTSC-game works perfectly on my PAL-region 
 Xbox360 console.
  
  TMNT is so short and simple that theres not much to say about it. If you enjoyed the movie and 
 you dont have anything better to play go ahead and buy this game. Just dont pay the full retail 
 price for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdknight21
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is not long at all so I would definitely suggest only renting this unless you run across 
 it for $15 or so. They've added some coins to collect on a 2nd playthrough of each mission but 
 with achievements being done on a single playthrough and no online leaderboards there really isn't 
 much incentive.
  The game is ridiculously easy, and Ubisoft Montreal took the platforming of elements from their 
 Prince of Persia series and stuck them into this game. Only thing they left out were the puzzles/ 
 use of platforms for the puzzles as well and it is point A-B with TMNT, their isn't any trial and 
 error or anything. I don't want to turn it into a comparison of another game, but this game feels 
 very much like a throwback to it, just for kids.
  The controls work perfect, but there really isn't much timing to them, you can purposefully mistime 
 hitting a button and still find your turtle performing a move when you probably should have fallen 
 to your death. The camera as well works really good.
  Technically, the game looks pretty good, and the black and white levels are pretty top notch, but 
 you can do that when you don't have much color to work with. The sound is good and passable. My 
 only knock on graphics was in the form of presentation between levels. I really can't stand portraying 
 the story through a comic book pages flipping and dialogue.
  I know I sound critical, but the game is fun, and the story is decent, but you probably won't remember 
 it after a couple weeks.
  My final opinion is on the bosses, and they are relatively easy until the end, where even though 
 it is right there in front of you what to do, some still may not notice it.
  Overall, the game is a run through on cruise control, but it can be entertaining for some. There 
 just isn't anything that really makes you think, though and that is a shame for a platformer. I'm 
 curious to see what my score averages out to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  So after renting TMNT and beating i can say its Not all bad and not all good the gameplay hass 
 you play as the ninja turtals and you go threw these levels that wlll have you jump climb run on 
 walls wich its prety boring but when the combat comes its pretty easy but its fun it throws a bunch 
 of enimeis on screen and you wail on them you can do co-op combos with the other turtels and special 
 moves wich over all makes it kinda fun. the graphcis have that kinda comic book style but can make 
 it anoying cause you will be the only colord thing on the screen while everything else is black 
 and white wich makes it on appeling. The sound has the lame voice acting of each TMNT wich is kinda 
 anoying so the value the game is over in about 6 hours and theres no replay value in the game so 
 its bassicly 1 to rent for achivements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knitecrow007
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (TMNT) gives players the chance to relive 
 their nostalgia for the series. Going in, the game holds a lot of promise as it is developed by 
 Ubisoft Montreal most notablely known for their Prince of Persia series. The prospect of a POP-esque 
 game in a TMNT world is very tantalizing. Unfortunately the game does not live up to expectations. 
 TMNT is a third person action game that, like POP, gives players the ability of run along walls, 
 do acrobatics, dodge traps and adds new abilities like call in your turtle brothers to pull team 
 combos. Despite these features TMNT is no where close to the caliber POP Sands of time was. The 
 blame can solely be put on a fact that it feels dumbed down to appeal to a very young crowd to 
 coincide with the demographic targeted by the tie-in movie. What made POP great was (1) superb 
 story (2) excellent game play elements (3) topnotch pacing. All these are missing from TMNT. The 
 story is tied to the animated film and not explained as the game expects you to have seen the movie. 
 Even if you have seen the movie it is not compelling. Despite borrowing elements from POP, the 
 game feels too easy. There is no satisfaction from either completing environment puzzles or from 
 the dumbed down repetitive combat that forces to you fight bland generic enemies. How can you have 
 a TMNT game and not have hoards of boss to fight? Graphically and audibly the feels like a budget 
 title. One can clearly tell the game was developed for the PS2 and then ported to other platforms. 
 Even worse, the graphics and sound are that of an average PS2 game. Not a problem if you play it 
 on your PS2 but it looks dated on a 360. In the end, TMNT is a budget title that should keep younger 
 audiences mildly interested and its only redeeming quality is the easy 1000 achievement points 
 that be earned in under 4 hours.
  
  5.5/10
  
  Visit My gaming forum:
  www. gamingdump. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojowonderdog
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 14, 2008 4:42 am PT
Review:  Ok, so its not the most difficult game in the world or the most complex and yes: the game play 
 doesnt really change that much. But if you want a simple, fun easy to pick up and complete game 
 you can't go wrong with TMNT. 
  
  Its got the jumping aspect of the Prince of Persia games with half way decent graphics and a few 
 nice level suprises. 
  I rented this game and completed it in just a few hours (theres 16 levels in all ranging from 4 
 to 30 mins) . it was a great way to spend a well deserved 'sick' day from work. 
  As long as you have a basic grasp of how to use the 360 controller, you'll never get stuck for 
 longer than a couple of minutes at even the hardest bits. 
  
  Buy as a rental or even just spending the 10 on ebay for a used copy its well worth a look (even 
 if it is a very short one) .
  
  SIMPLE, ENJOYABLE FUN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  I'm afraid this game just fell into one of those Movie titles. The developers and designers obviously 
 did not have enough time to do a good job with this game. I must admit that I really did enjoy 
 the fact that the gameplay is super fast paced. You can go through a stage and not stop once. The 
 characters are very agile and that really impressed me. Sometimes it is good that you have to go 
 in one direction only. In this case, the entire game is like that. I won't say it is the best point 
 of the game, but if you are looking to just run around, navigate some traps and try to get through 
 stages as fast as possible, it is a good thing.
  
  The Graphics for the game was okay. Some stages are better than other when you look at it, but 
 all and all the look is not too bad.
  
  Sound ... no. The story line, in the first place, is quetionable. I don' t even think there was 
 one as a matter of fact, and the Turtles keep making all these comments in the background as if 
 they were in a story or telling a story. I really did not like that. Other times they would actually 
 just be talking junk.
  
  The game is way to short. I think I finished the original game mode in like 3 hours. It's too short 
 and too easy. Bosses are not a challenge to beat and the stages are easy to navigate.
  
  All and all, I don't think the game sucked, but it really was not one of the best games out there. 
 If you have a kiddy you need entertaining, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K1LLR3175
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Ok I was surprised at how much fun this game was to me usually if you think movie based/kids game 
 you think pretty much crap but in this case it was a different story. I have always like tmnts from 
 when I was a kid but the past games they have come out with have been not so good but this one 
 is a pretty ok game. The single player is VERY easy and can be beaten in about four hours and you 
 can get a 1000 gs in this game in about the same time. The cut scenes are brought out through comic 
 book style with voice overs it is kinda of lame but it could be worst. The controls for this game 
 are very easy to master and maybe everybody else had a frustrating time with the game but I love 
 to play games with my sibling and teach them about gaming so all in all this was a very good movie 
 based game but be advised it is very easy and can be beat in a couple of hours oh and besides falling 
 off of something you can't die if an enemy beats you down you just rapidly tap the A button to 
 get your self back up. So this game may be extremely easy but it is one of the better kids games 
 out there so I say if you got kids who love to tmnt this is a perfect game for them or if you want 
 to get a 1000 gs out of a game this is good for that too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JTShadow
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 11, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  I will admit, I am a long time Ninja Turtle fan. I grew up with them, how could I not be? Even 
 so, I keep my reviews unbiased. The controls for the game play well, and the ability to change 
 between turtles makes it quite entertaining. Each of the turtles has their own special moves and 
 abilities, though all play similarly. The game does a great job at forcing you to switch through 
 the turtles to get through different obstacles and the team attacks are pretty powerful. Although 
 strongly based on the movie, it does not follow the storyline exactly but still borrows clips from 
 the film. There is a time trial mode that they have thrown in to increase replay value, and while 
 it was kind of fun going through wire frame obstacle courses, it didn't keep my attention very 
 long. I strongly recommend giving this game a shot, I give it 7 half-shells out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeah_write
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  While no one was surprised to see the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles make a return to video games, 
 it might have shocked some to see them outside the brawler genre. While TMNT does have its share 
 of ninja fighting action, this is primarily a platformer, and for the most part, it works.
  
  Manufactured by some of the same folks that worked on the Prince of Persia series, TMNT plays 
 like a simpler, faster version of Ubisofts hit franchise. The turtles can run on walls, flip up 
 cracks, swing on poles and more, all at blistering speed. Pulling off these acrobatic moves is 
 easy almost to a fault. Simply pushing against a wall will send your turtle into a horizontal sprint, 
 which can lead to a few accidental deaths. The simple controls have good intentions, but it might 
 have been easier to go with the Prince of Persia style and require a button to activate acrobatic 
 moves.
  
  Though the controls have some problems, the camera will kill you the most. It has a terrible habit 
 of getting caught on corners or showing too little of the environment. This wouldnt be a problem 
 if the levels werent strictly linear, but since there is never more than one way to go, its frustrating 
 when the camera fails to point you onward.
  
  It seems the only things meant to kill you in the game never will, as the enemy AI and combat controls 
 are brain dead. Instead of sprinkling foes throughout a level, TMNT segregates the combat and platforming. 
 As soon as you reach a clearing, a FIGHT! sign will flash across the screen and you must dispatch 
 a group of enemies before youre allowed to move on. The simplicity of the platforming spills into 
 combat. Defeating most foes in the game only requires the use of a single button. There are a few 
 flashy team moves and some fancy jump kicks, but they very rarely need to be used. Instead you 
 can mash on the attack button until all the enemies are on their backs and continue your sprint 
 through the level.
  
  Youd think with the accidental deaths from the controls and the camera, and the lame fighting 
 action this game wouldnt be any fun. Fortunately, TMNT manages to rise above its flaws and provide 
 an entertaining, albeit short experience. The speed and fluidity of the turtles movement make 
 them a joy to watch as they scamper over rooftops and shimmy around ledges. Unlike the plodding 
 and planning that goes into making dangerous jumps in the Prince of Persia series, the depth defying 
 leaps of TMNT require no thinking. Sure the levels are linear, but its a great deal of fun to 
 blaze through them without stopping to think about where to go next. If anything, TMNT finally 
 captures the quickness and agility missing from previous Turtles games. The four brothers move 
 about the level as one would expect a mutant ninja turtle would.
  
  The graphics arent going to win any awards, but for a licensed multiplatform release, they arent 
 bad. The turtles themselves look like their movie counterparts and their surroundings match the 
 gritty New York presented in the film. Some of the textures are a bit bland and muddy, and enemies 
 repeat a little too often, but because the game moves so fast, you wont be sticking around to 
 look at them for long. The trailing effects on the turtles are nice additions, and the Sin City 
 inspired Raphael levels are fun.
  
  The story is presented through animated comic panels, which only look ok and arent near as neat 
 as the film. As with every TMNT game to date, expect the turtles to spout repetitive one-liners 
 until your ears bleed.
  
  TMNT is a short game, and though there are a few virtual missions to run through, there isnt much 
 replay value. The game does boast some easy achievements, and unlike other easy achievement games, 
 gaining them isnt pure agony.
  
  Overall
  TMNT lays down a good foundation for future iterations. With a few key improvements, this could 
 be a series to look forward to, for both fans and non-fans. Until Assassins Creed comes out, this 
 is as close as youll get to the crazy acrobatics of the Prince of Persia series.
  
  Purchase?
  No. This game is too short and too easy to warrant a purchase. Though it might be 
 fun to rent the game and the movie and have yourself a Turtles weekend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strategizer
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  To me I've played all the Ninja Turtles. I grew up with them. To me this is just an updated version 
 of the originals with a touch of todays gaming technology. I like it. The only downfall it has 
 is being a little frustrating at times but alot of todays games get like that. In my opinion it's 
 the best in the series and it really keeps you in it. To me it's not too hard nor is it easy. It 
 just depends on how you play it. But hey this is only my opinion. Do nobody think I'm bashin them. 
 Everyone has their own opinions. To me this game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 2:57 am PT
Review:  I went into this game with an open mind, and I really didn't get something to fill it. TMNT is 
 a straightforward and simple game. You run in one direction until you reach the end. Now, mind 
 you, there are certain parts when your race against time is interrupted for a short lesson or to 
 simply fight off some bad guys. However, the only time you fight people are after it subtly tells 
 you to. It does this by having the word fight flash on the screen. Am I starting to sound redundant 
 yet? Also, the camera views are both frustrating and annoyingly bad. Flying through the air in 
 a certain direction, only to have the camera shift on you, and find yourself flying through the 
 air in the wrong direction. On the other hand, if you simply want a game that takes little or no 
 thought or want a quick &amp; easy 1000 achievement points, definately pick up TMNT. Because of 
 the easy 1000 points I will give it a 6.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angrygamer24
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  I Bought This Game For My Xbox 360 And I Dont Understand Why This Game Is Being Reviewed So Poorly 
 Ive Played It From Beginning To End Its The Best Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles Game Ever And I Dont 
 Get Bored Playing This
  Game I Get So Excited The Fighting In This Game Is Superb Oh Yeah Everything In This Game Superb 
 Words Can Not Describe How Superb And Fun This Game Is I Erased My Game Saves Just So I can Play 
 This Game Over
  Again The Developers Of This Game Did An Excellent Job I Like The Game Play Because You Actually 
 feel As If Youre In Control Of The Turtles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M-Cash
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 18, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Way to easy. Got it at about nine in the morning and had it beat by about four thirty. but it was 
 a nice way to get a easy 1000 gp. Fans of the TMNT should pick it up but will probably be dissapointed. 
 follows the movie pretty good. clips of the movie through out the game where a nice touch too. 
 The fighting was pretty basic. one button combos. deffinatly alot of button mashing. but on a positive 
 note it deffinatly was a step up from the last few TMNT games that where made over the last few 
 years. has more of a gritty feel to it. although it seems like it was for the 8-15 age range. too 
 much of the same thing over again. graphics where very good though, very detailed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kayrod29
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Here is my review of TMNT for Xbox 360.
  
  GAMEPLAY - TMNT consists of two basic actions: platforming and fighting. The platforming is pretty 
 fun, the fighting, not so much. The game is set up so that you go around the level in basic platforming, 
 similar to prince of persia where you scale walls and swing from poles. Then the game will put 
 you in fight mode. So you're either running around the level or fighting, you can't do both at 
 once. When you fight, you have the B button to do a basic attack, Y button to Kick, X button to 
 do team attacks, A button to jump, and RB button to block. Later during the game, you will be able 
 to do team attacks, all varying depending on which turtle you control. The fighting is dull, boring, 
 and repetitive. Aside from the team attacks, there isn't much variety.
  
  GRAPHICS - The graphics for TMNT have a comic book feel to it. Aside from the terrible looking 
 environments and flat balloons , it's looks good for a movie game and represents the turtles very 
 well.
  
  SOUND - Voice acting is decent. Soundtrack is bland. What sets it off the wrong way is having the 
 turtles say things every five seconds that either isn't funny, doesn't make sense, or is said the 
 wrong way. Hurts your ears and becomes very annoying.
  
  VALUE - A decent rental. The game can be beaten in about two hours and the achievements are very 
 easy, so easy a caveman can do it! After you beat the game, there is nothing else to see, unless 
 you want to do the challenge maps which are a waste of time and are not important. What hurts the 
 value is is two very important factors: online play and co-op play. It's two things you should 
 expect from a turtles game and sadly, none are present.
  
  In conclusion, TMNT for the Xbox 360 is a decent rental. It should take you about two hours to 
 beat the game and get all 1000 achievement points. A good game for the gamerscore junkies out there. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: queek1313
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 13, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  After a long run of so so TMNT games to date I was hoping for a bit more from this one. The controls 
 are very easy, the game play is easy and I really hope your into jumping puzzles and looking for 
 that missing ledge that has caused you to die countless times. If there is one main thing about 
 this game its the graphics, I think the game looks great and the turtles look good and their movement 
 looks well done. I really wish there was some kind of multi player to the game I think that would 
 help it a bunch. Something that I know for a fact is that the 360 version of the game is far better 
 than the one for the WII. The controls for the WII are just goofy and make the game a lot harder 
 than it really is. Oh by the way I called this review easy gamer score because it is. You can rack 
 up a bunch of points in no time at all. All you have to do is beat a mission and bang 20+ points. 
 All and all I would say its a fun plat-former style game and could waste a few hours but I will 
 be really hard to pick this one back up after finishing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay_k3
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 5, 2007 2:05 am PT
Review:  I was excited when this game came out, but I was reluctant to try it out. I had a great impression 
 on the gameplay and the design of the game. Since this is the next gen. The gameplay is pretty 
 difficult unless you like jumping all over the place and getting through obstacles like prince 
 of persia. If you like that fashion of gameplay then this is the game for you. If you don't then 
 renting it maybe enough, if you like easy achievement points. The controls are fairly simple and 
 you fight the enemy with basically one button sometimes more if you want to do tricks or something. 
 Also there is no multiplayer including xbox live. If this game had coop or online play it would 
 be awesome, but it doesn't. Its more geared towards a younger audience. Overall I thought the game 
 was easy except for a few parts particularly the last boss. I also think some of the levels maybe 
 a little too difficult for younger children. Overall the game is fair, if you are a die hard ninja 
 turtle fan buy it, if not don't bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ansuk
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 31, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  Ok, so its not gonna win any awards, nor is it giving us anything groundbreaking or something not 
 done before but it certainly is fun!
  
  Theres only around 6 hours of play here so i would recommend you rent it rather than buy it because 
 for 6 hours its bloody expensive! The game pretty much follows the movie, giving you boss battles 
 with the bad guys of the movie and the dialogue can be quite funny. The game play is nothing new, 
 its a bog standard on the rails platformer but its executed well enough to not feel like youve 
 done it hundreds of times before.
  
  The graphics are nothing special but what do you expect for cartoon turtles! Overall i enjoyed 
 it on my day off and based on this one i would probably get the next one if there is one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihateyou_right
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 10, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  Sure you could instantly dismiss this game as one for a younger audience, but if you want a straight 
 up action game thats easy and fun then it acctually fits the bill.
  
  The best thing about this game is that it is ment for children it has been made for children to 
 be played by children but as an adult it can still be very enjoyable. It plays out like a Prince 
 of Persia game where you have to perform nija like acrobatics like running along walls and jumping 
 gaps and it also contains a fighting system albiet compared to Prince of Persia its very basic 
 it is still fun to use and feel satisfying to do each activity.
  
  The game is short it took me 3:30 to complete th gam and get all the achievements that said getting 
 all of them was fun and seriously I would go through this game again I really enjoyed it. The game 
 does have some majour shortcomming though a terrible camera will lead to countless unnessasery 
 deaths and the actual fighting becomes more of a B bashing competition but other than these the 
 game is enjoyable. If your after a short break from all those shooters you've been playing online 
 or just a break from anything taxing and just want to play a game without really having to think 
 about anything at all when playing it then this is for you and its just what I needed to be honest.
 
  
  Gameplay: Simple but pritty fun.
  
  Graphics: Poor but it runs smoothly and it suits the game nicely in a sort of comic stly to it.
 
  
  Sound: Poor the catch fraises will annoy the hell out of you, this is one for a coustom soundtrack.
 
  
  value: 3-4 hours is really poor, maybe just rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hontono18
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jul 10, 2007 7:16 am PT
Review:  This game wasn't that bad. No no wrong it was. Ok wall it might not be the worst game ever it still 
 isn't a game that is something that the average gamer would want to play. The story is, as far 
 as I can tell, the same as the movie (I didn't see the movie just going off of the cut scenes in 
 the game) . The story is ok, but hay it's TMNT what did you expect? So once you get that the story 
 and game is for kids you should be good to go. Now in game you will jump and fight. Yep that's 
 it just jumping and fighting. As far as the jumping goes it is just that jumping. You can double 
 jump, but if you do that were you only need to do a single jump then you over shot it and have 
 to go back to a check point and do it again. The reason for this problem is the camera. The camera 
 sucks. You can't judge distance and thus you make many a jumping mistake. Same problem with the 
 fighting. That darn camera again. Also doing both these things through 16 levels is extremely repetitive. 
 The only good thing about this game is that if you a 360 owner and you want 1000 more points you 
 can get them with this game. All you do is play it and you get them. Piece of cake. As long as 
 you can sit there for about 5 or less hours and be in pain every minute you should do just fine. 
 Now the graphics and sound are average. The graphics are just about the same on each console and 
 that sound is, other then the cheesey lines the heros and vilians give, ok. Can't complain, but 
 sure can't give them praise. As far as value goes the only reason to RENT this game would be the 
 points. If you buy it I feel sorry for you. For me this was a game that failed. I was hoping for 
 something more. I mean when a 1989 arcade game is better then an 07' relase I can't help, but to 
 think where did all the good times go? So if you like TMNT please rent it, but if you want a serious 
 TMNT game get the 1989 arcade version off of Live. It's worth your money more then this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigastormz
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 10, 2007 6:18 am PT
Review:  TMNT for Xbox 360 is based on the feature film that was released last spring. It features all 4 
 of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, Leonardo, Raphael, Michaelangelo and Donatello. Splinter will 
 serve as your guide throughout the game. All of the characters are voiced, but I'm not sure if 
 they are the voice actors from the movie, or from the current cartoon on Kids WB. Either way they 
 sound quite good. TMNT is a 3D platformer/adventure game developed by Ubisoft Montreal. The game 
 is divided up into 16 stages where you are rated on how well you fight, how fast you complete the 
 mission, and how many coins you collect. The first 5 or so missions you use only one of the Turtles, 
 but as all 4 meet up again (plot point from the movie) you may switch between them during combat 
 or just during the level itself. The turtles all have different co-op attacks in battle as well 
 as during the platforming sequences of the level. For example you can call for help from another 
 turtle when you need to make a very long jump.
  The platforming sequences in the game are absolutely fantastic. The turtles feel like actual ninjas 
 when they're running, swinging, climbing, and jumping all over the rooftops. The coolest thing 
 about it is that the turtles are really fast. They are as fast as you'd think a ninja would be, 
 yet they are graceful as well. I do not like platformers at all, and I don't play them but I enjoyed 
 the platforming in TMNT quite a bit. The combat, on the other hand, is really bad. Basically you 
 do the same 5 hit combo with just one button, over and over and over and over. The combat is very 
 boring, the enemies are cheap and I found myself loathing the beginning of every fight and hoping 
 to get back to the platforming right away. Sure there are some interesting co-op attacks you can 
 do with the turtles but those take too long to pull off. You have to hold the x button down for 
 a few seconds and then release it for the attack to work but by the time it's powered up you most 
 likely will get hit by an enemy. The one cool thing about combat is the rage mode. Once you've 
 defeated enough enemies and filled up a meter you unleash very powerful attacks that kill enemies 
 in one hit and the game slows down to bullet time. It's kinda neat and makes quick work of your 
 enemies.
  Even with the crappy combat system the game might be worth a purchase if it were longer. I finished 
 the game, and got all 1,000 achievement points in about 5 hours tops. The game is extremely easy 
 and way too short to warrant paying money for it. I had no desire to continue playing the game 
 to unlock the bonus content after I got the achievements. That said, be sure to rent this game 
 for easy points and an afternoon's worth of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Croix-Man
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 10, 2007 4:03 am PT
Review:  So yeah, this summer hasn't been the greatest game release wise in my opinion so besides Gears 
 and Oblivion I have been picking up some short fun games to beat before Two Worlds comes out.
 
  
  Don't get TMNT thinking it will be a classic like the SNES Turtles in Time. Instead go in thinking 
 like Spider Man: The Movie. Where it is fun because you you are a hero you grew up loving, but 
 oh so much work could have been done.
  
  I do not believe the gameplay gets as boring as everyone else claims it does. Don't get me wrong 
 it does become boring to fight. BUT the whole running around the city on the skyscrapers, well 
 since Prince of Persia I have been wanting to do that. It would have been so much if they made 
 it so at least two Turtles could be on the screen, and for co-op but no such luck I suppose. I 
 don't really know what else to say but if you want a fun quick game, go get it.
  
  -The Croix Man 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediMutantX3
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 10, 2007 3:36 am PT
Review:  I don't like the Comic-book style presentation. I rather it has Cutscenes to watch.
  
  Combat isn't that good... but I love the platform gameplay, jump, etc but it's not very hard. Once 
 you know what to do, the game is a Piece of Cake! No puzzle-solving like Tomb Raider. No NPCs to 
 talk to. Pretty much a Simple beat-up game with Platforming.
  
  Graphics is Barely Next-gen. It certainly won't WOW you.
  
  It's very short, 16 levels... Under 
 10 hours to beat the game! I would Recommend you Rent this game, or buy it if it's below $15... 
 You can complete almost everything within the Rental period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icebergstorm
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 7, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  Many people says that TMNT is really a bad game and too easy, etc etc. I've been playing video games 
 for more than a decade (and could be called a veteran ) , but my point is maybe people say it's 
 easy in the sense of unlimited continues and there are just gazillion checkpoints saving your progress, 
 so you can continue from the last checkpoints (which are really really short in distance, so you 
 don't have to start all over again from your 30 minutes efforts , for example. I must admit, I 
 got this game primarily to get the 1000 GamerPoints, but it wasn't as easy as I would expect! you 
 do tend to die if your timing and momentum is not right (prince or persia wall-jumping and walking 
 style bit) . I had to repeat over and over and over, everytime i miss the jumping and go straight 
 to the holes! I didn't really count how many times i miss the jumping and/or how many times i continued 
 not to mention figuring out how to kill the final bosses! but it certainly has really been enjoyable 
 game! So advice to any of the 360 gamers who read this, if you wanna get an easy 1000 points, this 
 is really the game for you! Although I must say it is definitely NOT that easy! you have to be 
 perseverance to repeat the fails trust me! and even worst! if you want to collect all the complete 
 shells, you have to at least play twice for each levels! but it's fine you'll still get all the 
 1000 points even if you dont collect all of them! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sectorzero
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 29, 2007 1:23 am PT
Review:  Okay, here is the story. I saw the movie hoping that it wasn't going to be as bad as i thought 
 it would be, and it turned out not to be. So i took this experience and rented the game, hoping 
 it wouldn't suck as much as I thought it would. And for the most part, it didn't (i thought it would 
 be A LOT worse) . I play through it, and the first thing i notice is that this game doesn't offer 
 any kind of co-op, a bit weird for a Turtles game. However, this didn't keep me from playing through 
 the entire thing. I spend pretty much the whole day on it, and before you know it, it's all over. 
 I know this is a movie game, but even still, it's WAY too short a game. Now on to the technical 
 aspects of this game. It's graphics aren't spectacular, but they aren't awful either. The Turtles 
 themselves look nice, but the environments are a little bland. The enemies themselves also could 
 use a little more detail. The sound aspect of this game is okay at best. The best part about it 
 is the voice acting, pretty good for a movie game if you ask me. The music gets boring and repetitive, 
 as it's pretty much the same thing every level. All in all, this game is your typical game based 
 on a movie, but despite all it's short comings, it's a fun game if your looking for some fun in 
 the action genre. The Achievements are also VERY easy to acquire (all of them can be acquired by 
 playing through the Story) , so for you Achievement hunters out there, you might want to consider 
 renting this one. If you aren't after Achievements and you still want this game, I still recommend 
 a rental.
  
  Pros: Voice acting, Fun fights, controls are pretty tight.
  
  Cons: Way to short for it's own good, environments are very plain and uninspired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDanwich
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 19, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game, and i know it is funny for me to tell you this because i know this game is 
 so mediocre. But anyway on to the review!
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay elements of this game are as follows. The game is run on Ubisoft's Jade 
 engine, the engine used for the prince of persia games. SO that is a good thing right? WRONG. The 
 game has almost no clue what it is most of the time, is it a prince of persia game, or is it a 
 new kind of turtle game? For the life of me i dont know but lets move on. So aside from the apparent 
 identity issues, this game actually tries to succeed in the many ways that make platformers so 
 great. It has some very good jumping sequences, all of which are pretty well thought out (i stress 
 pretty) . It has the basic combat sequences with brain dead AI who will cheaply attack you when 
 you very least expect it, it also has an array of boss battles to fight. You would think with the 
 team behind prince of persia that this would work out in the end. But sadly this game falls on 
 its arse, the comabt is boring and repetitive, doing the same B button attack over and over again 
 might seem cool and fun at first, after the 2nd level you tend to figure out how not fun it is. 
 The games platforming sequences are the highlight but are plauged by a god awful camera. Ok so 
 the camera isnt TERRIBLE, but its bad enough so the depth perception between gaps can sometimes 
 be mis calculated and lead to very frustrating deaths. Now on the other hand the turtles are fun 
 to play with and use, although the use different weaopns, they still feel like they play the same. 
 But you can use their different set of special moves from Raphs climbing on walls to Leon's ghosting 
 through gates. So this does mix it up a bit in the gameplay. Every character has as special move 
 that uses another turtle to do some kind of power move, these at first are very cool but get old 
 quickly due to the fact you use them almost all the time ( there is a 15 second cool down after 
 you use the moves) . Big complaint though, NO COOP PLAY!!!?!?! you have got to kidding me, i was 
 so mad when i found this out i almost didnt play it. It would have been so awesome to play with 
 your friends as your favorite turtles. That is the gameplay in short, i dont want to go into incredible 
 detail. Graphics: The cel shaded look fits the turtles, no slow downs, runs good. Nice job. New 
 York looks a little bland but still pretty decent. Sound: Sounds good, not annoying, i like not 
 annoying.
  
  Replay: HAHAHAHAHAHA beat it once forget about it. very bland and boring afterwards.
  
  Overall: 
 When i went to see the movie i was expecting it to be terrible, but i was shocked at how good it 
 actually was. Not that it was amazing, but it was enjoyable and fun to watch. I wish i could say 
 the same about this game. It was a little bit of fun in my cup of Xbox 360, the fun was there for 
 me because i liked the movie though. I RENTED this game thank god because its short as hell and 
 the acheivments are as easy as beating the game. So if you like the movie, and you can deal with 
 repetitive, identity issues, mediocre combat, great platforming, and a easy 1000 points, you might 
 enjoy your time with the turtles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgt_Quagmire
Rating: 1.4
Date: Jun 18, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  The game was a complete diaster , first off, the game wasn't coop which is an awful decision by 
 the developers since the TMNT are based on team tactics. The only good thing about this game were 
 the controls, which were ultimately smooth and fluent. Other than that the game is very repititve 
 and completely boring, the lightning and graphics were awful and didn't fit the settings. Although 
 the movie was awesome it didn't make a good game because of the no coop and awful fight scenes. 
 Maybe if the game was more thought out and had more time this game might have redeemed itself but 
 turns out the complete failure it is. Sad day in TMNT history.......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoneWolfRei
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 13, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  TMNT is a solid enough game and it there is some fun to be had in this short adventure. However, 
 this game is VERY short. If you know what you are doing or have ever played any of the Prince of 
 Persia games before, this will be familiar territory for you. That is not to say that it is Prince 
 of Persia with the turtles skin on it. It does not measure up to the great immersive experience 
 that you get from the PoP series. Graphics: They are similar across all platforms. The 360 version 
 does look the best due to slightly better textures and high definition. The game has a pretty nice 
 cell shading style to it that fits the game pretty well. The turtles look really good and all animate 
 very well, however the backgrounds and setting are ugly. Trees look like something you would have 
 seen in early PS2 days and has some very rugged edges that just look nasty when you see the turtles 
 run across them. Also in terms of setting, the game tries to mix it up a little. Starting you out 
 in a jungle, then taking you to the mean streets of a fictional NYC, which most of the turtles 
 universe takes place around. Also you get to go down to the sewers that the series takes place 
 of most of the time. I will also give kudos to the some of the levels that you play as the Night 
 Watcher . Which all look like they are taken directly out of a comic book. You see the Night Watcher 
 in all his red and black glory but all the rest of the stuff is in a faded black and white color 
 that really looks pretty good. Sound: What you come to expect from TMNT. It has decent music I 
 suppose, I never really even noticed it in the background to tell you the truth, so it must have 
 not been that good, but it didn't bother me. The weapons and hits didn't sound to great, just kind 
 of cracking and slashing sounds, nothing to great. The voice acting was pretty good, although you 
 will get VERY SICK of hearing all of their one-liners over and over all the time, especially Mikey... I 
 just about want to shoot myself than listen to one more of his stupid one-liners.
  
  Gameplay: It is fairly simple to understand, and you can tell it was geared more towards a younger 
 audience. The game consist of two things and two things only. Platforming from place to place to 
 place and a few fights in between. That is about it. The platforming is fairly fun, and some of 
 the platforming is interesting. The game steals about every element from Prince of Persia in the 
 platforming department, which is not a bad thing, but it does lack the complexity that you would 
 find in the PoP puzzle solving portions. For those who have not played the Prince of Persia series, 
 it is pretty much just scaling walls, running on walls, swinging from polls like a monkey, and 
 jumping inhuman distances to get to your next destination. That is pretty much what this game is 
 in a nut shell. Though you will run into some cumbersome parts when you have to deal with a bad 
 camera angle or the controls just don't act how you want them to. The fighting is where this game 
 really gets well.... killed. It is just mashing one button over and over and over and over until 
 they are dead. You can preform team attacks which clear the enemies on the screen which really 
 only, makes that fights that much more simple and boring. It is so boring I actually fell asleep 
 fighting and woke up about 10 mins. later and I was just standing there, no enemies around me, 
 I think I killed them all in my sleep, hell... all you have to do is mash the same button over 
 and over..... fighting was the biggest disappointment in this game. Story: I really didn't watch 
 too much of it, I think it does follow the movie it is licensed under pretty well, although I have 
 not seen the movie. It isn't very well explained in game cause most of it takes place WHILE you 
 are playing. I am a big fan of the TMNT, not so much the new series. I used to be absolutly hopelessly 
 obsessed with the older show when I was little, and I was dissapointed to not see Shredder or his 
 gang of over the top baddies in this game. But that could just me. Value: It really isn't worth 
 full price if worth a buy at all. I rented it for $5 bucks and beat it in 6 Hours getting all the 
 achievement points. That is one thing, if you care about your gamer score and want a way to boost 
 it very quickly, give this game a rent. The game doesn't have any different difficulties to it. 
 It does have extra challenges but nothing that is really CHALLENGING! So I couldn't recommend this 
 game to anyone looking to buy it.
  
  Overall: Decent enough game, nothing worth buying in my opinion. I will stick with Turtles in Time 
 on the SNES and I will stick with Prince of Persia if I want to play a game in this genre. I would 
 only recommend renting this for the kids, or just renting it to play for it's easy achievement 
 points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jejh1971
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 7, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  TMNT is somewhat fun to play, but it lacks that special something that makes it exciting and a 
 title you can't wait to play after work or school. It's best feature is it's graphical presentation 
 which recreates the comic book world perfectly. The combat is repetetive and dull and so is running 
 around, clinging to edges, jumping and swinging on poles. It's just too much of the same crap over 
 and over again to be much fun after the first 2 levels. It's a shame because it feels like a really 
 good game was almost created here, but instead a movie-tie-in was the highest watermark they were 
 shooting for... sad.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prof_Frink
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 2, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  Movie/video game tie-ins have been around since the Atari home system. Most of them are pretty 
 bad and are just trying to cash in on the popularity of the film the game is based. One of the 
 more current ones in the field is based off of the animated film, franchise. So, once again, Leo, 
 Don, Raph and Mike hit the big screen with the same personality traits that have been seen in the 
 comics, television and film.
  
  A lot of recent movie title tie-ins, actually sticks to the storyline of the movie instead of adding 
 new elements from either the series it is based from or outside elements that the designers thought 
 would be entertaining. This game actually allows the gamer to play elements from the movie, just 
 in more detail than the movie. The downfall to this is that it makes the game extremely short! 
 It can be completed in about five hours and that is if stretching it.
  
  The game play itself is very similar to most beat-em up style games. Each turtle has a specific 
 weapon that will vary on range, speed and style of attack. In certain levels, only a specific turtle 
 competes in th the level. In other levels, as play advances, more turtles become available and 
 finally, there are levels which all turtles are available. In the levels with multiple turtles 
 in them, the turtles can be switched almost instantly with the touch of a button. Along with this, 
 a co-op attack can be performed that will link two turtles with a special attack. Targeting enemies 
 can be a little sloppy and it is quite common to be swinging air when it seems that the blow should 
 have hit the enemy. The same goes where it was thought that a strike would miss hitting the turtle 
 only to have it smack right between the eyes. Thankfully, combat is only about 1/3 of the total 
 game. 2/3 of the game is puzzle solving and ninja acrobatics.
  
  Most of the game will have the turtles jumping from rooftops and through the sewers. In this part 
 of the game, the designers really put forth the energy and time. The turtles move with the grace 
 and speed that a ninja should move. The techniques flow through the game and are almost intuitive. 
 The only frustrating aspect is that the camera position is locked and it will cause the turtle 
 to fall often because it cannot be determined where the next platform is located. The plus side 
 is that it is not really possible to die in this game.
  
  in most games of this style, there are a set number of spare guys or a life bar, that once empty, 
 ends the game. Not in this game. If Leo or Don falls off a ledge, the game restarts back at the 
 last check point. If Mike takes too much damage, an button icon appears on the screen that indicates 
 to the player to rapidly push the button to wake the turtle up. During the entire run of the game, 
 I never got a game over screen. And the only downfall to falling off a ledge is that it slows down 
 the level clock and dieing in battle lowers the combat judge meter.
  
  The game clock and combat meter judge how well the turtles did in the level. The faster the level 
 is completed and the less damage taken will be awarded with better letter grades. These letter 
 grades plus the number of silver coins collected in a level award the player with gold shells. 
 These shells are used to unlock game bonuses like extra levels and movies.
  
  The bonus levels are just harder versions of the story levels and only serve to collect more golden 
 shells. They extend the game play a little, but the levels are not entertaining enough to play 
 them over and over again. This game is not worth owning. It is a fabulous rent or borrowing from 
 a friend, but is a waste to own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutta27
Rating: 3.8
Date: May 29, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Story: Well the story of the TMNT game basically follows the film, the game takes place after Shredder's 
 defeat, with the team essentially broken as Leonardo is training in Central America, Donatello 
 and Michelangelo have jobs, and Raphael spends his time as the vigilante crimefighter **** Leonardo 
 returns when Max Winters, an immortal warrior who tried to take over the world 3,000 years ago, 
 begins hunting for alien beasts and stone statues of his former Generals. However, tensions begin 
 to rise between Raphael and Leonardo over the leadership of the team.
  
  Story:8/10
  
  Gameplay: This is the major flaw in the game, the gameplay of this game is very rudimentary and 
 extremely poor. The Game uses 1 button for all actions related to movement and another for fighting, 
 all the fighting is mapped to b so in fighting situations which aren't very often you just randomly 
 tap or hold b and if you are lucky my get to do a double team and hold x. The jumping, wall running 
 and climbing is all done with the a button which at times can be very frustrating as you may want 
 to jump a gap but instead end up sicking to the wall and going farther than you wanted therefore 
 missing your ledge and dieing. The game blatantly copies prince of Persia in how it plays so why 
 cant they map the controls similar, it would have made things alot easier control wise. The Game 
 is also very short it took me all of 3 hours to finish so i would recommend renting this. The only 
 plus side of this game that i see is that it has pretty easy achievement points.
  
  Game play: 2/10
  
  Graphics.: The cut scenes are pretty good, they are scenes from the film 
 remixed and also some additional ones which are set out like a comic book. But in game graphics 
 on the 360 version anyway are pretty poor, i don't know if it a straight PS2 port o what but they 
 are the worst of the next gen so dfar imho.
  
  Graphics: 5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thorpe89
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 16, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  TMNT seems to be that sort-of game that kids will just love. It can be a great experience for anyone 
 but the designs of some levels lead to frustration. There are sixteen levels to complete. Some 
 of the very first levels should be completed in a matter of minutes. As you progress, things may 
 get a bit more trickier and with more fights you can see this becoming a repetitive process.
  
  The very first level introduces you to many elements of how the game works (a tutorial if you 
 like) . It is rather easy to pick this title up and learn how it controls in a short amount of time. 
 You have the typical button to jump, attack and call for help. Jumping, like some other games can 
 be done twice. So, if you're in the air you can make one further jump to help you get across a 
 gap. Later, you learn each character's moves. There isn't really that much to the fighting in this 
 game. You come across many fights throughout the game but in the end this proves to be a repetitive 
 and annoying process to go through. You may find it easier to change turtles every now and then 
 but this is not always an option present.
  
  One major annoyance is the fixed camera. You cannot control the camera even though it looks like 
 you can being a 3D platforming game. The camera will automatically move for you when you progress. 
 It can often help you where to go next (since the camera sometimes zooms in to particular location) 
 but sometimes the view is just silly. It can often take many tries to jump over something because 
 of the way the camera is positioned.
  
  Everytime you complete a level, the turtles go over what has happened. The voice acting is neat 
 and clear. The story is outlined in a comic book which details what has been done in that level. 
 Some often funny jokes are inserted here and there - primarily aimed at kids. Dialogue is present 
 throughout the levels. You'll often hear sarcastic comments from the turtles but it gets old quickly. 
 The main reason is because sometimes they'll repeatedly say the same quotes over and over in the 
 same level.
  
  Some parts of the levels require you to use a specific turtle. One can get through bars, another 
 can climb up walls and another can hover for a limited time - these elements can help you out a 
 bit. For the most part, you will be jumping and climbing. There are a few fights but the main focus 
 here is on the platforming. The reason why it can become frustrating for when you are trying to 
 jump is because of the camera. You need to get the timing right of a jump otherwise your turtle 
 will fall to a death. Fights are pretty easy to get through but if you ever are struggling you 
 can always use a tag-team move or ground pound the floor to move some of the enemies away. There 
 are some boss fights that may be a bit tricky at first but once you're used to them they're pretty 
 easy to master.
  
  Now, unfortunately the graphics don't hold up well for being on an Xbox 360. Sure, it's not supposed 
 to be a graphics intensive game but some more details could of been put into the environments and 
 characters. There are occasional frame rate drops that occur sometimes too. TMNT proves to be quite 
 a good game aimed for kids mainly but anyone can just quickly jump into it. The action is pretty 
 much over before you know it - you're looking at maybe 4-5 hours of getting through this.
  
  As for achievements, these are all pretty simple to get. Many of them occur when you complete 
 a level, use a character's special move for the first time and finding your first gold coin. The 
 only difficult one here would be to get through a level without taking no damage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dracula_16
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 4, 2008 4:25 am PT
Review:  Based on the Movie of the same name, TMNT is a Platforming/Action game which tries to give you 
 something similar to Ninja Gaiden but with your four favorite turtles. The result is something 
 that ultimately fails in more categories than it succeeds in.
  
  TMNT is very similar to Ninja Gaiden but it's much easier because it's largely targeted towards 
 kids who are fans of the movie. The lack of difficulty is mostly to due to the combat. The fight 
 scenes are presented rather predictably because they all take place in large, empty rooms. Whenever 
 you run into bad guys the word "Fight!" appears on the screen. It would've gone a long way to make 
 the fights more seamless. It'd also make more sense if every fighting room weren't square and twice 
 the size of what it ought to be. 
  
  Other than fighting you'll be overcoming obstacles usually by jumping and using ninja abilities 
 such as wall jumping and wall running. There's some good environmental variety to the platforming 
 segments such as the interior of a castle, in the sewers, on the rooftops of buildings, and more. 
 The turtles can also use some special abilities like hovering in the air with spinning nunchakus 
 and climbing walls with daggers. A wall will glow red when it's climbable and that feels as if 
 the game is holding your hand to cross the smallest street in the world. 
  
  You'll savor the abundance of platforming because the combat is dreadful. There are some basic 
 kicking and punching combos but you'll never need to do anything other than mindlessly mash the 
 B button the entire time. This tactic works due to the fact that the enemies in TMNT game are dumber 
 than a squashed peanut. You can run through packs of enemies and laugh while you wait for them 
 to wake up and finally attack you. The stupid enemies and weak combo system make the combat in 
 TMNT a chore to get through. At least if the enemies weren't all identical it'd be a little above 
 dreadful, though. 
  
  The graphics are decent. The little pictures that show up in the right or left side of the screen 
 when someone talks look good, and some other environments are pretty. The game uses a cell-shaded 
 art style and I think it really suits the turtles well. The turtles' characters models are quite 
 detailed and they animate well. 
  
  The sound is average at best. Everything is fine except for the repetitive voice acting. Some of 
 the voice clips sound clever at first such as  dude!" but after 
 you here that for the hundredth time it becomes excruciating.
  
  You can beat TMNT in [roughly] four and a half hours which is laughably short for a full priced 
 Xbox 360 game. There's some unlockable stuff such as timed obstacle courses but they aren't interesting 
 enough to bother with. The achievments are easy enough to get through in a rental period. (yes, 
 all 1000 of them)
  
  Overall I'd say that TMNT is a shallow game that fails at more things than it succeeds at. If you've 
 got a young child then maybe it's worth a look but for everyone else it's only worth a rental because 
 it's too short and easy. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furious_George1
Rating: 1
Date: May 9, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  I don't know how they missed it. One of the best (and earliest) TMNT games was in the arcade when 
 I was a kid and it was 4 PLAYER COOP. The 2nd TMNT game that came out for the Nintendo (We're talking 
 Original NES) was at least 2 player coop. I mean its a team of four brothers who fight together, 
 this isn't Batman. The X-Men Legends series had enough sense to make their games 4 players.
  
  I'm shocked... I haven't played the game just because of this and I probably won't waste my 
 time or money because of the other reviews suggest it to be mediocre at best.
  
  Sorry Ubisoft no points here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abefermon
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 9, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  gracias a ubisoft por tomar en cuenta a los jugadores de poca edad con juegos como este, aqui yo 
 considero que las clalificaciones de los expertos deberian de ser con comentarios de peque&ntilde; os 
 por que no considero justo que sea calificado como si se tratase de un juego para los mejores gamer, lo 
 han jugado los pueque&ntilde; os de mi casa y los he visto divertirse como con ningun otro juego, les 
 comenta uno de oblivion, de gears of war, co3 y ni siquiera caso les hacen, logico no son juegos parasu 
 edad, le preguntaba a uno de ellos como calificaria este juego y rapidamente contesto ccoooon dddiiieeeezzzzzz.
 
  debemos deser muy objetivos a la hora de decidir si les compramos tal juego y no dejarnos llevar 
 con calificaciones de adultos para juegos de ni&ntilde; os. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 6, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Judging by the questionable quality of the recent Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles film  abbreviated 
 TMNT, presumably for the sake of synergy  its hard to imagine the game would be any better. In 
 fact, one would probably expect an apocalyptically bad title. However, TMNT the game surprises 
 by actually providing a reasonably fun title to dive into. Utilizing the team that masterminded 
 Prince of Persia, Ubisoft makes everyones favorite mutant reptiles more agile than ever, making 
 sprinting across walls and leaping across buildings a common exercise. Dont be fooled; its nowhere 
 near as good as the teams previous efforts, and the game feels rushed in many aspects of its execution. 
 Its light years from perfection, but young Ninja Turtle fans will find something to enjoy here.
 
  
  The games story (and that term is used loosely) has the turtles telling stories of their exploits 
 to Splinter, the rat-like head of the Ninja Turtle clan. So each of the games sixteen levels functions 
 as a flashback, ostensibly telling a part of the greater plot. Without any exposition from the 
 film, however, almost none of the story sequences make any sense. Levels are typically far-removed 
 from one another, going from a forest or cavernous environment to a gritty, stylized view of a 
 metropolis without much explanation. So if youre looking for a true companion to the film or the 
 extended mythos of the Ninja Turtles, you wont find it in TMNT.
  
  What will you will find, though, is some decent (if a little half-baked) platforming sequences 
 mixed with drab combat. Thankfully, emphasis is placed on the former. The games opening levels 
 give you control of one specific turtle, although the ability to change to any turtle becomes available 
 soon after. Not that it really matters; aside from a few very specific instances (like walls that 
 can only be scaled with Raphaels sai blades) , the turtles handle identically. Each of their weapons 
 seem to do the same amount of damage, and each can perform your basic platforming maneuvers such 
 as double-jumping and hopping back and forth between walls to scale them. Most of these controls 
 work great, although a huge oversight was to limit in-air control of your jumps, which can make 
 sections with lots of fast-moving boobytraps more frustrating than they probably should be.
  
  Levels typically take place on city rooftops, and theyre fairly organically designed, naturally 
 guiding you from one piece of wild footwork to the next. Youll be jumping across balloons from 
 a street parade, running across walls and swinging around on poles, all within the span of five 
 minutes. Theres not a whole lot of challenge to these sections  they definitely look more dangerous 
 than they play  but the fluidity of them lends these portions of TMNT a palpable level of enjoyment. 
 There are even a few tag-team style moves that lend an extra layer of intricacy to the game; switching 
 turtles in the middle of jump, for example, will cause the turtle being switched out to vault the 
 new one forward for more leverage thatll cross the biggest chasm.
  
  Unfortunately, the camera likes to step in and ruin the fun. Instead of giving you control over 
 the viewing angle with the right stick, TMNT uses an automated camera that often gives you a shot 
 of the action thats far too tight. The camera will begin panning to show you which direction to 
 go next, which keeps things moving along, but oftentimes seeing whats up ahead isnt a possibility. 
 As you might expect, this can lead to some pretty cheap deaths that are mildly annoying to older 
 players but could be angering for younger ones. Some occasionally weird angles also make it difficult 
 to gauge jumps, which further detracts from the fun.
  
  The camera does a better job during the fight sequences. Not that it matters, though, since TMNTs 
 snooze-inducing combat is of little worth to your enjoyment of the game. Using any of the four 
 turtles, you take a run at the dozens of enemies the game throws at you and tap on the B button 
 and watch as your enemies go down in two or three hits. Thats it. Theres no combo system or anything 
 of the sort  youll be watching the same five or six strung together animations for each turtle 
 over and over again. Theres a block button, sure, but youll almost never have to use it, save 
 for maybe one of the few flat boss encounters in the game. The bosses are in some ways even easier 
 than the regular battles, since you wont even need to look out for attacks from different locations 
  just run and mash in one direction, and youre OK.
  
  Unfortunately, you wont exactly get to glide through the boring combat on account of attractive 
 visuals, either. Clearly designed for older hardware, TMNT on the 360 is overwhelmingly bland. 
 Artistically, it matches the banal style of its film inspiration. The lighting and shading on the 
 environments make each piece of scenery pop out slightly, making the levels feel pieced together, 
 as though they dont quite mesh like they should. And despite the visual plainness, the frame rate 
 has a tendency to chop up, seemingly at random. Its not a total throwaway  the 360 version benefits 
 from high-definition clarity and a few extra flourishes of environmental detail. This definitely 
 isnt a way to show off your consoles power.
  
  The audio is serviceable and blends in dutifully with the action, seemingly with no desire to stand 
 out. The little music the game has is completely forgettable, but the games sound effects and 
 voice acting, while not spectacular, get the job done. The only truly unfortunate part of the audio 
 is that many of the Turtles one-liners  which werent funny in the first place  get repeated 
 constantly as you go through the game, and they wear out their welcome almost instantly.
  
  In all, TMNT mixes serviceable acrobatics with flat combat and a non-sensical story. This ones 
 recommended only to diehard Turtles fans or those with a serious achievement point addiction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emeraldqueen
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 5, 2007 5:42 am PT
Review:  The TNMT are back with more fun, this game is very fun to play. It is a kid oriented game so is 
 not a difficult game to play, the achievements are very easy to get. The graphics are very cool 
 and the sound is great, the best part that I like is that in a certain point of the game you can 
 switch turtles you have also this The Matrix moves so is very cool. They game it self is fun and 
 fast so it keeps you busy by not wanting to stop. I recommend this game to any TNMT fan and for 
 the kids is an A+. This game doesn't have online gaming but is ok, protecting the kids is a must 
 in Xbox Live. If you are an Adult and like the TNMT give it try you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErikWaters
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  nostalgia [nostalgia] noun. A wistful desire to return in thought or in fact to a former time 
 in one's life; a sentimental yearning for the happiness of a former place or time
  
  Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles [teeneyj myootnt ninjuh turtuls] noun. A family of crime fighting 
 brothers that today's 20-something crowd spent the majority of their childhoods mimicking and spending 
 their parents' money on. See also: nostalgia
  
  It has been nearly a decade and a half since the lean green fighting machine was last seen on the 
 big screen. After the abysmal Hollywood disaster known as Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III, it 
 looked pretty bleak whether the turtles would ever resurface. Yes, a turtle pun already. Deal with 
 it.
  
  Fourteen years later, first time director and fellow geek Kevin Munroe has successfully revived 
 the brothers four once again in their completely new and computer generated film aptly titled TMNT. 
 Fans worldwide rejoiced at the chance to see a potentially decent movie starring their favorite 
 characters, but for a certain West Georgian video game reviewer this movie represented a slightly 
 different glimmer of hope. It represented a hopeful return of a respectable Ninja Turtles video 
 game.
  
  Since the epic release of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Turtles in Time for arcade and Super Nintendo, 
 the market for acceptable TMNT games has sharply plummeted, especially games following the new 
 2003 cartoon. But with the brand new movie already out in theaters now, is it possible that the 
 Turtles will get a much needed boost?
  
  The quick and honest answer is yes and no. On the positive side, TMNT is a very solid game. Not 
 relying so much on the beat-em-up type action of past games, this game insinuates the stealthy 
 ninja characteristic of the turtles with platforming gameplay galore.
  
  Similar to Ubisoft's other platforming and action game series Prince of Persia, the Ninja Turtles 
 are much more agile than their virtual predecessors. Their newfound agility allows for plenty of 
 running across and scaling up walls, incredibly fluid fights with martial arts, and altogether 
 an improved sense of why the Ninja Turtles are so untouchably cool in the first place.
  
  In combat, each turtle possesses a unique personality and method of fighting that reflects that 
 personality. Michelangelo's childishness will result in him basically break dance fighting with 
 his nunchaku while Raphael is less forgiving and more aggressive with his twin sai in hand. This 
 personality is not only displayed through their fighting abilities, but also via voice actors who 
 do a decent job of representing the turtles and their quirky one-liners.
  
  But as solid as the gameplay is, TMNT has some serious downfalls that crush any chance of it being 
 the next epic Ninja Turtles game for fans. The biggest of these flaws is the game's embarrassingly 
 short length. The game is broken down into 16 levels, which actually sounds like a lot of levels. 
 However with each level taking roughly five to ten minutes to complete, a truly inspired gamer 
 could easily play through the entire game in one sitting. For a game that is almost full price, 
 this is inexcusable.
  
  Sure the game has a few bonus missions and secrets to unlock through the collecting of turtle coins, 
 but said bonus missions are speed completion levels that take less than 20-30 seconds and the coins 
 are so abundant in the game that all unlockable pictures and videos can be opened up and disregarded 
 in no time. Adding insult to injury, TMNT is a completely single player game with no sign of a 
 single multiplayer feature. For a series that is constantly preaching the notion of friendship, 
 brotherhood, and all that warm gooey stuff, a lack of feature that made past Ninja Turtles games 
 so popular is downright shameful. The point could be made that this type of fast-paced platforming 
 gameplay may not be ideal for two players at once, but at least add a few multiplayer mini-games 
 for the younger audience to share with their siblings or friends.
  
  While Turtles in Time it isn't, it is still incredibly hard not to recommend this game for a quick 
 play through. Overlooking the faults of the length, the slight repetitiveness, and a total lack 
 of multiplayer, TMNT is definitely worth a rent. Whether it's for the youngsters or the youngsters 
 at heart looking for their nostalgic return to Saturday morning cartoon bliss, this game is a radically 
 solid adventure game that true Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle fans will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranaky
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 23, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  TMNT is nothing new when it comes to the platforming and arcade genre. It is not original or new 
 but still a great game to play if you have free time. It is the only TMNT game that I've enjoyed 
 since the arcade and the SNES version
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  You follow the role of one turtle at a time at the beginning then eventually team up with all 4. 
 The game plays a lot like Prince of Persia in terms of exploration. The turtles can run across 
 walls, run straight up them to reach a ledge, swing on poles and the like. It's entertaining when 
 you add the speed of which the turtles can run making it so you can run through a level at great 
 speeds while performing cool stunts. This is very easy to do because this game was built for a 
 younger audience but I still found my self enjoying it. Plus later in the game the jumps become 
 a little more challenging if not frustrating.
  
  The combat follows an arcade style where many enemies keep coming at you at given times. In all 
 honesty, this game would be completely boring if all you did was fight, and Ubisoft has done a 
 great job of timing the battle sequences and the platforming segments. Plus later in the game you 
 are able to switch what turtle you're using by pressing X so you can use a different weapon set. 
 Ubisoft also added a Co-op attack which seems to make up for the multiplayer. These moves allow 
 you to call in a brother and use him as a weapon.
  
  The controls are too easy and flow perfectly and that fits the fast part of the game. Trust me, 
 you'll be zipping through the game in no time.
  
  I had a few minor glitches and sometimes the camera would be clunky but these were rare occasions.
 
  
  The story is something like those 2 parters or movies where the hero has to fight multiple villians 
 and figure out what the big dark shadowy things come from. I think it's connected to the movie 
 that came out but I'm not sure.
  
  Graphics 6/10
  
  The characters themselves aren't too bad but the environments are extremely bland. I think this 
 has a lot to do with the fact that the game tries to look like a comic book but even then, I've 
 seen better.
  
  Sound 6/10
  
  The music is pretty generic and the voice acting is annoying in-game. It really bothered me when 
 the Turtles would yell something at random moments in game like Raphael yelling, Heeeere's Johnny 
 and the like. I ended up using my own music to try to drown everything else out.
  
  Overall
  
  It's a decent game if you have a lot of free time and are looking for something 
 to fill up time. It's not that hard to completely beat it but it's kind of fun if you like the 
 turtles. It's a little too easy to recommend to the platformer gamer but I would strongly recommend 
 it to someone who enjoys the arcade style games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burger_boy_9
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 21, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  TMNT is a pretty fun game... until you beat it once, after that, there is no reason, or fun involed 
 whatsoever. This isn't the greatest of the Beat 'Em Ups, but it's a fair example. The graphics 
 in this game are truthfully one of the best parts, the sound/music id really lame... it gets old 
 after a while and whenever you do something a turtle will say the same thing, sometimes it even 
 glitches out and echoes. I think you should definately rent this game first, or just rent it... 
 DO NOT BUY! Though it is a good game, it's very pathetic and it seems like the developers threw 
 it together over a 3-day weekend. If you rent this game it is a VERY EASY 1000 gamerscore. Though 
 you will go through some trouble while obtaining them (It takes a few tries due to glitches.) they 
 are very simple and easily obtainable. Through a 3 hour sit down with this game, you will have 
 1000 more gamerscore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Placebos005
Rating: 5.7
Date: Apr 15, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  If you have nothing to do for a day and wanna hit up a game, grab this but don't expect to be blown 
 away (obviously) The game play is fun, you get to go around the and jump over buildings and such, 
 almost similar to web-slinging in spider-man. The camera angle moves by itself so there are times 
 it can be a bit annoying. The fighting scene is a disappointment. There is only 2 action buttons 
 which cycles through a very limited set of different action attacks. The graphics are alright but 
 once again the camera can not be changed or moved by the player so specific details can't be seen.
 
  
  Multi player... well there is none. Which also does not help it. It would be nice if one can go 
 in to a fight with the other 3 turtles but that isn't so. All turtles can be used on the second 
 half of the game. The first half is pretty much just missions for one specific turtle. All in all, 
 only rent this if your looking for an action game to waste your day away, it doesn't take long 
 to beat and it isn't hard to beat either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RidersDX
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 11, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Hmm, movie licensed games really haven't gotten that good of a history. But there have been some 
 movie licensed games that have been good. Like The Spongebob Squarepants Movie game for example. 
 It was the perfect example of a console movie licensed game gone right. TMNT's GBA version is also 
 a perfect example of a good movie licensed game. The question for this game is this. Does this 
 game succeed as a movie licensed game?
  
  Well, it's yes and no at the same time in my opinion. There are lots of enjoyable moments in TMNT 
 for the XBOX 360, and also some disappointing things about the game as well. For example, TMNT 
 has some great platforming segments, but also the camara is bad. So, it's good and bad at the same 
 time.
  
  The game runs on the Prince of Persia engine. One of Ubisofts most successful game series. So unlike 
 all the TMNT games, this game feels more like a platformer then a beat-em-up. And there is also 
 no multiplayer here so this won't really feel like a beat-em-up. The only parts of the game that 
 feel familiar to classic TMNT fans are the fighting scenes where you destroy alot of enemies.
 
  
  When you complete levels, you earn these turtle coins that you use to buy, artwork, videos, and 
 little things called goodies. All the things available to buy are pretty much worthless so that's 
 a few points down for value. There are only sixteen levels and all levels can be completed in a 
 pretty short time. Under ten minutes specifically unless you're really really bad at the game.
 
  
  The gameplay is just like the Prince of Persia games only that you're playing with the turtles 
 instead and there are a few tweaks in the engine like the teamwork special moves. It's where you 
 hold the X Button with any character and then you perform an attack with one of the turtles doing 
 it with you. This is what Ubisoft Montreal does to replace computer controlled turtles. But computer 
 controlled turtles would've been a much better choice. The platforming itself is what makes up 
 most of the gameplay. Which is a good thing. As the platforming is what's so good about the gameplay. 
 Alot of the platforming sequences are pretty neat. But there are downsides of the platforming sequences 
 as well unfortunantly. The camara makes it hard to time some jumps sometimes. And sometimes, when 
 you try to climb to the other side of the wall, you may go up instead. Which makes the game very 
 frustrating.
  
  The fighting parts make the gameplay no better either. They've turned back to where it's dull and 
 boring. You have really only one main attack button really. Kicking and slaming aren't that useful. 
 You do a cool combo with each turtle but it gets boring as you are doing the same combo over and 
 over. Team attacks don't really make a difference either.
  
  Graphics aren't that impressive either. The character models aren't that impressive at all. But 
 the environments are alright I guess. Character models aren't detailed enough and miss some key 
 features like the shining. The first footage of this game had some great character models. Ubisoft 
 then becomes stupid and downgrades them.
  
  Sound well, there's a great soundtrack, that's for sure. No complaints on that part. The sound 
 effects are nothing special but get the job done. The voices though are the problem. None of them 
 are done from the movie cast and they are pretty bad choices. Expecially Raph's. All in all, TMNT 
 would've been great if it weren't for all these problems but that doesn't mean you won't find any 
 enjoyment in TMNT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mightymanman
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 9, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Truthfully I think the guys at gamespot gave this it's scores way to low, and, what's with the 
 Combat is brain-dead ? What's all that? And if you've played almost any other jump-and-attack game 
 before, you will feel right at home and never get a bit frustrated.
  
  The Good:
  The Action looks beautiful, funner to watch then play, I guess you could say. The jumping portions 
 of the game are quite fun, and should keep you intrested. Graphics are great, but not fantastic. 
 The Bad:
  Excessively short.
  No Multi-Player.
  Controls fail out rarely.
  The GC version is practically crying out
  to have the attack button to be: B
  Cannot die.
 
  
  Worth around 35$, but available for 50$, so get it used.
  8.2 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Church45
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 8, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  TMNT is based on the spring CGI movie of the same name, and takes you through a mediocre adventure 
 full of frustrating platforming and flat out boring combat.
  Since the movie has yet to be released it's impossible to tell how well the game follows the movies 
 story. However you'll still get all the main characters in this game. The story is basically told 
 as a flashback, while the turtles look back at how they became close brothers and a team that works 
 together.
  Unfourtuanitly the story doesn't ever really explain well on why your doing what your doing at 
 the moment. On the flip side the game treats the player to very well done voice acting. But your 
 out of luck, if you came here for a well told turtle tale.
  
  TMNT is very platform heavy, you'll spend the bulk of your time swinging on monkey bars, jumping, 
 wall scaling, flipping, and swinging your way through the games 16 levels. Which should take about 
 15-20 minutes to complete each of them.
  The levels are fairly well made with all the platforming in mind, but the decent platforming is 
 cursed with an annoying camera that doesn't always allow you to judge accurately on how far or 
 where you need to jump. But when the camera doesn't get in your way, the platforming is satisfying 
 and half way fun. Combat is straight forward, you basically tab the attack button over and over 
 until all your foes are down.
  Each turtle does come with a special move where they call in another turtle and perform a team 
 attack, but you are in very few situations where you need to do this, because the combat is so 
 easy. You do have a few attack which include kicking, a jump attack, and there is a very basic 
 combo system. In some levels you only control one of the turtles that the level revolves around, 
 but in most levels you have all four turtles but not on screen at once.
  You can press X to tag another turtle in, but there is only one turtle on screen at all times. 
 So there is no co-op multiplayer or any multiplayer to speak of.
  
  Graphics are somewhat nice too look at, with a animation style but not really cel-shaded, and combat 
 and platforming animations are fairly well done.
  But with easy combat, frustrating camera, and short campaign this game falls short. TMNT does have 
 some fun moments, but you'll quickly find yourself bored to tears.
  
  Pros: Platforming is good when the camera works with you. Easy achievements. Attractive art style, 
 and top notch voice acting.
  
  Cons: Several control issues become fairly frustrating over time. Bland backrounds. Cookie cutter 
 AI. Short single player. No multiplayer to speak of. And combat is as dumb as can be.
  
  Gamertag; Church 45 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krystoval
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 7, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  TMNT Gameplay the gameplay its the best the turtles skill its good sometimes you remember ninja 
 gaiden for the turtles movements and very fast, the combos are the same so you will get bore if 
 you dont play with creativity.
  its fuuny to play a few hours but not to get inmersive or to be a higly addictive game.
  
  
 Graphics: the graphics the weak point of the game as usual the movies games always are weak, like 
 superman, spiderman, pirattes of the caribbean, etc sometimes you will like the graphics but almost 
 allthe time you feel that you are playing and anterior xbox game.
  
  Sound: The sound it like turtle sound always so its very simple and normal you dont notice a lot 
 of detailed sound.
  
  Music: the music its aso normal in fact sometimes you dont percibe the music that get fusionated 
 to the game that you dont listen.
  
  the game its good for rent a weekend and played with your friends ,,,, oo i forgot Ita olny one 
 player game not 2 or four so if you are lonely a weekend and you want to get fun playing I repeat 
 alone, rent it a play a few hour finish and return to the game store that all, its only a game 
 to play and finish and thats all.
  
  the very wreak point of the game its that is one player only all the turtles games are of 4 players 
 and that interact of players are very fun to play to interact with your friends and with the turtles, 
 but the gasme its only for one players the classic turtle friends mode interact its death. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZFAN6537
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 7, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles for the Xbox 360 is an okay game. It isnt a revolutionary game but 
 has some nice platforming elements that make it worth a rental. The story follows the same storyline 
 from the TMNT movie that is currently out. There is this evil dude whose name I forget and he plans 
 to use this machine to take a whole bunch of monsters from other universes and use them to attack 
 earth. And while all this is happening the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles have all gone their separate 
 ways. So the majority of the game is spent getting the team back together. Once you get the team 
 back together which takes about 14 out of the 16 levels in the game your team goes to take down 
 the evil monsters.
  
  The gameplay in TMNT is very similar to the gameplay in the Prince of Persia games. There is a 
 large helping of jumping puzzles. These are all very cool but the camera is very screwy and will 
 cause you to fall to your death many times. The other thing that makes these jumping puzzles annoying 
 is the controls. Most of the puzzles will have you running up or against walls to reach new areas. 
 The controls make it so you dont have to press a button to run on walls. So if you run and jump 
 while standing next to a wall youll immediately star running along it. So there are plenty of 
 times when youll be jumping from platform to platform and find yourself go flying right off the 
 edge. But if you can look past these issues the gameplay in TMNT is good for the most part.
  
  But there is one other thing that really brings down the gameplay. That other thing is the 
 incredibly weak combat system. The combat system basically consists of mashing buttons. You use 
 the B button for basic attacks, the Y button for kicks, and you can also do jump attacks. But pretty 
 much all you have to do is mash on the B button and youll make it through most of the combat scenes 
 okay. But there are also times when youll be surrounded these times are the perfect times to use 
 your kicks which pretty much just push your enemies away from you.
  
  Another nice thing about TMNT is the ease of changing which turtle youre using. During most levels 
 youll have a choice between the four turtles. Each one has there own advantages and youll have 
 to use different turtle depending on the situation youre in. During the levels when you have access 
 to more then one turtle you have the ability to perform team attacks. There are four different 
 team attacks that you can do depending on what turtle youre using. These attacks are handy but 
 you only need to use them a few times during the game.
  
  The graphics in TMNT are okay. They definitely arent anywhere near being fantastic but they look 
 nice. The game has a nice comic book feel and the majority of the cut-scenes are done through a 
 comic book. There are also some cut-scenes that are taken directly from the movie. All of the levels 
 look nice the majority of the levels take place in New York which is nice but all of the buildings 
 look the same. The characters look okay but all of the enemies are boring and pretty much have 
 the same motions.
  
  The sound in TMNT is pretty good. The voice acting is okay even though almost none of it is by 
 the cast of the movie. The soundtrack is okay but a lot of the games music sounds the same. And 
 the sound effects are very bland and pretty annoying.
  
  Value wise TMNT falls very short. The game can be completed in any where from three to five hours. 
 But if you can get an A rank or higher you unlock a challenge mode for that level where you can 
 collect coins. This gives you somewhat of a reason to play the levels again but some of the levels 
 arent good enough to play again. The achievements for TMNT are super easy. You can easily get 
 all 1,000 points in one play-through.
  
  All in all TMNT is an okay game with plenty of unique platforming elements but the overall game 
 is brought down by it length and super weak combat system. But if youre looking for a game that 
 can provide some fun and an easy 1,000 points you wont be making a bad decision by renting TMNT. 
 ~LOZFAN6537 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayersdeath200
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 7, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  If you enjoyed the movie then you will like the game. the game starts off by telling you the story 
 of the movie and thats how the game proceeds. the game is lots of fun with the different style 
 of moves with each character and there weapons Michelangelo was my favorite character in the game 
 with the flying numchucks. the only downside to the game is that it was a bit short and the achievements 
 were to easy to obtain. it was good that they put re playability into it so you can unlock the 
 goodies as its called in the game and the time maps were fun but thats where they could of put 
 an online feature to put your best time on a leader board or something like that. the special edition 
 version isn't that different from the normal version just a tin case and stickers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Recon13
Rating: 5.7
Date: Apr 6, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  Really, how could they're be no multiplayer for this game? I thought it would be a given for TMNT 
 game. Level designs are extremely boring. Rooftop to rooftop and a sewer and one jungle level. 
 I can't spend anymore time writing for this game. Just one more movie game to prove developers 
 don't care enough about them to put alittle effort into them.. Fighting starts out fun, but like 
 most of the game gets very, very repetitive. But I guess if your just looking for an easy 1000 
 Achievement points this game is the easiest. Even easier then King Kong. It could of been a great 
 comic book type of game, but the lack of effort made to make the game better is scary. Ubisoft 
 is known for releasing great products but they clearly said the heck with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryo_Kensen
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 4, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great platforming, decent combat, nice music, good voice acting, funny lines, Cowabunga 
 Carl Advertisements, Michaelangelo is as funny as ever, answers some of life's biggest questions 
 such as How do four brothers get along? and How does one get past a big, scary chasm? 
  
  The Bad:
  The game makes no sense whatsoever unless you've seen the movie first, the combat can 
 get quickly boring when you're facing enemy after enemy, If I hear Raphael say Here's Johnny one 
 more time I'm going to rip his head off, minor sound glitches, Challenges can get dang near impossible 
 and controller breaking worthy, Achievements are way too easy to get.
  
  Gameplay: 7
  The gameplay is mostly rehash of the Prince of Persia franchise, although it's been chopped down 
 largely since TMNT is largely set to appeal to kids. There is even a ton of stuff that they didn't 
 include from the movie that makes the game, for the most part, make absolutely no sense story wise 
 unless you see the movie before you play the game. The combat mainly consists of a few basic attacks 
 and team attacks that differentiates depending on which turtle you're using at the time. Though 
 the combat is lacking, the absolute best thing about this game is the platforming, and this is 
 a good thing too because the game consists of platforming in a major way.
  
  Graphics: 7
  The graphics don't live up to the 360's capabilities, but that in no way means that the graphics 
 are bad. The turtles themselves look great and the environments look pretty good too, the only 
 things that really look bad are some of the enemy character models, aside from maybe the Foot Ninjas. 
 The most visually impressive part of the game is probably the turtles themselves, though they don't 
 look as good as their CGI movie counterparts, they still look pretty good.
  
  Sound: 8
  The voice acting is great and contains most of the voice talent from the movie, the music is good 
 too although it can sometimes overpower the voice acting to where you can't hear it, luckily you 
 can toggle the sound to your liking. There are frequently repeated lines in the game, and when 
 you play as Raphael you're likely to hear Here's Johnny! enough times to make you twitch. There 
 are some great movie lines that should have made it into the game, though this is fine because 
 there are some pretty funny lines in the game to keep a smile on your face, though this is mostly 
 from Michaelangelo the comic relief.
  
  Value: 6
  Probably not the absolute best Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles game ever made, but it's among the 
 best title to own or rent. This is a great game to give a run through and relive some classic nostalgia 
 from your childhood. Hopefully with the sequel movie in a few years the next game will be way better, 
 because hey, it's Ubisoft after all.
  
  Final Words:
  TMNT may not be the best movie game ever made, but it can be a possible contestant to be in the 
 Top 20. Ubisoft has made another great movie game, King Kong, which was a pretty decent game. TMNT 
 is an excellent platformer, but the combat system leaves much to be desired. The game is largely 
 accepted to be a toned down Price of Persia, and it's hard to disagree with such a statement when 
 it's so obvious that it is.
  
  Overall, TMNT is a good game, probably not a game for everyone to accept as a must have title, 
 but a game that should be picked up if the price ever drops. So if you haven't played this game 
 already, you're probably better off renting it then dropping $50 on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dchispirtle
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 3, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  The Good: Decent platforming sequences similar to Prince of Persia games, intuitive Family system
 
  
  The Bad: Bland combat, no multiplayer or Live features, too short
  
  With the release of the new computer animated Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, the franchise sees 
 its IP rights change hands from Konami to Ubisoft. The past several games released by Konami have 
 been downright terrible and its good to see that the TMNT game is taking a step in the right direction.
 
  
  Developed by Ubisoft Montreal, who coincidentally have made all of the modern Prince of Persia 
 games, TMNT is primarily an action platforming game with various fight sequences thrown in for 
 good measure. The platforming sequences are impressive and very fun at times, however the combat 
 is a little on the bland side.
  
  The game consists of 16 levels, where like the PoP games, you'll jump, shimmy over ledges, swing 
 on poles, and run along and up walls to reach your destination. Many of the games levels are very 
 intelligently designed and its not too difficult to figure out where you're supposed to go next. 
 Some poor camera angles will lead to some needless deaths. Unfortunately, the developer decided 
 to go for a more cinematic feel with the camera and give the player absolutely no free movement 
 of the camera.
  
  The bland combat is highly supportive of button mashing, because the game is aimed at a younger 
 audience. Relinquished to two buttons, there are no complex combos because all are done with the 
 main attack button. The second attack button is effective in knocking foes back to prevent becoming 
 surrounded. Don't fear running out of life in a combat sequence either, because if you do, you're 
 treated to a short minigame of sorts where you can repeatedly press the A button to recover full 
 health for your turtle.
  
  In exchange for this, however, at the end of each fight sequence you are graded on how well you 
 perform in combat. This appears to be judged solely on the amount of damage you take, not the style 
 in which you beat your foes. Take no damage, and you'll get the highest rating possible, that of 
 'Ninja.' All of this comes into play as you complete a level, where you'll receive an overall grade 
 for combat, level completion time, and how many coins you collected scattered throughout the level. 
 A fourth grade comes into play when you have at least one other turtle with you. The fourth scoring 
 area is how well you use the other turtles to help you complete platforming sequences and beat 
 up your foes.
  
  The family system is pretty intuitive. In levels that support it, you'll be able to earn the help 
 of your fellow turtles, but you have to impress them with your moves first. On the top right of 
 your HUD is a meter that slowly fills as you jump, swing, and so on to complete the platforming 
 sequences. Fighting your enemies also fills up the meter. Once a meter is full, you'll be able 
 to call upon a fellow turtle for aid in crossing long gaps or teaming up to do a super powerful 
 Family Attack. Family moves are mapped to a single button, and in combat, a Family Attack is triggered 
 by holding that button in until the scripted sequence begins.
  
  The 16 missions can be completed in about 7-10 hours so its a very short game. The developers did 
 add some incentive to play through again because if you complete a level with at least an A grade, 
 you can unlock the challenge map for that level. Throughout a level, there are 5 shell coins that 
 you can pick up. The shell coins can be used to purchase goodies in the extras menu, such as 'big 
 heads' and also concept art and sequences from the CGI movie.
  
  In addition to replaying the game's main levels again, the extras menu contains some additional 
 maps that will test your platforming skills to the extreme as well as your fighting skills. There 
 is one map for each game level. They are done in a style that is similar to the Metal Gear Solid 
 VR missions.
  
  As with all Xbox 360 games, there is 1000 points spread over 23 achievements. They are very easy 
 to get and you'll get all but 65 points just by playing through the campaign. There is an achievement 
 for playing a level in challenge mode and finding a shell coin, as well as one for beating a level 
 without taking any damage. You'll probably get the latter in the first level.
  
  So, TMNT is a decent platforming/action hybrid that is a step in the right direction for the franchise. 
 Hopefully, Ubisoft can continue to improve upon this game with future uses of the IP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DestinyDeath
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 1, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  it's a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. it's 
 a short game with alot of fun. really easy achivement and also i recommened rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musicsponge123
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 31, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Well when i first saw the trailer for the new cgi film i thought it looked really good (check my 
 blog for the review of the film) . So when i found out a game for 360 was coming out i got excited.
 
  The game itself doesn't look very next-gen it looks close to xbox graphics the wii and 360 versions 
 look similiar. ANYWAY the game's graphics have a very cartoony feel to them and the turtles themselves 
 look quite good however the enviroment looks a bit blocky.
  The gameplay as most of you have heard is just like prince of persia which is a lot of fun and 
 feels good to play however it can become tedious when you charcter doesn't actually wall-run.
 
  The fighting is rather boring but it is ok the camera angles does not help with this at all and 
 can make the game a lot harder than it should be.
  The game is kind of short for what it is with only 16 levels. However you have to go back and collect 
 evcery single golden sheel coin and ace every part of the game (although no achievment are recived 
 for this you will want to) .
  Speaking of achievments if you want a quick 1000 points buy this game... that's all i am saying.
 
  overall the game is good it has some fun gameplay but it lacks in challenge and the fighting sections 
 let it down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MBolton
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 31, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  I found the graphics and presentation of the game to be good. The voice acting from the TMNT characters 
 was pretty good as well (I'd say above-average for a video game) . It was a fun experience for someone 
 who is now an adult and recalls TMNT from his/her youth. Also, this game is good for those who 
 achievement point possessed. Achievement points are very simple to acquire.
  
  Now for the downside:
  
  1) The game was very, very short. I rented this game from Blockbuster 
 and completed it in about 6-6.5 hours. 2) Repetitive fighting. You feel as though you're fighting 
 the same kinds of bad guys constantly and they're just annoying. It's not that the enemies are 
 annoying because they are difficult. They are annoying because there's lots of them and they are 
 not very smart. The AI for the bad guys leaves a lot to be desired. It's just time-consuming to 
 be the hordes of bad guys.
  
  3) Repetitive jumping puzzles. At first, it's fun to figure out how and where to go throughout 
 the levels. After a while, it gets frustrating. It's not always obvious when you need to use a 
 double-jump versus the team jump versus other techniques. This leads me to the final gripe...
 
  
  4) Camera cannot be controller by the player. The camera used for the game is dynamic and the game 
 is constantly trying to decide the best angle for you. I'd say the game gets it right about 75-80% 
 of the time, but that 20-25% of the time that it gives you a crummy camera angle can be frustrating. 
 Overall, I recommend the game is you A) have fond memories of TMNT from your youth B) have a small 
 child who would like this sort of game (it's not gory or bloody) C) want to get a game that allows 
 you to garner achievements points easily
  
  Even with those recommendations, I would suggest renting the game unless you have a small child 
 that will really enjoy it. There's zero replay value ot the game once it's beat and a competent 
 adult can beat the game in less than 10 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eviljay
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 31, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  I must admit, this review may be a slight bit biased. When I first learned that there was going 
 to be a new TMNT movie, I got excited. It was like I was 10 years old all over again.
  
  TMNT was a fun game. Granted, I beat it in about a total of 8 and a half hours of playtime, but 
 it was fun. It totally reminded me of the old hack and slash games from the early/mid-90's, where 
 villains would just seem to pop up from out of nowhere and you have to use the same moves over 
 and over again to beat them down. Of course it's monotonous, but what the hell man?! Remember Super 
 Mario Bros.?! I've heard mixed reviews of this game, but I say this. If you want to earn easy achievement 
 points, play TMNT. If you're looking for a fun way to kill some time, play TMNT. If you're nostalgic 
 for your favorite amphibious ninjas, play TMNT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aramitz
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 30, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Excited about the prospect of a solid platformer finally coming to the 360 (from the development 
 team behind the recent Prince of Persia series no-less!) . I decided to lay down my &pound;30 for 
 this game despite the negative criticism itd received elsewhere.
  
  Turtles (despite what the die-hard might claim) , is and always will be a kids franchise. Hence, 
 I guess it makes sense that they made the game what wed call kid friendly. What that phrase 
 really translates into however is shallow and over-simplified objective game play.
  
  The storyline follows that of the recent movie. However in an attempt not to give away any spoilers 
 the result is a jumbled mess of which you lose interest in very early on.
  
  Graphically despite the standard dust particle effects and motion blurring which has become standard 
 fair in the latest batch of consoles. There isnt much to look at which you couldnt have seen 
 on the PS2 or Xbox.
  
  The sound track is very low key, the voice acting isnt as bad as sound-alike voice actors for 
 videogames go though.
  
  In terms of game play its comparable to playing a beginners segment of Prince of Persia all the 
 way through. As a result you rarely ever die outside of slightly dodgy camera angles obscuring 
 your view. The combat system is effectively a one button masher and the GS achievements are awarded 
 entirely for level progression so offer no extra challenge.
  
  I managed to finish the game and get the full 1000 points in just over four and a half hours game 
 time. That technically makes the game easier than Open Season. If they had fleshed out the combat 
 system (even as little as adding different combos) , and awarded achievements based on level performance 
 grade (based on time completion and damage taken) . This would be a fun &amp; somewhat challenging 
 game yet still be accessible for its core child demographic. As it stands though, its a severe 
 waste of money for anyone with dexterity skills over the age of 10. Anyone younger more than likely 
 wont own a 360 in the first place and buy the PS2 version for &pound;15 cheaper. What Ubisoft 
 were thinking is anybodys guess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeffGenocideX
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 29, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  So i am a Huge TMNT fan, ever have since 1985. Some of the TMNT i ahveplayed were great, but some 
 have just sucked.... Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 2003-2005 .. those games sucked. But anyways 
 when i saw this games i was like hey i will try it out , I loved playing this games, the levels 
 were easy.. but some were hard. The graphics are great, thye should have done more with the fighting 
 mechanics though, it would have been cool to do back flips and such. I liked how each turtle did 
 have his own special move &amp; you had to used that turtle to get passed certain areas. lvl 6 
 was a pain in the butt, but i got passed it &amp; loved the game through. But overall its a great 
 game to Rent :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: style65
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 28, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  This game is an extremely easy game, if your over 14. It can be frustrating trying to parts but 
 when you get past them, you'll enjoy it. Its not a deep game, although there is a fair bit to unlock, 
 mostly kids stuff. Its not a long game, if your just going through for the achievements. Will take 
 most gamers bout 4 or 5 hours. But if your after all the unlockables and A+ on every level, then 
 you could be there for a long time. This will be one of those games that people just rent for easy 
 achievement points, and even though its not what most people were expecting its quite a good game! 
 One that people can have short burst's one or spend hours tryin to perfect. The one thing that 
 bothered me about this game is that Raphael kept saying Here's Jonny . Why heres jonny?? wheres 
 Cowabunga gone? and surley if they were having something like that in, wouln't it make more sense 
 to have Donnie say: Here's Donnie ?? Anyway, it bothered me. The graphics could have been better 
 and even though the fighting is just 2 buttons - if you want ninja ranking on every fight, you 
 will have to put a bit of strategy in the button bashings. Overall i think its better than the 
 other turtles games released a couple of years ago. but its not as much fun as the old arcade style 
 games they used to make. Worth a go if your a fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saquib_h
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 27, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  very little has been done to take advantage of nex-gen consoles... infact this looks close to a 
 xbox1 game... really didnt see anything that makes it look or feel nex-gen. not even good as time 
 pass... as u get pretty bored pretty soon. seems like they put tomb raider, prince of persia and 
 tmnt together in this pack.... may be it was made for 12 year olds or something. weird when ubisoft 
 can make make stuffs like splinter cell, rainbow six... they come up with this after all these 
 days to nex-gen! the older tmnt game was better i think.
  
  only good thing was probably the ability to swap charecters within the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DurhamNC
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 27, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  On the heels of the XBLA release of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, and given its relative low price 
 point (49.99) , I picked this one up without much hesitation. And yes, I had read the reviews. The 
 question is, though, is it really all that bad? In a word, no. It does, however, smart a little 
 bit to shell out fifty clams for a game that last about 5 hours. Graphically, the game is on par 
 with current gen consoles. It's not impressive, mind you, but at least TMNT doesn't look like an 
 unoriginal port from a Gamecube or PS2 version of the game. TMNT is structured around a comic book 
 narrative: the four turtles and Splinter tell you about a few remarkable events in their recent 
 past while you, as one of the turtles, act out those same events. Cut scenes between levels intersperse 
 some FMV, but mostly focus in on panels in the comic book that's serving as an anchor for game 
 play. The dialogue is uninspired and the highly repetitive stock phrases the various turtles spit 
 out as you jump around the city and lock weapons with various gang members and foot clan drones 
 actually detract from game play. Almost immediately, you'll be struck that a game about ninjas 
 downplays combat. When you do engage an enemy, probably 2 to 5 times a level (levels, incidentally, 
 take between 10 and 20 minutes to complete; longer if you die frequently) , they come at you fast 
 and hard. In just a minute or two, though, you'll have defeated them all and then it's straight 
 back to platforming. For me, this was the great disappointment of the game, its limited and repetitive 
 combat. Add to this the fact that bosses are rare and those interested in kicking and smacking 
 may want simply to queue this one up at Gamefly, or avoid it all together.
  
  There are two types of coins to collect in each level. Silver ones are scattered regularly throughout 
 a given level and serve as a useful guide to help you sort out where you need to jump next. To 
 encourage you to replay levels, gold coins can be collected your second time through and these 
 can be used to unlock extras: making the turtles' heads bigger, changing the look of their weapons, 
 etc. You don't have to replay to earn coins though; it simply quickens the pace for you to unlock 
 the added content. Obviously I didn't hate this game. I don't regret playing it and, although short, 
 it was pretty fun for the five hours it took me to get through it. If you're interested in achievement 
 points and don't mind feeling dirty about how you get them, TMNT is a will reward you with 1,000 
 of them basically for playing the game through. It's not a great a game and I don't regret dropping 
 50 dollars on it, but if I had the chance to do it all over again, I'd rent this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Isakovic
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 27, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  I never liked the tuytles, besides it is a game for 6 yr olds. Dont get me wrong I like beat em 
 games, I love classic arcade games but there is not many on marketplace. How about Art of Fighting 
 2, Samurai Spirits 5, King Of Fighters 2000 series, World Heroes, Last Blade 1&amp;2, Sengoku 1&amp;2, 
 Burning Revenge, Fatal Fury Series, and more .... I wish they would put some good quality 2D beat 
 em ups on market place. I cant give credit to bad 2D games even less for a bad 3D game. That is 
 all I am asking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linksit
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 27, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  I found that the game lacked any real point but to beat up the bad guys and save the day .all been 
 done before. The only good thing about it was its just plane fun. But i have been playing video 
 since i was a kid so this was like playing the same game over and over again .if felt like a bit 
 a prince of persia. Like i said all bin dun be 4 I just wish that somthing new would come out that 
 no one has ever though of something fresh and fun. well i must go play video this was fun I will 
 writ more on other games and lets see what thay come out with next halo 3 is one game I cant wait 
 to get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miiiguel
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 27, 2007 6:08 am PT
Review:  Surprisingly good game! I had no expectations towards this title, bought it because it brought 
 me back memories from my yougster days.
  ... and it's very good actually!
  Art is very well placed, it has a cartoon style, with lots of personality. Cut-scenes use stills 
 a-la comic book, but with style (it's funny that I played X3 before TMNT, and the 1st also uses 
 stills, but... so, so much worse...!) !
  Characters movent are fluid, in a sense like they actually seem to weight - the way that they wave 
 on the poles for instance, good stuff.
  Sound is fair, sometimes well placed, sometimes dull. Average.
  Gameplay, control-wise, and level-design 
 is well above average. It's polished enough to deliver a few fun-hours. Combos, plot, and all surrounding 
 stuff goes well together. Allways fun to look at, and witn simple funny lines. It's also a family 
 friendly title, it has almost no sense of violence - even the fighting sequences deliveres no idea 
 of violent behavior.
  On the down side - one should be able to controll the camera, and co-op would be brilliant.
  
 
  Another title that goes proudly to the collection shelve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingotnw
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 26, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  I don't really agree with the review Gamespot gave this. The game may not be revoloutionary, the 
 combat may be a bit mindless, but this game is very fun. The most unfortunate part about it I feel 
 is how quick the game goes by. This is a rental game only due to the fact that you can fly through 
 it in a few hours. It will be a fun few hours though. Great rental game for an adult, maybe a great 
 buy for a kid. Personally I don't know what people were expectign out of a TMNT game. Its of course 
 going to be fairly straight forward so it can apeal to people of all ages. If you are looking for 
 a deep game look else where though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danothedino
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 24, 2007 9:26 pm PT
Review:  When I used to play the TMNT games it was so fun because I was able to ride their skateboards and 
 have sorts of fun in the sewers, now there are no ninjas throwing sewer caps and there is no pizza 
 to eat when you health is low. Although it is entertaining to play and it was refreshing from the 
 other games it just seemed like it was made for the younger audience. I was wanting to see the 
 movie before the game came out but now I am not sure because I dont want that to be directed towards 
 the younger audience. Who knows maybe they should come up with a more mature version of the game 
 for the last few of true fans that have started off with the original game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: books83
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 24, 2007 9:26 pm PT
Review:  To me this game feels like the old arcade style TMNT games. It is fast and fun to play. The game 
 times you as you run throught the levels making it fun trying to get the fastest time possible. 
 Like in the arcade games they throw a ton of enemies at you at the same time. This game is really 
 a no brainer when it comes to attacks and enemies but that doesn't take away from the fun of actaully 
 playing it. It has a running commentary of the story as you go along and to me that is a neat adittion 
 to hear besides the comments comming from the turtle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cagerhager
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 23, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  I was excited for this game to come out. Growing up with TMNT on saturday mornings and after school 
 was a highlight as a child. Naturally I was stoked to hear of a new movie and game to go with the 
 old series. Unfortunatly though, this game, like it's prdeicesors, did not quite reach it's full 
 potential.
  
  Gameplay: This TMNT game is one player. That's right, one player, and has no on-line co-op. So 
 it's just you and yourself for this game. This game runs off the Prince of Persia engine. It stays 
 true to the style of the POP titles but doesn't quite have that depth or flare. There are two attack 
 buttons, a kick and weapon attack. So essentially, this is your typical hack and slash button masher. 
 This can get repetitive as you move through the first few levels, but as you unlock later levels 
 and can team up with your comrad tutles, you can do combination moves. There is one speical move 
 for each turtle and will usually take out the battle area whenever you use it. The levels are very 
 linear and quite simple to get through, and there is no camera adjustment. It is fixed so you essentially 
 know where to go. There may be one or two times throughout the game where you wonder how to get 
 to the next area you need to go to, but that will last for only a few seconds. Since this game 
 is more of a ninja stealth game, you can use double jumps, scale walls, and also walk sideways 
 on walls like you can on the POP games. This comes in handy and is kinda nice compared to the previous 
 games. Graphics: Naturally, since this game is on every major counsle, the graphics on the 360 
 also do not reach full potential. It runs nicely in 16:9 and HD, but the developers could have 
 made the animations more crisp. It has a cell shaded style like the newer television show has, 
 but has a darker feel for it.
  
  Controls: The controls are simply one of the easiest I have ever used on a 360 game. A jump button, 
 two attack buttons, a tag button to switch turtles, and a block button. The controls are responsive 
 though. I had no problems scaling walls or jumping to areas that I needed to go to. Overall: The 
 game lacks in so many areas: specifically co-op or multiplayer, but the game was unfortunatly set 
 up for one player and doesn't do a bad job at it. The controls are responsive and simple enough 
 a 6 year old could do it. The graphics are nice, but do not reach that pinicle point a 360 game 
 should be. If you are looking for a different type of TMNT game and is a hardcore fan, you will 
 enjoy this game for a single time through. All others need not apply. Save your 50 bucks and get 
 something worth while, like a tank of gas or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emerio
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 22, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw TMNT i was a little bumed. I saw the graphics and was like yay a crappy game. 
 So i went to my nearest blockbuster and was looking for 360 titles to rent. I saw TMNT and must 
 say was very hesitant to pickup. But something in the back of my mind was like just check it out 
 what's the worst that could happen.
  
  Surprisingly enough. The first misson was easy, yet fun! So i was like ok. This isn't bad let's 
 see where we go from here.
  
  Then we reach level 2. Where you get to play as Knight Watcher aka. Raphael.
  
  I must say 
 the b&amp; w'ish, look and the enviormental lighting/structure is amazing!
  
  This game. Even though it look's crappy in terms of graphics is great! I found myself wanting to 
 play it again.
  
  I would defiantly play this a second time. The only thing that really annoyed me about TMNT was 
 the repetitive saying's by the turtles and the bosses etc.. Thank god you could turn that down.
 
  
  All in all TMNT is great. I think 6.4 is a little tipsy in terms of my rating. This game is better 
 then 6.4 easy.
  
  Rent it, Play it, Have fun! Cowabunga! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keithpavia
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 22, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  I booted this game up, awaiting yet another tmnt game, which means slash, hack, slash , hack etc 
 etc. To my surprise this game wasn't that bad. It has some reasonably decent platform elements 
 and has a fun story line to go by. As for the fighting thats just horrible its as most TMNT games 
 hack, slash etc etc. The thing that got me about this game though was although after a while the 
 platform levels get a bit boring and repetitive, its difficult to let go off the game.
  
  All in all the game is defiantly worth a rent, cause i say 3 to 5 hours max the game will be completed, 
 but to fork out full price for this would be quite pointless. Wait till it hits the bargain bins. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: migportes
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 22, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  Good game, very easy though i already got 1000 in achievements in just 2 days of playing it. Dissapointed 
 with the lack of online play. there should be a follow up targeted to a wider audience, and that 
 lives to past TMNT titles, like Turtles in TIME for SNES. Besides, this being a title targeted 
 for people 10 and up, is still a fun game, if u coomit to it, it will only take u a couple of hrs. 
 to beat. This does not live up to past titles but it is a fresh look due to comic book type of 
 graphics used in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gillmanjason
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 22, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  This game is fine. There is nothing spectacular, but what do you expect from a game based on a 
 movie? Actually, if this game would have came out 5 years ago, it would get a near perfect 10. 
 This game is way too easy though and the replay value is nil. Good renter and a quick 1000 achievement 
 points but save the $50. On the other hand, this game has flashes of greatness. Some of the gameplay 
 is really quite good. I wish they would have used teh Prince of Persia engine. The future of Ninja 
 Turle games is bright. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8erboi796
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 22, 2007 3:12 am PT
Review:  this game is based on the movie coming out called TMNT and this game is not a good one the bad 
 guys are dumb as a box of rocks (or even dummber) and its grapics supposed to look like an XBOX 
 360 the grapics look like an orgainal xbox game to me and game has camera problems really bad camera 
 problems, and if you buy this game for a kid than chances are your kid is going to get frustrated 
 with it but it has great voice overs and the turtles look good overall: rent it first its not that 
 great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 21, 2007 11:24 pm PT
Review:  Nothing ever beats a&nbsp; good platformer. The joy of exploring your environment, finding secrets, 
 occassionally bashing a few baddies are all major pieces to such a lovely picture perfect game. 
 So my big question about TMNT&nbsp; to Ubisoft &nbsp; is how do you take the most appealing franchise 
 in the world and make them into simple watered down time attack monkeys?!
  &nbsp;
  GAMEPLAY
  Right away&nbsp; you notice the one thing that drives this game, and that is the timer. 
 You can play from the start of&nbsp; the game and&nbsp; thru all 16 levels&nbsp; in literally a few 
 hours with minimal challenge. Thanks to the checkpoint system that pops up every other corner, 
 falling or missing your mark doesn't feel so bad,&nbsp; and trust me when I say you'll do lots of 
 falling.&nbsp; Even in combat, when your&nbsp; turtle is shell shocked he doesn't get the all to 
 familiar gameover screen, no sir! You simply tap a button to regain your composure and BAM! Back 
 in the action.&nbsp; Many&nbsp; would claim this more of a childrens game due to the simplicity, 
 but let me protest that any person who gets this for a child will see pure rage and 
 
  &nbsp;
  VISUALS
  The team&nbsp; who worked on this title shows their past experience with Prince of Persia in many 
 more ways than one. With immense level design and a camera system that follows the&nbsp; turtle 
 rather than allow the gamer to adjust it works with you&nbsp; AND against you. After&nbsp; treading 
 thru half the game you'll notice levels are being reused and areas are sometimes difficult to time 
 or judge for jumps. The animation and art style resembles the movie in a simple form&nbsp; which 
 is a plus cause whenever they did show clips from the movie it was grainy and&nbsp; choppy. It may 
 be a kids game, but I at least want&nbsp; textures that don't look like stretched out blobs of color.
 
  &nbsp;
  AUDIO
  So I'm a big fan of the old TMNT, especially the comics where they were all about swearing and 
 chopping up the baddies with no remorse. And then came the cartoon which blew kids&nbsp; away cause 
 now our favorite mutant teen ninjas had voices and ones that will always be remebered. All nostalgia 
 aside, those voices are back reprising their roles and using the same hilarious quotes like COWABUNGA! 
 Take heed in my words when I say that if you become annoyed easily don't be surprised when you 
 hear those charming voices over and over and begin to wonder if turtle can live&nbsp; without speaking.
 
  &nbsp;
  EXTRAS
  This game lacks satisfaction, plain and simple. You play thru a level and its done, and since everything 
 is based on time attack style gameplay your only concern could be getting the best time or finding 
 all the hidden items and such. Sadly, there is no point or motivation to this because the only 
 achievements you can gain are from training with each turtle (which is mandatory) and finishing 
 a level (even if you sucked doing it)
  &nbsp;
  OVERALL
  As much as I don't mind easy achievements and a decent sit down experience that lasts only a few 
 hours, TMNT was made for kids, possibly ones that never played a good game and have no prior knowledge 
 of one. Ubisoft is golden for making good games, but I have the deep dark feeling that this one 
 suffers from the common&nbsp; mistake most companies make when they get a good franchise and turn 
 it to poop. The biggest drawback would have to be the lack of multiplayer which makes NO sense 
 when you have 4 playable characters who all kick butt. Even worse is the fact that since all you 
 do is complete levels as fast as possible, some sort of 1on1 would have been acceptable but instead 
 you get a big fat nothing. Kind of the running theme for the&nbsp; game... shame for any fans out 
 there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McClain
Rating: 4.2
Date: Mar 21, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Why can't they just make a good ninja turtles game? Give us the bosses we've been longing for. 
 Krang, Traag, Baxter Stockman, Bee-Bop and Rock Steady some of the classics, not this new crap 
 nobody likes it. I'm a person that fell in love with the turtles in the late 80's and early 90's 
 and those are the characters I know. I grew out of Cartoons along time ago so I dont know shedder's 
 daughter ( whatever her name was) and I don't care. Sure this game was ok if your into the turtles 
 now but i was still disapointed about the game play. Turtles Games in the past was pick your character 
 and punch somebody in the face, thats it. Climbing around is fun but leave that to Prince of Persia, 
 give Turtles slash, hack and see how far you can make it until you run out of lives back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stewdaddy5000
Rating: 3.3
Date: Mar 21, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting a long time for a good TMNT console release, and it looks like I'm going to 
 have to wait a lot longer. Ubisoft's TMNT is a total waste of time and money.
  
  The camera is awkward and frustrating, the story line is a complete mess, and the whole thing takes 
 about only four hours to complete. The graphics are so bad it looks like it should be a N64 game, 
 not a next-gen title. There are only about five generic enemies through the whole game and only 
 three bosses, and these are few and far between. It's total button mashing. Most of the game is 
 spent just jumping from platform to platform, and occasionaly avoiding steam or fire.
  
  There isn't any type of co-op! Totally lame.
  
  The only reason I bothered playing past the 
 third stage is for the achievement points, which are probably the easiest 1000 points you can get 
 on the 360 right now.
  
  Rent this game to get your achievement points, but DO NOT BUY TMNT!!! I don't understand how anyone 
 can rate this above a 5.0!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lauryn2000
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 22, 2007 4:59 am PT
Review:  This is a simple, fun beat'em up game.
  
  A game you would find at Six Flags Great Adventure's arcade, it's
  not rocket science just Rapheal, Donatello, Michealanglo 
 and Leonardo.
  
  What might throw you if you haven't played a scrolling-2D type game in awhile, is that instead of 
 Ubi-soft utilizing the Xbox360's 3D-like capablities,
  you have here a Shinobi, Streets Of Rage, or Double Dragon-type in gameplay.
  
  Achievements 
 are easily rewarded after completing each mission.
  
  The fighting is very, very easy but don't waste to much time picking up
  bonus coins because speed 
 is a plus in completing the mission,
  you will be graded on how well you do in the three areas-Fighting Skills, Speed and Time needed 
 to finish.
  
  The kids will definately enjoy it especially if they are Teenage
  Mutant Ninja Turtle fans....... and for $50 bucks, can't beat that.
  
  This is just a simple 
 and fun beat'em up game for ALL to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilromeo0606
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 20, 2007 11:52 pm PT
Review:  I grew up watching turtles and still watch the show time to time and i read the comics so i know 
 when a good game when i see one but when I downloaded the demo when it came out and used an old 
 xbox controller to play it and at first i thought it was a lot of fun. Looking at the other TMNT 
 games that came out, this one by far looks the best graphics wise. Even though the gameplay is 
 overly simplistic its still fun. After playing the demo a couple dozen times, i was hooked. After 
 taking a break from the demo for a week, i thought to realize that i think im expecting too much 
 from this game, but in reality im not really. I was just looking for a fun TMNT game out that would 
 be fun to play, and because it was coming out for all of the consoles, i was expecting a whole 
 lot graphics wise. I rented this game today and when i played i wasn't surprised. The graphics 
 were descent, gameplay was overly way too easy, the fighting is easy, but what else is suspected 
 from Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles who know how to kick but. The focus is mostly the jumping, wall 
 climbing, ledge running, pole swinging, double jumping, wall running aspect of the game. A lot 
 of people are comparing it Prince of Persia, but i never played PoP, so as far as i know, this 
 type of gameplay is new to me. Overall, this is a fun game that should be rented first, what killed 
 it for me was that there is NO ONLINE PLAY, so off the bat i wasn't going to buy it. You would 
 think that there would be online play, especially since the release of the arcade game THAT HAS 
 online play, but that was something that Ubisoft did horribly on and they really got hurt for it. 
 If i was stil a little kid yeah this would have been the best game ever, but that i am in college, 
 this game its really for kids. I only got it because it was the turtles, but because i wasn't expecting 
 much for this game i wasn't dissappointed. There are only two things to do with this game. Either 
 rent it if you are a turtles fan... or AVOID IT AT ALL COSTS. You could wait a few weeks and wait 
 for the PC version to be available through downloads and use a gamepad to play, but besides that 
 this is really just mediocre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devious122799
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 20, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  TMNT isn't a bad game, but it isn't what most of us will expect it to be either. Ever since the 
 first turtles game was released it has been a beat em up, aka an arcade brawler, with the exception 
 of a few titles staring the turtles. I can say that this game is programmed very well, no glitches, 
 no studders, no lost artwork as the camera shifts. It doesn't look next gen thought and the graphics 
 remind me of PS2's Mark of the Kri. Being a one player game with NO xbox live support really hurts 
 as well. I feel like I bought a $60 movie commercial. Problem is now I dont wanna see the movie 
 after playing the game. Im dont like platformers and dont like fighting games where you only have 
 to push attack over and over without even looking at the screen to defeat your foe, and I hate 
 fighting games with only one attack button. Adding a chessy evade button added no depth as you 
 can just hold it down long before an enemies attack and the turtle will auto dodge ALL incoming 
 attacks. Bah! I expected more! Four main charaters demand that this be at least a 2 player game; 
 four player over live. After a hit like Rainbow six vegas, Ubi,... you dropped ball,... big time. 
 This is a great license, but skip it if you dont want a fighting platformer. You would be better 
 off saving $55 and downloading arcade turtle from live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: resist1
Rating: 2.2
Date: Mar 20, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  You have got to be kidding me, this game is a horror. It doesnt know what it wants to be, clearly 
 its aimed for children of younger age, I bought this for my son, thinking it would be a good game 
 straight forward action, more of less of a story line for children, what we have is a mess of complete 
 and utter crap. Personally im returning it tomorrow. The graphics are fine, nothing to brag home 
 about, sound it fine as well, nothing spectacular but then again if you expected specatcular, you 
 need to stop watching the old episode of TMNT on Nick at Nite. The story is atroucious, i played 
 the game for 2 hrs my son who is 7 had no idea what to do, whrere to go, the enemies are scarce, 
 the ridiculous jumping/platforming, since when are turtles solving puzzles and jumping ledges for 
 hours on end? what kind of crap is this. This is by far The worst turtles games i've played and 
 i grew up with them, in cartoons and the good ol' fashioned arcades spending 25 cents just to get 
 another 5 mins of shell kicking good time. DO NOT BUY THIS GAME FOR ANYONE, ANY AGE, OR FOR ANY 
 REASON!!! DONT EVEN RENT IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royalpierre
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 20, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  I just rented this game today and played it for about 6 hours. there are 16 levels and i just beat 
 the 14th level. So basically it's not exactly an Oblivion sized game but it is still fun. Let's 
 face it, this game was meant to be a kids game so the difficulty is going to be easy for the veteran 
 gamer. Just take this game as it is, just a fun kids game.
  
  The graphics are so so. They are smooth but not anything worth jocking. The achievements are pretty 
 easy to get. just beat the game and you get like 900, king kong all over again. The gameplay is 
 kinda of cool though, alot of jumping and doing flips can get you a little pumped up, except for 
 when the controls eff up and the camera gets in the way. I'm not going to go into great detail 
 here. the bottom line is that if you are a kid or have a kid then buy this game. other than that 
 you should just rent it or forget about it all together. peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't going to buy this game but after watching the clerks play the game in the EB Game store 
 it drew a crowd including me.
  I was there to buy Virtua Tennis, but they didn't have it in yet and on my way out of the store 
 i bought this game on impulse.
  
  AND I M GLAD I DID.
  
  This game is a nice change to what is out on the market right now as the graphics are great and 
 gameplay is even better. The price doesn't hurt too at $50.
  
  All in all, i would say that this game is awesome for all ages and extremely fun. It is like Ninja 
 Gaiden with a crash bandicoot environment.
  
  Good job with a movie game Ubi. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
