-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: TNA iMPACT!
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/tnaimpact/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Attacks land with invigorating force.
 Simple control scheme, varied move set.
 Animations often look great.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Technical flaws can spoil matches.
 Graphical glitches are common.
 Story mode doesn't capture personalities of TNA stars.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 10, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.4, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 441 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Midway
Developer: Midway Studios LA
Genre: Wrestling
Date: Sep 9, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's no heavyweight champion, but this brawler still packs a satisfying punch. 

  Professional wrestling has long been maligned and celebrated as a place where spandex-clad ogre-men 
 go to act out contrived rivalries and pretend to actually wrestle. While these simplifications 
 certainly hit on some truths about "sports entertainment," the remarkable talents and impressive 
 athleticism of its practitioners cannot be denied. If you're the kind of person who enjoys the 
 high-flying, hard-hitting spectacle of pro wrestling in spite of its myriad absurdities, then TNA 
 Impact may be the game for you. It has some aggravating problems, but it does a great job of translating 
 the excitement of TNA Wrestling into fluid action and visceral fun.  

  A wrestling game is only as fun as the moves you can perform, and in this regard, TNA Impact does 
 quite well. You ratchet up your basic punch and kick attacks by holding the strong modifier or 
 by performing them from a run or in a grapple. This simple layering allows for a wide range of 
 moves without requiring complex button combinations, so it's easy to unleash your nastiest attacks 
 right from the get-go. Each move makes you feel powerful, from a backhand that sends your opponent 
 staggering to a DDT that lays him out. You can also reverse almost any attack with a well-timed 
 button press, and many reversals can be reversed again. The accessible variety of attacks, the 
 crashing impact of each clout, and the ever-looming possibility of reversals make the action fast, 
 furious, and fun.  

           There's a reason they call him The Samoan Submission Machine.      

  The more you 
 mix up your moves, the more likely you are to come across some of the game's many technical hitches. 
 When the animations run smoothly, they look great and produce exceedingly satisfying impacts. When 
 they don't quite line up, you see fists and feet clipping through torsos, as well as apparent misses 
 registering as hits. These oddities, common to most modern wrestling games, are a minor distraction, 
 and won't hinder your pugilistic endeavors.  

  The more frustrating glitches cause your character to perform unintended maneuvers, often with 
 disastrous results. These are prone to surface in a few situations, the most frequent of which 
 are transitions, such as when your character is getting up off the mat, climbing a turnbuckle, 
 or exiting the ring. Because your attack changes depending on your opponent's position, you may 
 often find yourself aiming to punch an enemy as soon as he stands up, only to execute an elbow 
 drop and lay yourself out at his stomp-happy feet. You can also dodge grapples or attacks when 
 you're near the edge of the ring because the animation of rolling out of the ring will often negate 
 incoming moves. Then, there's the particularly tricky situation when your opponent is down near 
 the edge of the ring. Climbing up on the turnbuckle, rolling out of the ring, and pinning an opponent 
 are all mapped to the same button, which makes it very difficult to figure out how to position 
 yourself to execute the action you want. In this case, you're better off avoiding those three actions 
 altogether.  

  When you're playing against other human players, these hang-ups don't feel so frustrating because 
 you are all subject to the same pitfalls. Everyone can take advantage of each others' missteps 
 and laugh about it. Even on moderate difficulty levels, you can still suffer a few miscues and 
 scrape out a win. However, as you play through the single-player Story mode, you'll eventually 
 hit a wall. As the foes get tougher, the room for error diminishes so much so that one missed move 
 or missed opportunity can cost you the match. This is vexing enough when it's an honest mistake, 
 but it becomes downright infuriating when it's an animation glitch.  

  The Story mode begins when you design a new wrestler using the fairly robust character creator. 
 You then fight your way through a serviceable plot that is pretty much par for the pro wrestling 
 course. The voice acting is lackluster and feels somewhat flat in contrast with the vigorous banter 
 featured on the actual show, but the real shame is that the actor who voices your wrestler is just 
 awful. His performance casts a shadow on the TNA stars, one you should try to shake off by checking 
 out the training videos featured in the extras menu (the short ring entrances probably won't do 
 much for you) . The real incentive to play the Story mode is to unlock new characters, moves, and 
 arenas. You do this by earning style points in each match. The riskier and more varied your moves 
 are, the more points you'll earn, which is a nice motivation to mix things up. Equipping more impressive 
 moves is fun, though each time you want to change your move set, you'll have to reenter character-customization 
 tool and sit through a long save time.  

           Ultimate X matches aren't as exciting as they sound.      

  Multiplayer is the best 
 way to enjoy TNA Impact, and there's a wide array of match types. One-on-one matches, three-way 
 free-for-alls, four-player tag-team brawls, handicap contests, and the signature Ultimate X matches 
 are all playable locally, though the online selection is a bit more limited. Ultimate X matches, 
 while dramatic on television, often feel less exciting than normal matches because the focus becomes 
 staying aloft on the cables rather than pummeling your opponents. There's nothing unexciting about 
 that per se, but the hanging combat is awkward and limited. Actually grabbing the X also requires 
 you to tap a button when a moving cursor lines up with a target area -- an action that could be diplomatically 
 described as "anticlimactic." Additionally, online matches are sometimes hindered by lag, which 
 can make pulling off reversals, grabbing the X, and getting out of pins trickier than usual.  

 
  So, TNA Impact is not without its flaws. The character models are excellent while the animation 
 is fluid and lively, but the physics of fighting definitely lack polish and can create some frustrating 
 situations. Yet despite these technical shortcomings, it's still great fun to clothesline, drop 
 kick, and power bomb your friends in and out of the ring. And, ultimately, isn't that what pro 
 wrestling is all about?     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (45 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Eastcoast93
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 26, 2009 11:26 am PT
Review:  First of all I don't follow TNA but i like wrestling and have played all smackdown games in recent 
 years and watch smackdown on tv as well occasionally.
  
  Story- There is a story with some interesting depth though repetitive tricks bring it down a lot. 
 There is local multiplayer, being actually a very amusing time and online multiplayer which I didn't 
 test.
  
  Content- There are a few modes, no comparison to Smackdown. Ultimate X mode is really fun and worthwhile 
 ( your aim is to remove an X from the ceiling by climing ropes and pressing button combinations- 
 similar to Money in the Bank though more exciting) . Known wrestlers such as Kurt Angle, Samoa Joe 
 and Sting are included and there is little missing on the licenses. You are able to create your 
 own character which was handled quite well.
  
  Controls- This is where it kind of ruins the pleasure for me. The amount of tricks available is 
 pretty small and you will find yourself doing the same stuff over and over again. It took me about 
 ten matches to get used to the weird controls using lb to make stronger grapples and the lack of 
 variety makes this game feel like unfinished. I actually found the difficulty rather hard, might 
 hang together with the fact that I still can't properly do finishers as the game doesn't mention 
 it in its booklet or game but maybe you will have more lucky handling the game. By the way I never 
 manage to prevent myself from being tapped. The game doesn't realise that I'm pushing the left 
 stick back and forth so aggression is guaranteed.
  
  Graphics- Nothing to complain really as graphics are up to par on the 360 compared to other sports 
 / wrestling games. The physics actually look really good and feel more natural than THQ's game. 
 The overall presentation deserves some credit and gains some extra mentioning. On top of that a 
 bonus dvd was included with my game. 
  
  
  If your a TNA enthusiast- it is somewhat rewarding, to everybody else try to avoid it and wait 
 for a sequel or check out the fantastic Smackdown 09. The presentation and graphic are a plus point, 
 though get brought down to the unfulfilling spectrum of moves and a unsatisfying mode range. Multiplayer 
 is present but does not necessarily affect the game's overall performance. Still you cannot do 
 anything wrong picking this up in the Bargain Bin!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ijterrell
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 24, 2009 10:28 pm PT
Review:  I honestly like this game. Not bad for the very first game. But, left a lot of room for improvements. 
 You have to unlock too much stuff for me. I hate the fact it do not have an rating system ie Smackdown 
 Vs Raw series. You really do not know what your character can or can do. The story mode, to me, 
 is awful. You have to do too much to unlock a load of unlock-ables. The CAW is not bad, but again 
 you have to unlock moves. The counters and blocking the AI do, in story mode, will upset you. It 
 is so easy for them to block, counter, stun you and get their special. I said to myselfAre you 
 kidding me" so many times. The story mode can be so hard that it takes the fun out of playing the 
 video game. Another thing, you have to CAW to even play story mode. In order to really enjoy the 
 game, you must complete story mode. Only a few characters open. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fowler84
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 9:45 am PT
Review:  i was so let down after playing this game i had great dn high expetations but it left me sitting 
 there wishing i had bought another game it didn't even haveany playable female divas like there 
 is on the show my advise is to rent it before you by this game gameplay has the worst story line 
 you could ever experience the only good part about the game is the graphics which benefit from 
 the unreal engine 3 , but they are nothing like gears of war quality so take the advise and rent 
 it first a key note is when making a wrestling game make it like the show is and dont just make 
 up some crap and say wow that will sure sell some copys bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bbaby baby bugy bunmpers car volvo car machine dude peeps car place temple house home wcw 
 wwe wwf raw is war smack down vs raw is better than this game save your mmoney andgo rent it first 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johncena12
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 27, 2009 1:49 pm PT
Review:  this was suppose to be a good game. i am a wrestling fan and i like TNA alot but this game just 
 pretty much spoils TNA. yes there is some good points about the game such as the good graphics, 
 good sound effects and good voice acting. but the bad points well i shall explain them.
  
  your opponent is pretty much invincible, when you hit him with all the chairs that are placed around 
 the ringside your opponent reverses all most all of the moves that you put on them and then they 
 start to own you to the point where you had enough.
  
  the difficulty in this game is stupid theres three difficulties (backyard - easy, Indie- medium 
 and pro - hard)
  i played on backyard and it is so hard that i almost broke my knuckles and my control pad. im normally 
 good at games and i dont lose my temper but this just takes it too far. even wwe on legend difficulty 
 is easier than this
  
  Storyline is too short once you have done the storyline there is nothing to do anymore apart from 
 go for the achievements but one of the achievements is slightly impossible as you have to unlock 
 all superstars within the game and use one superstar (sharkboy) and defeat all the superstars. 
 to be honest who would sit there and defeat all the superstars just for 50g not me.
  
  so to me i dont think you should buy this game unless you want to take out your anger on something. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjfabbsy
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 23, 2009 4:08 pm PT
Review:  This game should have been great. TNA needed a hit, some kind of hit... this is not what they achieved.
 
  
  I'll give Midway props for the amazing graphics, they truly are stunning on a HD screen, and great 
 use of the Havok physics system. The SFX are also very well done and have good impact.
  
  That's were the fun ends....
  
  I cannot believe MIDWAY can even consider using WAGGLING THE 
 ANALOG STICK as an input for a game. It is the most annoying thing possible... and it takes away 
 from a relaxing and natural gameplay experience. Having this affect the most important element 
 of a wrestling match, the pinfall, makes it even more unforgivable. Take some hints from Smackdown 
 vs. Raw in this area.
  
  Player fatigue should never be a factor in gameplay, and the WAGGLING OF THE ANALOG STICK brings 
 this to the forefront. The AI will always have the advantage because of this because it never tires.... Not 
 fun.
  
  You are also very likely to cause damage to your controller by constantly abusing the analog stick 
 in this fashion, there is no other way to play the game.
  
  Also, the stupid submission system where you need to have a memory of the location of every button 
 on your controller... a puzzle within a wrestling game. Not fun.
  
  How about when I'm in a match, and I try and pin my opponent and my character just decides to roll 
 out of the ring instead? Not fun...
  
  Or when I am in a tag match, and my partner randomly decides to come in and save me.... then I'm 
 at the mercy of WAGGLING THE ANALOG STICK again. I've had occasions where I am right next to my 
 AI partner in the match, being pinned and he is just casually standing there as if nothing is going 
 on.
  
  I don't normally write reviews, but this game has annoyed me so much that I just have to let everyone 
 know about it.
  
  The only reason I am completing this game, is because I am a wrestling fan overall and I have endured 
 so much frustration and annoyance in getting as far as I have in this game and I want to see the 
 end of my storyline.
  
  Apart from that, I do not recommend this game in the slightest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spongeboy1
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  This is the worst excuse for a wrestling game that i have ever seen. Midway needs to get a lot 
 of help from THQ... cause THQ can make a wrestling game.
  
  The controls are HORRENDOUS. my joysticks squeak constantly now because of the stupid kick out 
 system. MIDWAY SUCKS... because of this "game" they are nearly bankrupt from the news i have heard.
 
  
  The CAW mode has no customization whatsoever, no previews either. you cant even make the lame excuse 
 for a moveset until you play story mode all the way through to unlock the lame moves.
  
  The submission system sucks.
  
  the caw mode sucks
  
  the control scheme sucks
  
  the 
 story sucks
  
  the entrances suck
  
  the move system sucks
  
  what about this game doesn't suck.
  
  Lucky for me i got this as a gift and didn't waste my 
 own money on it.
  
  It isn't even close to being worth $60... more like $10.
  
  Here's some advice... don't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godzillab10
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  Before I banter on about the crappiness that is TNA Impact I must say that this is definitely graphically 
 superior to any WWE game I've played, and the Ultimate X challenge was very fun and I enjoyed kicking 
 ass with Kurt Angle again without having to create him. Of coarse that's no reason to lift this 
 game up on a pedestal.
  
  The game generally sucks. 25 suoerstars is just not enough. TNA has a roster of 37 Superstars and 
 15 Knock-Outs, and they give us 25 people to choose from? Now I realize that playing as Divas on 
 the WWE game isn't the most fun thing to do but I gotta tell ya my ex-girlfriend loves trying to 
 take me on with Mickie James even when I was Triple H or Kennedy. She couldn't stand not being 
 a Knock-Out on TNA and I couldn't stand using anyone. If Midway wants into the wrestling game business 
 they have a looooooooong way to go. THQ has been the only wrestling game maker for a reason, they're 
 the best. They saw their mistakes in 2008 and fixed all of them this year. There's even an all 
 too important patch coming out that fixes the CAW stats problem. THQ knows how to please the fans. 
 THQ is awesome like Triple H and Midway is as useless as Gay Lethal that Randy Savage wanna be 
 that needs to get fired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theowanav
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2008 4:17 am PT
Review:  Very addicting story mode. I couldn't stop playing story mode and it took me 15 hours about to 
 finish the game. The only reason I finished it so fast was because, I got so damn addicted to it! 
 Very realistic and cool. TNA is completely different from WWE and I much prefer TNA. I have played 
 a series of SVR games for PS2 and Xbox 360. But, by far this TNA game is better. As it says at 
 the back of the game, "Wresting so real even you can feel the pain" guess what..... it's true. The 
 online feature has a lot of modes and even though you may finish the story mode easily. The online 
 function will keep making you want to play. You may even get the chance to play against real life 
 TNA wrestlers online. Imagine being able to play and beat your favourite TNA wrestler in real life. 
 Well beating them online feels just like that! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simonsworld
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  I like to watch TNA when ever i can on bravo tv, better pure wrestling than WWE, has been for sometime, 
 but they lack the funds at the moment to really worry WWE to a large degree, i hope this game helps 
 TNA get some recongnition it really needs.
  
  For a first try i think this is excellent, WCW made some bad games in the past "expect revenge 
 on N64, and mayhem on PS1 was ok", and the ECW game wasnet anything amazing, but i get the feeling 
 with TNA the next game, hopefully 2009 will be a force to be taken seriously, with more game modes, improved 
 carrer mode, more match/game types, even a few more wreslters i think it be an essential buy, this 
 game is fun especially in multiplayer its a good laugh, but single player for me, lasted a weekend 
 then it was like ok what do i do now? i see why smackdown fans not over impressed, but with friends 
 its a blast especially if they watch it on TV and follow the drama, the madness then makes more 
 sense "P ultimate X matchs are cool, but needs blood and more weapons etc but the game engine is 
 well done.
  
  Great visuals, on par with smackdown for sure, entrances abit to short but that will improve in 
 time for the next one hopefully, its more arcadeish i guess, some the moves get repeated regular, but 
 it is a fun game.
  
  I can see why naive 12 year olds who play smackdown alot not like this game, as it feels half as 
 deep, but for a first shot by TNA i was very pleased, and again the sequal should be excting, BTW 
 kurt angle is in it, am not american, but hes MY american hero. "applauds myself" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fazterstyle1
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  first of all i like to say that i hate tna wrestling!
  this game have not much controlling even no match types such as hell in the sell, royal rumble, hardcore 
 etc.... tna sucks!!! sd vs raw is much much much better than this........ i expect more from this 
 but its disapointed me lots........ only single story in the story mode....... just like a cartoon... the 
 entrances is like a old smackdown .... but its little bit good as a first part of tna game..........!! 
 its my little review
  
  graphics 9.0 veeeryy smooth morphing
  gameplay 5.0 no moves ,worst blocking
  sounds 6.0 
  
  lastly i just wana say to midway next 
 time gives us more features in this game!!
  
  no more wresling games can beat the smackdown series.... no more wresling games can beat the smackdown 
 series.... no more wresling games can beat the smackdown series.... no more wresling games can beat 
 the smackdown series.... no more wresling games can beat the smackdown series.... no more wresling 
 games can beat the smackdown series.... no more wresling games can beat the smackdown series.... no 
 more wresling games can beat the smackdown series.... no more wresling games can beat the smackdown 
 series.... no more wresling games can beat the smackdown series.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarOceaner_93
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  When TNA was established back in May of 2002, they were WWE's biggest competition. The WWE already 
 had a huge fan base, and sold out more shows, but TNA kept fighting, and is now close behind WWE. 
 Some consider TNA better than WWE, some may disagree. But that doesn't matter. The WWE was dominant 
 for the beginning years. They had a bigger fan base, more wrestlers, and they had wrestling video 
 games. TNA has recently teamed up with Midway to bring another wrestling game into our homes, a 
 frustrating wrestling game I might add.
  
  TNA: The Video Game, isn't necessarily a bad game, it's just that its negative qualities heavily 
 outweigh the good. If you are not familiar with TNA, it's similar to the WWE, except instead of 
 fighting in a four-sided ring, they fight in a six-sided one. TNA wrestlers are fun to watch because 
 they can do most things that the people in the WWE could never do.
  
  However, TNA is a beautiful, beautiful game. The graphics are astonishing, and the crowd sounds 
 and reactions couldn't be better. The only downside is during the entrances of the wrestlers. They 
 look amazing, with the wrestlers entering the same way as they would in real life with their music 
 and all that, but the entrances are extremely short. They only show them exiting the tunnel, showing 
 off a bit, and then cut to the next guy. It repeats, and then the match begins.
  
  The first thing you probably will want to do when you pop in your copy of TNA is play a match and 
 get used to the controls a little bit. Thankfully, TNA has an easy control scheme that's easy to 
 learn and fun to use. Your basic attacks, such as punching and kicking, are done by pressing the 
 X and A buttons. You can also deal out more pain in your attacks by simply holding the Left Bumper 
 and pressing either X or A. The Y button is used for more technical moves such as suplexes and 
 other moves. Again, you can deal more damage to your opponent by holding LB. If you have an opponent 
 on the ground, simply pressing B will allow you to pin, and holding LB while pressing B will let 
 you do a submission.
  
  It sounds confusing, but you get used to it. While the controls are easy to use, it's a shame that 
 you'll rarely get to see the moves being performed. The wrestlers in TNA have a tendency to reverse 
 a lot of your moves, and that becomes frustrating. You'll eventually end up in a match where every 
 move you try to do will get reversed. Reversals are done by pressing the Right Bumper at the right 
 time. Time it perfectly, and you'll hear a little chime indicating you've successfully reversed. 
 If you don't do it correctly, your wrestler will end up flat on his back. The wrestlers make reversals 
 look so incredibly easy, but when you try and do it, it almost never works.
  
  Submissions are executed by holding LB and pressing B. If you manage to successfully put somebody 
 in a submission hold, you'll go into a mini-game where you have to press three buttons a total 
 of three times. If they manage to press the three buttons faster than you do, then they will kick 
 out of the submission. Basically, submissions are pointless and stupid and serve no purpose in 
 the match.
  
  Matches will frustrate you because the opponents are really difficult no matter what difficulty 
 you play on. They'll constantly reverse, and once they gain momentum, they never stop. If you get 
 pinned, you have to shake the left stick left and right. A bar will pop up with a meter and you 
 must fill that meter before the fans count to three. It'll take around 3 finishers just to put 
 down one opponent, but not even one finisher to put you down. 
  
  The game also has a Stun Meter, and an Impact meter. As you continually dish out damage on your 
 opponent, this little red meter will go up. Once it fills up the bar, your opponent will be stunned 
 and unable to move, allowing you to deal out as much damage before they get up. However when it 
 happens to you, you cannot reverse any moves, and it takes forever just to get un-stunned. The 
 Impact meter is filled by dealing damage to your enemies and once it's full, you have a short amount 
 of time to grapple them and execute your finisher.
  
  While all that is increasingly frustrated, thankfully the match options are good. There isn't a 
 whole lot of match types to choose from, which is a bummer, but the Ultimate X match is a fun match 
 to play. You must climb up the turnbuckle and hang onto the rope and shimmy your way to the hanging 
 X and you'll execute a mini-game in which you must press the A button when the thing hits the green 
 zone. It'll get faster upon each succession, so it puts pressure on you to hurry up and be fast, 
 which will cause you to screw up most of the time.
  
  There also are not a lot of weapons to choose from. As a matter of fact, the only weapon you can 
 use is a chair. And you'll notice that your opponent will constantly go and grab the chair and 
 use it on you. There is no sense of realism here because there is no referee in the middle of the 
 ring to stop the guy from beating you with a chair. So every match you play is a no-holds-barred, 
 anything-goes type of match.
  
  If you choose to play story mode, you'll still be disappointed. Not only is there still the problem 
 of opponents constantly reversing your moves and always winning, but now you have a storyline. 
 The story goes is that you are a famed wrestler named Suicide. You had everything, fame money, 
 and you even won the world championship. Then two thugs beat you up and leave you in Mexico. You 
 get surgery done and that prompts the character creation. Once you finish creating your character, 
 you will have to fight in several matches until you get a chance to go and wrestle in TNA. The 
 storyline is completely bland, and you really start to lose interest about a quarter of the way 
 into the story.
  
  Character creation is fun however. You'll start with a guy and you'll be able to pick all sorts 
 of different options. At first it's limited to a few moves, but you'll eventually unlock more throughout 
 the game by earning Style Points, which are earned based on your performance in a match. You'll 
 also get to choose clothing, tattoos, and other things to customize your character with.
  
  Overall TNA is a really, really frustrating game. Reversals happen way more often then they should, 
 and the story mode is bland and uninteresting. The game is fun to play with a friend, granted they 
 don't reverse as often and the computer does and you'll actually stand a chance unless they play 
 religiously. TNA can be a fun game, and is an amazing looking game, but that's all it is, an amazing 
 looking game. It has the easiest control scheme you'll see in a wrestling video game today, but 
 what fun is that if you can't perform the moves because they keep getting reversed. TNA is a game 
 you should avoid, unless you are a huge fan of the show. Even if you are, it is a little difficult 
 to enjoy this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DB3457
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 4:14 am PT
Review:  For the last 5 years there has not been any competition for the Smackdown series. Now TNA is here 
 it is bringing the competion back in to the 4 (or 6) sided ring. 
  
  Firstly, lets not get ahead of ourselves and think, "oh god, a smackdown rip off"- as this is not 
 the case. Now to be honest I have played wrestling games from the 90's starting off with War Zone 
 and up until today the wrestling series has changed a lot. Orginally it was arcadic, but now it 
 has gone for realism. I personally enjoyed the arcadic experience more because it was actually 
 fun. But TNA, has gone one better, it has mixed them both.
  
  TNA has a lot going for it- such as a good multiplayer and a fairly strong roster (but somewhat 
 little) . It does not try to play like smackdown, and nor is it any way similar other than good 
 graphics and it involves wrestling. Firstly lets start off with the game itself. Matchs are intense, 
 and the wrestler models are good. The ring has lots of hotspots and the action is non-stop. The 
 free for all and Ultimate X are the highlights in the match types and are really good with your 
 mates. But there are a few problem with the matchs. the first is with the tag team. To put it nicely 
 it is weak, as the games AI for your partner is some what dead, but your oppnents AI partener has 
 a reaction speed of light. Also tag team has an annoying camera with it being pulled out so you 
 can see every wrestler and makes fighting in the ring a different game to the single player. An 
 overall problem with the matchs is the glitchs. In a match you could be happily beating the back 
 hairs off of them and then suddenly your guy will get stuck or will be stuck on the top turnbuckle. 
 Its bits like this that halt the gameplay and really make you want to scream as it is most frustating 
 in story mode. 
  
  Story mode is ok for a first attempt but is quite dire. The story itself is unrealistic from a 
 wrestling perspective and is too short. The voice acting ranges from ok to awful. You sound like 
 ok, but when you get Nash involved you think "what did I do to deserve this". 
  
  An overall impression is that the replay value is somewhat limited , due to lack of depth, but 
 the multiplayer is good and the series has had a good start off 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UbetterRECOGNZE
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  I LIKE THIS GAME, BUT I CANT PERFORM THE FINISHERS DUE TO THE CONTROL LAYOUT!-WHEN I DO THE FINISHER, 
 IT BECOMES A SUBMISSION?
  
  AS I SAID BEFORE, HOW DO I PERFORM A FINISHER IN THIS GAME IF THE CONTROL LAYOUTS ARE MESSED UP?
 
  
  DOES ANYONE KNOW/CAPABLE OF PERFORMING TNA FINISHERS? WHEN I DO IT, IT TURNS TO A SUBMISSION?
 
  HELP ME PLEASE!
  
  OTHERWISE, THIS GAME RULES AND ITS BEST ON THE 360 DUE TO GRAPHICS AND SOUND, BUT FOR CONTROLS, 
 ITS BEST ON THE PS3, BUT THE PROBLEM I HAD WITH THE PS3 WAS THE MODULE UPDATE LOAD TIMES WHEN YOU 
 FIRST PLAY IT, I HAD THIS SAME PROBLEM WITH GRAND THEFT AUTO 4, WHY DOES THE PS3 HAVE LONG LOAD 
 TIMES WHEN THEY UPDATE THEIR GAMES?
  IT TOOK ABOUT 25 MINUTES FOR THE PS3 UPDATE TO FINISH!
  
  IF I CAN PERFORM THE FINISHERS, I 
 WILL LOVE AND BEAT THIS GAME, ITS NOT THAT HARD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronnieboiy
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 29, 2008 12:46 am PT
Review:  If you like the old acclaim wrestling engine get this game is the game for you. Slow Bad targeting 
 no moves straight  This game sucks from the entrance to the 
 ring to the storyline to everything tna basicaly sucks!!!!! Everything about it sucks this game 
 is over hyped just stick to wwe and the smackdown vs raw series!!! THQ knows how to make wrestling 
 games thats why theyve been making these for years now If you like the old acclaim wrestling engine 
 get this game is the game for you. Slow Bad targeting no moves straight  
 This game sucks from the entrance to the ring to the storyline to everything tna basicaly sucks!!!!! 
 Everything about it sucks this game is over hyped just stick to wwe and the smackdown vs raw series!!! 
 THQ knows how to make wrestling games thats why theyve been making these for years now If you like 
 the old acclaim wrestling engine get this game is the game for you. Slow Bad targeting no moves 
 straight  This game sucks from the entrance to the ring to 
 the storyline to everything tna basicaly sucks!!!!! Everything about it sucks this game is over 
 hyped just stick to wwe and the smackdown vs raw series!!! THQ knows how to make wrestling games 
 thats why theyve been making these for years now If you like the old acclaim wrestling engine get 
 this game is the game for you. Slow Bad targeting no moves straight  
 This game sucks from the entrance to the ring to the storyline to everything tna basicaly sucks!!!!! 
 Everything about it sucks this game is over hyped just stick to wwe and the smackdown vs raw series!!! 
 THQ knows how to make wrestling games thats why theyve been making these for years now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: y2jon619
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 19, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  no moves
  -cant unlock moves (maybe 1 every 5 matches)
  -terrible collision detection
  -terrible tutorial/non existent-were the wrestling gimmicks neccessary?
  -By far the worst story 
 mode of any game out there (not just wrestling games right up there with 50 cents game)
  In the story mode you don't have an option of which moves you can purchase so you end up wrestling 
 5 matches do unlock a backhand chop. The fact that you cannot chose one of the regular wrestler's 
 in the game to go through the story mode is ludicrous you have to play with this 5 move wonder 
 the entire time. The create a wrestler in the game is poor at best its like a No Mercy Light. EXCEPT 
 THERE ARE LESS OPTIONS. In No Mercy at least you can choose your taunts and preview your ring entrance. 
 You can do neither in Impact. Also you do not have customizable characther points. Meaning you 
 can't choose to make yourself faster, stronger, get your finisher faster or any of the other options 
 that have been in wrestling games for the last DECADE. So you are always getting killed by the 
 pre-made wrestler's in the game who seem to be stronger or can get there finisher by doing only 
 one or two moves. Also there is no rope break or disqualification. The wrestler's in story mode 
 range from reversal gods who can reverse anything you do or total pansies who you can wail on all 
 day its completely inconsistent. 
  Also one of my biggest pet peeves is there is no cage match at LOCKDOWN THE CAGE MATCH PAY-PER 
 VIEW. I can go on and on but don't buy this game and if you are curious rent it or borrow it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bremsy
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 15, 2008 12:31 am PT
Review:  With the Smackdown series not getting any better in the last few years, I was curious as to what 
 TNA Impact would be like when it was released. I rented the game a short while ago and here is 
 what I have to say:
  
  Initially, the game was kinda fun as me and a friend were playing a free for all match against 
 two cpus. The match ended all too quickly it seemed as I was pinned before even figuring out how 
 to do anything. It seems as if jerking the joystick one way or another is the way to kick out, 
 but more often than not it seems futile to kick out of a pinfall attempt. After playing a couple 
 free for all matches, we decided to try and ultimate x match free for all, but found only 3 characters 
 were allowed in the ring. Despite that, we had some laughs about being able to kick people off 
 the cables hanging above the ring while trying to get the x down in order to win the match. Knocking 
 people over seemed to be the only fun we had in playing the game. So far after playing a couple 
 of matches, I found the gameplay to be lame.
  
  Later on I went home and tried the story mode. What I found was that I had to create a character 
 and with pretty much no options as to what to select for set of moves, and limited amount of clothing 
 and apparel for the character. I went into the story mode and found the story mildly interesting. 
 However, the gameplay was still obviously lame and I had similar frustrating moments as earlier. 
 I get pinned after a finisher from the cpu (even if i dominated the match, and after the cpu kicked 
 out of my finisher with ease) . One thing I would like to know is how hard does it have to be to 
 kick out of a pinfall. After a few matches in the story mode, I stopped playing the game.
  
  Final words:
  Overall the graphics and presentation of the game is really good, the characters, 
 and the animations look solid. However, the gameplay falls short in terms of the set of wrestling 
 moves that each character seems to have and also in the lack of matches available in the game. 
 Also, with almost all wrestling games playing pretty much the same way dating back to the days 
 of the ps2, it's hard to believe that any wrestling game out these days is truly next generation. 
 If there were to be another TNA Impact game to come out, the gameplay would need some significant 
 improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShawnEffect_58
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  TNA iMPACT! is the first game of the Total Nonstop Action wrestling. The game is suprisingly good 
 for a first game! Story mode is quite fun, actually. Gameplay is very frustrating because of the 
 counter-happy A. I. About 45% of your moves WILL be countered by your oppenent no matter how good 
 you are. In story mode, all of the characters become very very weird, and it gets annoying. Sometimes, 
 the A. I. oppenents are so hard, while you are re-trying a match for the fourth time, you will want 
 to get up and suplex your TV through the window. But, I have never quite gotten into a game like 
 this. What I mean by that is, the game is very intense and i really fight like I was in that wrestling 
 ring. If you are a big wrestling fan like me, then you have to play this game!
  
  
  
  -Shawn
  Look at my profie it is awesome lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wtfkid
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2008 4:53 am PT
Review:  First Impressions:
  
  When I first played the game, I felt that the controls are sometimes frustrating me cuz Ive been 
 playing SVR alot and I just cant get used to the control scheme. Than I realized its a simple control 
 scheme. The character models looks great but their personalities in story mode just dont feel right. 
 Since when did LAX became bad guys and asked people to take a dive (That happen in the beginning 
 of the story mode anyway) ? The Ultimate X match is okay with me but come on, 3 people per Ultimate 
 X match? At least make it 6 people as SVR manage to do that. There should be more gimmick matches 
 too cuz Ultimate X match isnt enough.
  
  Pros:
  1. Nice character models.
  2. Simple control scheme.
  3. Moves can make you go "WOW!"
  4. Animations look great.
  5. 
 Story mode is well scripted
  6. The sound effects is awesome.
  7. The extras they included (Like the TNA matches) .
  8. The who-people-want roster.
  
  Cons:
 
  1. Story mode doesnt capture wrestlers personalties.
  2. Pinning is a nightmare.
  3. Especially trying to kick out of a pin.
  4. Too repetitive.
  5. Dumb AI.
  6. WTF !!! No 
 CURRY MAN !
  
  Overall this game is great and its worth your buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 5:51 am PT
Review:  Pros
  
  
  * It plays faster then the competition, if the slower speed of the WWE games bothered you.
  * 
 TNA Wrestlers faithfully recreated.
  * Story is slightly more interesting then you'd expect from a wrestling game.
  
  
  Cons
 
  
  * Create A Wrestler is pretty crap, both in terms of cosmetics and moves you can assign.
  * Not 
 a great diversity in match types.
  * Stupid Tag Team AI.
  * Doesn't appear the Knock Out division is represented. To you that might be a good thing, but 
 to me it just reeks of lack of effort and lets face it, I'm sure a good deal of folk only have 
 interest in wrestling when it's associated with pretty women.
  
  
  Last year Skate was released. Offering some much needed competition to the sport of skateboarding 
 in the video game world, in which Tony Hawk has ruled for some time.
  
  Similar could be said now.
  WWE Wrestling Games have had practically zero competition and over 
 the years has kind of just rested on it's laurels, offering incremental updates of the previous 
 years game as opposed to much of real substance.
  Should the Smackdown v Raw series sit up and take note now?
  Personally I don't think so.
  
 
  The games story mode has you playing a wrestler named Suicide, or formally known as Suicide anyway 
 - as in the games intro where you find yourself on top of the TNA Wrestling World, you get taken 
 out and dumped in Mexico with amnesia.
  Apparently they did quite a number on you, so a couple of plastic surgeons that found you apparently 
 offer to fix you up, which leads into the games create a character mode.
  
  Unfortunately the CAW isn't up to scratch when compared to the WWE's or pretty much any CAC mode 
 from any sports game in the past few years, it has a very limited amount of customization you can 
 make, both in terms of cosmetics and attacks which is quite a shame.
  
  The game opens up with you wrestling in Mexico to get some scratch and the opportunity to be shipped 
 to the US, which is where TNA takes note of you after winning some fights in an air force base 
 or some such.
  
  The wrestling itself is solid, though again there isn't a large variety of moves you can perform 
 from what I've seen.
  The game moves along much faster then a round of Smackdown would.
  Even when you get pretty tired your seldom down long unlike in Smackdown where you can be waiting 
 forever if your foe doesn't pick you up and god forbid both of you should fall over, tired in that 
 game or yeah.. It's torturous waiting for them to get up.
  Not so painful in TNA.
  No stamina to worrying about either, so you aren't stopping every few minutes for a breather. I 
 personally don't mind that aspect of the WWE games, but I know it's garnered complaints from some 
 who'll be pleased to know this game lives up to it's promise of Total Nonstop Action
  
  I'm not sure I'd say the TNA games look as good as WWE's, but they animate better.
  Not quite 
 so robotic in comparison to the competition. Guys get knocked over and they tumble, wobble, it 
 looks real in comparison to pretty much just falling over straight you get in the WWE games.
  And I guess one of the advantages of having limited customization and body types is theres less 
 occurrences of clipping. Theres still some, but not to the large degree thats been a distraction 
 in Smackdown games for years and years.
  
  Theres not a large range of match types.
  Perhaps representative of TNA itself, I don't know.
  Don't really get TNA down here except some 
 PPV's and I'm not payin'.
  But there isn't a whole lot to do.
  
  The Ultimate X match would be the only stand out match type, where you climb across some cables 
 above the ring to grab a large X thats hanging.. Above the ring, heh.
  It adds some variety, but not enough.
  
  And before I end just a quick note on the tag partners 
 AI.
  Sometimes it seems like it doesn't exist.
  
  When a pinning situation occurs, the partners are meant to run into the ring and either A) stop 
 it from occurring if your partners in trouble or B) stop the other guy from stopping the pin if 
 your partners just a three count away from victory.
  Sometimes this happens as it should and it's no problem.
  
  Most of the time however your partner 
 just stands dumbly on the side of the ring, watching you get your arse handed too you. Or sometimes 
 he'll come in, propel himself at the enemy and miss - which ends with you losing. This latter condition 
 is preferable to the standing dumbly, because at least then he's doing something - but it'd be 
 more tolerable if the enemy's partner was just as fallible because it seems whenever you're going 
 to pin his partner, unless YOUR partner actually does his job for change - well then he'll get 
 you off him, delaying your victory further.
  
  I've lost numerous matches because my partners an idiot.
  Unlike the WWE games it doesn't seem 
 like theres the option to bring in a human player to the story mode either. So you're pretty much 
 resigned to grit your teeth and bear it, praying to the gaming GODS that the AI will hold up.
 
  
  It's a solid enough first entry, I s'pose.
  But if there is another game and they are looking to emulate the success of the WWE games, then 
 they've got some pretty big holes to patch up before they hit the mark in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkened_skys
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  While this game is good it is by no means brilliant. There are several annoying things to do with 
 this game. When you first start playing the game the controls are awkward and will take some getting 
 used to. With one button doing three things, by the time you are in position your opponent will 
 be on their feet again. The damage system does not have much of an affect, the only thing it changes 
 is your ability to get out of a pin. Getting out of pin in the first place is hard enough and after 
 a while it will start to hurt your hand. Also the roster is tiny and the match types are severly 
 limited. The create a wrestler mode has limited options aswell. However through all of these annoying 
 things it has got some good points. The impact of your moves makes sounds good, the story mode 
 has a possible storyline unlike the Samckdown series. The graphics are pretty good aswell. The 
 Smackdown series has had many years of practice with their games and because TNA are the only competition 
 the will always be compared. Sure TNA has the high flying moves and Ultimate X match but after 
 playing TNA for a while it will leave you wanting the next Smackdown game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rich_t_13
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 7, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  Gotta admit i was expecting more from this game seen as it was originally set to be released in 
 spring this year. i thought they would have added alot more to it. i. e. ladders match, tables match, 
 women wrestlers, and a decent range of moves to pick from. As it stands the game play is very good. 
 in many ways it plays more like wrestle mania 2000 than the more complex SvR series. Judging by 
 the last SvR game released is to complicated and even some one like me whom has played every game 
 in the series could not under stand the different control systems for 8 different wrestling styles.
 
  
  And i that sence the TNA impact game is much better and the ultimate x match is makes up for the 
 lack of match types. Create a wrestler was a bit **** even wrestle mania 2000 had a better range 
 which is saying something seen as it was on the N64. But if they make this a yearly release then 
 maybe they can keep on adding to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paladin_King
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  The Intro
  
  So, TNA wrestling continues its bid to match the WWE in all things by doing the inevitable and 
 coming out with their first game. For wrestling fans, this is pretty exciting, as it marks the 
 first time since the folding of WCW that we have had an official non-WWE wrestling this side of 
 the Pacific. If only it could've been better.
  
  The Good
  
  This game is sloppy fun at its best. This is NOT a good game, but when played locally with a few 
 friends, it can be enjoyable because of it. As you've probably found in wrestling games in general, 
 it's fun to just mindlessly flail away at each other. With a few friends, the game becomes a wild, 
 chaotic mess and can become fun because of it. You'll have a lot of laughs and a pretty fun few 
 hours before the game's flaws manage to penetrate through even the mirage of local multiplayer 
 gaming. Playing with friends can make many things fun, and TNA Impact is no different, as it delivers 
 the perfect arena for a sloppy good time.
  
  Also, it needs saying that it really IS a thrill to be able to play a TNA product. Using wrestlers 
 like Samoa Joe or AJ Styles is a total mark-out for wrestling fans, many of whom have probably 
 created said characters in WWE-based games. It's fresh, and from a novelty perspective alone, it's 
 worth a go.
  
  Finally, the graphics are solid enough in single player, with the character models moving well 
 enough and everything looking fine.
  
  The grappling system, though nothing earth-shattering, also proves itself fairly competent.
  
 
  The Bad
  
  Oh dear, where to start.
  
  My first major gripe is with a design choice in the game. Midway obviously understood that unlockables 
 play a big role in a game like this. That said, they went totally overboard here. Fresh out of 
 the box, the game is absolutely crippled. This does not make you want to play more and unlock things. 
 Rather, it leaves a bad taste in your mouth after a rental. About a quarter of the characters are 
 playable out of the box. Furthermore, you'll only be playing in ONE arena. And oh yeah, it takes 
 a LOT to unlock stuff.
  
  Worst of all though is how this utterly ruins the create-a-wrestler mode, which is otherwise pretty 
 good. The Create a wrestler mode is solid, but the thing is, every single move choice is locked. 
 That's right. That means that until you start unlocking moves, you literally have almost no choice 
 of moves for your created wrestler beyond a series of preset models. This basically destroys everything 
 the Create-a-wrestler mode does well in the game.
  
  As far as gameplay goes, there are also numerous problems here as well. There are hit detection 
 problems. Often times, your character will be hit by running attacks that clearly did not touch 
 you.
  
  Also, the grappling system, while solid, simply does not have enough moves across the board. There 
 is a LOT of move duplication between the game's wrestlers. For instance, me and four friends played 
 several 4 man free for alls, each time with different wrestlers and each time, every single one 
 of our wrestlers was able to perform a death valley driver. That's ridiculous. It really starts 
 to impede on the novelty factor of playing these fresh wrestlers when so many of their moves are 
 the same. This is only worsened by the fact that each wrestler only has one special finisher.
 
  
  The game also breaks the cardinal rule of wrestling games by simply not having enough match types. 
 Ultimate X is basically the only gimmick match playable here. Considering TNA's love of gimmick 
 matches, this is unforgivable. Worse still is that if you're trying to play with 4 players, you're 
 straight out of luck. No Ultimate X with 4 players and frankly, there's nothing to offer four players 
 save for a tag team match or a free for all. There are no ladders, no cages, no nothing. This is 
 just rushed.
  
  Part of what this leads to is another feeling of the game's being rushed and stripped, as it means 
 there are NO "hardcore" type matches. Instead, every match is "hardcore." However, all this means 
 is that there are four chairs outside of the ring that can be used until they break... and that's 
 it. There are no other weapon types and the chairs do not regenerate. Ugh.
  
  Ultimate X mode, as the only gimmick match available, is unfortunately pretty crappy, in that it 
 is incredibly difficult to win. Not that it's difficult to win in a game difficulty way, but more 
 that it's just impossible to finish the match. Players get to the centre and then have to complete 
 a difficult action-metre test at least eight times, while players on the bottom are free to pull 
 them down. This is bad news and can lead to 3 player Ultimate X matches last well over an hour, 
 as nobody is free to win unless the other players give up and allow it. If the other players play 
 to win, no one will win the match.
  
  The single player campaign's story is also incredibly lame. Story-wise, it felt absolutely ridiculous, 
 in particular because it didn't feel like a wrestling story-line, but instead, it felt like the 
 plot-line of some strange Japanese beat-em-up from the 90s.
  
  Finally, graphics show a significant drop as more players jump into the game. As the camera zooms 
 out, suddenly the game no longer looks particularly good at all. Ugh. I also miss the referee dynamics 
 of other wrestling games. TNA Impact goes back in time, having no referees within the match.
  
  The Conclusion
  
  Worth a rent, I guess, if you're wrestling fan. If not, don't bother. 
 Honestly, unless you're incredibly curious, even as a wrestling fan, you can probably pass even 
 renting this. It's just so rushed and barebones in comparison to its competitors that it's weaknesses 
 are glaring. It's restricted and limited, yet also sloppy and rushed. That's not the formula for 
 a good game. Maybe next time, they can build on this and make it better, with more match types, 
 more moves, and less unlocks. Until next time then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iMAC21
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the WWE games for many years but after the last two i have to admit, WWE has 
 just lost its way, And not just with its show/story lines either
  
  TNA's ideas on the show are fresh, All be some of them stupid (Super Eric) This is also shown in 
 the game, With some simmular traits to WWE Smackdown games like, Free running, Button combinations 
 and CAW systems, TNA still does things that the WWE games seem to over look, A simple thing like, 
 A hit can stop anyone doing a move (like modern life) if you were trying to powerbomb someone and 
 someone kicked you, You would be stopped... duh!!
  
  The matches are simple for now with the expection of the Ultimate X match, All be it a bit hard, 
 The match is alot of fun, Especially when you get 3 people playing at once, Other matches aren't 
 quiet there yet but as Midway/TNA are saying, "wait for the next one" which i can understand, They 
 didn't want to put all there eggs in one basket so to speak
  
  The characters are for me the best part of the game, Many to be unlocked and individual moves per-person, 
 Like Christopher Daniels does his BME (best moonsult ever) and only he can do that, AJ styles does 
 a spring-board Shooting Star Press (as only he can do)
  
  Dont expect this game to set the world alight and maybe not even the next one in the series, However 
 this game is just plain fun and can provide an alternative for WWE
  
  Wrestling fans, You have been warned 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caribbeancool
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Firstly this game deserves higher than the 7.0 it got, but not that much though.
  Its not an in depth highly technical game like the smackdown series, but it is way better than 
 the last 2 (2007 and 2008, 2006 is the best for me personally) .
  Also, it adds an easier pick up and play gamestyle to the wrestling games out there, with its fun 
 arcade style.
  Yeah, i mean you need to get used to the controls etc, but which game doesn't?
  I gave it a 7.5, 
 for it being worth a buy and for trying to be different. If it had more depth etc it would be higher.
 
  The smackdown games are better, and 2009 is shasping up to be the definitive wrestling game to 
 date, but personally i would like to see TNA give them some competition, as they are doing weekly 
 with there shows. But, like the shows, they are quite a way from doing so.
  I would recommend this game for wrestling fans out there, even if you don't watch TNA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alstevens83
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 22, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Right here's the normal boring stuff: TNA is released for Xbox 360, PS3, PS2 and Wii. And the general 
 retail price is between 19.99 and 49.99 (in the US it's $39.99 to $59.99) .
  
  Right there is a few things which needs to be addressed, there are 25 members of the TNA roster, 
 however most of them need to be unlocked which is a shame for a single match, also annoying because 
 most of the X-division and some of the mid card has to be unlocked via story mode. Also what could 
 be a massive put off is the fact that there is only a handful of matches included in the game. 
 The bread and butter of any wrestling game (as it is in wrestling it self) a One On One match. 
 There is Tag team falls count anywhere and the highflying Ultimate X and handicap match. The game 
 is missing the King Of The Mountain match, the six sides of steel and other gimmick matches. However 
 the good thing about the game is that visually it's impressive. I don't normally talk about frame 
 rate and graphically and even game play feel your in a TNA style match for example you can counter 
 practically any move within the game. However the moves within the game does seem very, very limited 
 to the point that 80 to 90% of the roster shares the same moves and selling ability. 
  
  Talking about selling and character's AI also seem to be pretty poor as well. For example (and 
 I have noticed it more and more as I play) when your wrestler goes dizzy, they either stagger towards 
 the turnbuckles or stagger towards the computers tag team partner in tag matches.
  
  However, lets move away from the negatives for the moment. So let's look at the good parts of the 
 game and the first thing which your going to notice is that Midway set out to make a game which 
 is very easy to pick up and play, and they have got that down to a tee. First off, the face buttons 
 give you action (for example picking up a weapon. I mean chair, tag your partner in/out, grab 
 the cable on Ultimate X etc) one for punch, one for kick and one for grapple.
  
  Then depending on the system you have there is a button which gives you a stronger attack, and 
 mixing the strong button with action equals a submission hold (which seems to be a cross arm bar, 
 sleeper like hold and a single leg Boston crab) in which a mini game appears which means hit the 
 face buttons before your opponent to add pressure. Also grapple with the added strength puts the 
 computer into a grapple which then you can use to build up your "IMPACT!" finisher (which all comes 
 from the front of the person your facing) 
  
  Online play is basically one on one match with the matches, which has been included. The game play 
 does seem to be slower than normal online games however that is down to the speed of both persons 
 Internet connections. However the only time I have played the game online there seems to be one 
 of two sorts of players for this game. The sort that will slide out and smack you around with steel 
 chairs and then go for the pin (which is one my main hates with the game) or the ones which actually 
 like to have a proper wrestling match and then beat you fairly with out any chair shots.
  
  Finally I come to the story mode, which I feel is an interesting but floored idea. You start off 
 playing as a character called Suicide (who is wearing a LA park type outfit) and after failing 
 to take a dive as instructed by L. A. X your left beaten and left for dead in a street in Mexico. 
 However, lucky for you, the doctors that saved your life also masquerade as plastic surgeons as 
 well and then well that's were the limited create a wrestler comes in. Sure you get to pick your 
 face and the outfit and well that's it. 
  
  Also the worse part in create a wrestler is that you're given basic default moves and to get new 
 moves you have to unlock them via your career which, well in my eyes is poor, and this is the first 
 time I am going to mention WWE games here, but even the beyond poor RAW 2 had a better create a 
 moves set list than this, in fact RAW 2 had a better career mode as well come to think about it. 
 However the story is the basic someone wants to get back to the top of the TNA roster and will 
 do anything to get there. However the one problem is because the game follows one branch of stories, 
 if you lose there isn't a branching storyline that would normally follow in other wrestling games 
 on the market. So that means that you are forced to replay the same events over and over again 
 until you defeat them or throw your controller in the general direction of the TV with a load of 
 swear words as well.
  
  The sound effects are almost perfect, the voice selling is brilliant and something I do really 
 like. Also the crowd interactions from the chants feel like they got them from an average night 
 at the impact zone. However the commentary team alike in the real TNA world sucks more that a Dyson 
 in a dusty house.
  
  In closing I really, really wanted a game which will make me think differently about wrestling 
 games, I wanted something to come along and debag the wrestling tights of the Smackdown vs Raw 
 games and watch as the rest of the games point and laugh. However, while I have had enjoyment playing 
 the game, and good to see that there could be a successor to the Smackdown games, sadly this one 
 will not be it. TNA has had some good ideas in the game, a novel twist to the story mode, the easy 
 pick up and go for it game play and then the high flying Ultimate X match are great additions to 
 the world of video game wrestling. I was let down in such a big way by the lack of a roster for 
 quick games, match types a limited move set and well poor choices in how to do a story mode.
  
  If it were myself I would consider renting this game (I got mine for free which was always 
 a bonus really) and giving it a try. Because under the mishmash of bad mistakes by Midway there 
 is a fun game hidden. The easy access game play is always good even though the kicking out system 
 is beyond a joke at times. It's good to see TNA finally getting a chance to express it self in 
 a video game form however I feel that the game has split the gaming world in half. Some will look 
 at this game as a joke and wait for the next WWE game or some will swear blind that this game is 
 going to change the world of wrestling gaming. Personally I hope that TNA is brought by someone 
 who knows what they are doing and give it an overhaul to give not only fans of TNA wrestling, but 
 fans of the Wrestling game genre something to rival the Smackdown games.
  
  My score for this is a 6.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobhoffnee1985
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 21, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  I have been keeping a close eye on TNA Impact during its 2+ year development. I had high hopes 
 as AJ Styles and Samoa Joe had input (supposedly) and thought it was going to be No Mercy style. 
 Unfortunatley, either AJ & Joe have never played No Mercy, or the developers didnt listen to them. 
 This is nothing like No Mercy. Nothing at all!!!!
  
  If I wanted to do Death Valley Drivers on a wrestler about 10 times in one match I would play this 
 game. It's not realistic at all. Yeah, I know it's a game, but come on!! The graphics are life 
 like - why couldnt the game play be slightly life like.
  
  I keep coming back to this game hoping it's okay and I'm just being a scrooge - but no, it's pretty 
 crap. The story line is cheesey and ... bah... it smells!!!
  
  If you're not a wrestling fan - avoid like the plague. If you are a wrestling fan - um.... avoid 
 like the plague...
  
  If you're a TNA fan, give it a rental - just for the Bonus DVD (If you get it) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Sonnenschein-
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Midway had a lot of things promised for TNA Impact!: From the new "No Mercy" to the "most realistic 
 wrestling game". To make it short: it missed both goals. The game feels more like a demo than a 
 game. But let's start from the beginning.
  
  The Menu looks nice, but kind of old-fashioned. No moving pictures and a rather mechanic style 
 is not really a feast for the eyes. However, it is cool that they used the entrance music of the 
 wrestlers as the soundtrack for the menus which feels good.
  
  You have some options to start with: Videos (2 TNA matches and 2 trailers) , Online (which I can't 
 tell you anything about) , Exhibition Match, Create-A-Wrestler and Story Mode. The videos are OK, 
 but they won't keep you busy for long. Exhibition is probably one of the most disappointing part: 
 Fans have been waiting for King of the Mountain Match or Full Metal Mayhem. The only special match 
 you have is Ultimate X, but at least for this match Midway has done a great job. It is so much 
 fun flying off the ropes or kicking and pulling somebody off them.
  
  As mentioned, Midway promised the most realistic wrestling game. Well, they did a fine job. The 
 animations look awesome, mich more fluid than any other wrestling game out there and it really 
 captures the Impact! feeling of TNA. There are some wicked moves. However, they missed out on another 
 part: reversals. If you're looking for a game where many (and I mean very many) of your moves get 
 countered and where you need a finisher directly before your cover on the harder levels this game 
 is perfect for you. For me playing was very frustrating at times. You do 40-50 aerial moves, 40-50 
 power grapples, 20-30 power hits and your opponent does 20-30 reversals and 20-30 regular hits 
 and beats you with that since he kicks out of pins or just reversals if you want him to tap out. 
 Now that is NOT realistic, that is annoying. Moreover, chair shots and finishers are not reversable. 
 You can only avoid chair shots by hitting or grappling your opponent before he hits you. But that 
 is more of a gamble than realistic.
  
  Story Mode (not Season Mode!) seems disappointing, but also very great. You start as Suicide, one 
 of the greatest talents of TNA History, and win the TNA Title. But due to backstage politics you 
 get kicked around so badly in the parking lot that you land in Tijuana, Mexico where a plastic 
 surgeon tries to restore your face and body. This is where the CAW kicks in: You decide what he 
 (a she is not an option, there are also no Knockouts in the game) should look like. If you want 
 to have tons of options with 100 different shirts and pants and so on, you will be disappointed. 
 There are not that many options andy you also can't unlock any new cool clothes. So you can make 
 a cool-looking wrestler but not too many realistic ones. What really is a letdown in CAW Mode is 
 the move and entrance editing. You can edit how you appear, but you won't be able to see how it 
 will look like: there are no previews. Same for moves. You're neither told what buttons you have 
 to press for the move nor how strong the move is. Furthermore, if you haven't done a lot of exhibition 
 matches beforehand you will get a very weak wrestler. You won't have ANY moves to choose from - 
 only the default ones. That is probably one of the most exhausting part of the game: Style Points. 
 In the beginning you unlock moves pretty quickly but it will take more time later on.
  
  After you're done creating your new Suicide you will have to fight back to TNA - fight through 
 local events in Mexico and in an Army camp to get back to TNA. The story mode will offer you a 
 few hours of a lot of fun but also a lot of frustration. The frustration part will probably come 
 to you during all the tag matches and later single matches. Illegal partners will only help the 
 legal partners 50% of the time. You can also use this for your advantage, but if your body damage 
 has been very much already and Eric doesn't feel like helping you, you're busted and have fun being 
 countered again and again. But the story mode offers some great fun - especially the cut scenes 
 are gorgeous. The wrestlers look awesome, even in a close shot. Yes, the mouths don't move perfectly, 
 but the dialogue and the rest is just great. Even though the story mode is great there won't be 
 much replayability. If you don't feel like beating the story mode again you still have the style 
 points, but it will be a long and boring process to get them. Prepare for getting over 900,000 
 style points for the cool stuff and that will keep you busy, IF you have that much patience. It 
 didn't offer much joy for me.
  
  So, all in all TNA Impact! does some things right. Neither all the good things nor the bad things 
 can be all listed here. You will either love the controls or hate them. They feel more natural 
 than the lock-up heavy SmackDown vs. Raw games, but can have a lot of flaws at times. The animations 
 look great and Ultimate X is a great beginning for upcoming titles. I have traded TNA Impact! already, 
 but I'm looking forward to TNA Impact! 2. I recommend you to rent it for 1-2 days if you have those 
 days off, because that's all what it'll take you to breeze through the game. If you are looking 
 for higher diffulty levels you will be disappointed, as well, since the 3 difficulty levels don't 
 seem to be much different. 
  
  Let's hope Midway will do a better job with TNA Impact! 2, but this game is only worth a rent. 
 There are just too many moves, match types and options in story mode missing to make this a good 
 or great game.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 7/10
  Gameplay: 7.5/10
  Longt-time fun: 4/10
  Overall: 6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Najohn
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  This game displayed so much when the trialers came out. The lack of moves, gltiches, results of 
 the match make this the WORST FN WRESTLING GAME EVER!!!!!!!! You can give a guy a kit to the gut 
 or a suplex, typical moves and WIN A MATCH. Midway should have stayed with sports and not make 
 this **** game. Don't buy or rent (unless you want easy achievement points) . I hate the game in 
 general and I just rented it today! Everything is just boring, EVERYTHING looks like TNA needs 
 to get with THQ next if they want to meet the high standards of WWE RVSSMCK 09. THe roster selection 
 also is probably the worst ever, no current superstars, ONLY mat finishers, nothing but Horrible 
 chairs, arenas are OK, and Entrances can't even be previewed, Ultimate X is OK except everything 
 is the same after a while (as is the entire game) storyling lacks fun, and well the cover art is 
 horrible 
::::::

::::::
UserName: som3az
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 19, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Build your wrestler and earn points to gain moves and punches.
  
  Not so easy and not so hard.. some matches r hard but not driving u out of your mind.
  
  Would 
 be fun for couple of hours and i have done 40% already in like 3-4 hours and i believe in more 
 4-8 hours i can finish the career..
  
  Try it out first.
  
  if you want to get like 300 achievements points easily buy this game right now. u get these easily 
 through single player.. Bottom line:
  
  Pros: good graphics, easy achievements , interesting gameplay and nice online
  
  Cons: Repetitive, 
 short time to finish story mode,
  
  Other notes: you have to win in style to make open as much as moves and punches to get your wrestler 
 better for more advanced matches.
  
  I've nothing else to say but the site won't let me post until i finish more 80 letters.
  
  
 I love the new gamespot interface. LOL
  
  cheeeeeeers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buffdaddy69
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 1:07 am PT
Review:  Ok. I have been hating on this game, when i found out what it was lacking. I've heard what everyone 
 had to say, So i figured "You know what? Im gonna buy this game. and give it a chance." Im pretty 
 happy i brought it, because i am very very suprised about how fun this game can be. I love the 
 fact that TNA is Unreal Powered and it uses the Havoke Engine as well. If THQ were smart, they 
 would power their wrestling games this way, Because when i find myself doing the moves that can 
 be done in TNA and watching how realistic the body reacts to it, It just makes my inner wrestler 
 get more roided up. What can i say? im a huge sucker for ragdoll like physics. It makes this game 
 stand out when it comes to how the moves are delievered, and how much of an "iMPACT!" it really 
 leaves.
  
  I like the reversal system, because it makes the match fast paced and im suprised with how fluid 
 it all works out. Granted, this game only has literally a hand full of moves, but the Finishers 
 are pretty sweet. Throwing you oppenent out of the ring as you hear that thud and seeing him laid 
 out is always an awesome feeling. The system system is really annoying though. I also really hate 
 having to use the joystick to get out of pins. They should have really made it a button mashing 
 thing when it comes to pins and submissions as it woud make things more easy and less frusterating. 
 I've played with poeple online and they ending up leaiving the game, just because they can't move 
 the joystick right. Granted i would rather button mash, then risk breaking my joystick trying to 
 get out of a pin.
  
  When it comes to graphics, im completly blown away. Im playing this on a 32inch Vizio LCD Hidef 
 TV and i think when it comes to character models, this game BLOWS Raw vs SD out of the water. Its 
 really awesome what Midway was able to do when it came to this models. AJ looks liek AJ, Sting 
 looks like... Sting and so on and so fourth. Its just makes me happy to see how much videogames 
 have evolved and TNA is the best looking Wrestling game in my opinion to date.
  
  This game does have its flaws though. Small glitches can and will make you think "What? How did 
 he hit me?" Like when a wrestler slides into the ring and he some how hits you when you're about 
 2 feet away from him. The move set.... COME ON MIDWAY. You have Mortal Kombat under you're belt 
 im sure you can come up with some great wrestling moves. The match types are... eh... There could 
 be more, But you have to always remember. This is TNA's first game. 
  
  The Ultimate X match can be fun. But its mainly fun online. Hell. TNA iMPACT is fun online in general. 
 The story mode is really weak. There were points in my head were i thought "God, Suicide has the 
 most... beat voice ever." The dialog is... eh... But then again... This is TNA's first game =-) .
  
  Aside from its flaws and some draw backs, TNA iMPACT is a very very fun game. Its just one 
 of those games you have to get use to. Hopefully the DLC will be able to help Midway sell more 
 copies of this game. With promise of new characters and a new match type, TNA iMPACT could keep 
 you satasfied for a long time, or until SD vs Raw 09 comes out.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dg69
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 9:03 pm PT
Review:  This game was way too repetitive. I understand wrestling games will do that, but every wrestler 
 has the same exact moves sans the finisher. I don't like seeing Kevin Nash and Black Machismo doing 
 the same moves. Not enough wrestlers to choose from either. Reminds me of early WCW or WWF games, 
 except this one has less signature wrestling styles. Also, the body selection is pretty glitchy, 
 kept going for the head and it would grab and arm, go for the legs and it would grab and arm, etc. 
 Reverses get very annoying and make the fight tedious against AI. On-line play consists of whoever 
 knocks the other to the mat first wins. The only upside is downloadable content, so hopefully a 
 patch or a lot more options will open up in the near future. Otherwise, just wait for TNA 2 to 
 come out.
  
  On a side note, if you are just going for gamerpoints rent it for a night, beat it, then pick up 
 something new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: numbness
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  hi i am a tna a fan and a wwe fan 
  more tna nowadays
  and i have been waiting for this game since it first got announced.
  first of
  the gameplay 
 is very easy to pick up fun and does not ger repetive im always finding new things to do in this 
 game.
  the graphics are outstanding any have every little detail you cannot fault it the only thing i 
 noticed was the hair on characters does not move something mida
  way could work on.
  the story is good with most of the wrestlers doing the voices,
  except samoa joe which is a very 
 bad voice over.
  ultimate x is very good has all the right moves and good timeing and speed and difficulty.
  the 
 wrestling moves per character are good they are very fun and do not get repetive to do unlike what 
 some people say.
  there are lots of superstars in this game with more to come i cannot complain on the amount as 
 there are not many stars in tna anyway they have all stars apart from about 6.
  things that need to be worked on in the next game
  wrestling moves need more moves to make superstars 
 seem diffrent from each other like aj styles pele we need that lol.
  more match types would be good like king of mountain six sydes of steel and monsters ball,
  i 
 heard they are working on six sides of steel.
  weapons more of this is needed as there is only steal chairs.
  also character taunts per star 
 would be good
  and more finishes like stings deathlock and angle anklelock and bookers axe kick which i think 
 is the worst thing left out of the game these need to be put in
  along woth the posssibilty of blood.
  there are few extra things could go in but midway will 
 work and i think that the next game will be even better than this.
  
  midway have done an excellent job with this
  and only better things can come from it 
  
  
 review 
  8.5/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: barrios1992
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 14, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  If your a hardcore wwe smackdown vs raw fan you might not like this game but if your a TNA fan 
 this is a must buy game!! Now this game only has about 25 superstars there will be DLC later this 
 year. the story is fun to play, the matches are ok but the only good match is Ultimate X which is 
 fun but they don't have king of the montain a cage macth online is fun but only two players can 
 play this game has small proplems but the game is still fun also the contorls are diffrent from 
 smackdown vs raw. TNA impact is off to a good start not a bad game for midways first TNA game. next 
 year it will be alot better. There are not that many moves but still have a ok move list. The achivmeants 
 are also fun and easy to get. There also alot to unlocked like moves, superstars, and arenas. there 
 are no TNA knockouts but i am pretty sure next year they will have TNA knockouts. If you a TNA fan 
 and not sure if you want to get this game all you need to do is buy this game and don't listen 
 to thouse wwe fanboys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: y2gambino
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  1st off I would like to say that this game is by far better the SD vs Raw. The controls on this 
 are a little messed up I get a little pissed when you do the same move over and over but it will 
 come to me. The game is everything they said it would be and more. I don't understand some of the 
 reviews that people are giving. If you wanna get into detail i've been playing now for about 4hrs 
 straight and I do notice the color for the C. A. W. is off the black comes out gray and in some spots 
 looks green but, whatever. The game is great there no question about all I know is when SD vs Raw 
 comes out its gonna be disappointment, number 3 and TNA and just kicking ass! Great Job Midway! 
 The games will only get better! So all I can say is just keep up the good work and the games will 
 always be as good as em all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Pankaker
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 14, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  I from the very get go have very low expectations for this game. I figured there was a chance it 
 could rock my socks off an personally I kind of hoped it would, but then I looked at the cover 
 an saw the TNA logo an knew I was in for a bad time. 
  
  The graphics in this game are impressive which would be great if I cared about graphics. I personally 
 am way more interested in the create a wrestler (CAW) option which well isn't the worst I've ever 
 encountered but its right there with WWF War Zone in terms of being revolutionary. No option to 
 change height or chose ring attire hurts but can be over looked. Being able to only make 5 CAWs 
 seem to be a bigger deal to me before I had actually played it an realized how limited it was.
 
  
  My main problems with the CAW is an inability to preview entrances an moves... once you get them 
 unlocked. This is one of my biggest gripes about the game having to unlock every move in the game 
 sucks. Granted it gave my friend an me something to shoot for in our matches. Which we quickly 
 realized that the only enjoyable form or co-op in the game was handicap matches.
  
  The matches themselves are a mass of random moves being done cause well there is no way to assign 
 moves to specific buttons. The entrances suck and that's all there is too it. You mean I just get 
 to see them enter an start to walk down the ramp? Really that's all? An lets not forget no custom 
 sound tracks. I know its a minor thing that the Smackdown games just got around to doing but Raw 
 2 had this feature an sucked pretty hard core an I still played it religiously cause of it. I'd 
 like to know why Bubba Ray Dudley er uh Brother Ray is a locked character. I never got ampted played 
 a WWF/E game just for the sake of getting to use Brother Ray. That's not gonna make me want to 
 go through story mode at all. I'd go into story mode more but I played 2 matches an was to frustrated 
 to continue. 
  
  All in all this game is TNA product its all shiny and looks really cool but its a glaring reminder 
 of the differences between WWE an TNA. I've herd Midway is already working on a new game which 
 makes me wonder if this took you 3 years to put out an your already working on a sequel (I'm guessing 
 its gonna be called Bound For Glory) why not just make the fans wait a few more years an get it 
 right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrco666
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 13, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Even with Smackdown VS Raw 2008 being the worst in the series, (in my own opinion) I'd still pick 
 Smackdown VS Raw 2008 over Midway's TNA Wrestling. Let's being with the graphics. I'm not big on 
 graphics so simply put they were fine. Moving on the music it simply felt generic, and insignificant. 
 The controls just don't feel right, and the control scheme at times is just torture. This was most 
 evident when kicking out of pins, because the computer kicks out of pins with simplicity unless 
 a body part is red. That applies whether you just hit them with a special or not. The reversal 
 system needs tweaking, cause the reversal icon stays on screen longer then the time you actually 
 have to reverse an attack. Moving on, collision detection is outright terrible and that's all I'm 
 going to say on that. The story is nothing special, and linear. You can lose your match, and it 
 won't have any affect on the story. The character creation is appalling, but that's in part to 
 how it works. You have your standard appearance creation. (Today's standards) That's good, but 
 the good news ends with that. All the moves you start with are default, and you only unlock a limited 
 number of moves by accumulating points. This fact just makes character creation horrid. Entrance 
 creation is non-existent. The entrances they do have are terrible, and get repetitive quick especially 
 in story mode. Also you only fight in like six arenas, and if your not in Orlando FL; your in Japan. 
 (this is a slight exaggeration, but only slight) The game also has a glitch where the screen goes 
 black suddenly for some reason, and after a few seconds it goes back. In the end, the only thing 
 I outright liked about this game was getting to see Christy Hemme on the character creation loading 
 screen. This game is definitely not worth buying. Barely worth renting in my opinion for the wrestling 
 enthusiasts wait for Smackdown VS Raw 2009. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duddy316
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 15, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  An effective and accurate review is one that is purely free from personal preference. However, 
 it is still purely opinion. Still I think most gamers will agree that along with the progress of 
 technology as it pertains to the gaming world, the standard of expectancy for the game is rising 
 to new levels. It has been a long time since I've used the term "groundbreaking" and TNA has made 
 no change. Watching the commentary videos on TNA Impact long before it's release, I knew that there 
 would be some pitfalls that would leave this game sub standard. And as it turns out, I was right...
 
  
  Graphics: Watching the opening scene in HD on my Sharp Aquos flat screen, I didn't see anything 
 positive or negative that caught my eye. It wasn't until I started a match that I saw the error. 
 One of the things that I knew prior was that in the making of the game, there were only a couple 
 of people serving as models for motion capture. So it was no surprise to me that ALL the character 
 models looked exactly the same. As for the entrances, which only last about 10 seconds because 
 they end long before the wrestler enters the ring. They looked much better in the previews.
  
  Content: A minimum roster with no divas and a handful of unlockables. An example of having 
 D-Von initially, but needing to unlock Brother Ray is a little ridiculous. The only special match 
 in the game is Ultimate X and everything else is your generic set of single, tag, and free for 
 all. At best, it does provide an online experience. 
  
  Gameplay- Here is where the game really stands out and I don't necessarily mean that in a positive 
 way. The game is extremely redundant. Remember my prehistoric comment? Well I recall there being 
 more moves on WCW Revenge for the N64 than provided in this game. And the unavoidable occurrence 
 of getting knocked down will leave you on and endless spree of rolling from one side of the ring 
 to the other five sides! And once your opponent realizes that you are in fact on the ground, you 
 will most likely get caught by a grapple or a strike. The game is terrible at recognizing where 
 the opponent is currently situated. You could be trying to pick him up long after he has returned 
 to his feet. This tends to get extremely frustrating. And the controls just add to the frustration. 
 Frantically shifting the sticks to kick out of a pin is a great example. The controls are very 
 awkward and the tutorials do not assist in any way.
  
  Story/Create: These two are closely linked. Story mode uses your created characters or allows you 
 to create a new one before getting started. Once created, you are engaged in the usual rock bottom 
 to the top scenario. All the wile unlocking content such as new moves for your character to use. 
 Considering you start out with "DEFAULT" Create a character mode is not even on par with WWF Attitude 
 for the Playstation. At least it yielded more content for customization. All choices including 
 facial features and colors are chosen by number which in each category does not exceed 25 if that. 
 You have a choice of entrances, but they are not viewable. No nicknames, height, weight, face/heal.
 
  
  However, there are two major aspects of the game worth mentioning. Ultimate X is just as innovative 
 and fresh in game as it was on the show. However, like the rest of the game, it can only be enjoyed 
 when playing with other people. Multilayer is by far the strongest link for the game. Considering 
 everyone has the same advantages and disadvantages as you, and the fast paced impact of the game 
 can cause a few laughs to be heard. Definitely a fun time for you and a few friends!
  
  Even though Smackdown vs Raw has become bland over the pact couple installments, TNA Impact is 
 sub par to it's competition. Being a TNA fan, and a wrestling game fan, I am disappointed, but 
 none too surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rage01aba
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 2:24 am PT
Review:  For a while there has only been one contender in the world of pro wrestling video games. The WWE 
 being the champion now has a legitimate challenger Total Nonstop Action (TNA) wrestling and Midway 
 are trying to challenge WWE/THQ for wrestling fans time and money. It has been no secret that there 
 is definitely room for the TNA brand in the gaming market because the WWE series has been sluggish 
 at best in its last few iterations So lets step inside the six sided ring and see if TNA has indeed 
 made an impact.
  
  Sound- All the TNA personalities that are in the game do there voices in the game. Don West and 
 Mike Teenay do the in game commentary. The crowd is passioniate and vital in TNA. The music is 
 also of high quality. The sound in the TNA Impact gets a ten out of ten.
  
  Story- The game has a quirky off the wall story mode that I could see TNA actually using. I will 
 not spoil the story for the gamer you can experience its yourself. What I will cover in this section 
 is something the story mode makes you do and that is create a wrestler mode. I don't mind having 
 to create a wrestler to play story mode, but Midway I want an in-depth creator with plenty of options. 
 TNA Impact does not even come close to WWE/THQ creator. There is only seven body types and three 
 wrestling styles in impact. The clothing and tattoo are severely limited as well. It is for these 
 reasons that Impact's story gets a seven out of ten.
  
  Graphics- the wrestlers models look too much a like for me to forgive it, but everything else in 
 the graphics department is top notch. The graphics get a nine out of ten.
  
  Game play- TNA Impact is by far the fastest most polished in ring wrestling game on the market. 
 The controls are easy to pick up, but hard to master. The good for TNA Impact ends right there. 
 There are only twenty-five TNA rostered wrestlers in the game at launch. The knockouts division 
 isn't even represented in ring in the game at all. Where are the match types six sides of steel, 
 king of the mountain and lethal lockdown are just a few match types that should be in the game 
 that just aren't. Where is career mode? Story mode was fine in the year 2000. where are the belts? 
 The wrestlers do not come out with the belts. I could go on with bad parts of the game, but I'm 
 literally tired of writing. The game play in TNA Impact gets a three point five out of ten.
  
  Midway's TNA Impact has a great foundation on which to build a contending pro wrestling franchise. 
 The first TNA game however, finds itself some how worse than any of its competitors previous games. 
 This game is definitely worth playing if your av wrestling fan, but only as an extended rental 
 or bargain basement title. TNA Impact as a whole gets a six point five out of ten. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bananabutt
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 11, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Well, here it is TNA IMPACT. I was damn excited for this games, but i really wondered how it would 
 be. And after playing the shot out of it i can say, its BETTER than i thought.
  
  My first thoughts is it reminded me of Def Jam vedetta or DOR, more so Def Jam Vendetta. The game 
 play is solid and reminds me alot of wrestling games from 10 years ago and thats not a bad thing.
 
  
  The Story is SOLID and is enjoyable. My only Complaints is it is kinda short and i though The MEXICO 
 AND ARMORY sessions of the game were to short and the TAG WAS WAY to LONG.
  Tag Matches are prolly the least fun matches in the game, mostly like other games.
  
  The graphics 
 are Very damn good. They are close if not slighty better Than SVR. The arena's looks good besides 
 the crowd. The crowd looks like the aki 64 games but owell. if you notice to when you play the 
 japan arena the crowd looks like asian people. kinda a neat little touch.
  
  I enjoyed the Grappling system as well as the counters even though i do feel there not enough moves. 
 Gameplay keeps you on your feet and you could lose the match at any second.
  
  Ultimate x is fun but, isnt much different than a standard match, a cage match wouldve been nice!
 
  
  Well Really my only complaints are : Kick out system isnt kinda hard, the b button is used way 
 to much ( LIKE YOU WANNA make a tag and you roll outta the ring) . Not enough Weapons or Wrestlers 
 or Moves or matches.
  
  
  
  OVERALL, this game is worth 60 bucks and should be played by any wrestling fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KOSSBIEL
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is not trying to reinvent any wheels here. They set out to make a fun wrestling game. 
 I feel they did just that. The game almost has a feel like the original couple of Mortal Kombat 
 games. It has the same sort of pace and control scheme. My only complaint is that I wish there 
 were more to it, but in a way that says that what is there is done well. I like the fighting system 
 and I like the ease of reversals. In multiplayer games, this will definitely cause some really 
 fun moments. TNA does a lot of things different than their competition and it was too bad that 
 only one of their signature matches (ultimate x) was included. Overall it is a good game that is 
 fun to play and that is what counts. Good news for this is the promised DLC as it may add matches 
 as well as other characters.. I just hope it is not too pricey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt1836
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  first everybody including critic's need to remember
  That the first of any game series you never get it all 
  Take N64 WCW/nWo World Tour was ok Then 
 Revenge better WWF Wrestlemania 2000 good Then No Mercy Great then N64 was replaced with GC & it 
 started all over again 
  look at Madden for 360 from 2006 to 2008 EA add a new content every new game next Madden will maybe 
 get create your own playbook if there was a wrestling game that had everything you want there be 
 no reason to buy the next one. 
  as for TNA 
  it looks great & plays good But as usually the cpu reverses too much and the finisher real don't 
 work you can get a easier pin on just a stunned opponent the finisher should end a match & to easy 
 cpu wins I miss on a dropkick with hardly any damage & got pinned it was almost impossible to fill 
 up the kick out meter.
  The story mode just is ok due mainly to the lack in create mode But I did make a pretty damn close 
 version of Vampiro. Game modes are slim and with no real rules there's no real strategy involved 
 to win and Where are the Title Belts that one thing we all want is to pick your wrestler and defend 
 your title against your friends
  and online in any mode. create a PPV & Run ins too 
  WHY haven't the game makers ever got theses right in one game OH they did WWF No Mercy. Every wrestling 
 game maker needs to take No Mercy & take everything that made that game great and put in there 
 games. No Mercy had the most of stuff that makes wrestling fun Are you listening MIDWAY
  
  Game Rating 7.5 out 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: suoived055
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Just to make it clear, this is a wrestling game, not a fighting game, as Midway's famous for producing.
 
  
  I bought this game because I'm a fan of the brand, but with all the previews and Q & A's, and not 
 to mention that this is Midway's very first wrestling game (that WWF Wretestlemania Arcade game 
 doesn't count, THAT was fighting) , I wasn't expecting much.
  
  However, having played it for several hours, I'm quite impressed. 
  
  The graphics are sharp, 
 and complement the moves well. I especially like the crowd, they're not cardboard cutouts like 
 Smackdown vs Raw.
  
  The sound is perfect. Punches, kicks and slams sound as they should. The environment reacts well 
 too (i. e. getting thrown into stairs, you hear the stairs bang)
  
  There's a plausible assortment of moves. Not as grand as the Smackdown series to date, but this 
 is their first first. I especially like the reversals. It appears as though you can reverse every 
 move directed towards you. However, , there's no weight recognition, anyone can pick up anybody, 
 no matter the size difference. 
  
  The commentary is well done in this game. I haven't gotten bored of Mike Taney and Don West, they're 
 not as repetitive as JR, King, and who ever else has ever done commentary for Smackdown (S vs. 
 R 2008 was so bad, I had to shut off audio on commentary) .
  
  The story mode is interesting and entertaining. Unlike the Smackdown series, where the story modes 
 (if any) were any stories that were done in the past year of RAW and/or Smackdown.
  
  There aren't that many choices in matches. Everything else you've seen before, except Ultimate 
 X, which plays out like a ladder Match with climbing the turnbuckles. Ultimate X is fun and innovative.
 
  
  There's a fair selection of TNA stars in the game, and there are more to download, which should 
 raise the replay value.
  
  One of the biggest features with wrestling games have been CAW (Create A Wrestler) . This is where 
 the disappointment sets in. You can only create FIVE (5) wrestlers, which then must go through 
 story mode for further upgrade (at least one CAW) . WWE's Smackdown series has spoiled us with CAW 
 content, since this is what keeps us playing. To be honest, since I bought SvR 2008, I haven't 
 played with ANYONE on their roster, since all I do is create. CAW is also good at overlooking the 
 flaws of the rest of the game. At least TNA: Impact is fun on its own, with its limited choices.
 
  
  The entrances aren't bad, but quite short, and there's no Soundtrack substitution for CAWs (SvR 
 2007 didn't have this for the Xbox 360 either) .
  
  There's no different types of CAW costumes either, so whatever your CAW is wearing, that will be 
 it for the match, entrance, and backstage. 
  
  Overall, the game is not bad at all, just lacking some features we've grown used to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drknessfeeds
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is horrible, I cannot believe i bought this. I was so excited about a game that was not 
 WWE and it looked promising. My biggest complaint is the controls, they are horrible. I've been 
 playing for about 5 hours and still cannot figure out how I do certain moves, just when I think 
 I have it figured out it does something else.
  
  Everything in this game is bare bones. I know its the first in the series but I still think they 
 could have put alot more into it and the graphics are not pretty and the tattoos are horrible. 
 They look good while creating the character but in an actual match they look like they were put 
 on with markers that were smudged. Do not buy this game, would not even recommend renting it. A 
 complete waste of $60.
  
  The characters are not even that well done and it has some of the smae issues as Smackdown, except 
 I can overlook the problems in Smackdown. Atleast the core of Smackdown is solid. This needs alot 
 of work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Croix-Man
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Ok, who here was expecting TNA impact! to be the best wrestling game of all time? We all knew there 
 would be no refs and complained about expressions.... and thus we knew it would not be the best 
 out there. Thus I will say I am not disapointed in the game. It has some enjoyable features to 
 it (especially the fact that it is the first TNA game and is somewhat enjoyable) . But who reads 
 these things for the pros? We all want to know what stinks about the game... and thus that is what 
 I will talk about.
  
  There is not introduction match where it tells you how to use the buttons... which is ok since 
 it is a fairly simple button mashing game. Which I think I will enjoy in the long run since whenever 
 I pick up Smackdown after months I forget how to play and always stink... so this is nice in someway.
 
  
  To kick out.... all it has is a stick moving back and forth. At first I was like, "WHAT STICK!?!" 
 But yeah, I am not the biggest fan of that.
  
  Customization. Maybe because I didn't unlock the full story yet or maybe it will come in future 
 downloadable content but I feel as if the create a wrestler is just minimal enough to get by (I 
 am sure I will find others online with my same charecter) . 
  
  I donno wither I like how the story progresses yet. Don't get me wrong I enjoy the story (come 
 on over the top underdog story, who doesn't like Rocky?) . But with the charecter just talking doing 
 the loading screen with a few cinimatics... yeah I donno just yet.
  
  Ok well Midway even said they werent going all crazy with this game since it is the first and they 
 just tried to make it fun, and it is so hats off to Midway, and it is defintly different than WWE 
 Smackdown... so that is why I am giving it a 7.5. If this was like the 5th game in I would give 
 it a much much lower score. But yeah. Alright time for me to play more since my next game to come 
 out comes out next week.
  
  -The Croix Man 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjmcmahon2
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 9, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  A little dissapointed in this game. I was very excited for the release. Until I played it. I honestly 
 think most people are going to enjoy button smashing but Smackdown VS RAW loyalists / players will 
 HATE almost everything about this game. Sorry Midway, its not that good.
  I really dont know what else to say. The options are limited. It really reminds me of the Backyard 
 Wrestling 1 & 2 franchise from years ago on xbox 1. Ill give it another shot later tonite. It is 
 a VERY frustrating game and this game REALLY DOES CHEAT. It really does, you'll see when you try 
 story mode. About 3 guys into the matches you'll see how the wrestlers are clearly BEAT but somehow 
 escape with a pinfall on you when you have whooped up on them for the entire match. So far, its 
 bad but its a wrestling game and I am happy for TNA getting on the map. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
