-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tomb Raider: Anniversary
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/adventure/tombraider10thanniversaryedition/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Strikes a balance between homage and new, exciting content.
 Acrobatic action adventure gameplay is challenging without being frustrating.
 Lara looks great and moves effortlessly.
 Adrenaline dodge makes combat more exciting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Doesn't take many chances with the Tomb Raider formula.
 Minor frame rate issues.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 26, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.8, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 662 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Crystal Dynamics
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Oct 23, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tomb Raider: Anniversary's success is twofold: It does well by the memory of the original and makes 
 a dynamic action adventure game that's fun to play in 2007. 

  Although years of sequels that ranged from unremarkable to borderline offensive did a lot to tarnish 
 the Tomb Raider name, developer Crystal Dynamics undid a lot of damage with last year's Tomb Raider: 
 Legend. That game focused on the strengths of the series -- exotic locales, thoughtful puzzles, and 
 incredible acrobatics -- while modernizing the gameplay, as well as streamlining the whole experience. 
 Crystal Dynamics continues its good work with Tomb Raider: Anniversary, which effectively goes 
 back to the original Tomb Raider and rebuilds it from scratch. Anniversary has now arrived on the 
 Xbox 360, looking as good and playing about as well as it did on the PC earlier this year.  

           This is one of those rare cases when the remake is better than the original.      

 
  Like the 1996 original, Tomb Raider: Anniversary follows the tale of Lara's hunt for the Scion 
 of Atlantis as she does battle with conniving businesswoman Jacqueline Natlas and her various henchmen. 
 You'll explore ancient tombs and forgotten cities in Peru, Greece, or Egypt. You'll also perform 
 plenty of death-defying acrobatics as you work your way through massive, ancient, and often deadly 
 puzzles. The whole experience is highly evocative of the original, and there are certainly plenty 
 of moments that seem specifically designed to create an odd sense of dj vu. Nothing in Tomb Raider: 
 Anniversary has been regurgitated verbatim -- everything is bigger and better. The environments are 
 larger and more detailed, while existing puzzles have been elaborated upon, often to an incredible 
 degree. The experience just feels bigger, and there's so much new content that it honestly feels 
 more like its own game than a remake.  

  A big part of that feeling comes from how much more talented Lara has become since the original 
 Tomb Raider. Aside from a few, nominal differences, she's basically got the same abilities here 
 as she had in Tomb Raider: Legend, which made her one of the most nimble action adventure heroes 
 this side of the Prince of Persia. Her proficiency around ledges is incredible: She can shimmy 
 across ledges, leap from one ledge to another, and scramble from one ledge to a higher ledge. She 
 can swing from dangling ropes or horizontal bars, perform tumbling maneuvers to avoid projectiles, 
 and climb up, leap from, or balance precariously atop vertical poles. All of these acrobatics feel 
 natural and not overly difficult to pull off, with the game allowing for just the right amount 
 of margin of error. As good as Lara is, though, she's got her limits, which is a big part of what 
 makes the action feel dangerous. If your timing is off just a little bit when jumping for a ledge, 
 Lara might catch it with only one hand, which will have you furiously mashing a button to help 
 her recover. But if you miss the ledge completely, Lara's likely to expire or at least incur a 
 serious amount of damage.  

  She'll need to exercise each and every one of these abilities to their absolute limit in Tomb Raider: 
 Anniversary, which features no shortage of ridiculous acrobatics. The game is essentially made 
 up of a series of gigantic, unique set-piece puzzles. Sometimes the puzzles are traditional find-the-key, 
 flip-the-switch-type of affairs, but more often than not, the real puzzle is figuring out how to 
 use Lara's ability to get from point A to point B. What's more, the puzzles are often nested several 
 layers deep. While your overall goal may be to find four keys to open a door, you'll first have 
 to figure out how to get to the bottom of a gigantic, crumbling tower. After getting to the bottom, 
 you'll have to figure out how to access four different doors. Then, after accessing the doors, 
 you'll have to figure out how to actually open those doors. Of course, behind each of those doors 
 lies a series of tricks and traps that you'll have to traverse before you'll get to the keys. Solving 
 one of these overarching puzzles can be an involved process, with some of them taking well over 
 an hour to complete.  

  The environments are your biggest adversaries most of the time in Anniversary, though through your 
 exploration, you'll regularly run into some antagonistic fauna, such as rats, bats, wolves, bears, 
 tigers, gorillas, raptors, and the occasional Tyrannosaurus Rex. Combat is limited to gunplay, 
 which operates with a simple lock-on system. Lara can also tumble and flip through the air while 
 keeping a bead on an enemy. New to Anniversary is the adrenaline dodge, which at specific moments 
 allows Lara to dodge a charging enemy in slow motion. When time slows, a target will also slowly 
 move toward the enemy, and if you fire the weapon right at the moment it locks on, it'll produce 
 an instant kill, usually when the ferocious beast is just inches away from your face. It still 
 feels like Tomb Raider combat, which has always been a minor part of the experience, but the adrenaline 
 dodge is a nice little touch that adds a little more drama to the action. Tomb Raider: Anniversary 
 also makes use of the same type of interactive cutscenes seen in Tomb Raider: Legend, where you'll 
 have to quickly react to an onscreen button cue to keep Lara alive. It allows for some beautifully 
 choreographed action sequences, but they're rarely very challenging.  

  What keeps Tomb Raider: Anniversary engaging throughout is the strength of the gameplay, as well 
 as the quality of the presentation. Even though you're basically just going from one tomb to another, 
 they feature enough individual detail to make them unique. The environments are also huge, using 
 the occasional curvy hallway to mask load times, and aside from some minor gameplay contrivances, 
 they feel pretty real. Lara looks great and moves with a natural grace that makes her incredible 
 acrobatic feats look feasible instead of ridiculously superhuman. The various wildlife creatures 
 you confront also move convincingly. It's the little touches that bring the whole thing together: 
 the way water glistens on Lara's skin when she gets out of the water, the way light refracts differently 
 when she's underwater, or the tangible difference in atmosphere between different locales.  

           It's almost enough to make you forget about Tomb Raider: The Angel of Darkness.     

  In the months from the initial release of Tomb Raider: Anniversary on the PC and PS2 to its arrival 
 on the Xbox 360, Crystal Dynamics appears to have done little, if anything, to change the experience. 
 The graphics are on par with the PC version, though we did notice a few, isolated instances of 
 frame rate chop, despite the fact that there's nothing in here that should be taxing the 360 hardware 
 for that to occur. The environments might not always be rich with detail, but Lara looks consistently 
 great. It's also a really great-sounding game. You'll hear plenty of small ambient effects, such 
 as animal calls and dripping water. Lara's grunts and yelps as she scales these incredible antiquities 
 will also resonate differently depending on the size of the room. Music is generally used sparingly, 
 but it always swells to a flourish at all the right moments.  

  Tomb Raider: Legend did a lot to make Lara Croft feel relevant again, and Tomb Raider: Anniversary 
 is another step in the right direction. The acrobatic action is consistently exciting and challenging 
 throughout. Yet despite being a remake, the experience feels new and fresh. This is the best Tomb 
 Raider game in years, and for the first time in a long time, that actually means something.    
  
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (31 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wwekane
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2009 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Anniversary is the best game remake of the original. I have beaten every tomb raider 
 game for pc and I think this remake is better. The puzzles didn't change much, the levels didn't 
 change but the designs of the levels changed, some of the levels are easier than they were in the 
 original, it's just all around fun. The graphics are amazing and the guns and people look so much 
 better. The controls are easy to learn and the best part to me is practically everything is the 
 same since the first game. The secrets are in the same place, the animals are in the same place, 
 and the environment is all the same. The only problem is that since that it's an exact remake I 
 beat the game in 2 days but nonetheless it was still fun. I recomened this game to any Tomb Raider 
 fan. Now i hope they make a remake of all the other Tomb Raiders. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomsoth
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2008 2:03 am PT
Review:  This remake of the classic game is still the best game in the series and if you missed out on it 
 the first time, now's a good chance to see what all the fuss was originally about till the series 
 went to garbage and slowly came back with Legend. There are several aspects to this game that make 
 it so enjoyable; first, it focuses mainly on puzzles, if you want to shoot things, there are already 
 plenty of other games that fill that category; second, the bosses are memorable; and, finally, 
 the environments are unforgettable.
  
  While there are some great aspects to the game, there are still some major flaws. Occasionally, 
 there are clipping issues that either Lara gets stuck between two objects or certain parts of the 
 environment don't work properly (this is especially frustrating in the middle grappling from wall 
 to wall or object to object) . There also seems to be the occasional check point save that doesn't 
 work properly requiring the user to repeat almost an entire board over again, which makes the game 
 less compelling to finish for both new users and veterans. Lastly, some of the bosses can be easily 
 defeated by finding little nooks that seem to give some of the bosses problems hitting the player.
 
  
  If you can look past the many flaws in the game, you'll find quite a gem, but, for the veterans, 
 don't expect any new major changes. For many users, this may be only a rental, but, thankfully, 
 there are some unlockables as well as time trails to give the game some replay value, which may 
 only interest the die hard fans of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totallyawsome10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider is a fun and ongoing game that will keep u there for hours in one little spoit with 
 so much done but very little accomplished! Now I havn't played it yet because I just watch my dad 
 play but I am going to start one and I know it is hard because my dad will get so frustrated he 
 litterally is on the computer searching and just can't figure it out and gets really mad and when 
 he finds it online it is almost like how were you sopposed to know that kind of thing! I love to 
 watch and it looks like a lot of fun but like I said it is mine blowing hard sometimes and it just 
 gets plain frustrating at times! Now it is really fun though don't forget that and it is worth the 
 price! Just make sure you are up for a challenge before you buy it ok! Oh and one more thing make 
 sure you do it on easy first because of how hard it can be and seeing how hard it is on one level 
 it is amazing thinking how much harder it is on the next!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer3450
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  This is the first Tomb Raider game I've played and I have been pleasantly surprised to find how 
 fun it is. It puzzle solving aspects are genuinely intriguing. The game play is solid and reliable, 
 which is a must for this type of game where you are constantly jumping, swinging, grabbing, grappling, 
 shimmying, etc in order to achieve your objectives. So here we are, having come full circle with 
 'Tomb Raider: Anniversary', a re-imagining of the very first Tomb Raider using the technology of 
 today, namely a tweaked version of the Legend engine. And thankfully, Eidos have gone back to basics... 
 this is as solitary-feeling, interesting and atmospheric as when I first played with Lara over 
 a decade ago, and a whole lot more fun for being in wonderful HD on the Xbox 360. To summarise 
 - a great remake of a classic game, and a fantastic game in its own right that will suit old fans 
 and newcomers alike. Just don't play it all at once, save often and be prepared to drop to your 
 death now and then, for the sake of your own sanity. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcraine
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2008 5:40 am PT
Review:  OK... I've made it to the last level in this game, and I admit it is pretty difficult. I'm still 
 working my way through it; however, I have to say that up until this point it has been a fun experience. 
 This is the first Tomb Raider game I've played and I have been pleasantly surprised to find how 
 fun it is. It puzzle solving aspects are genuinely intriguing. The game play is solid and reliable, 
 which is a must for this type of game where you are constantly jumping, swinging, grabbing, grappling, 
 shimmying, etc in order to achieve your objectives. However, even with that solidity, it can be 
 frustrating as you try and execute a series of 10 or 15 moves in sequence only to find yourself 
 messing it up at the last minute. However, persistence pays off and it is possible to make it through. 
 Also, checkpoints are used pretty liberally throughout the game so you when you screw up, your 
 restart point is never that far back from where you were. Essentially the game is all about how 
 to get from point A to point B by examining your environment and figuring out where you can go 
 and what you can use. It challenges you to be observant and imaginative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojowonderdog
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 14, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  I'm quite new to the Tomb Raider series, but I soon fell in love with it when I found TR Legend 
 on the 360. This was a game that took all the great bits of Prince Of Persia and added great locations 
 and a beautiful English girl for good measure.
  
  But Legend this is not. 
  
  Although all the puzzle elements are still there (and developed beyond the 'push this box onto that 
 switch and the door opens' stage) , TR Anniversary suffers from an almost non existent storyline, 
 pathetic enemies (i'm sorry but rats and bats just don't get me excited) and a few annoying bugs 
 (having to constantly reload back to the start of a level because Lara didn't die falling down 
 a hole almost made me burn the disc) .
  
  My main problems with the game were two things.
  
  1: Level design. Alot of the levels had the same look and feel to them, even though they were 
 supposed to be in completely opposite sides of the world. And some of the puzzles followed the 
 'jump from one ledge to the other then jump back and use your grapple hook' formula that got quite 
 old, quite soon.
  
  2: There are 3-4 moments in the game that are beyond hard. 
  And I don't mean in a 'oh my god I can't do this, it's too hard' kind of way. 
  The designers 
 had made what should have been an easy jump or swing incredibly difficult by giving the option 
 of landing safely about a 5% chance of success. Having to replay several parts of a few levels 
 20+ times because Lara won't grab onto a ledge that is right infront of her, is just bad programming 
 and more than infuriating.
  
  Now I don't want people to think I hated this game, because that is far from the truth. Infact 
 I had a great time playing it. It's just a shame that it's such a letdown compared to Legend, which 
 just blew me away.
  
  It s a great game that you'll be able to get 10+ hours of gameplay out of and plus Lara looks even 
 better than ever.
  
  7.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bradola17
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  This remake plays almost as brilliantly as the original. Most of the levels are gripping but there 
 is the occasional disappointment when certain elements of charm from the original are left out. 
 The time trials are a fun way of making the game last longer and the rewards you can unlock really 
 make you want to finish all the game has to offer. The art galleries are great and anyone who has 
 played the original will find them very nostalgic. Also, this game has great re-playability and 
 is great fun. I recommend this to anyone who enjoys tomb raider style games, but mainly to fans 
 of the original. This game is a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martianrobot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider was only the second 3D game I ever played on a PC, and I loved it. Whilst all my mates 
 raved about the violence and mayhem of Quake and suchlike, I was highly enamoured with a certain 
 acrobatic young lady of an aristocratic persuasion, Lara Croft. Or rather, I was enamoured with 
 her various solitary adventures among exotic ruins in the search for ancient artifacts and the 
 like. Though plenty of games tried to copy it, there was nothing like the mixture of acrobatics, 
 puzzle solving and the occasional gun battle... and not forgetting the headscratching cutscenes 
 which seemed to bear no relation to the action gameplay!
  
  However, the series got very stale, and while they stuck to the tried and trusted formula with 
 relatively minor tweaks to the gameplay and the game engine, the rest of the gaming world moved 
 on with new technology, gaming styles and storytelling.
  
  With the much-maligned 'Tomb Raider: Angel Of Darkness' Eidos took Lara in a somewhat different 
 direction, that of a 3D adventure, with less emphasis on acrobatics and action. It was a much needed 
 change for Tomb Raider, but it was felt by many gaming fans that they failed in their endeavour. 
 I quite enjoyed it actually, though it was telling that I thought the best bits were those that 
 went back to the old formula.
  
  With the advent of HD console gaming, it was obvious that the series would be resurected for a 
 new audience, and along came 'Tomb Raider: Legend'. This new development of Lara Croft's world 
 certainly brought her into the gorgeous HD limelight, and it told a better, clearer story than 
 any before, but many felt it was lacking. Or rather, it was not lacking... it had too much in it 
 and too many distracting annoyances, primarily the idiots chattering away in the background via 
 Lara's headset. There was also too much gun action and the vehicle sequences were somewhat tedious. 
 However, this was the first TR game that I actually saw to the finish due to the story, so that's 
 something.
  
  So here we are, having come full circle with 'Tomb Raider: Anniversary', a re-imagining of the 
 very first Tomb Raider using the technology of today, namely a tweaked version of the Legend engine. 
 And thankfully, Eidos have gone back to basics... this is as solitary-feeling, interesting and 
 atmospheric as when I first played with Lara over a decade ago, and a whole lot more fun for being 
 in wonderful HD on the Xbox 360.
  
  The core gameplay of ledge-jumping, rope-swinging and chasm-leaping is as much fun as ever, and 
 though the developers have stripped out the annoying stuff from Legend, they've kept some of the 
 enjoyable things like the grapple. Thankfully the gunplay is quite limited, and makes for almost 
 quite a serene, Zen-like experience as you contemplate your next hold, jump and climb, trying to 
 workout how to use your surrounding environment to get where you need to go.
  
  Well, actually, I have to admit that by the final section of the game called 'Lost Island' I had 
 lost my cool somewhat, so 'Zen-like' became 'Hulk-like' as the silly girl fell to her death in 
 a burning pit of lava for the 279,000,000th time and (for the first time in 6 months of Xbox 360 
 ownership) threw my gamepad at the telly whilst shouting obscentities that you wouldn't want yer 
 granny to hear.
  
  Thankfully, nothing was damaged, beyond my blood pressure and my pride. But why do developers make 
 some levels so damn frustratingly difficult that you have to play them 100 times before you get 
 it right? Don't they realise that making my face turn red and the air around me turn blue is just 
 not fun? (Perhaps it was just that I played the game in 3 sittings so was a bit wound up by the 
 end of it!)
  
  Anyway, The game looks and sounds gorgeous, the level design is great (apart from that bit I mentioned 
 above!) and the physics and animation are just right for the style of game... not too arcade like, 
 and not too realistic.
  
  However, there is some noticeable frame-rate issues on the 360 version - I had previously played 
 about half of the game on a mid-range PC before switching to Xbox so found this drop in smoothness 
 slightly distracting, though in no way did they reduce the playability. I think this is down to 
 over-use of volumetric and lighting effects, but are somewhat inexcusable, seeing as there is usually 
 very little going on except the exertions of a large-breasted posh girl on the end of a rope in 
 a buried upside down pyramid, or whatever.
  
  The only other negative is the patchy and somewhat poor quality cutscenes, that do little more 
 to clean up the story than the original did, though they do show some of the emotional turmoil 
 Lara goes through in her goal... though I'm still left with the feeling that I'm not quite sure 
 what that was!
  
  I wanted to give this excellent remake 9 out of 10, but because of the cutscenes, the ocassional 
 framerate issues and the ridiculously mind-exploding parts of the last level, I've kncoked it down 
 to a very respectable 8.5
  
  To summarise - a great remake of a classic game, and a fantastic game in its own right that will 
 suit old fans and newcomers alike. Just don't play it all at once, save often and be prepared to 
 drop to your death now and then, for the sake of your own sanity. And yer grandma. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkPhoenix142
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  What is there to say about TR: Anniversary? Well its a remake of the original, and thats awesome. 
 I loved the originals even though the newer ones are good too. I liked the feeling of, "OH GOD! 
 Am I going to make this jump!?" more than, "OH GOD! Am I going to be able to shoot those guys and 
 those dogs in time!?" and it definitely felt more like a puzzler than the other newer ones, and 
 thats what I remember and loved about the Tomb Raider series. "Heres a door." *Locked* "Okay time 
 to find a key." thats how the originals and this play out, most of the time the other play like 
 this, "A door." *Locked* "Okay, LETS BLOW IT OPEN!" Oh well. Everyone has their opinions, as I 
 always say, If you like a game you play it and you don't let anyone tell you otherwise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbendslayerx
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2008 5:45 am PT
Review:  well i am trying to find all the relics and it is difficult apart from lost valley it even tells 
 u where it is if u have a good memory the levels i have done is all of peru and i have started 
 greece but i have been busy on the guitar hero aerosmith and thats an awsome game to but damn is 
 it short i completed it on hard in less than 6 hours and i thought WHAT anyway with tomb raider 
 i reccomend it it will be worth the money no matter where u get it and thats all i have got to 
 say about this game fun, adventure and puzzle if u want to be my friend on xbox live my name is 
 XBEN D SLAYERX i am offline at the moment i have got to buy a new membership and i do have a nintendo 
 wii i dont know my wii number but if u look at my other reviews it might be in there ok and i do 
 have a piczo it is www. xbendslayerx. piczo. xom 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beutlich99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Anniversary is a remake of the original Tomb Raider with some modern day tweaking to 
 improve the graphics and Lara's movement system. I never played the original Tomb Raider, so I 
 can't compare the two. I can only compare it to Tomb Raider: Legend, which I absolutely loved. 
 Anniversary does not disappoint either. In terms of graphics, weapons, and Lara's moves, everything 
 is so similar to Legend there is no point in comparing the two. Anniversary is simply a new adventure 
 for Lara. The mix of action and puzzle solving is perfect, especially since it is slightly more 
 focused on puzzle solving. The combat is equally as much fun as the puzzle solving. I appreciate 
 the fact that there are very few weapons in the game, which forces you to make do with what you 
 have (like a real tomb raider would have to do as well) . Lara moves fluidly throughout and is a 
 pure joy to watch move around each environment. If you are a Tomb Raider fan, this game is a must 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revway
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 23, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider-Lara is one of those characters I enjoy playing as. She's strong and can gracefully 
 take on the toughest tasks and always come out looking awesome. Controlling her is for the most 
 time a real blast but even though jumps sometimes proves a challenge it's still not that bad.
 
  
  Anyone who likes puzzles and figuring out how to open doors by connecting wires, opening turbines 
 or just jumping around between pillars should enjoy this game. It tries your patience at times 
 but even when you want to start crying like a big baby you'll find it in you too solve whatever 
 problem you have. Because the fun part is too see what's behind door number one, and two and three 
 and so on.
  
  In the end it's a tough game to describe. It takes a while to get into and the problem is that 
 with almost no story it's not one of those games that you think about when you're not playing. 
 Sometimes you have to tell yourself to fire it up to play just so you can finish it. Once you've 
 started though it's also one of those games that makes it hard to put down the controller.
  
  Fan of Tomb Raider? Buy it. Like solving puzzles? Buy it. Neither of those two? Worth a try 
 anyways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prasath1993
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Yes finally a tomb raider game it is been while ever since I played the game all the moves I liked 
 from the old game back again. Tomb Raider back again in another one of her game just like her other 
 game she still looks very good can't wait for another one. I hope every one else likes it to I 
 mean what's not there to like about this game. The 10-th anniversary is a good time for this game. 
 It has been a good ten years there some good and bad but they were able to get through and made 
 it better. I hope it will continue on to even better years. Is there going to be another tomb raider 
 game I am not sure? If so could someone send me a message it will be great. This game did get old 
 almost a year since I got it. i heard some of the old tomb raider games are now in Gametap. com. 
 if anyone misses the classics you should visit that web site. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dchispirtle
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  
  I never considered myself a fan of the Tomb Raider games that came out on the PS1. The main reason 
 was the wonky control system that the game utilized and others copied for the longest time. (I'm 
 looking at you, Resident Evil) . 
  
  However, I picked up Tomb Raider: Legend for a decent price used on the 360 and really enjoyed 
 what Crystal Dynamics did for an iconic franchise. Sure, it borrowed liberally from a certain Ubisoft 
 franchise among others, but the game also forged its own ground.
  
  So, naturally, I expected great things from CD's sophomore effort with the titular Lara Croft. 
 Needless to say, I am once again impressed. Using the Legend engine again and keeping many of the 
 features that made the previous title great while introducing some awesome new features. Unfortunately, 
 there are some features that were eliminated between games that I really liked.
  
  
  Gameplay
  
  FIrstly, TR: A pays great homage to the original game by maintaining the locales 
 and original boss fights while making them better. The first time you see the T-Rex, a feeling 
 of nostalgia mixed with fear will come over you. Each of the boss fights seem impossible at first 
 until you figure out the easiest way to take them down and eliminate the headache.
  
  There is a story to be found in the game, but it is quite weak and cliched... but Tomb Raider isn't 
 played for story. The main reason to play it is for some awesome and harrowing platforming in the 
 game's multi-story rooms that create a unique vertigo feeling in even the hardiest of gamers.
 
  
  One of the weaknesses of many modern platforming games is often an uncooperative camera. Thankfully, 
 TR: A continues Legend's great camera control with very few instances where you'll find missed 
 jumps and uncertainty where to go next. Luckily, there are plenty of checkpoints throughout the 
 game to make up for these rare instances.
  
  Gameplay (out of 10) - 8
  
  
  Graphics
  
  The Xbox 360 version of TR: A is a good port of the PS2 and PC versions that were 
 introduced later in the year. The textures are sharper than its predecessors, but don't come close 
 to pushing the limits of what the 360 is able to do. I didn't notice a lot of frame rate drops, 
 but they do occur. However, they don't do much to affect the game too much.
  
  While the goal of the each level is to solve puzzles, platform to get from Point A to Point B, 
 it's the unique environments that keep this from getting old. Each location is modeled very beautifully 
 and evoke the feeling that the Peru, Egypt, and Greece locations feel authentic and realistic.
 
  
  Graphics (out of 10) - 7
  
  
  Sound
  
  The game's soundtrack is suitably fitting to each location. The themes for enemy encounters change 
 depending on which beastie you're fighting. Go up against bats or rats, and the theme is light 
 and non-threatening. However, fight a bear, and the music swells and sounds dangerous. 
  
  Sound effects are also great, the ambient noises of forest creatures in Peru help to create the 
 atmosphere the game was striving for. Once again, each locale has suitable sound effects.
  
  Sound (out of 10) - 9
  
  
  Value
  
  The version I played is the retail release. While 
 its also available for Legend owners is the option to download Anniversary in two downloads over 
 Xbox LIve for a total of $30, this option is not recommended. Firstly, the retail version has a 
 full 1000 points towards your gamerscore, while the download adds only 250 for the same price or 
 more, if a used copy is purchased.
  
  I decided to rent the game, and can honestly say this was the better choice. After playing the 
 game for about 4 days, I finished the main game, and two time trials. A gamerscore of 870/1000 
 was earned in the completion of these tasks.
  
  Of course, your value will be based on your ability to complete the environmental puzzles and platforming 
 sequences. The main game can take anywhere from 10-20 hours to complete. Three difficulty levels 
 exist, but there is rarely much of a difference with the exception of combat being more difficult 
 due to the fact that on higher difficulties, Lara takes more damage from her foes.
  
  Value (out of 10) - 7
  
  
  Achievements
  
  A decent list that looks difficult at first 
 (Beat X Level without Dying, Collect all hidden items on X Level) but these can easily be accomplished 
 by saving the game after every checkpoint so the option of reloading saves is available.
  
  There are also about 150 points available for completing all time trials for the game's levels. 
 These are somewhat difficult because they require the need for nearly flawless and quick platforming. 
 Strangely enough, the game's final location has the easiest time trials to complete while the first 
 location ranks among the most difficult.
  
  Achievements (out of 10) - 7
  
  Tomb Raider: Anniversary is a fun game for any fan of platforming games and the Prince of Persia 
 series. Good controls and camera make the platforming challenging enough while not being impossible. 
 The graphics are nice, but don't push any boundaries. The game has some lasting value, but isn't 
 worth buying for more than $20. A one-week rental will be enough time for good gamers.
  
  
  Final Score 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameogameo
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  There haven't been many XBOX 360 titles that I have hated, admittedly there's been a few, but none 
 as bad as this. I had high hopes for TR: Anniversary after the impressive TR: Legend, unfortunately 
 it hasn't met my expectations on any level. Where do I begin?
  
  The game is basically an updated version of the original Tomb Raider game on PC 10 years ago, why 
 remake a classic? Who knows, it was a stupid idea. I found the whole experience very frustrating 
 and I refuse to play it ever again, my mission is to prevent you from buying it!
  
  Those of you who have played the original may find it difficult to part with 20/$40 of their cash, 
 this is also the case for new comers to the franchise as well. The controls are arkward and occassionally 
 irresponsive, (trust me, having to repeat the same section over and over again can drive you crazy) . 
 The graphics have improved since the original (obviously) but still look pretty ungly, even on 
 the 360. The environments are bland and boring, something you don't come to expect from TR games. 
 
  
  An uninteresting game, there are a few collectables to gather along the quite short single player 
 campaign, however, you'll find it hard to be bothered. The dodgy framerate can be a pain, along 
 with the dozens of glitches that I found myself in.
  
  A real shame all in all, this could have been quite enjoyable if things were put right and properly 
 finished, fans and newcomers stay away................ (memories of 'Angel of Darkness'.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mwiewel
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of Tomb Raider since way back in her origins on the PC. While I love the fact that 
 they went back and revised this game for the 360, something is not quite right. Maybe it's the 
 controls, (or maybe it's me) but this game does not seem as fluid as 'Legend'.
  
  The graphics look good, but understandably, not like the current generation of games like Assassin's 
 Creed or Halo 3.
  
  I was interested to see that this game could be purchased either as add-on DLC to Legend, or stand 
 alone from retail. So, basically, you can play the same game twice and get another set of gamerscore 
 (though not the full 1000 for the DLC version) .
  
  Still, it's certainly better than no new game at all. I am really glad to see that they are doing 
 something with this license again. We had to go without Lara for too long...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WalkingP
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Anniversary is a celebration of Lara Croft based on the original tomb Raider series, 
 a classic Tomb Raider story remake. I have been a Tomb Raider fan from day one, and have played 
 every game; at the time of this review, I anxiously await Tomb Raider Underworld. Anniversary expands 
 on the original story with today's game play. 
  
  Anniversary begins with Lara being hired to retrieve a mythical artifact of great power called 
 the Scion of Atlantis. Lara then starts her adventure in The Lost Valley and travels through tombs, 
 monasteries, The Coliseum and The Great Pyramid. Sound familiar, deja vu. And of course, you have 
 your tutorial level in Croft Manor. As she explores the tombs and ruins, she regularly runs into 
 enemies like rats, bats, wolves, bears, tigers, gorillas, raptors, and Tyrannosaurus Rex. 
  
  The variety in the levels is great, with lots of puzzles wherever you go.
  You have the familiar 
 abilities of hanging on ledges, swinging from ropes, and become acquainted with a new ability of 
 using the magnetic grapple introduced in Tomb Raider Legend to perform wall runs. I personally 
 found some of the wall runs a little too challenging and over used especially in timed sequences.
 
  
  Anniversary is a return to the classical story of the series. It has the action and adventure of 
 what Tomb Raider is really all about. I've played this game on the PC and on the Xbox 360; on both 
 platforms I found the game to play flawlessly and as always, with any of the Tomb Raider games, 
 it has a beautiful musical score. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: schmo17
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 10, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong, I enjoyed playing through this game but ti was missing something. I remember 
 10 years ago playing this game side by side with Lethal and it being the the most thriling game. 
 But they changed to much. I can understand some changes but it was to much of a change.
  The boss fights were done a little better, but where is the Human on Human gun fights? Push button 
 sequance instead? In Legend you shot up 100 bad guys but in the Classic remake you cant? What gives? 
 And what did they do to Egypt? They butchered that level. If i cant swan dive off the head of a 
 sphinx and break my neck, then it isnt Tomb Raider!
  
  The other thing was that it was a little buggy at times. I mean I swam under the waterfall and 
 beat that level in 2 mins!
  
  They have one more chance with Underground coming out. Hope they get it right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDuskwalker
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  Hard to believe it's been over 11 years since Miss Croft's debut in Tomb Raider and now here we 
 are going back to revisit her past in this lovely remake thanks to Crystal Dynamics.
  
  Well if you played the original you will already know the main story isn't the deepest you will 
 see but it get's the job done. The main plot revolves around getting the pieces of the Scion and 
 the mysterious women Natla who hires Miss Croft in the beginning to find a piece in Peru. Anyone 
 who has played Tomb Raider before will know the premise of the series which is mainly Prince of 
 Persia style platforming and puzzles.
  
  Gameplay:
  Anyone who played Tomb Raider Legend will know the basics of the gameplay although there is a few 
 admissions like the binoculars and flashlight. The core platforming and puzzle solving is done 
 exceptionally well with everything usually being smooth and responsive. However the camera in the 
 game can sometimes lead to not being able to tell where your supposed to jump and forcing you to 
 making a leap of faith sometimes resulting in a awkward death. Thankfully the combat is slightly 
 more responsive than it was in the PS2 version. In the PS2 version she sometimes wouldn't lock 
 on right to some of the smaller creatures, but in the 360 version this seems to be fixed since 
 I never encountered this problem with it. Also thanks to the sometimes awkward camera fighting 
 multiple enemies can be a hassle especially when fighting the stronger enemies of the game in later 
 levels. Also they added a dodge attack (to replace Legend's slowmotion jump attack) that happens 
 when a enemy get's mad from being shot multiple times and it starts charging. When it's charging 
 you can hit left or right on the joystick and hit B when the screen blurs to do a slow motion dodge 
 and do a instant kill on normal enemies and damage on bosses. It's pretty fun the first few times 
 of doing it and works nicely with bosses however it does get tedious and gimmicky after awhile. 
 Overall the gameplay is pretty solid but I can't help but feel the controls just not as tight and 
 as intuitive as Tomb Raider Legend.
  
  Audio:
  Same as the PS2 version which is excellent. The voice acting is really well done and definitely 
 done by professionals and not by someone who you could swear is a porno star taking a break. Music 
 and sound effects again is really well done and definitely gives you that sense of isolation when 
 your in a tomb or cave. Gun audio is not the best you will hear in a game but still it's nicely 
 done and effective. Overall this is the real deal when it comes to great audio design in games.
 
  
  Graphics:
  Sadly this is the biggest letdown of Anniversary on 360. Instead of giving it that next gen upgrade 
 like they did with Legend, they basically just upscaled the textures, improving resolution, and 
 as for characters they look smoother and cleaner but still nothing that great and just received 
 a few minor upgrades over the PS2 version. A pretty basic port similar to what Sega did with Phantasy 
 Star Universe. Only noticeable improvement is water which looks better and clearer than it's PS2 
 counterpart. Like with the PS2 version there is little detail that adds to it like Lara being wet 
 when she get's out of the water and you see her clothes soaked and her skin being wet and other 
 little detail like when she rolls she will have dirt on her skin and clothes. One thing they fixed 
 was slowdown which was pretty bad in PS2 version. However there is still slowdown in spots which 
 should not be going on since this looks more like a PS2 to XBOX port than a PS2 to 360 but still 
 less slowdown is better than a lot I guess, although I want to point out this was on a standard 
 definition TV and I hear slowdown get's worse than the PS2 version when you scale it on up to 720p 
 or 1080p, but I haven't had a chance to do this at the time of this writing . Overall it's good 
 looking for a last gen game but seeing how this is 360 it should have looked a lot better than 
 this and should run at a silky smooth framerate, but at least it's about on the same level as the 
 PC version.
  
  Closing comment:
  Overall this is a very solid game and definitely one to check out if you have ever liked a Tomb 
 Raider game or a fan of action/adventure games. Although this game is nearly twice as long as Tomb 
 Raider Legend I can't help but feel it's just not as well made as that title thanks to a slightly 
 worse camera and dated graphics, but it's still just as enjoyable, if not more so, than Tomb Raider 
 Legend. Also the story of Legend's was more interesting and had more depth that just made me more 
 interested in finishing it, then again you have to remember Anniversary's story was originally 
 from 96. I must say the bosses in Anniversary are definitely more challenging and fun than anything 
 in Tomb Raider Legend which is very nice. I would love to give this game a top score but thanks 
 to some minor flaws, and the fact it's just a upscaled PS2 game, I just can't do it. If you have 
 never picked up Anniversary yet, the 360 version is the way to go since it's the best of the console 
 versions. If you already own it there is no reason to pick it up again though.
  
  Overall: 8/10
  
  Pros:
  Solid platforming and puzzles
  Great boss battles
  Fantastic 
 audio design
  
  Cons:
  Awkward camera 
  Last gen graphics and slowdown
  People that started the series with Legend may be disappointed with the story 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metron4
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Back in 1996, "Tomb Raider" was an answer to a prayer for fans of Indiana Jones. It not only gave 
 us tombs to explore and raid, it introduced an equally captivating character, if not yet fully 
 developed, in the form of Lara Croft. Truth be told, the appeal may have started with the search 
 for hidden treasures, but expanded to include controlling a female character from behind who obeyed 
 every command without complaint. Eidos wasn't fooling anyone with the target market here. Now comes 
 Crystal Dynamics with their new game engine, re-imagining the classic experience that manages to 
 find a sweet spot between staying true to the source and adding new appeal for a new generation. 
 
  
  * Gameplay: As computer games have improved over the years, I have often hoped that game designers 
 would revisit some of my favorite memories and "retool" them using the latest software and hardware 
 improvements. "Tomb Raider" being high on the list, I was giddy with delight when 'Anniversary' 
 was first announced. So, how well did they strike the chord of resonance between familiar and refreshing? 
 Like a virtuoso, is my opinion. The puzzles have been either updated from the original or replaced 
 with something new that suits the theme. For instance, the gears in the lost valley section of 
 Peru are a lot more complicated, revealing the mechanical nature of the ancient construct instead 
 of hiding behind polygons. The cistern section of Greece uses hand-driven winches to raise and 
 lower the water instead of the ubiquitous wall switch that was strangely prevalent before. Lara's 
 selection of new moves carries over from "TR: Legend", as does the grappling hook, checkpoint save 
 system, time trial option, cinematic action scenes and hidden artifacts. The animal enemies are 
 a lot tougher than before, and without her ability to side flip while locked on and firing, it's 
 a lot easier to get attacked and lose massive health. I even died! I never died from an animal 
 attack in the first game. Lara's mansion is a complete level by itself just like in 'Legend'. The 
 designers sure went all out to make fans of the original feel right at home, and this includes 
 all the frustrating moments. Unlike 'Legend', it's not always clear where to go or jump. There 
 are glitches that result in Lara not grabbing a ledge if you walk off like she should, strange 
 jumping errors that result in her doing that "eternal jump fall" animation in the same spot. Once, 
 I actually fell through the world into white space, only to have my checkpoint reload. I drowned, 
 missed ledges, fell to my death and got knocked off enough ledges by enemies to remind me of just 
 how throat-strangling the first game was. Some things never change. On the bright side, the new 
 game engine feels like the last piece of a decade-old puzzle, just what the original was missing. 
 The easy flow of action and movement, the seamless texture integration and real-world quality remind 
 us of how we wished it had played the first time we met Lara. (8.5)
  
  * Narrative: The are very few changes to the classic story. It's still about Lara being hired by 
 Natla to obtain pieces of the Scion, but a few details have been either added or changed. The most 
 interesting plot point occurs when Lara faces Larson on the lost island. As if acknowledging the 
 brutality Lara displayed in the first game, here she actually goes through a "crisis of identity" 
 trying to reconcile her actions. It's a poignant moment that reflects the advancement not only 
 technologically, but story-wise. In the original, Lara killed people and creatures outright because 
 the complexity of character development would have been unbalanced with the primitive gameplay. 
 Who cares if she kills a bear made out of thirty polygons, or a human with fifty? But with this 
 update, the movement towards realistic characters and complex storylines means that random acts 
 of murder can't be just written off. (8.5)
  
  * Level Design: It's hard not to smile when a familiar room opens up, remembering where the traps 
 are (or were) , comparing the designs and trying to recall how it used to look. All the levels have 
 that familiar feel to them but look way different, and it's not just the updated textures, lighting 
 and uneven geometry. Many areas from the first game have been replaced, combined or moved about. 
 The Midas statue that was hidden off the main path in Greece has now been given center stage. The 
 Neptune puzzle is more intricate, as are many others. It truly feels like a new game. The layouts 
 overall are much smaller, and more has been removed than revised. I recall a heck of a lot more 
 to do to get into Atlantis, including more lava rooms. All of the rolling boulder puzzles in Atlantis 
 are gone too. After defeating Natla, you don't have to do the block-jumping puzzle to exit the 
 pyramid. If you have a good memory of the original game, you start to notice things like this missing 
 from the experience. At the same time, there are so many recognizable details that it kind of balances 
 out. (9.0)
  
  * Graphics: Even though this game uses the same engine as 'Legend' and is made by Crystal Dynamics, 
 the quality of the textures is surprisingly lacking. Not sure what happened here, but the high 
 dynamic lighting is gone, the level of detail is not as sharp, and Lara herself doesn't look nearly 
 as good. It's not awful, but we were so spoiled by 'Legend' that it feels rushed. Clipping issues 
 abound, including views into the empty spaces behind walls. Lara barely looks wet and it's hard 
 to see the water dripping off her. At least the animations are still the same, making Lara look 
 her best when she's moving, flipping, diving, climbing and leaping. All the beasties are back, 
 naturally looking better than before. The dodge action sequences that occur when an enemy is sent 
 into a rage are very cool. I was really disappointed by the lava effects on the lost island. They 
 actually look only slightly better than the original due to the unrealistic smoothness as it flows. 
 This is a shame since a lot of effort obviously went into the natural stone and earthwork that 
 replaces the square, polygonal layouts from ten years ago. There is one effect that I enjoyed that 
 I always found annoying about the original game; in this version, the water levels you manipulate 
 rise and lower with you still in it! Before, you would hit some switch off-screen and the camera 
 would cut to the room already filled or empty. I guess it was too complicated back then but it 
 looks great this time. (8.0)
  
  * Sound: The music, although not quite as resounding as 'Legend' is still able to evoke the environments 
 of each area. Poles squeak when you hang from them, stone blocks smash together convincingly, and 
 water effects are up to the task. All that being said, the sound of the game didn't impress or 
 distract, it simply served its purpose. The voice actors, few that there are, do a commendable 
 job. I did enjoy the whooshing water effects in the Greece and Egypt levels whenever you would 
 drain or fill up large areas. (7.0)
  
  * Value: Unlockables become available as you complete the game and certain tasks like finding all 
 the artifacts. These include new outfits, art galleries, character biographies, and my favorite 
 of the bunch, running commentaries. After you complete a chapter, you can replay it and come across 
 commentary "diamonds" that resemble the save points from the Playstation games. You will hear the 
 creators discuss that area of the game while you play. For the true masochist, time trials are 
 available that are much harder than they were in 'Legend'. Some of the achievements want you to 
 go through entire chapters without dying! Be sure to save at every checkpoint. (7.5)
  
  * Tilt: Has it really been this long? Lara, it seems like our first date was just yesterday. Remaking 
 "Tomb Raider" was an inspired idea, and I truly hope they follow this up by retooling the second 
 game and beyond. (9.5)
  
  RealScore: 8.3
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scooooters
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  The Tomb Raider franchise has really put itself into position for a nice round of momentum. WIth 
 the announcement of an additional installment set for release later this year, a revisit of the 
 first edition is a nice appetizer. The game has all the great qualities of Tomb Raider Legend, 
 with a nod to the past throw in for good measure. Any game that will let you play polygon style 
 graphic throwbacks for fun, works for me. The gameplay can be a bit frustrating at times, but not 
 enough to hurt the overall playful element. The slow down bullet time is my favorite part and should 
 be a nice little run for the franchise from here out. Some would say it's short, but if played 
 piecemeal, it can last quite some time. Not one I'd try to sit down and play straight through. 
 All in all, a great game and one I'd replay again, just to watch the cut scenes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sleepysmoo2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  I was a fan of the original Tomb Raider on the Play-station, so when I heard this game was coming 
 out, I was definitely in a rush to pick it up.
  
  The first thing I noticed about this game was the updated graphics, which goes without saying. 
 It really does bear witnessing watching Lara run, move, and the the way she appears "wet" when 
 she jumps out of the many pools and rivers she has to swim through. (The water actually drips from 
 her, and her clothes are wet-looking) . 
  
  Besides the great animation, there's the gameplay itself. If you like ANYTHING about Indiana Jones, 
 or the originals in the series, you will love this. Instead of shooting lots of gun-toting enemies, 
 you will be busy dodging traps, spinning blades, leaping from chasm to chasm, shooting any inherent 
 wild-life inside these dusty old tombs, and generally figuring out traps and puzzles in order to 
 claim the prizes so carefully protected. 
  
  In fact, the story-line make s a whole lot more sense in this. It's generally more coherent and 
 tight than in the original, with "God of War-esque" interactive sequences that require timed button-pressing 
 in order to dodge shots and get out of danger. 
  
  I have to say, if there is any criticism of this game to be had, it's that the new "adrenaline-doge" 
 move, where you fill an enemies rage meter, and then dodge their rush-at-you with good timing, 
 to plant a head-shot, makes a lot of the enemies too easy to kill. There are a lot of moments in 
 the original where you get surprised by enemies and have to fight for your life. In general, the 
 only trouble I had with enemies was at the very end, where flying mutants are liable to cheaply 
 knock you off a ledge with a fireball, or hit you with one attack, and then hit you again before 
 you can get up, only to knock you off a ledge. However, the boss fights require a certain puzzling-out 
 of their attacks, before you can use the dodge to figure out how to eliminate them. (Again though, 
 the dodge makes the fighting too short. It would have been better if the boss fights relied totally, 
 in my opinion, in puzzle-solving. Kind of like Soul Reaver.) . 
  
  Anyway, the game is totally worth playing, and the achievements range from the easy to unlock, 
 to some that require you to completely finish a stage without dying once. (and no fair saving, 
 it doesn't work) . 
  
  I recommend this game heartily to any who like anything about ancient traps, and solving puzzles. 
 Be warned; some of the jumping sequences can be quite challenging, though the camera is thankfully 
 WAY better than in the original. 
  
  Cheers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  For those who remember the original tomb raider this game is like a nice trip down memory lane 
 with a high def finish.
  
  The gameplay is very similar to Tomb Raider: Legend. You have the scripted cutscenes which help 
 improve the gameplay and also the graplling hook has returned. Because of these extras the original 
 game puzzles you may remember have been altered. e. g. there was a level where you had to collect 
 3 cogs and this has now been altered so that when you plave the cogs there is alot more of a puzzle 
 to it.
  
  The graphics are ok but do not seem to stack up to a lot of games out there at the moment. This 
 is probably down to the fact that this game has already seen a PS2 and PC release a while back 
 so nothing has really changed since then. The water effects are nice but the character facial animation 
 seem a little stiff and fake but lara still looking good.
  
  The game length of the game is considerably longer than the first game and on my first run through 
 took me around 10 hours. Also the achievements seem pretty well balanced and will keep the replay 
 value of the game if your into achievement points but othere than a few secret items to collect 
 not much else will keep you coming back.
  
  To sum up Tomb Raider Anniversary it is nice to see Lara back in the tombs and off the crime ridden 
 streets. All players of the original will love this game and hopefully will mark the return of 
 Lara Croft back into the gaming industry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: childofrock11
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  Do you remember heading into the old game store back in the day and seeing that game that everyone 
 was talking about? You know what i'm talking about! Tomb Raider! That game that was not only the 
 most remarkable experience of its time but a sinful pleasure as well. Oh how we longed to actually 
 be with the buxomed bad ass Lara in person as she jumped, flipped, and shot her way to discovering 
 all the pieces of the scion.
  
  Well guess what, we can all enjoy that adventure all over again! Crystal Dynamics (Legacy of Kain, 
 Tomb Raider Legend) brings us once again another exciting adventure of Lara's, but this time it 
 is a..... remake? "Wait", you say, "a remake?" Yes, but Anniversary isn't just a remake, it is a 
 complete reinvisionment of the classic journey that we all hold dear to our hearts. 
  
  The controls are the same as Legend and the engine is intact. The 360 version shines above the 
 rest with higher detail on both the environments and ahem* Lara. The major changes from legend 
 are minimal, mainly being the character model for Croft and non magnetic grappling hook (versus 
 the magnetic one from Legend) . Another addition is the adrenaline dodge; when an enemy is enraged 
 you can send Lara into a slow mo dodge in which you see a crosshair/crosshairs move towards the 
 enemy's head. When they are aligned you have a split second to press the fire button causing a 
 satisfying instant kill. This keeps the action new and fresh enough to keep your attention through 
 out. 
  
  The platforming can be considered the same to Legend's with a few minor new moves, but what really 
 shines is the old puzzles from 96' being redone in a new and innovative way using the engine from 
 Legend. Do you remember the keys you had to find from all the temple of the Gods? The encounter 
 with the T-Rex? So do I! And they are all present with a new twist on the events that make this 
 'remake' seem like a whole new game!
  
  Tomb Raider fans rejoice once again for this game is just as fun as the original! Once again we 
 can experience that first adventure that caused us to fall head over hills in love with the Tomb 
 Raiding goddess known as Lara Croft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmaynard
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  Ten years ago I was playing Tomb Raider on my Playstation. As far as I am concerned, that game 
 is one of the best. Here I am now 10 years later with a "remake" of the original and I am not disappointed 
 at all. I have put about 6 hours into the game and my jaw has dropped numerous times. I cannot 
 believe that games can look this good. As you can see I have given the game a perfect score. The 
 graphics are amazing, the combat system has been reworked, and the nostalgic factor weighs in for 
 me as well. They added some new levels and puzzles to the game, but I do have memories of what 
 was in the orginal, and to see them reworked like this gives me goosebumps. 
  If you did not like the original, you may not like this one. But it is a better game due to the 
 upgrades. You may want to rent it first. If you are a fan of the game you have to pick this version 
 up. We have watched the Tomb Raider games fall apart over the years. With each release they seemed 
 to get worse. Then Legend came out and changed everything. Now we have Tomb Raider Anniversary, 
 and it is everything that Tomb Raider is supposed to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeyboy1350
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 3:10 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying. I personally did not play the first game, so im not one of those people 
 who Cant get over the fact that its NOT an exact remake and if love the first game and dont want 
 it changed then dont buy this game =S simple.
  Gameplay. 9/10
  This game has a lot of shooting.. Jumping.. Climbing.. Oh the climbing.. Far too much of the climbing.. 
 But the rest was good.
  Story. 10/10
  The story, The cutscenes and Just plain Lara made me get really involved in the game. Made me want 
 to play more and more. One downside was the unrealistic bit,, but hey its a game and i dont give 
 a toss.
  Graphics 9/10
  On the xbox360 i thought the graphics were Pretty good. Not like the other ppl that say "Just looks 
 like the pc" WHO CARES The graphics are good enough so cool yer jets.
  Sound 10/10
  The Eerie-ness of the long corridors make it nerveracking when you hear the jumping beat of when 
 a gorilla jumps out at you.
  Overall. 9/10
  I loved this game.. The only other tomb raiders i have played were TRIII and TR Last Revelution 
 For My Laptop So this was a step up,, Believe me.
  The one flaw was it only lasted me 2 weeks,, and thats playing it about 1hour every couple of nights.
 
  But hey i got it for 20 Deal of the week. im not complaining.
  Well Worth The Dough. =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  For: Classic Tomb Raider puzzles; retro-evolved with excellent new features; good value
  Against: Some minor frame rate issues; dinosaurs are still silly; 
  
  Gameplay 8: Basically 
 it is the control scheme from "Legend", applied to the levels from Tomb Raider (original) . Tomb 
 Raider needs no further description other than to say that the classic puzzle/fight Gameplay remains 
 as enjoyable as ever.
  
  Design 8: The developers have enhanced many of the puzzles and environments to take advantage of 
 the excellent "Legend" controls whilst the original design remains intact. The game still feels 
 fresh and contemporary despite is relative age. 
  
  Presentation 7: The HD graphics are fine, but the game does suffer from occasional minor frame 
 rate issues  particularly with long Vistas and particle effects. The music and sound effects are 
 good, and the overall presentation is solid, if a little uninspired.
  
  Longevity 7: As well as the main story, the game features a time attack mode and the usual hidden 
 artefacts, and, of course, those tricky achievements. A bonus in the retail package (just 30) 
 is the inclusion of an interesting making-of DVD.
  
  Overall: 7.5/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezikiel2517
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Well I've loved Tomb Raider since I first played the original version of this on the PS1 and while 
 most people seemed to think the series got a little worse as it went on I thought it got better 
 (TR 2 being the best) so I was very anxious to get my hands ont his one and was very happy when 
 I saw it would be coming to the 360.
  
  I must say overall I'm not disappointed with the game itself as it didn't even feel like a remake, 
 I would have to say about 90% game seemed completely new, or I just didn't remember playing it 
 before lol. I the graphics to suffice, enemies were cool and the giant outdoor / indoor puzzles 
 to be fun and challenging. I also found it to be just hard enough without being frustrating.......... with 
 the exception of the games camera........ oh sweet jesus don' t get me started on this games camera.
 
  Without doubt the worst I have ever had to suffer through in a video game, maybe the developers 
 want to encourage suicide in gamers today? I cannot begin to count how many times I died because 
 the camera would spin around mid jump or just make it near impossible to line up a jump in the 
 first place causing you to fall to your death time and time again.
  
  This is really a shame because it really at times ruined what is an otherwise fantastic game. I 
 still would recommend it to any Tomb Raider fan out there but I would say to have your bottle of 
 Valium handy and don't play around any loaded guns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thorpe89
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2007 4:11 am PT
Review:  Back in June, Tomb Raider: Anniversary was released for PC and PlayStation 2. Now, a few months 
 down the line - it arrives for the Xbox 360. Pretty much, Tomb Raider: Anniversary on this platform 
 is the exact same thing as it is on other platforms. The main element that makes this version different 
 is the addition of achievements. The visuals seen in Tomb Raider: Legend looked nice but it doesn't 
 seem Anniversary wanted that treatment. It seems to be a port of the PC version and for the most 
 part - it performs great. There's a few hiccups present that I noticed in this version, though. 
 However, the budget price makes up for the slight degradation of graphics and late arrival. Although, 
 it may not look as good as Legend, it still does shine in some areas. Certainly, you'll still notice 
 the mysterious feel of the tombs Lara explores.
  
  This is the second edition of Tomb Raider from Crystal Dynamics. It does do a lot to improve the 
 gameplay and offer a more challenging experience. It seems, going back to the roots meant digging 
 hard to include many of the elements that you would come to find in the first game. They've done 
 a good job on giving their version of Tomb Raider whilst adding some great new features. Now, if 
 you've ever played the first Tomb Raider - you will notice your memory refreshing with the similarity 
 in level design and the enemies. The opening of the game introduces you to the main story and once 
 you arrive into the menus, you are greeted with a beautiful piece of background music. Compared 
 to Tomb Raider: Legend, the score feels more calmer and goes well with the game's theme. The menu 
 design is pretty much similar to the menus in Tomb Raider: Legend. There are a few changes though; 
 including the ability to skip a cinematic (when you pause during gameplay) without having to scroll 
 down the menu everytime. This menu works nicely and isn't tricky to maneuver. There are a few other 
 tweaks made to improve since Tomb Raider: Legend.
  
  You'll have the option to jump straight into the main game or go visit Croft Manor. The Croft Manor 
 is back and something worth exploring whenever you complete the main game. You may just even want 
 to go there straight away for some practice and to get a general feel of the game. The Croft Manor 
 should keep you fairly busy as you try to find the artifacts as it has done in the previous games. 
 It's big and you can explore a variety of rooms. This time you can even go outdoors - something 
 that was not present in Tomb Raider: Legend's Croft Manor.
  
  There are four main locations (five if you want to count England's Croft Manor) to explore. Each 
 has been beautifully crafted as you will come to notice when you jump into them. The locations 
 consist of Peru, Greece, Egypt and finally Lost Island. Now, in each of these locations are several 
 levels. So, it can take a fair while to move onto the next location because of the numerous puzzles 
 put into these. A few puzzles are fairly straightforward but you will get some that will just stump 
 you for a while. By doing a bit of troubleshooting and such you'll eventually conquer the puzzle 
 and then realise you have got a whole new puzzle around the corner! The puzzles were fairly straight-forward 
 in Tomb Raider: Legend but they've been made much more challenging as promised by Crystal Dynamics 
 in Tomb Raider: Anniversary. Sometimes you will have to go back and forth through a level (rather 
 than straight through it) in order to collect certain items (to open doors, cages and such) . If 
 you ever get stuck, occasionally the journal (located in the inventory) gives you a tip, as spoken 
 by Lara herself. There are new guns that you can store in the inventory and you'll find many places 
 with ammo for them. There are also health packs scattered throughout the levels. Some health packs 
 give you a small boost of health whilst others will boost your health to its maximum. So, it is 
 often noted to use them properly at the right times. The controls of the d-pad are changed from 
 what they were in Tomb Raider: Legend. This time you use the left and right directions to go through 
 your weapons. Using certain weapons will help towards beating enemies quicker due to the power 
 of some.
  
  Some enemies such as rats and bats are easy to take down in a couple of shots. However, some - 
 such as the bears, gorillas and mummies take quite a shooting. Eventually, you can shoot them until 
 they die or an alternate method is to dodge their attacks and shoot at the right moment. Whenever 
 an enemy charges at you, the heads-up display will tell you to use the B button and dodge in the 
 appropriate direction. Timing this right allows Lara to get one shot in to kill them. Not reacting 
 quickly enough will sure to waste time and possibly deduct some of Lara's health. Speaking of health, 
 depending on what difficulty you are on, then it will deduct more if you are on a harder one. Playing 
 on easy gives you less of a chance of death but playing on the hardest means you can't afford to 
 keep getting attacked. This is essential for when the time trials need to be completed.
  
  There are some cutscenes in this game also but it feels like there isn't enough of them. When you 
 do get a cutscene, it is carefully composed and you may even have to interact by pressing the buttons 
 that come up on the screen. Pressing an incorrect button or missing one will show an alternate 
 action that will cause Lara to die. Not being very familiar with the Xbox 360 controller will probably 
 make you fail these at first. However, these are all straightforward to execute for those who are 
 used to the controller. This feature was also present in Tomb Raider: Legend.
  
  Jumping and swinging is a key role for Lara in Tomb Raider: Anniversary. You'll be doing a lot 
 of this as it is required to do some puzzles and of course, progress through levels. Jumping too 
 soon may just land you to your death, or if you are lucky, Lara will barely just cling on to the 
 ledge she was aiming for. So, sometimes when this happens, you'll need to press the Y button to 
 help Lara fully grab onto the ledge. The same thing also applies to other things such as the poles. 
 Lara could do many things in Tomb Raider: Legend, but one thing she couldn't do was jump on poles 
 (not to be confused with swinging) . Jumping on a pole keeps you balanced for a limited time before 
 Lara requires you to press that Y button once again (to regain balance) . Most of the game will 
 require you to do some jumping, swinging and the occasional shooting. Unlike Tomb Raider: Legend, 
 this game focuses more heavily on the puzzle solving and exploration of the tombs. If you're expecting 
 to fight a few dozen guys straight away then you best get back to playing Tomb Raider: Legend.
 
  
  Now, as I have said, timing is crucial for many of the jumps. Now, many are simple but some are 
 quite tricky. There are traps and such (such as blades swinging out of a wall every so often) and 
 you'll have to quickly jump when the trap is not going to kill you or take some health. The camera 
 in the game can suck at times, though. It's not as freeform as I would have liked it to be. At 
 times, it controls itself which can be pretty annoying when you're trying to line up a jump. In 
 some instances you can rotate the camera 360 degrees but in some they'll barely turn 180 degrees. 
 There's no option in the menus to allow the camera not the adjust itself all the time and so you'll 
 have to live with this. Sometimes I'll just be stuck because the camera is either too close or 
 too far away from Lara - preventing me from spotting a ledge to jump to or for me trying to time 
 a jump. Depending on where the camera is faced, the controls are also mapped to the direction. 
 So, if you jump forward on the controller and the camera is faced to Lara's front, she'll jump 
 backwards. For the new wall jumping ability, you'll have to get the camera lined up properly in 
 order to jump successfully. It's a nice feature but far from perfect. There are plenty of traps 
 to look forward to. Whether that be walls crushing you or a steel ball rolling towards you - you'll 
 be challenged. In Egypt, I found some of these traps to be a right challenge.
  
  Boss battles are present as you'd come to expect. If you've ever seen some of the gameplay movies 
 for Tomb Raider: Anniversary, then you've probably seen the great dinosaur battle. At first, it 
 can seem tough but that's just only because they've placed it right at the beginning of the game. 
 Knowing what to do is essential for the boss battles since you can't just simply keep shooting 
 at them. Tactics are required and you may have to keep track on what actions they do. There are 
 some other enemies that are not bosses but seem like them at first too. One that is memorable for 
 me is the gorillas in the coliseum. They don't just charge - they throw rocks!
  
  Music was a strong point in Tomb Raider: Legend because of its action-paced theme. In Tomb Raider: 
 Anniversary, the music feels calmer and at times it does get an action-based theme applied to it. 
 This occurs whenever enemies are onto you - you'll hear the music as a guide. Unlike Tomb Raider: 
 Legend, the music is not constant throughout the levels. The first thing I came to notice when 
 starting in Peru, was that there simply was no background music. Now, bare in mind, the developer, 
 Crystal Dynamics really want to offer fans of the first game a great remake. The first game didn't 
 always have music during the levels which wasn't necessarily a bad thing. Now, in Tomb Raider: 
 Anniversary - the same pattern emerges. Just being able to walk in an environment without this 
 background music allows you to get a better feel. You'll be able to hear insects, water flowing 
 and that whole tropical feel.
  
  The environments produce some very natural sounds that make you feel right in the location. The 
 enemies in the distance you can sometimes hear indicating to get your dual pistols out. Sound is 
 a strong point in the game - the voice acting (although not a lot) is up to scratch and the sounds 
 of the waterfalls are what truly amaze me. That sweet sound you hear when you go through a checkpoint 
 (there are many of these in the levels) means you don't have to worry about fighting that enemy 
 or doing that complicated puzzle once again if you die. If you ever decide to quit during a level 
 just be sure to save before!
  
  So, if you've played the original Tomb Raider - you shouldn't be disappointed. Crystal Dynamics 
 have worked hard to produce a great game to keep the fans happy (and the newcomers, too) . Those 
 who are up to some exploring, like solving puzzles and enjoy the occasional combat should not look 
 past this one. Of course, if you've never played the original then this is more like a whole new 
 game to you that you'll be sure to enjoy. It's full of beautiful environments, some impressive 
 enemies and puzzles. Those who played Tomb Raider: Legend will instantly notice the challenge to 
 Tomb Raider: Anniversary. To keep you playing, there are some great extras packed in. This includes 
 some commentaries, costumes and more to keep you happy. Tomb Raider: Anniversary has been executed 
 very well and deserves to be played no matter if you're a fan or a new person to the franchise. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darknyarth
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  I've played every Tomb Raider game that's come along, even that dreadful Angel of Darkness one. 
 My personal preference has fallen to Legend because it had a great story, a good look and I enjoyed 
 the addition of having her research people on the line to break up the monotony of running around 
 totally alone and in silence other than her grunts.
  
  Perhaps falling back to the first game was a bad idea. That game was great for its time and that's 
 a key point to keep in mind. Today, I think that there's an expectation for more than just some 
 rehashed mario stuff. I would've liked to have seen this done totally in the modern style with 
 the addition of her team working along side her.
  
  The game play in this is mostly like Legend with the addition of the fact that even more of the 
 game is totally ludicrous and makes no sense. The puzzles here are pure craziness most of the time 
 and that's also an unacceptable aspect of the game. I prefer to have more organic puzzles (those 
 that rise naturally out of the environment) than these. The nice thing about having the other people 
 on the radio was they could comment about how silly insane a jump was going to be or even offer 
 some advice. Here, you have nothing but prayer that you might be on the right track.
  
  Overall, I won't be finishing Anniversary as after several hours, it's just not as much fun as 
 Legend. I'd rather go back through that game than to waste more time on this one. It's too bad 
 because I had very high hopes. Here's to praying they come out with Legend 2 and finish the story 
 line they left a cliff hanger on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 27, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  I have been a huge Tomb Raider fan since the first Tomb Raider released on the PS1. To this day 
 not a single TR game has come close to reaching the greatness of the first game. This anniversary 
 edition completely changed a flawless classic and made it in to a completely new game. This does 
 not feel like Tomb Raider 1 in any way. Why change something that isnt broken? Why they should 
 have done was copy the TR1 exactly how it is but with new graphics. New puzzles? New layout? 95% 
 of the game is different that the original. If you guys are looking for an exact remake of the 
 greatest game ever made then your looking at the wrong game. This game is extremely dissapointing 
 to fans of the original game. But at the same time its a wonderful game to those who havent experienced 
 the original.
  
  Classic Remake score = 6
  First time players score = 8
  
  I just dont understand why they had to go and change the entire game. Nobody waited 10yrs to see 
 their favorite game gutted. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
