-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tomb Raider: Legend
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/tombraidervii/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lara has tons of great-looking moves and abilities.
 Varied levels take you to exotic locations all over the world.
 Excellent voice work and sound.
 Great graphics and detailed environments.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The game is short and not very challenging.
 Unstable frame rate.
 The camera is occasionally frustrating.
 Weak gunplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 10, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 8.1, 62 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 4,034 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Crystal Dynamics
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Apr 11, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tomb Raider: Legend is a brief but fun adventure that just about anyone can enjoy. 

  It's been almost 10 years since the first Tomb Raider was released, and while video games have 
 come a long way since then, the Tomb Raider series hasn't kept pace. Problems such as clunky controls 
 and a frustrating camera, which were excusable in the early games, have steadily degraded the quality 
 of the series releases over time. The latest installment, Tomb Raider: Legend, finally brings the 
 series into the 21st Century while staying true to the adventurous spirit of the early games.  
 

          Lara Croft is back to kick some ass and collect some artifacts in Tomb Raider: Legend. 
     

  Tomb Raider: Legend follows the exploits of Lara Croft as she tries to solve the mysteries of her 
 past. Specifically, she's investigating the death of her mother several years earlier. One thing 
 leads to another and somehow the legend of King Arthur becomes involved, along with a magical sword 
 that has been broken into fragments and scattered throughout the world. The story is barely coherent, 
 but it serves its purpose in that it gives Lara an excuse to travel from one exotic locale to the 
 next in search of these artifacts. The game takes you to places such as Ghana, Peru, Tokyo, England, 
 and Kazakhstan, and all of the locations look great. And while Lara sticks mostly to tombs and 
 ruins, she also spends time exploring a deserted research facility, hopping about atop skyscrapers, 
 and shooting up bad guys in a rustic village. The variety of levels is great, although you'll end 
 up seeing pretty much the same platforming and box-pushing puzzles wherever you go.  

  The puzzles in Tomb Raider: Legend can be a bit deceptive at first, but once you learn how the 
 game works, the puzzles become very simple. Most of the game is spent solving basic switch puzzles 
 as you work your way through each level in search of the next artifact. Aside from dragging around 
 boxes to weigh down switches or jam traps, there are a lot of fun platforming sections that let 
 you take full advantage of Lara's affinity for high-flying acrobatics. You can hang on ledges, 
 swing on ropes, swing between platforms (via a magnetic grapple) , and vault off conveniently placed 
 beams. The controls are a lot more fluid and responsive than they have been in previous Tomb Raider 
 games, which makes Lara movements feel much more natural than before. The controls are precise, 
 but not punishingly so. You often only have to jump in the general direction of the next platform 
 and the game will compensate by automatically connecting Lara to the intended surface. Once you 
 get the hang of it you can effortlessly overcome even the most imposing obstacles without difficulty. 
 It's also always abundantly clear which ledges you can hang on or jump between, so the only challenge 
 is positioning the camera so you can see where you're trying to go, which can be frustrating. In 
 tight spots it can be difficult to get a good view of the ledge you need to jump to, and sometimes 
 it's easy to misjudge a jump if you don't have the camera aligned just right. The camera problems 
 are intermittent though, and most of the time you have a fairly good view of the surroundings. 
 And even though the platforming is fairly easy, it's still satisfying thanks to some great-looking 
 animations and level designs that convey an excellent sense of peril.  

  Of course, Lara is skilled with weapons and is more than willing to serve up some hot lead when 
 the situation calls for it. You'll have to shoot up plenty of generic enemy goons and a few leopards 
 here and there. You can lock on to an enemy by holding a button, and then you mash the fire button 
 until the enemy is dead. You can also throw grenades, as well as perform slide tackles or aerial 
 assaults. When you run up to an enemy, you can jump off his head and flip through the air in slow 
 motion while shooting him. It's a neat effect, but not especially useful or necessary, since it 
 takes more time to get in close to an enemy than it does to just blast him from afar. Sometimes 
 you can shoot at certain objects in the environment, which are clearly indicated with a large button 
 icon. You can shoot barrels to blow them up, shoot stone pillars and watch them fall on enemies, 
 and initiate all kinds of other scripted events. The gunplay is not that fun though, because it's 
 easy and because the guns don't feel powerful or distinct at all.  

  Aside from solving puzzles and indiscriminately killing enemies, there are a few other activities 
 you can partake in. There are two motorcycle levels where you have to hop on an improbably placed 
 Ducati and speed after other vehicles while shooting wave after wave of mobile enemies and catching 
 air off jumps. The motorcycle physics are very loose, and the riding sections in Legends feel more 
 akin to a rail shooter than a racing game. There are a handful of interactive cutscenes that require 
 you to press a certain button as an icon appears on screen, much like the cutscenes in Resident 
 Evil 4. And like Leon Kennedy, Lara can meet her demise in many different ways with some crazy 
 death sequences that you get to see if you fail to hit the right button at the right time.  

  On your first play through, you can easily beat the game in less than seven hours on the default 
 difficulty setting. You can then go back through and play again on a higher difficulty, but it 
 doesn't make much of a difference because the challenge in Legend comes from the puzzles, and those 
 never change. Once you've figured out how to solve each puzzle, the only challenge left is to find 
 all the hidden items in each level or to replay each level in time-trial mode. You can unlock new 
 outfits, movies, models, and so on, but even with all that, you can easily see all this game has 
 to offer in a single weekend.  

          Luckily, there are plenty of heavy boxes lying around in ancient ruins just in case you 
 need to weigh down a switch or something.     

  Legend looks great on each of the consoles, with convincingly dark and decrepit environments and 
 plenty of detail and lighting effects. The Xbox 360 version offers some sharper detail, nicer lighting 
 effects, and an abundance of shiny surfaces. Each version of the game suffers from occasional frame 
 rate instability, though. It never gets unbearably slow, but it never quite runs as smoothly as 
 it should. The sound is excellent in each version of the game, with good music, plenty of ambient 
 noise, and excellent voice work that really lends a lot of personality to each character -- especially 
 Lara.  

  Tomb Raider: Legend is a good return to the roots of the series. It doesn't do anything new or 
 different, but it has a great blend of action and adventure that will always keep you moving and 
 interested. The problem is that it moves a bit too fast, and it's all over way too soon.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (289 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wwekane
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2009 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Legend is a great Tomb Raider game. The storyline is enjoyable, the graphics are awesome, 
 and there are a lot of new guns to use. The makers didn't jip us on a game because since it has 
 no Live the single player is a pretty good length. You kill a lot more people in this game than 
 animals, driving the motorcycle is easy and there are a lot of environmental objects to use to 
 get places. The mansion is awesome to explore and there's stuff to find in it so it's not really 
 a training level. The new weapons in the game are cool; you get grenades which is something totally 
 new in this game. The rolling is better than ever and you can kick if there is like a tiger or 
 person directly in your face. You get this awesome grappling hook, and unlike all the previous 
 Tomb Raider games you get a flashlight instead of having to use flares. The game is the best Tomb 
 Raider to date and I recommend it to any Tomb Raider fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIackwoIf
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 6, 2009 1:53 am PT
Review:  I basically summed it up in my Review Deck. Loved the graphics, was happy to be playing with Miss 
 Croft again after her long absence, liked the introduction of the grapple hook feature, it adds 
 a whole new depth to the game play. However for a supposed agile Laura Croft, the movement was 
 too touchy (hated the skidding when you stop thing. It made her seem a bit clumsy) didn't like 
 the fact that she could no longer strafe walk side to side or do her infamous roll and reverse 
 aim maneuver , and the Battle system with the targeting procedure was just plain annoying (Especially 
 when attacked by multiple foes. I gave up pretty quick with this one. It's too bad, because it 
 was real nice to be back in the Tomb world again. Had the movements remained consistent with the 
 original Tomb Raider games, this would probably hit the mark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigGhost_AJT
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Legend is so close to greatness you can smell it. This should have been, and probably 
 still is, Lara's definitive adventure but it's held back by some annoying shortcomings. It is not 
 without its faults but I've found it a surprisingly enjoyable experience.
  
  Good:
  
  Solid graphics. The temples to which Lara travels are impressive in their design and scale. Very 
 nice rendering of the city of Japan in one stage's backdrop as well. Lara looks hoooot. Nice touch 
 the way her skin glistens when she steps out of water.
  
  Gameplay. It's derivative but fun. You get through each stage by platforming, puzzle solving and 
 enemy killing. Within each stage, you can search for hidden treasures which unlock outfits, concept 
 art ... yadda yadda yadda. It rarely strays far from the formula but the platforming puzzles save 
 the day. Lara can scale, climb and swing from many things in the environment and doing so is a 
 blast thanks to a helpful control scheme and fluid animations. Those who've played Prince of Persia 
 might feel at home with this. The environmental puzzles are right out of the Zelda series though 
 not nearly as challenging or thought provoking. Push this ball onto this tab to open this door 
 you know the drill. They become a little more complex but not much more. Yet despite this lack 
 of originality, the package manages to come together nicely.
  
  Lara: Voice acted quite well. And she's hoooot. Did I mention the water on her skin? A nice piece 
 of eye candy as your avatar will never ever make a game. But in a good game it hardly hurts. Though 
 I'm sure it could if you ask her nice. 
  
  
  
  Bad:
  
  Combat: There's no hand to hand combat. Why? The shooting packs zero impact. Never do you feel 
 powerful while wielding anything in Lara's arsenal not attached to her physique. Spit balls would 
 have more impact than the bullets in this game. It doesn't help that there are maybe 3 different 
 kinds of enemies throughout the game and they're all brain dead. And the hybrid shooting and driving 
 motorcycle sections are annoying and not at all fun or exciting. 
  
  Graphics: Facial animations during cutscenes smack of early 360 limitations. No where near expressive 
 even for the otherwise stunning Ms Croft. Does this hurt the game too badly? No but it's worth 
 noting. 
  
  Camera: Of all the things to drag down a good game this infuriates me the most. In a game such 
 as this where precision and timed jumps are critical to success, the camera absolutely must not 
 impede. And yet it does... grievously! It just will not get out of your way or provide beneficial 
 views sometimes. In many ways it's your toughest enemy throughout. 
  
  
  
  Indifferent:
  
  Story: A good story can be convoluted (Final Fantasy XII ahem) and that's forgiving 
 so long as you feel invested in the characters and their plight. But I've spent a lot of my time 
 with this game not knowing Lara's motivation and even more not caring. Something about a sword... or 
 Lara's mother I really don't know. Essentially it has no impact on you while you're playing the 
 game.
  
  So there you have it. It's not perfect but it is, at times, impressive thanks to some nice animation, 
 well rendered backdrops and fun platforming. I'd recommend it to anyone looking for a lengthy adventure 
 if they'd be willing to forgive the janky camera and uninspiring combat.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2008 12:57 am PT
Review:  The Good: Revives the series from it's tomb, great graphics, audio, and a decent story, everything 
 that was broke is now fixed
  
  The Bad: Camera is retarded in cramped places, driving sections are punishing, city levels are 
 odd, typical combat, story held together by threads, shorter than Lara's shorts
  
  Ahhh... here we are again with the cunning, brave, smart, posh, sexy, and beautiful Lara Croft. 
 Most people overlook the game when they see a half naked chick on the cover, but Tomb Raider is 
 one of the few (only?) "chick" games that are actually good. Everyone and their mothers have heard 
 of Tomb Raider or Lara Croft as being "the game about shooting animals in ruins and sex" so if 
 you're reading this you're either a fan or one of the latter. While Tomb Raider has absolutely 
 nothing to do with anything sexual Lara's skimpy style can contradict that.
  
  The series has always been known for it's intricate puzzles, great platforming, and beautiful tombs, 
 ruins, and vistas to explore. Tomb Raider: Legend is the first TR game since the PSX days to be 
 actually good and worth playing. With the first 2 TR games being great the series started falling 
 with 3, got saved with 4 (The Last Revelation) and just went down hill with 5 (Chronicles) , and 
 6 (Angel of Darkness) . TRL revives the series by feeling familiar and redoing everything we've 
 grown to love. The game's story is also very interesting and mainly for fans of Lara who want to 
 know more about HER past. Lara is trying to find the pieces of the Excalibur sword that killed 
 her mother and she runs into ghosts of her past that come back to haunt her. While the story is 
 teeter tottering on the edge of bleh it does get interesting and saves itself at the end with a 
 twist. TR has not been famous for its stories so let's get right into the adventuring! The game 
 seem to have tried too hard to bring the series back since the game is really really short (6 hours 
 you can beat the game) and there are too many levels to explore, so you don't get a lot of feeling 
 for one level.
  
  Everything about TR's platforming is still here so you can either stop reading now or carry on 
 if you are a skeptical action/adventure fan trying to find a new series to get into because you're 
 bored. The whole game is about puzzles that use the environment and hanging, swinging, jumping, 
 pole climbing, rope swinging, zip lining all about. Most of the game is pretty easy to figure out 
 on where to go since you get a grapple that lets you pull boxes off ledges, bring certain things 
 down to climb across, you even use it to swing across chasms. A lot of items you use with the grapple 
 hook has a gold shiny bit on it so you know to grapple there otherwise you'd spend hours trying 
 to grapple every object in the game. A lot of puzzles are usually lever and switch puzzles with 
 you pulling statues onto this pressure switch to lower this bridge to pull this block across onto 
 this switch to raise the gate. Most are simple, but some are unique and fun that have you climbing 
 huge cliffs, walls, and statues to push giant balls (hooha!) off ledges to use down below. A lot 
 of the platforming is fun and awesome with ledges crumbling away, swinging across poles onto ropes 
 etc.
  
  Not one situation is the same and that's what is so great about the TR series; you'll have have 
 something new to figure out. Jumping around these beautiful environments is easy thanks to the 
 responsive controls, great animations, and good camera (most of the time) . When you jump to a ledge 
 and there's a wall behind you the camera will swing out to the side so you can see the whole 30 
 foot pillar you're supposed to climb. This works with every type of situation and the camera does 
 a good job following you. The only time it gets weird is when you're in tight spaces then the camera 
 doesn't know what to do and has seizures. You wind up exploring places such as Japan, Bolivia, 
 Nepal, Kazakhstan and other places. These range from jungles, dark tombs, snow, and even the city. 
 What I found odd was Lara climbing around in buildings like in Japan (she wears a damn sexy dress 
 in that level) , and a military base in Kazakhstan so this can be weird for long time fans. The 
 whole things fits well, but it just seems out of place compared to past games.
  
  The combat is also the second thing you'll be doing the most and while it's easy, repetitive, and 
 not amazing it works and you won't get annoyed. You just lock onto an enemy and fire away with 
 your pistols, machine guns, or shotguns you find lying around off of enemies. If you get too hurt 
 you can use health packs lying around as well. While you'll spend most of your time fighting brain 
 dead enemies that just stand there and fire at you you can use the objects in the environment to 
 kill enemies like barrels, tanks, and even snappings things to make them fall. So while the combat 
 is nothing interesting or fantastic it's there and it works well for what the game can offer. The 
 camera stays behind you well enough when you're locked on, but Lara will lock onto enemies off 
 screen a wee bit too often force you to target them yourself.
  
  A new part of TR are the motorcycle driving sections. These can be fun and annoying since the physics 
 are a bit weird and the checkpoints are punishing. You just shoot baddies off their bikes while 
 you go off jumps and make your way through. Another added idea are button pressing cinematics and 
 these are cool to look at and are a lot of fun. What make them so fun is why you have to do them. 
 A lot of the times it'll be the most intense part of the game so you really get into it. The boss 
 fights are also another cool part about the game since they are a bit easy, but they are big and 
 cool so you'll have tons of fun with that.
  
  Now that we have two main elements out of the way let's talk about cosmetics. Lara's whole appearance 
 has changed and she looks so much better. Gone are her sunglasses, and the F size boobs, along 
 with her usual outfit. Lara has different outfits she wears throughout the game and they are all 
 hot, sexy, and they make Lara look smart and sharp as well. Her breast size has been reduced to 
 DD (boohoo...) , her main outfit is now a brown belly top with shorts and I prefer this over the 
 old. She wears an earpiece now and she no longer has a braided ponytail. Along with Lara looking 
 amazing she also gets dirty and wet (ohhh if only...) . When she climbs out of the water her clothes 
 look wet, and dirt sticks to her as well so this adds to the realism. She also has a personal light 
 now so exploring dark places is no longer a problem. The sound is also great with Lara's charming 
 British accent, and everyone's voice acting is top notch.
  
  With new characters aplenty you'll expect to like them all, but actually you won't. They are underdeveloped 
 and wind up annoying you with their stupid comments over the radio so the only character you'll 
 love is Lara. Apart from all of this the game has replay value with a time trial mode, Croft Manor 
 (where you unlock certain areas to get rewards) , and cheats. Doing all of this will grant you new 
 costumes, concept art, profiles and more. So, as you can see, there is so much to love about TRL 
 and fans who have hated the series can come back since TR is getting better and better as time 
 goes back. Give the 'ol girl a second chance and explore her tombs (awww yeah...)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pjw514
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Legend was the introductary to the 21st centary "Tomb Raider". If you were new to Lara 
 Croft Tomb Raider then this game will introduce you in a interesting way. The levels are filled 
 with different puzzles, shooting action like men or animals, and bosses you must defete. I would 
 say the most difficult boss is the boss on level 5 (I can't spell the name) . But it's some kind 
 of dragon/demon type boss and can ignite fire from where you are standing and tackles you and knocks 
 you down, anything he can do to stop you he will try. The action I would give it a perfect 10. 
 There is just enough action in the game to satisfy someone and the intense action is when Lara 
 gets on a motorcycle and must shoot down men riding on motorcycles to get to the next part of the 
 mortorcycle level. There is an extra level you can always go to just to hang out or find secrets 
 to unlock more outfits for Lara and that is the Croft Manor, Lara's home. The are three types of 
 medals and that is gold silver and bronze. This game is full of intense action and mind bending 
 moments and is full of suspense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigpen4483
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  I remember back when one of the first Tomb Raiders came out back on PS1. I never played it tho, 
 I'd either watch my brother play or just mess around in Croft Manor. About 10 years later I finally 
 played a tomb raider! Now, I don't have as much experience of the series but TRL is pretty damn 
 kick ass! A lot of super cool action sequences (QTEs) , amazing terrain to scale and traverse, and 
 a fairly decent plot. I must admit, I had more trouble with some of the earlier bosses than the 
 final boss. Maybe I just got used to the way the boss battles play out; or it could've been the 
 super awesome sword which makes things oh so much easier. But sol good, I really enjoyed this game. 
 As the Gamespot Review said, the gunplay is pretty weak and I gotta agree (its mostly weak when 
 you gotta take out a big cat or fatass pitbull) I don't think Ive cursed so many times at a game! 
 so you know its gotta be good hahah I am REALLLLLY looking forward to Tomb Raider Underworld. I 
 recommend this game to anyone who enjoys action/adventure games or if you've never played and really 
 would like to start playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer3450
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  The story is interesting and you will easily be able to follow it, but that's not what kept me 
 playing the game. The game play is what did it for me. Lara traverses the levels like a pro climbing 
 on ledges and platforms while taking on as many enemies out as she can. There are some button combos 
 mixed into the game and you have a fair amount of collectible treasures. The visuals (at least 
 on Xbox 360) are stunning and the water effects are outstanding. What I'm trying to say is that 
 everything is Tomb Raider Legend is solid and fun. Most of the game won't disappoint you. The gameplay 
 rounds out nicely, despite the sometimes problematic camera angles, and the controls and gunplay 
 are up to par. Detailed artwork and graphics bring the game's many exotic locations to life, although 
 considering the capabilities of the current consoles, the graphics could have been better. Nonetheless, 
 the aesthetics are well up to par.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 12:15 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider has never been a series that had my interest. With it being on PC (I don't do PC games) 
 then being ported to and developed for the Playstation (I used to be a big Nintendo exclusive fanboy) 
 consoles I have never played a Tomb Raider game. I also thought the character and idea of Lara 
 Croft was not only silly and rip-offish, but I vaguely remember referring to Lara Croft as the 
 creation of a gaming geek who needs a girlfriend and a life. 
  
  However, after playing the demo, I realized that Tomb Raider Legend plays a lot like Prince of 
 Persia. This realization caught my eye and my interest (I love Prince of Persia!) . I picked up 
 Legend and began raiding tombs immediately. 
  
  Again I have no Lara Croft reference point here but Legend's story explores Lara's past with her 
 Family and lost friends. The story is interesting and you will easily be able to follow it, but 
 that's not what kept me playing the game. The game play is what did it for me. Lara traverses the 
 levels like a pro climbing on ledges and platforms while taking on as many enemies out as she can. 
 There are some button combos mixed into the game and you have a fair amount of collectible treasures. 
 The visuals (at least on Xbox 360) are stunning and the water effects are outstanding. What I'm 
 trying to say is that everything is Tomb Raider Legend is solid and fun. Most of the game won't 
 disappoint you.
  
  What Legend is missing is length, polish, and combat. Legend is very short and sweet. With this 
 short of a length, it hard to recommend a player pick it up for $60$30-$20 seems more reasonable. 
 Some of the jumps while on bars or ledges can be erratic and/or unpredictable but it doesn't ruin 
 the whole experience. It just makes the player over think the jumps Lara has to make. This lack 
 of polish is evident in the Croft Manor bonus level. Also, the puzzles aren't as obvious as they 
 are in some of Legends' counterpart franchises (GOW, POP, and Uncharted) . I spent a lot of time 
 on a handful of puzzles simply because there were no clues at all to help guide me through them. 
 Finally, the combat is fun and easy but outside of the main bosses, most of the enemies are weak 
 and easy to take out. 
  
  I plan on playing Tomb Raider Anniversary and Underworld and I am very curious to see how the older 
 titles stack up to this reinvention of the TR franchise games. Not many games can change my perspective 
 on a franchise like TR Legend has.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rezpatriot
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  I last played Tomb Raider on the original Playstation about 3 years ago. Since then I have watched 
 a couple of the movies and read a few comics. If anything said about the fact I enjoyed all of 
 these this did not continue with the purchase and playing of this game. I just didn't fall in love 
 with it, at all. The game is jerky, glicthes do create a world in which real physics don't exsist. 
 But actually also physics don't exist in the gameplay either. I think the graphics are amazing, 
 and the levels are varied as Lara moves around the globe (although connected through a rather weak 
 storyline and plot) . This game is well, for your little sister. The gameplay in platform terms 
 is okay, yet there are too many 'laws of physics' in the game engine and the material world which 
 Ms. Croft lives in that render the game far from being enjoyable at the least. 
  
  A few examples, if you can relate to playing this game yourself. Jumping and shooting lags. When 
 riding motorbikes you can hit a tree without any branches cracking and you go tumbling and die. 
 Yet hitting the side of a Mountain seems to just bounce you off like a tennis raquet. The game 
 has too many stupid deaths involved basically and the load times are slow and the main menu and 
 croft manor is unoriginal. Hitman: Blood Money would be a better investment AND if you really need 
 some Croft in your life buy a comic or movie. This game sucks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnchantedDaisy
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  I have given an honest effort to play almost every iteration of Tomb Raider that ever was (and 
 there are a lot of them!) but the wonky camera and mechanics made it more of a headache than an 
 enjoyable entertainment experience. This one more than makes up for it. 
  I can finally enjoy the great storytelling and cinematics and really have a great time. I like 
 the replayability and the fact that there are multiple difficulty settings. You can go back to 
 previously finished segments and replay them in Time Trial mode and unlock awesome stuff. I am 
 an "unlockable stuff" fanatic, so that sure appealed to me.
  This game plays so smoothly and really was fun. My brother bought it when it first came out and 
 I beat it then, but since it has really dropped in price, I decided to get my own and beat it again 
 (and again) . There aren't many games I get that much enjoyment out of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king-kill33
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 23, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Lets all face it, expectations for this game were never that high. Lara Croft has suffered one 
 of the biggest falls from grace in videogames history and it was hard for anybody to see a way 
 out. After 6 games, all identical in many ways nobody would have been blamed for thinking that 
 she had nothing more to offer, just as well that they were all wrong.
  
  Tomb Raider Legend builds upon the original formula, which lets face it maybe old but it works. 
 Lara now has a much smoother look and feel, her movements are fluid and she no longer maneuvers 
 like a tank. The puzzles are cleverly implemented but simple enough to make you kick yourself when 
 you realise the solution. Another greatly improved area is the combat... it still has vast room 
 for improvement (lets not forget, at the heart this is an adventure game and not a shooter so its 
 forgivable) it works a great deal better than before, with a targeting system and bullet time Lara 
 can now aim in more than 8 simple directions. 
  
  The story line has been completely revamped too, and gives us a much better insight to the wonderful 
 world of Miss Croft. This time she has much more personality, helped also by some excellent script 
 writing and voice work. Acrobatically she is simply a marvel, the game has a great way of making 
 you feel special. You can pull of all of these breathtaking vaults and leaps with simple touches 
 of a button, all it takes is some precision and good timing.
  
  Crystal Dynamics have really poured a lot of effort into this game, it has a much better replay 
 value than ever before with hidden relics, extra costumes and time trials. It also looks marvelous 
 with much needed updated graphics, which really catch the eye and bring these brilliant locations 
 to life (especially the 360 version) . It is an all round package, which provides a genuinely enjoyable 
 (if a little short) experience
  
  It was always going to be hard to judge, do you base it on the previous few games or on the original 
 and the pure popularity of the brand? It sticks to the original winning Tomb Raider formula enough 
 to keep veterans happy, while offering enough to pull in new fans too. This isn't as good as it 
 gets but it's a very promising start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 17, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Legend for the Xbox 360 is an answer to my prayers. I have been a long time fan of 
 the series and to be quite honest the last couple of games have not been so good, with the last 
 game, Angel of Darkness, easily being the worst in the series. I was not at all excited for this 
 game when I heard about its release because to be honest I just didn't care anymore as the series 
 was loosing its touch. Then I started hearing great things about this game and I decided to give 
 the game a shot, and boy was I glad that I did.
  
  Tomb Raider: Legend's story is one of deceit and betrayal and it ends on a twist. Sadly the game 
 ends with you wanting more. I completed the game on the normal difficulty in 6-7 hours so the game 
 is quite short which is disappointing. There really isn't much replay value either, unless you 
 plan on buying Tomb Raider Anniversary over Xbox Live Arcade instead of in stores, because you 
 need the Legend disc to okay Anniversary. I haven't bought it yet, but I definitely plan to.
  
  Tomb Raider: Legend plays like you would expect it to. There are times when you will be shooting, 
 times when you will be swinging on ropes and traversing along cliffs, and time when you will be 
 solving puzzles. The game does a good job making sure that the gameplay is pretty much equal between 
 these three types of gameplay, which is nice because you never really get tired of any of them. 
 The game does get a little easy towards the end of the game. I felt like the levels were getting 
 shorter and easier as the game went on, and the final boss was a piece of cake compared to others. 
 I actually think that the first boss was the hardest. The puzzles are kind of difficult at first, 
 but once you start thinking like Lara Croft would, the puzzles get easier and easier because you 
 can look at a situation and its easy to tell how you can solve it using things in the environment 
 around you. The occasional driving is thrown in for good measure and with the exception of one 
 (the fork lift was ridiculous) they are all a blast to play through and sometimes the highlights 
 of the level.
  
  Tomb Raider: Legend has some pretty good looking graphics, although they are nothing amazing. While 
 it looks better than the graphics on the last-gen consoles it does not look as good as some of 
 the other 360 games that were being released at the same time. The character models and environments 
 all look good, but I just felt like the graphics were lacking some next gen polish.
  
  The voice over's in the game are quite good, even though Lara's friends can get a little bit annoying. 
 The sound effects such as the guns and just the environments in general sound very good. The game 
 has a pretty good soundtrack that is quite original.
  
  Tomb Raider: Legends is a fun game. It is however also a very short game. If you buy the game for 
 its cheap used price and you also plan on buying Tomb Raider Anniversary over Xbox Live Arcade 
 I recommend buying this game because you need the disc to play Anniversary. If you don't plan on 
 buying Anniversary at all or you have a store nearby with the actual Anniversary disc (I myself 
 don't have one, and I have heard XBLA is cheaper) than just rent Tomb Raider: Legend for a rainy 
 weekend.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Graphics: 7/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Value: 7/10
  Tilt: 9/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnigManic
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 13, 2008 12:54 am PT
Review:  TR: Legend sends Laura Croft on a globe-trekking adventure to discover the truth behind the disappearance 
 of her long-lost mother. While it is a lot fun for fans as well as those new to the series, it 
 fails to live up to it's potential.
  
  The gameplay rounds out nicely, despite the sometimes problematic camera angles, and the controls 
 and gunplay are up to par. Detailed artwork and graphics bring the game's many exotic locations 
 to life, although considering the capabilities of the current consoles, the graphics could have 
 been better. Nonetheless, the aesthetics are well up to par.
  
  The problem with Legend is that it offers great gameplay, but then doesn't provide ample opportunity 
 to enjoy it. For example, a neat highlight of the game is the reward system. Beating levels under 
 a certain time limit while collecting all the medals allows you to unlock various optional outfits. 
 The outfits are diverse and sexy, adding to the overall enjoyment. The problem is, once you've 
 unlocked all the outfits and beaten the game, there's no new levels to explore, no additions or 
 modifications to a second play-through, severely limiting the replay value.
  
  This is a very challenging and fun game, but it leaves you wanting more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojowonderdog
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  You'll complete this game in a few sittings, but don't let that put you off playing what is infact 
 a well presented, slick and atmospheric game that will definitely leave you wishing there was another 
 level to swing and jump your way through.
  
  The Graphics: It's a game that spanned both generation of consoles, so it's a little unfair to 
 have a go at the graphics. It would have just been nice to have a truly next gen version of this 
 game.
  
  The Length: Not the shortest game I've ever played (i'm still trying to get over Blacksite Area 
 51) but far from the longest.
  
  But then if you finish and you still want more, that just goes to prove that the game really is 
 a lot of fun. 
  
  If you like Prince of Persia games then you'll have a great time with this. Like the POP games, 
 it's sometimes difficult and frustrating when judging jumping angle and distances, but the funny 
 ways in which Lara dies soon makes up for it.
  
  The voice acting is great and cheesy and the level designs are a great mix of familiar puzzles 
 with a few head scratchers thrown in for good measure.
  
  Buy it (ebay: 7/$14) or rent it, just make sure you play it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: oninboy
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2008 10:41 pm PT
Review:  11 Years and still counting, Lara Croft Tomb Raider is still one of the best action-adventure games 
 around. Tomb Raider Legend is a worthy chapter in one of Lara's Adventures. Why?
  
  Story: There's a compelling story of Lara's search on her mother's disappearance and then there's 
 this intriguing character of Amanda Evert, Lara's best friend. The Legend of Excalibur and how 
 Lara's mother disappeared is an intelligent plot twist that only those who have played this game 
 only knew. From start and to a powerful ending, you just can't get enough of it all!
  
  Voice Acting/Sound: Everything is pefectly done on the sound and voice acting department. It's 
 memorable, particularly that of Lara's voice over by Keeley Hawes (check the well-enacted-memorable 
 ending) . Ambient sounds from Lara's footsteps and grunts are a match for THX cinemas and background 
 music has an 'Alternative' style on it.
  
  Graphics: Lighting and Texture is just right for the 360 Next Gen. Shadows are all executed nicely. 
 The best thing is that Lara's framework has been improved if you compared it to previous TR Games. 
 And Excellent environments in Peru, Japan, England makes you want to visit the game for 2 or more.
 
  
  Gameplay: Overall game is short, you can finish it it 3 nights, but that's alright 'coz we all 
 have some errands and work to do right?? Heheh. The best thing about the gameplay is the REPLAYABILITY. 
 You have A LOT OF UNLOCKABLES and Achievements to do. 
  
  So is Tomb Raider Legend OK? nope, it's VERY VERY GOOD! Take it from the guy who has been a TR 
 fan since Tomb Raider 1 circa 1996. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsaneRippedGuy
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2008 9:11 pm PT
Review:  To start i had a lot of fun playing this game. Everythings great.. the graphics, the settings, 
 the unique puzzles everything suits it even the slightly easy difficulty didnt get me bored. Lush 
 african landscapes with giant waterfalls, frozen cold alaska in urban style warfare, fighting dragons, 
 huge statues, motorcycling on open roads, exploring lara's huge mansion, underground tombs filled 
 with traps, pyramids, chasing an ancient artifact through these ancient untouched locales some 
 that havent been distrubed for hundreds of years ( have some imagination lol ) and all the visuals 
 look great and fresh. Not to mention your viewing distance is very far like a real person's vision, 
 and its seamlessly integrated, never lags and little to no loading time. ( i dont play games to 
 look at a loading screen :) And to top it off Lara looks more smoking hot than ever before, not 
 a bad bonus huh? Midriff top? Shorty shortz ? no problemo shes fit as hell -p
  
  None of it ever bored me, even though i havent played this game in at least half a year, i thought 
 id come back and write a review for it becuase i remember having alot of fun. The time trails are 
 very fun, you may have to try a couple times just to get it down, and maybe even occasionly glance 
 at a game guide, dont do unless your really stuck though cuz dont spoil it. One thing i hated about 
 the super popular games like Oblivion is the waiting times. Every time u go somewhere u gotta wait. 
 U wont see that here. There is 3 difficulties easy hard normal . Hard unlocks more stuff, and beating 
 the time trial unlocks more stuff, and finding all the unique secret items unlocks more stuff. 
 So in total there is 8 semi long levels , about 2 hours each . Of course you will spend alot more 
 if u complete everything which I had no problem going back cuz its really fun, It uses a RE4 (Resident 
 evil 4 a must play) similar style when there is a scene where lara has to survive a trap or performs 
 a stunt where u gotta press a combination of buttons to keep going, otherwise you will encounter 
 a veryy gruesome death. Fun to watch but makes u feel bad for Lara when u die lol. Its great, its 
 exciting to see what happens and keeps you on your toes. 
  
  There is also alot of platforming and climbing and jumping, shooting and puzzle solving, she is 
 super athletic to an almost impossibility. There is never a graphic glitch tho which is good, and 
 each level has a totally different feel to it, which makes u think the creators put some good thought 
 into each levels creation. Iv played anniversary and i gotta about 40% in before i got tired and 
 bored of it. This one i had never had that problem But yeah, rent it or even buy it, its a hellava 
 lot of fun , i unfortunately sold mine for like 15$ : (. now i missi t. This game fully takes advantage 
 of the 360's power and the unique and fun gameplay will hopefully make u like it as much as i did. 
 But yeah iv played alot of 360 games and this one really stands out in the looks department. 
 
  Look at vampire rain for example looks like a ps2 game LOL ) L 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WalkingP
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Legend, in my opinion, is the best of the series. I have been a Tomb Raider fan from 
 day one, and have played every game; at the time of this review, I anxiously await Tomb Raider 
 Underworld. One of the features that I really enjoyed with this game was the absence of the timed 
 runs during game play. After the game is completed you can do timed runs on the entire levelscool! 
 Being an old time gamer you sometimes find out your fingers aren't as nimble as they used to be 
 on timed sequences, and besides if you just race through the game, you miss all of the greatly 
 detailed graphics.
  
  Legend begins with Lara at age 9 when she experiences a plane crash in the Himalayan Mountains 
 and the eventual death of her mother. Lara then travels the world to discover the mysteries of 
 her past and find a legendary artifact of such great power that it can threaten the very existence 
 of all mankind. Her travels take her to Bolivia, Peru, Ghana, Japan, England, and Kazakhstan, and 
 of course, Croft Manor. She explores tombs and ruins, a deserted research facility, climbs about 
 skyscrapers, and a poor Peruvian village. 
  
  The variety of levels is great, with lots of puzzles wherever you go.
  You hang on ledges, swing 
 from ropes, and become acquainted with a new tool, the magnetic grapple. There are two motorcycle 
 levels where you have a Ducati you can shoot enemies from while making jumps over trains and broken 
 bridges.
  
  Legend is a return to the classical roots of the series. It's a return to the action and adventure 
 of what Tomb Raider is really all about. I've played this game on the PC and the Xbox 360; on both 
 platforms, I found the game to play flawlessly and as always, with any of the Tomb Raider games, 
 it has a beautiful musical score. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: swift1981
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  I truly forgot what I was missing since I brushed aside the Tomb Raider series some years ago. 
 Truth is I adored the original but the following games didnt quite deliver. I dabbled with Tomb 
 Raider 2 after completing the original, both on ps. But the 2nd didnt quite have the same grip 
 on me. Then came the 3rd which I thought id give a try. Pretty fun and some new stuff here but 
 nothing spectacular. I think next I had The Last Revelation for the Dreamcast. This was more like 
 it and I enjoyed. But after that I had Chronicles for pc, but really couldnt get into it as I dont 
 really enjoy gaming on the pc. I missed Angel of Dakness. Apparently no big loss! So my last dabble 
 with Tomb Raider was some 6 or 7 years ago. 
  Since moving to the 360 I came across Tomb Raider Legend at a bargain price of 9.00. Having been 
 aware of it but overlooked it due to the vast array of quality games it stayed wrapped in celophane 
 in the draw for a rainy day. 
  Well that rainy day came and oh my god why didnt I play it sooner!! Legend has all the qualitys 
 that made the first so good. But this time it looks even more stunning and plays a hell of a lot 
 smoother and sharper. The puzzles are still fresh and interesting and the cut scenes and story 
 aint too bad either. I can actually sit through them where normally Im bashing buttons to skip 
 any storyline/cinematics etc. 
  Its now the game thats consuming most of my gaming time at the moment (which is only an hour every 
 other night or so : ( ) and I felt the need to tell how truly great and satisfying it is. 
  If like me you kind of grew tired of the series this will undoubtedly pull you back in and leave 
 you wanting more! 
  Now im just waiting for Anniversary to drop to bargain price and I'l be snapping it up too - once 
 Legends been completed of course : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeyboy1350
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  
  I Got Anniversary Before This.. Pretty Much Loved It..
  But Now.. I May Love Lara Even More Just Because Of Legend.
  
  It May Be Short and Easy But 
 That Doesnt Mean It Aint Fun. :D
  
  It Shows Lara Going To Many Different Locations, Puzzles along the way of Course..
  
  The Story 
 Sucks You In As Soons As You Switch The 360/W. e Console You Have..
  
  One Of The Best Things About it is you could play it over and over again.. [ or at least i can 
 ;) ]
  
  Another Thing About it is Its only 13 In Gamestation Or Any Other Gaming Store.. Probably Even 
 Cheaper If You Buy it Preownded. ;D
  
  Graphics = 9.0
  Gameplay = 10
  Sound = 9.5
  Story = 10
  
  Overall I Give It A 9 Or More.. ;]
  
  I Would Recommend To Anyone Whos A 
 Tomb Raider Fan Or Someone Who Is New To The Series As its A Great Place To Start. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Do worry if I get choked up during this review of this game because Lara has been here ever since 
 the first 3D game. She was also in one of the first action/adventure games ever made back when 
 we fought T-Rexes and crappy cameras.
  
  But you can be skeptical going into this game, but as soon as you start to play this game, things 
 feel reallly good about the game and quite possibly better than ever.
  
  On the Positive side: The game feels like... well... right. Plus its good to see Lara back in video 
 games. As Well, There are a ton a TON of collectibles and extras to be found while playing through 
 the game. Think Marvel: Ultimate Alliance except with a girl.
  
  On the negative side: The combat is not as great as it should be, but who cares, its Lara Croft.
 
  
  Verdict: The good old days of video games are gone, but this is as close to the good old days as 
 we will ever get to see again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kari_23
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2007 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Legend is a surprisingly good game! I am not really a fan of fighting unrealistic nemesis 
 like the ones in TR Legend, but I have to say I more than enjoyed the game! This is not the kind 
 of game that is going to become a groundbreaking, classic that will be talked about for years to 
 come. However, it is a lot of fun and has a great deal of charm! For TR Legend's current price 
 you really have nothing to lose, but a good time. 
  
  PROS
  The voice acting is solid, graphics are decent, environments for the most part are diverse and 
 fresh, action is plentiful, and who can resist Laura's wardrobe? :) The Croft Manor certainly contains 
 several secrets and hidden objects for you to find if you need a break from the storyline missions. 
 
  
  CONS
  Sometimes the game can me glitchy, and TR Legend is pretty short. 
  
  Overall, this game is fun, captivating, and will leave you with a feeling of "mission accomplished." 
 The ending of the game is good and leaves you wanting to follow Laura immediately into her next 
 adventure. So if your looking for a cheaper game that will leave you feeling good, let you kick 
 some butt, and have fun along the way, give Tomb Raider Legend a try. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: childofrock11
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider was a video gaming staple back in the day. In 96', when everyone accompanied Ms. Lara 
 Croft on her adventure through exotic locals, we were all blown away. However, through the years, 
 Lara's appeal (both game wise and sexually) began to die down, mostly to do with the unchanging 
 ways that we were exploring her world. How we all got excited when Angel of Darkness was to be 
 released only to sink back into the pit of despair after only playing the game for a good 10 minutes. 
 It seemed all hope for the Princess of gaming was lost.... until Legend.
  
  Lara Croft is now back with a whole new development team (Crystal Dynamics, those behind the Legacy 
 of Kain series) and a whole new engine to boot. Gone are the clunky slow jump and grab action buttons 
 and the square based worlds. Enter a more believable and exciting world of Ms. Croft's unlike any 
 before.
  
  The platforming is the highlight in this game, unlike the highlight in the older games which was 
 simply more polygons added into certain 'areas' of Lara's body. This is not to say that her character 
 modeling hasn't gone up because it has. This not only includes a more realistic looking Lara but 
 even a new costume (costumes) in which she so greatly shows off.
  
  Oh yea, the platforming, where was I? Yes, the platforming resembles a more Prince of Persia feel 
 in which you must think fast and use your mind in order to overcome the many obstacles set in Lara's 
 way. Lara is now armed with a magnetic grapple in which you can move objects and swing with and 
 even disarm baddies! The puzzles are well thought out and can be quite challenging at times, offering 
 a fun experience for the platforming fans.
  
  The action itself is a bit simple. A basic lock on system is in place making even the hardest difficulty 
 setting seem extremely easy. The game is also fairly short taking about 4 to 6 hours to complete 
 your first run through. But where the lack of length is there, the unlockables are sure to wet 
 your appetite enough to go back through and complete the different difficulties and time trials. 
 In doing these you unlock not only artwork and music, but character biographies and secret costumes. 
 Now how can you resist the temptation of playing Lara in your favorite costume?
  
  Overall this game is very solid. A fun adventure with plenty of puzzles, platforming, and action 
 to go around. Tomb Raider Fans rejoice! Lara Croft is back Baby! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abassler
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  When you look at the game everything about it seems very simple, but it's all very fun.
  
  The story starts when Lara was young and activating some ancient device that resembles a sword 
 in a stone. When Lara's mother approaches the device she ends up vanishing. In the present day 
 Lara has found a similar device Bolivia, from there on she goes globe trotting in search of fragments 
 from the fabled Excalibur sword, which will activate the device. 
  
  The story serves to set up new locations in which to find the artifacts and is interesting enough 
 to move you through the games 7 stages. Starting in Bolivia, moving to Peru, then Japan, Ghana, 
 Kazakhstan, King Arthur's Tomb in England, then to Nepal, and back to Bolivia for the final boss 
 fight. 
  
  The controls are pretty tight and the stages are all well designed offering some pretty good puzzles. 
 Once you start playing you're going to want to play all the way through the game, because of the 
 classic game play.
  
  The game doesn't have any bad things about it, what it does have is some not so good, but even 
 these have a silver lining. The platforming isn't really a challenge, and is sometimes seems too 
 easy, but when they make it part of a puzzle that's where it really shines. The regular enemies 
 however offer no challenge at all to beat even in large numbers but thankfully it's not to big 
 a problem since your not always confronted with them, so it never becomes a chore to get past them. 
 
  
  The motorcycle stages offer a nice change of pace but the controls aren't as smooth as they should 
 be, it feels as if you in control of a rectangle and not a Ducati. 
  
  The graphics are great but they lose so of the smoothness close up, one stage has you unblocking 
 a waterfall so it will turn a wheel and the water in one area come down like a cube which just 
 looked really weird. 
  
  Some people are complaining about the length of the game I had no problems with it however each 
 stage seems to take about an hour to finish so your in for about an eight game. I didn't feel it 
 lacked however I felt very satisfied after I had completed it. It's also hard to see what else 
 they really could have done to make it longer without making the storyline convoluted or resorting 
 to more item collection.
  
  Tomb Raider Legend is just Instant fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LukePenfold
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game and I have played it loads of times so much that I dont want to play 
 it again. The story is good but just to short there is not much more to the game other than the 
 story but you can get the most out of it by doing the time trials it becomes very easy when you 
 have played it once. The graphics are great but I just want them to look that much better the environments 
 look good. The gameplay is much improved and better than ever the shooting is really easy and the 
 effects are good the sound is fantastic.
  
  Overall this is a top game and the adventure has just began 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Appljaxx
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Big guns and big tit ties.. who could ask for more. Despite the minor camera issues this is a great 
 adventure game. The combat is really not the focus here, its the adventure /platforming/exploration. 
 The visuals are quite impressive and the sound is top notch. The checkpoint system makes the game 
 just a little too easy. But the game has 3 difficulty settings and time trial replays to add to 
 the value. I bought this game a year ago and stopped playing for some reason, i picked it up this 
 week and finished it and i was very happy. Although the game is short (9 hours) it doesn't feel 
 cheap. The final cut scene was awesome. I recommend.
  
  Did i mention ... easy achievement points on 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K4ss3r
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  The Tomb Raider series started over ten years ago, but it's still a quite famous a good series 
 of games, although it makes you wonder how many adventures Lara Croft can handle, how many tricks, 
 enemies and so on, it's still good to see her back in Legend, where she mostly battles in gunfights 
 against humans trying to steal some of the artifacts, that she's after as well.
  
  Compared to the first game, where you didn't encounter much more than beasts, you only seem to 
 encounter very few beasts in Legend. To replace that, there's a lot of gunfights against tons of 
 human enemies, and it seems much more intense than ever before.
  
  Legend tells the story of Lara Croft, the same heroine as we met ten years ago, and this time she's 
 in the search of Artifacts related to her mother's disappearence, when Lara was merely a child. 
 To recover pieces of this ancient artifact, Lara must travel the world to gain knowledge about 
 the excistence and where these pieces may be found, followed by going to that very place to uncover 
 the piece and get one step closer to unveiling the truth about her mother's disppearence, in hope 
 that she'll be able to return her mother.
  
  Legend still relies a lot on the acrobatic moves which Lara is able to perform. You must swing 
 around poles, jump from place to place, hang from edges that are unstable and will break any minute 
 and much more. It's the usual bunch of acrobatic moves, that'll help you get around in the mission 
 and you'll most likely rely on these to survive a lot of things.
  
  Luckily, that's not the only thing. There's a lot of gunbattles in this game, and you can even 
 pick up new items like shotguns or rifles, or more grenades. There are certain scenarios where 
 you get to drive on Lara's motorcycle, while shooting bad guys. It's all a bit intense, but the 
 feel of the bike is a bit off, and feels very stiff and no where near realistic. Another thing 
 that feels tacked on, is certain sort-of 'scenematics' where you're in control. The only thing 
 you'll have to do, is press certain buttons when they appear on the screen though. (These scenes 
 are quite famous from God of War also used in a few other games as well.)
  
  The controls works nicely along with the gameplay. You can perform a lot of acrobatic moves, and 
 you've got plenty of items to work with. The gameplay could've used a bit more action, as sometimes 
 it seems you're just running around and pressing the trigger, without taking much damage yourself. 
 You can do certain things to enter a phase, similar to 'Bullet-time mode' made famous by Max Payne 
 series, where time slows down around you, and you can easily take out your enemies. It's quite 
 useful when there are tons of enemies, but to trigger this, you need to perform a special jump 
 on your enemies. (Jump up and jump on their shoulders.)
  
  The visuals of the game could've used a push forward. Although they do like fine, they don't quite 
 live up to todays standards. Characters looks flat without showing that many emotions, effects 
 aren't that fancy and overall, the world looks boring without too many surprises and there are 
 no things that'll make you stop for a while and say Wow, that sure looks nice. .
  Tomb Raider: Legend still looks good though, but certainly too much of a Port from one of the last-gen 
 consoles. If they had build this game specificly for the Xbox 360, and spend a bit more time, then 
 the result might have been much better.
  Animations aren't that great either, especially not during the scenes, where you get to drive on 
 Lara's bike. It's all very simple, and despite a few cool moves, like the one that slows down time, 
 then there's nothing fancy about it. The save system can become quite annoying - Even if you save 
 at a certain spot, the next time you load from that save, you'll be at the last Checkpoint. It's 
 quite annoying if you're trying to save a hard spot, and you'll still have to go through a minute 
 or two of acrobatic moves to get to that difficult place, only to die once again.
  The game also has a lot of puzzles in it. Sometimes it might take a few minutes to figure out what 
 to do, but mostly they're just time demanding and annoying. They're mostly boring and without much 
 challenge, and the only thing the succeed to do, is take up your time and slow down your progress.
 
  
  The voiceacting is quite decent, but the things the characters say, seems repetitive, and almost 
 like you've heard them say it before. The dialogue can easily be skipped, and you might still be 
 able to understand what's going on. Overall, Legend is a satisfying game, but lacks in a lot of 
 ways. Yet, it still proves to be a solid action game, with some easy-to-earn points and a quite 
 interesting story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7-ate-9
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 31, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  The first couple of levels in Tomb Raider Legend are interesting with a nice mix of combat, platforming, 
 puzzles and action bike riding scenes. However once you progress into the 2nd half of the game 
 there is the feeling that you have seen all TRL has to offer, and you're be right, that's all.
 
  
  First thing's first: Box puzzles. Sure it wouldn't be Tomb Raider without the odd box puzzle here 
 and there but TRL has horrendously boring box puzzles on nearly every level. The boredom is compounded 
 with frustration as the controls are imprecise whilst Lara is moving boxes, the camera likes get 
 in the way, giving you extreme close ups when you want a wide angle and if that's not enough moving 
 boxes around is slow.
  
  Combat: Lara has a nifty set of close combat moves like slide tackles kicks and running up opponents 
 and back flipping whilst pumping them full of lead. Unfortunately there are few opportunities to 
 really use these, mission two introduces these moves but they can't really be used that much in 
 most situations. One super super annoying trait about this game is that sometimes when you are 
 holding aim you can't roll, Lara locks up and you can't move then you get whacked by a boss or 
 something, it's awful.
  
  Repetition: Each level has overly repetitious sequences that only serve to draw the game out for 
 longer. Solving box puzzle after pressure plate box puzzle is not fun inspiring or realistic. I 
 enjoyed TRL for about 3-4 hours by which time i'd seen all the game had to offer. I tried playing 
 for longer to get the acheivements but I'm finding the King Arthur level so dull, gloomy and ultimately 
 tiring that i'm not sure I can be bothered to finish it. Also the story is lame and Lara's gung-ho 
 GI Jane mentality gets irritating. TRL is an average game, it's worth a rent or a bargain bin buy 
 (I got it for &pound;10) you'll need more patience than me to get all the acheivements though. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frantic190
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  This is a fantasic game all round. However I did think that it was too easy and didn't really giver 
 me a challange. The controls are easy to pick up and I think that this game can be played by anyone.
 
  
  The levels are well contructed and offer a variety of puzzels to complete. Tomb Raider has been 
 completely revamped in this effort and is probably the best of the ever growing series (besides 
 TR1 ofcourse, ah the good ol' days) . Every thing about this title is different from how the characters 
 move to level design making you want to play more. I must say that i found this game very addictive 
 at first but it is a short game.
  
  Could have been longer as it took me maybe a few days to complete. nothing really to complain about 
 really apart from that I thought it should have been made a little harder like previous tomb raider 
 titles.
  
  I don't have much to say about the game (hence the short review) so I will leave it at that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 1:41 am PT
Review:  Many games in history have a strong fan following, which many would argue who is more deserving 
 of such. Yet nobody I know would doubt Eidos' Lara Croft and her tomb raiding adventures as a respectable 
 top tier holder on such a list. Even if for all the wrong reasons. It took many years to mold a 
 truly enjoyable experience, but the work shows major pay off, only barely missing the near perfect 
 glory every game within a major series dreams of.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Since 1996, controlling a rotating camera within a 3D world plus an amazingly nimble acrobatic 
 British woman who wields dual pistols has been... difficult to say the least. With great joy, I 
 say that problem has been greatly fixed! The camera can still be a bit troublesome when making 
 sudden manuvers, but making your way through the 7 brief levels is extremely easy now that the 
 controls have been totally reworked for rookie and veterans alike. The first few Tomb Raider games 
 were all about exploration, and the last few were more about gun fights and up close combat. As 
 horrid as the latter was, it did add a further element of badass to Lara Croft. Imagine now a fair 
 mix of some what linear environments littered with the occasional baddie waiting for Ms. Croft 
 to lay the smack down on. Besides simply shooting guys with an easy to use auto aim system, you 
 can prance around them with tons of Batgirl like moves putting their silly villian Ai to shame.
 
  
  VISUALS
  Being one of the few games that trickled along from the regular Xbox, you basically have the same 
 product. One thing that is instantly noticable between the two versions is the detail within the 
 environments. Something that use to bother me on the old Xbox was how folliage and other earthy 
 objects had too much of a blocky appearance, not enough organic punch. The characters alone are 
 already life like in their own cartoony looking ways, in animation and facial expressions. Sadly, 
 you never really got the full feeling of immersion on the Xbox version, even with cool lighting 
 effects and sky ambience. Small details like water/mud foot prints, button cues during cut scenes 
 and outrageous sun effects are okay, but they sometimes feel a little tacked on for good measure. 
 I would complain more, but they do kind of help make the world feel a little more involved for 
 the lack of space you can traverse.
  
  AUDIO
  Something about people with accents makes me smile like a fat kid silently farting in class. The 
 lady who does the voice of Lara Croft makes Angelina Jolie look like a hack, but then again she's 
 most likely much older and well trained in the art of hacking. Some people actualy don't like games 
 that require reading, for whatever mysterious reason, so here's the game for you! Every objective, 
 small wise crack, bits of story, villians, boss fights, Lara Croft remarks and more... all well 
 done with spot on voice work. Even better, is the animation that Eidos has been doing over the 
 years has been a major staple in the story telling aspect of Tomb Raider. Now with some great voice 
 work and accurate animations to follow suit, you can always look forward to sitting back and enjoying 
 a show after every successful mission.
  
  EXTRAS
  Don't expect anything wonderful here. You can scoop up a fair share of gamer points simply playing 
 the game from beginning to end on any level taking as long as you like. Finding little hidden items 
 that range from bronze, silver and gold can earn you some cred, but unless your of the determined 
 type, they do nothing more than unlock simple costumes and level designs. For serious fans of the 
 Tomb Raider world, you can sneak a few more points out of the time trial modes which will last 
 you no longer than a few hours tops. With only 7 levels that vary in size and difficulty, time 
 trial is more of an exercise in mobility and dexterity. Other than that, 23 achievements later 
 you got a shiny disc with tons of Lara Croft costumes.
  
  OVERALL
  With all my praise for how the controls have finally been tweaked to near pefection, the lack of 
 serious substance leaves this game gravely wounded. My biggest gripe is not with lack luster Ai, 
 simple level design or even how insanely short the game is, but the ultimate kick to the front 
 teeth is the extremely lame ending. With that alone, you would ask yourself whats even the point 
 in putting it anywhere near your 360, and all I can say with a sheepish smile is the adventure 
 is fun while it last. Anytime you can explore and swing around city roof tops, unknown mountains 
 and battle wild animals, machine gun touting henchmen and power hungry super bosses... why not 
 give it a shot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkpimpdp
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 11, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Having lost all respect for the Tomb Raider series after the last one on PS2, i was extremely sceptical 
 about trying this one bout after playing a demo i had to get this game. I think this is possibly 
 the best of the series ,the controls are spot on and it was a lot of fun. The graphics are very 
 good and i really enjoyed playing this game and cant wait till Tomb Raider anniversary comes out 
 on xbox 360 later this year. All in all this game is a must have in any collection and its definitly 
 a kepper in my books. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  Being a big fan of the first two Tomb Raider games, but not soo much the last few released, I was 
 quite happy to hear this one had taken it back to the old ways.
  Although after buying and playing this game I did find out that wasn't really trued but the game 
 is still good in its own right. The combat is nice and easy and the game makes you look like a 
 professional with just one press of the button bouncing from ledge to wall to vine and then swinging 
 onto a pole which you can then spin off and land on your feet is very impressive and easy to do.
 
  However the main flaw with this game is its lenghth. I completed this game in less than 6 hours 
 on my first playthrough which is a bit dissapointing because all the other TR games seemed longer 
 and much more difficult. i would still recommend this game to any fan of the old series as this 
 is classic Lara Croft and there are different secrets and bonuses to collect which does add a little 
 to the replay value of the game. Plus the graphics of all the locations are really nicely done 
 and there is an opening for a sequel if they chose to make it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldog7
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 24, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  I never played TR games. I was told this was a return to the glory days, when TR was really good. 
 So I thought I'd pick this up and see what all the fuss has been about on this series.
  
  From playing TRL, I don't really understand what is so appealing about this game. It has its charm, 
 to be sure. But the gameplay is rather repetative, simple, and yet, sometimes frustrating. The 
 story for this particular game was poorly told through bad cutscenes. The game isn't really bad 
 or anything, but it's hard to see why this ever became a franchise if this game is supposed to 
 be representative of the series' strengths.
  
  Gameplay: As said above, it's simple, and at times pretty fun. But it feels like this is a game 
 that is confused with its genre. It's an adventure game, with not particularly fun puzzles, and 
 yet it is an action game, with not a whole lot of enemies to kill, nor in very fun ways with not 
 very fun weapons. It sounds like I'm coming down on the game a lot. It WAS fun to play, but perhaps 
 I thought it should have been more fun figuring out puzzles and killing much more enemies. The 
 boss battles can be fun, or they can be entirely annoying. The end boss was, in my opinion, the 
 most fun in the entire game. There were tons of enemies to kill and lots in the enironment to interact 
 with. The rest of the game should have been like that final boss battle.
  
  Sound: It's fine. Nothing great, nothing bad.
  Graphics: They are also fine. Some stuff looks 
 really nice in the game. Other things look rather silly and plastic and make me think I'm playing 
 a last gen game. But they are decent.
  
  Value: the game is too short. but hey, this game has dropped in price. So perhaps it's worth it 
 to buy.
  
  Worth buying? I'd say no, not unless you're a fan of the series, which I'd say at this point is 
 who the devs are aiming this game at anyway. I DO think it's a perfect rental though. There is 
 fun to be had here. More than perhaps I'm letting on in this review, but I would hope the next 
 TR really tries to evolve past the simple, repetative gameplay. AS is, it feels like a ps2 game. 
 More enemies, more interesting puzzles, and a storyline worth caring about and some great graphical 
 effects would be a great start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediMutantX3
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 10, 2007 3:54 am PT
Review:  Pretty good Puzzle-solving/Platform Third person shooter game. It's pretty challenging. A lot Stronger 
 than TMNT, and similar games on Xbox 360.
  
  The graphics are Pretty good! Not Awesome, but beautiful Lara Croft is a Hot Babe-Warrior, she 
 has the Beauty and Intelligence, and Bravery. She is perhaps Video Game's MOST famous Babe ever!
 
  
  Yeah, the game is not very long, but The collecting won't be very easy. It has many Modes, Unlockables.... 
 Replaybility is pretty good I say.
  
  I paid full $60 for this game, but it's certainly worth $30
  
  You can rent it, but I don't 
 think it would be that easy to collect everything in one Rental! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Auroni
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 7, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  First off, this is the first time I have ever bought a Tomb Raider game. It was a unique experience 
 and a solid game overall. I bought Legend as a used game for $15 dollars but you can also buy it 
 new at most shops for $20 ish dollars. The game isnt worth the full $50 dollar price tag so make 
 sure you find a cheap price for it.
  
  The gameplay is impressive. It's an action adventure game that has major puzzles in every level. 
 The bad thing about the gameplay is it gets repetitive after awhile. Some players may get bored 
 if you are that kind of person. Personally I thought the gameplay needed a twist in the second 
 half of the game.
  
  The graphics are superb, especially on Lara Croft. Never before have I been turned on by a video 
 game character like Lara. The scenery is also impressive. The only lackluster thing about the graphics 
 is sometimes they don't look next gen.
  
  The sound again is fine. The scores in the menu and levels are original and enjoyable. Voice acting, 
 gun noises, and Lara's sound emotions all sound accurate.
  
  The worst thing about the game is the lifespan. If you play a game just to beat it once and then 
 throw it away you probably wouldn't want to buy this game. I like to play games for the story and 
 then for the achievements so I played the game two times and a bit after that. The game also feels 
 like half of a story since the ending is not fulfilling.
  
  Overall, I would pick this game up as a used title or a cheap title because its not worth the full 
 price. Its a fun game and worth it. It's not like the other Lara Croft games so don't use that 
 as an excuse to miss one of the great games of 2006. Finally, if you are an achievement whore you 
 probably could pick up all the achievements in 15 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vashkey
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 6, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  You know, one of the best feelings you can get from a game is the joy of finding that you completly 
 misjudged it and that it's much better than you expected. And with Tomb Raider Legend I got to 
 for the first time in year experience that surprise. This was the first time I ever played a Tomb 
 Raider game. I was expecting crap and nothing but sex appeal. I'm sure most of you saw the advertisement 
 from past games. It played it up almost as much as the DOA advertisements do. But beneath the media 
 lies a truly great game.
  Tomb Raider Legend is the adventure of Lara croft, an acheologist as she sets out to find artifacts 
 and such. I wont go into detail, partly because it would take to long, but the story is actually 
 really good here. Not just some half assed Indianna Jones crap. This actually goes into Lara's 
 past getting involved in past friends and family and mixes in some past legends we know about. 
 You should really just play and find out the story
  
  Gameplay: Imagine the Legend of Zelda style puzzle with alot of fun climbing and you have Tomb 
 Raider's bulk of the game play. You'll spend most og your time in this game just solving some tricky 
 puzzles and it's pretty. I've got to admit though, the climbing in this game alone was my favorite 
 part. You'll be scaling all sorts of things in the game and it never gets old. And it only gets 
 more challenging as you go. Theres also combat, which I have to say is the only downafall of the 
 game. So the combat isn't horrible or anything, it's just kinda dull. You just hold down the left 
 trigger to lock on to an opponent and hold down the right trigger to shoot at em till their dead. 
 And do some strafing and dodge rolls here and there to get out of the way of enemy fire. And throw 
 soe grenades to take down large groups of enemies. The enemy AI isn't all that great either. Most 
 enemies will just stand and shoot, not avoiding your shots at all. There are some nice things here 
 and there though, like some objects i nthe area will have a little Y button symbol on it. This 
 means you can press the Y button and you'll automatically shoot it and somthing awsome will happen. 
 Like say it's a pillar. You press you and you shoot it and it comes chrashing down on an enemy. 
 There are also boss fights and they kinda make up for the normal enemies. Their much more challenging 
 and smarter than the other guys. Thats not to say their amazing though. It's just that they really 
 help pick up the slack. There are a couple of bosses in the game though that are really good. Legend 
 picks up a new trend of context sensitive cutscenes. In some cut scenes you'll have to still do 
 some timed button pressing to keep Lara alive, RE4 style. And not to leave it out, there are also 
 some really cool motor cycle scenes where you get to battle on bike. It's a reaqlly nice touch 
 and it only helps to make the action better.
  
  Graphics: It looks surprisingly good for a multiplatform game. The character models look awsome, 
 especialy Lara.... Yeah, she's freakin' hot, I'm sure you all already noticed from the screenshots. 
 And surprisingly we don't have the hyperactive boob physics like you see with almost every game 
 with a female lead character in it. Which is a good thing. The enviroments are amazing. There really 
 aren't games that quite compare. Although the game does look really really good, It doesn't look 
 like it wasn't possible on the original X-box. I can't really tell. Things could have looked a 
 tad softer to. But still, this is a really nice looking game.
  
  Sound: Voice acting is superb. And the dialouge is great. I especialy enjoyed hearing the mid game 
 dialouge between lara and her support over here head set. The music is also top notch and fits 
 well with the adventure. The atmosphere is great here. The sounds fits perfect with the surroundings. 
 Very convincing.
  
  Value: While this is a really fun game, it wont last to long. You'll beat the game in a week or 
 less. And once you beat it the only reason you'll go back is for the achievments. It does have 
 alot of unlockable stuff though and you can also explore Lara's Mnasion for more rewards and achievements. 
 Oh and did I meantion that this game is one of the best ways to get achievments? for beatingthe 
 game along you'll get more than five hundred achievment points!! Considering the price right now 
 though (thirty bucks) your really getting fair deal here.
  
  There you have it folks. Turns out Tomb Raider (well... This one anyway. Haven't played the others 
 yet) is a fun game after all.... Buy it people, buy it. You wnt regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitchebaby2
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Legend starts you off and gives you a gentle nudge into puzzle solving and shooting 
 random bad guys, but fails to teach you the innovative combos such as the slow-mo move, which you 
 will eventually figure out.
  
  Gameplay in Tomb Raider: Legend is unbelievable, which is a staple for the tomb raider series.
 
  
  Throughout the game, you will encounter various puzzles, some of which are quite challenging, most 
 are figuring out how to get from point a to point b, which in some cases is frustrating or just 
 plain fun, at one point in the game you gain control of a fork lift which adds to the fun factor 
 to the following puzzle by including horse power. At 2 points in the game you get the chance to 
 drive a motorcycle as well which equals some high speed jumps and chases.
  
  Mini-game cut scenes also appear at various moments allowing you to avoid death. Most of these 
 are difficult to catch the first time you do them, so most of the time death is inevitable until 
 you know the button combo, or are smart enough to catch on to what you have to do (grapple something, 
 jump, etc) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiazflia
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 27, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Lara's newest entry in the video game world is an exciting new adventure that takes place across 
 several beautiful environments. The ruins that you will explore are immersive and detailed and 
 really bring back the classic Tomb Raider feel. While the game play isn't completely new or inventive, 
 scaling large mountains and exploring hidden crypts is entirely enjoyable. The biggest downside 
 to the game play are the gun fights. Lara has a few flashy moves that let her dodge and attack 
 the enemy, but most of these moves will get you shot in the process of trying to effectively use 
 them. Lara's basic jumps are generally sufficient to get you through the gun fights. The other 
 drawback to the gun fights is the selection of weapons. While there is a decent variety in the 
 selection of weapons, Lara's pistols with infinite ammo can generally get the job done just fine. 
 A few of the weapons that would seem more fun, such as the grenade launcher, are actually fairly 
 useless due to numerous drawbacks to keep the weapons from being too powerful. The other huge disappointment 
 in the game are the motorcycle chase scenes. The roads during the chase scenes usually loop, meaning 
 you'll see the same group of trees 4 or 5 times before finishing the leg. Also, the game looses 
 quite a bit of detail during the scenes, meaning, instead of being able to navigate through a group 
 of trees, you'll hit an invisible wall and be forced to go around. Once or twice I even found myself 
 suddenly careening off a cliff. These drawbacks are not much of a concern though since gun fights 
 and motorcycle chases are rather few and far between. The beauty of the game comes from exploring 
 the vast, detailed environments while solving puzzles and using your instincts. Overall, this title 
 is definitely worthwhile, especially if you've been away from the series for awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidey008
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 27, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Legend breaths new life into a series that has been on a downward spiral. I picked 
 up this game at EB used just to get some extra achievement points. I was surprised to find that 
 Legend is a really good game. If you like action adventure games that have complex, yet doable 
 puzzles, this game is for you. Some of the puzzles are really inventive and make the gameplay more 
 immersive. Legend has a great story and the gameplay is fun.
  
  This game is full of action and adventure. The story mode is a bit short, but for a bargain game 
 it is a good buy. I recommended it to any old school fan of the series and new comers alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 22, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to Tomb Raider games, it's always the same for me. I've played most of the titles, 
 but haven't finished a single one. That's because I personally lose interest about halfway though. 
 But that's just me. I tire of the puzzzle elements easily. But it must be said that if you love 
 Tomb Raider, you'll love this game. This is the game the series has needed for a number of years. 
 Graphically, Tomb Raider Legend is sharp and pretty. The music and sound is topnotch as well. Gameplay 
 is probably the most action-packed it's ever been, and play control is finally solid. Casual fans 
 will embrace the series, maybe for the first time, and Raider fans should rejoice. Laura Croft 
 is relevent again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gakselso
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  (my original review got truncated for some reason, this is a paraphrase)
  There's alot of not-exactly-enthusiastic commentary here. I disagree, but I did wait till it was 
 less than 30 bucks before I bought it and felt I really got my money's worth.
  
  The game isn't terribly long if you just race throught but I took around 20 hours the first time 
 through to find all the rewards. The levels are great and once you master all the moves Lara can 
 do (time well spent in the Croft Manor gymnasium after the first level is complete) there generally 
 shouldn't be any problem figuring out what to do. The scenery is gorgeous and so is Lara :) All 
 the animation is fluid and the actions feel natural. I even liked the background music.
  
  I quite often don't even bother to finish games, but this was a no-brainer. And not just because 
 I'm an Achievement Point wh*re, either (which I am) , but because I really enjoyed it. I'm actually 
 going through again on Hard (just for the points now) and it's still fun.
  
  For 30-40 dollars this is a great buy. I'm looking forward to the Anniversary edition on the 360 
 next. Not sure about episodic content, but I'll definitely acquire it in one form or another. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 11, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that I haven't really been that big a Tomb Raider fan. I played the original and 
 didn't enjoy it. I held off and played a DC version hoping that it would get better, and it didn't. 
 So it's about time that Lara got a good make over. But it's not all good. The major complaint I 
 had was with the play control. The controls are MUCH better. The camera is much more forgiving. 
 The button set up is much better and much more responsive. So all in all the game plays like most 
 standard action/adventure games. It borrows elements from Zelda, Halo, and God of War. All excellent 
 games. The music and the sounds work well in the game. They don't feel out of place and pull you 
 into the game play. The graphics look good but feel very last generation on the XB360. The graphics 
 are slightly better then that of the GC and the PS2, however they just don't feel 360 worthy, particularly 
 since there are games that have come out before this and really flexed the muscles of the console. 
 But all in all Lara is well animated, highly detailed and still is drop dead sexy. The levels are 
 rather short. But the story is pretty cool, it's probably the most story driven the the Tomb Raider 
 series. Sometimes I accidently call it a movie. This is a sold action/adventure title. It stands 
 out in some places, like a character that we like, has history, and so forth, but with out Lara, 
 this game would be considered just about average. Sit back and enjoy angleing the camera so you 
 can sneak a peak. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemolitionBoy27
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 3, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Good: Grid based gameplay is gone, beautiful graphics and lighting effects, outstanding voice acting, 
 fantastic story.
  Bad: Way too short and easy, Lara's too remorseful
  
  GAMEPLAY - 8
  From the very simplistic gunplay to the very addictive adventuring you will find this game to be 
 entertaining. A nice touch was the interactive cutscenes (also known as QTE to us Shenmue fans) 
 are a very nice touch to the game and fit in perfectly, although they could have had been more 
 challenging. The motorcycle levels are one of the few bad things about this game. They're are not 
 bad, but they're not good either. CD could have worked on this a bit more. Also the XBOX controler 
 is not the best for this, in fact it sucks. If you have a PS2 it is worth sacrificing the graphics 
 to get the better controlling version.
  
  GRAPHICS - 8
  The graphics are a huge step up from Tomb Raiders texturless predecessors. Lara now has knees and 
 elbows. When you go for a swim Lara's clothes will actually look wet and she will look shiny for 
 a few minutes. She will also get dirt on her as you raid the tombs. A small problem I have with 
 the graphics is the enemys. While the main characters look great the normal enemy's look very smudgy. 
 I feel sorry for their mother since she gave birth to 200 sets of twins (for those of you who don't 
 get it, the enemys look the same) . The environments are gorgeous and involve realistic shading 
 and great physics, the snowy levels are a blast to play thanks to the graphics. The Xbox 360 version 
 has the best graphics of the other 3 consoles (of course) , but the characters look a bit more like 
 action figures than real people.
  
  SOUND - 10
  Where do I start? The best feature of the game and barely anybody will even notice it. The sound 
 is so detailed you can hear Lara's heel hit the ground before the rest of her foot. The guns sound 
 awesome, the voice acting is the best I've heard in years, the soundtracks perfect, hell, even 
 the menu selection sounds great!
  
  VALUE - 7
  This game is not the longest game around but it is enjoyable. It has a few extra features to unlock 
 by re-playing the levels in time trial mode or by finding treasures scattered throughout the levels 
 which will earn you concept art, character profiles, at least 20 costumes, and more. Crystal Dynamics 
 even brought back the mansion which will take you a good hour to explore its offerings. If you 
 manage to get 100% completion you will get two very cool rewards. The achievements aren't very 
 creative and you can obtain an easy 1000 Gamerscore by just getting 100%.
  
  TILT - 8
  This game is presented very well with great graphics, a compelling story, franchise redeeming gameplay, 
 and a volley of extras which non-fans and fans alike will enjoy.
  
  Bottom line: For fans who have lost faith in the Tomb Raider games, or people who have never played 
 the series, this is a great way to enter or come back to the beloved series. This game is a good 
 investment, If you still have doubts at least rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Multi-Magic
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 31, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  People say that the game itself is short and doesnt take very long to do, well, in a sense, they 
 are right. The main game is made up of several levels where you will go all around the world doing 
 what any Tomb Raider game does best, raiding tombs. Even with the shortness of the game, I still 
 think this is amazing and worth the time. People who say that the game is short are most likely 
 the ones that have just done the levels and finished - personally I did all levels in a few hours 
 and all extras. The extras feature time trails, three difficulty settings, collecting bronze, silver 
 and gold artifacts which for those who aim on building up a high gamerscore not only adds to do 
 it, but gives you bonus material.
  
  Personally, I think the graphics are great and while they could be improved, suite the game fine. 
 There is nothing very wrong with the sound in the game, is doesnt annoy in any places and overall 
 is good. Overall, I would download the demo from XBL if your thinking of getting it which is part 
 of the first level and if you like it, buy it. I got mine dirt cheap because it has been out for 
 a while now and worth every penny. Its an easy game to get 1000 gamerpoints on and even if you 
 dont care about them, a fanastic game to play, well recommeded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AGamerDiet
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 27, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  I wont bore you with the full review I wrote in my blog. I will also admit that I am not someone 
 who typically picks out platformers to play as they are just not the gametype I prefer. I got this 
 as a filler game while waiting for some others I want more and it did its job.
  
  The classification I would like to select for this is its fine . Because to me thats what the 
 game was. It wasnt the greatest game ever but it wasnt bad either. If you like platformers or 
 Laura Croft in general I suspect you will like this game well enough.
  
  Game Length (which to some would be Value I guess) : Game took me about a day and a half to finish 
 and I took lots of breaks. It seemed about the average length for the 360 games I have been playing. 
 So it was not too long and not too short. There are time trials you can play so if you like that 
 there is replay ability in the missions. You can also explore Laura's house. For me neither of 
 these seem interesting enough to do unless I am really really bored. But others may like these.
 
  
  Game Graphics:
  The graphics are fine, not the greatest ever or what some people would term next gen but certainly 
 nice and serviceable. I wasnt distracted thinking that it looked particularly bad or good. Game 
 Sound:
  The sound was pretty good. The voice acting is quite good, not sure if I would say it is the best 
 video game acting ever but certainly better then lots of games. One voice struck me as generic 
 and there was some repeated lines that annoyed me a bit. Ambient sound was fine. Music didnt attract 
 my attention at all so it wasnt great but wasnt bad. When I did make a point to listen it seemed 
 appropriate.
  
  I played on medium difficulty. It seemed neither too hard nor too easy. The game was fine. In the 
 end this game left me with just a neutral feeling neither giddy or upset. I cannot recommend this 
 game at full price $60 but I will recommend it at $30 (or better $20) if you are looking for a 
 game just to get you through till the next AAA title. Who knows I would not be surprised if many 
 people like it more then me and find great replay value to it. For me its probably a one and done 
 but I dont regret buying it and playing it.
  
  (ok maybe I am not good at short reviews) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sickness87th
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 18, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  This game should have its won gen/ the Lara Croft gen/ the game starts off kind of slow and the 
 cutt scenes make a little **** but great puzzles and if you haven't played it yet REMEMBER THIS 
 !!!! King Arthur's Tomb is the hardest part of this game and is also the best part. for those like 
 me who care about the achievement points its a good way to get 1000 gamer points I still haven't 
 beat the time trial's but Im sure I will in the next few day's. Graphic's seems it was realese 
 in the early part of the next generation graphics Ill cut it a brake but the open world play and 
 claiming makes it good and fun game.
  as always sound its great it gets you into what ever zone you are playing at the time you probably 
 will visit 9 country's in the game and the story is short but intriguing well Good Luck and Stay 
 clear the Tigers And Panther's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: callmeageeth
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 17, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  I was a big fan of the original, so this game was welcomed with wide arms. The graphics were splendid: 
 environments, textures, Lara herself. The adventure part of the game was simple yet fun. Combat 
 however, was a chore. Most enemies went down easy, while you are required to constantly hop around 
 and shoot the bad guys until they die. But to me, that was a small nuisance, this game has lots 
 of puzzles ranging from simple to requiring a little bit of thought. The beauty of this game is 
 the ability to have an adventure. The plot was sketchy at best, but to me the sheer adventure of 
 the game is worth the price of admission. Look past the combat and see this game for what it does 
 best, it is an adventure (too short however) that needs to be played by all who have adored Lara 
 in the past and present. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KamakazeNinja08
Rating: 9
Date: May 8, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Legend is a very good addition to the Tomb Raider colection. I am lucky that I did 
 not buy The Angel of Darkness, the reviews said it sucked. There are many things about Lagend I 
 like. First, the graphics, beautiful. Second, the puzzles, not to easy and not to hard, the hardest 
 puzzle to figure out is probably the Croft mannor, I wanted to kill myself with one of the puzzles! 
 The rest puzzles make you think without making you want to smash the controller. And third, the 
 final weapon, i'm not trying to spoil anything for the people who have no beaten the game but its 
 awsome. I give it a 9 overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiryu3
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 6, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellent game. Especially considering the track reacord of tombraider games. My only 
 problem with it is how short it is. I already beat it on PC but with Vista had some problems playing 
 it so decided to pick it up for the 360. Excellent, no slow down and is in next gen content the 
 entire time contrary to PC. The achievements are well balanced as well. No rediculaous play it 
 for every and one sweet day in the by and by you may be able to attain it!
  
  This is an excellent game. Especially considering the track reacord of tombraider games. My only 
 problem with it is how short it is. I already beat it on PC but with Vista had some problems playing 
 it so decided to pick it up for the 360. Excellent, no slow down and is in next gen content the 
 entire time contrary to PC. The achievements are well balanced as well. No rediculaous play it 
 for every and one sweet day in the by and by you may be able to attain it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zelda_Maniac
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 26, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  This is the 1st game i got for the 360. I must say i had fun with this game. But I just can't call 
 it a great game. Its too short, not very challenging, and not too great of a storyline. But you 
 play as a kick as girl who for a videogame chick is pritty damn hot. So its standard Tomb Raider 
 by going through old ruins and temples to find artifacts, but bad guys are trying to get it first. 
 You get Excaliber, but once u get it its so easy. Final boss is easy and the game is easy. A lil 
 too easy for my taste. But i will not ignore the fact that its a good fun game but all there really 
 is to do is beat it twice on normal and hard and then i returned it. But its still a good game 
 and i would recomend it to someone who likes Tomb Raider or is looking for a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game-Hog
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 17, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  I understand that quality is supposed to allow for less game content but whoa this is just plain 
 wrong. What little bit of game they give you here is fun but if I had gave them 50 bucks when it 
 first came out I would have been very angry. Lara games are epics not commercials. Hopefully these 
 companies will stop trying the 1940 cliffhanger approach and realize videogames became mainstream 
 because we knew the programmers were always going to give us our money's worth. I don't think the 
 programmer is to blame here. I think this got spit out by a marketing department for a company 
 wanting to make a quick buck. You're slitting your own throats here guys. I'm not buying Legend 
 part 2 probably until after Legend part 3 comes out and probably for 20 bucks online somewhere. 
 So keep on cutting it's your pocketbook you're cutting in the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrDazzle
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 18, 2007 6:22 am PT
Review:  To being this review I will go ahead and say that the score I gave the game was more of a personal 
 score, but with this review I plan to score it based on what it was built as. The begins you with 
 the usual cinematic opening sequence, and my initial thoughts were Oh boy, PS2 level cinematics, 
 I can't wait for the lack of voice acting. To my surprise, the game did feature full cast voice 
 acting, and through playing more of the game, found the voice acting to be decent to good at varying 
 points. Then again, it seems British voice acting always seems awkward. The cinematics as well 
 as in-game graphics are the same level of detail. This isn't always a bad thing, but given the 
 games character designs and detail, I don't want to look that closely at them. Bad flat detailed 
 muscles on males and oversize bosoms and stick bodies on females are a major turn off. Even more 
 humorous is the level of detail on the lips of female characters... thanks Angelina, thanks. Overall, 
 the characters have very nicely done textures, but the core modeling matches right up with lower 
 XBox or high PS2 levels. The characters also seem a bit stilted at times, in that their movements 
 are clunky and unrealistic. I guess a good plus is that Laura's chest doesn't flop around hyper 
 ragdoll like the DoA girls' do, which adds some respectability to her character. The environments 
 however, are fantastic. Very nicely textured, fairly interactive, and are very open. I am not joking 
 when I say you will just stand there and look around at the floor and walls, they really are a 
 sight to behold (even more so for the time it was released, by now I am sure it has been bested) . 
 The gripe here is, this has only applied (so far) to the dungeon/crypt levels. Everything else 
 seems a little bland. Which is fitting I suppose, because after all, this is TOMB Raider. Gameplay 
 ranges from Grand Theft Auto style shooting to Prince Of Persia style sneaking and acrobatics. 
 The shooting combat is a little linear and feels out of place to me. To shoot, all you really have 
 to do is lock on and hold the trigger until your enemy is dead. You always carry your dual pistols, 
 and have the option of one other weapon you can pick up (Usually rifles) which will transfer from 
 level to level. To make the situation even less out of place, you have infinite ammo for your pistols, 
 making this feel like a typical children's by-the-hand platformer than a serious game. When it 
 comes to the Cave Diving the game really shines. With Prince Of Persia style ledge climbing, pole 
 swinging, and gap jumping, the game can really make you feel like you really need to play this 
 as if it were a life or death scenario (which it sometimes is, but don't worry, there are bountiful 
 checkpoints) . The game also has a decent bit of puzzle solving, usually in the way of moving large 
 objects to hold switches down, circa the Legend Of Zelda or Legacy Of Kain series. The game also 
 features Bronze, Silver, and Gold treasures which will affect your Achievements. The Bronze items 
 are relatively easy to locate, but some you will have to look a bit harder for. The Silver and 
 Gold ones are many times harder to locate (with some exceptions) in dungeons. Lastly, the sound. 
 The sound in this game is mighty impressive, but doesn't quite reach a Ten because I feel more 
 sounds could have been incorporated to make the player more immersed. The quality of the sound, 
 however, is top notch, and could be compared to being at the location in person. Overall, I think 
 as GS stated, anyone could enjoy this game, some more than others, some less. It is really a mixed 
 bag. Good textures, levels, sounds, and exploration gameplay make for a good time, but bad character 
 models, a bland combat system, and sometimes iffy voice acting make for some WTF moments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kari_21
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 12, 2007 12:01 am PT
Review:  I would have never looked twice at this game had there not been a free trial version on my Xbox 
 360. Needles to say I am glad I decided to check out the free trial. Tomb Raider ended up being 
 an entertaining game with decent acting, and good cut scenes. I am not much of a gamer for unrealistic 
 nemeses like the few you need to face in this game, but Tomb Raider seems to make it work. All 
 of the missions you go on are good at not repeating of a previous mission, which helps to keep 
 the game fresh, and interesting. In addition, whenever you need a break from the mission mode you 
 can always check out the Croft Manor, where a ton of rewards can be found to mix things up a bit. 
 Plus, at the Croft Manor you get to roam around wherever your heart desires. The ending of Tomb 
 Raider leaves you wanting more, and wishing you could immediately follow Laura into her next mission, 
 but sadly, the game ends there. That is one of the only problems with this game... it is too short. 
 Overall, Tomb Raider was a great game for the price. This is NOT an earth shattering ground breaking 
 game so if that is what you are looking to spend your money on I would skip this one. However, 
 Tomb Raider does have its own charm, and can pull its own weight with the general competition. 
 If you are looking for a game to have fun with, and/or a game to leave you anticipating its sequel 
 I DO recommend you giving Tomb Raider a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cenz_is
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 8, 2007 4:44 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Legend brings the romb raider series back to its classic status. Tomb Raider: Legend 
 is one of the best adventure games on the Xbox 360 offering awsome gameplay, great graphics and 
 sound. The gameplay in Tomb Raider: Legend is really very good. The levels and enviroments are 
 absolutley amazing from lush forests and temples to industrial complexes and skyscrapers. The controls 
 give the tomb raider series something it always needed, flexibility. You wont find the controls 
 in this game to be horribly awkward as this time round they are great. The puzzles in the game 
 are very good and the combat is great although can get a bit lacking.
  
  The graphics and sound are both very good especially in cutscenes although, nothing revolutinary. 
 But lara and the world around her look the best the've every looked and youll have a great time 
 watching and listening as well as unfolding the fantastic mysterious story. The only department 
 where Tomb Raider: Legend is lacking is its value for money. The game is dead short and theres 
 not much reason to get all the collectables and time trials.
  
  Overall, Tomb Raider: Legend is just plain fun, you wont find an action adventure game as good 
 as this on any of the next gen consoles to date and it really gives die hard tomb raider fans new 
 life with its fantastic gameplay, story, graphics and sound although its just a tad short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x-man360
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 1, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Well I've read many reviews for Tomb Raider Legend and I have to say, that the people didn't really 
 busy themselves with the game. All I read is: too short play-time, bad camera, weak gun-play and 
 things like that. First of all, the Tomb Raider -series have never been based on shoot-combats 
 etc. and will never be . The main Parts are : a good story (even if that didn't always fit) , climb-passages 
 and riddles.
  The gun-play IS nice and easy and the fights are all in all variedly and adapting to your own favour. 
 The graphics are impressive, that TRL is one of the earlier 360-games and high-end-pc-games should 
 be mentioned at this point, with nice texture-work, bump-mapping and beautiful characters . The 
 gameplay is almost perfect, so that everything you want Lara to do is simultaneously done on the 
 screen . Every move is fluid and you feel really free in everything you do.
  All the realistic movements of Lara's body are animated by hand and not made with motion-capture. 
 The sound is just great, wonderful scored music and a special proceed called Micro-Scores , where 
 every action influences the music with little additions, for example drums while shooting. Although 
 you play the game in about 8 to 12 hours you do really get the maximum of extras: you can play 
 every level again and again with more than 30 costumes ( including the classic turquoise Tomb Raider-outfit) , 
 watch the 60 cut-scenes over and over again, read character-profiles, enjoy beautiful art-work and 
 blooper-videos, get new weapons and upgrades, find more than 90 hidden secrets, play time trials, download 
 icons and wallpapers and much more. So, if you really search for every single secret that Tomb 
 Raider Legend offers you and analyze the background and story-line of the game and its production.. you 
 really HAVE something to do. This game is fun and impression for everyone who likes to join a big 
 adventure.. with Lady Croft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaximumD
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 1, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  Pros: I wasn't expecting much from this game cause the previous Tomb Raider games are crap (except 
 for the 1st 2 games) , but TRL is really good. Lara is back and she has more moves and stunts. The 
 graphics on this game is excellent. Beautiful environments that are mind-blowing. Everything from 
 the floor, water to the trees looks realistic. The music and sound in this game is also great, 
 especially the music. It blends into the environment perfectly. The story is really good. It gives 
 the player motivation to want to see what will happen next.
  
  Cons: Sometimes when you aim on the enemies, the camera tries to focus on the enemy, but it'll 
 zoom into yourself. Puzzles can also get frustrating sometimes.
  
  Anyways, this game is a must-have for any adventure gamers. For $20-$30, this game shouldn't be 
 missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  good and short with about 10 hours of gameplay, but a few more hours of fun finding the hidden 
 medals (bronze, gold and silver) . Laura jumps onto the 360 in a great game that has great action, 
 but pretty lame puzzles throughout the game. Im Just glad i rented instead of purchasing! Definetley 
 worth a rent to get the gamerpoints (very easy) and to see what laura looks like on the next gen 
 system! oh by the way, laura is looking much better since her days on the playstation. Her assets 
 are good to look at, but hey its just a game people 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowman1771
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 26, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Legend is a grand and exciting adventure for the Xbox 360. Lara Croft starts out her 
 latest adventure with a bang, It has outstanding controls but I never really used or needed to 
 use the RAD mode on the binoculars or the binoculars for that matter, great level design, a great 
 story, and great Characters. The voice acting is some of the best i've ever heard, Lara Croft is 
 great and Zip and Allister really good to. The story is also really good and that is really hard 
 to find in today's games, If you have never played a Tomb Raider game (Like me) before then Legend 
 will have you begging for more. The Time Trials and Rewards are fun and hard and since they have 
 Achievements tied to them you will be playing this game long after the story is done. There are 
 a few things that may or may not dull your Legend experience down, The direction-less boss means 
 that you have to think about the fight, The prolonged motorcycle levels, and the useless precision 
 aiming mode in that you can't move around while aiming and it seemed a bit slow to, but these problems 
 are very minor and should not keep you from playing one of the top 5 greatest games of '06 and 
 now more than ever since it is only $30.00. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beutlich99
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 21, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Legend was a game that I was looking forward to playing. My favorite type of game is 
 action adventure with a heavy dose of platforming involved. Needless to say games like the Prince 
 of Persia series are my favorite. I enjoy the action sequences, yes, but I enjoy so much the mental 
 act of trying to figure out various puzzles. Getting from point A to point B through a round about 
 way of jumping, swinging, hanging, etc. is pure bliss gaming for me. Tomb Raider Legend was supposed 
 to be that kind of game, and I could not wait to get to it. I was not disappointed at all. Lara 
 Croft is every bit as nimble as she should be and is a blast to control. Everything about the movement 
 is relatively seamless and intuitive. For the most part two buttons take care of any kind of jumping, 
 hanging, and swinging you do. The puzzles were sufficiently challenging without getting overly 
 frustrating. The action sequences were a lot of fun to play too, because they gave the platforming 
 element a nice break. One area was not typically stressed over the other, so what I got out of 
 the game was a flip flop from frantic action to critically thinking through a puzzle. The story 
 was great too. It was never hard to follow and understand, because Lara and her crew did a nice 
 job of narrating, questioning, and solving problems as the story moved along. It was one of those 
 stories that comes full circle and you finally understand where it all was leading to in the last 
 moments of the game. I would recommend this game to anybody who enjoys the action adventure genre. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honk_sm
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  At least it got better than the last few. They were bad. First, I would like to point out that 
 i bought this game almost a year after it was released. When it came out, the graphics looked great, 
 and such, but after a year and games like Gears of War and Rainbow Six Las Vegas..... well it pales 
 in comparison.
  
  So the graphics aren't up to the standard that some of the newer games are. That's true, but they 
 still look nice. There are some good bloom effects, even though in my oppinion they are too overdone, 
 and the background scenery is great. I'll let it go at that.
  
  The story is really quite good. I love a good Arthurian legend and this one had a really cool twist 
 to things. A lot of thought and research went into it. Well done!
  
  The control scheme is there, it's neither good nor bad, but it get's the job done. There are many 
 times when you fall to your death for one reason or another, but it's not because the controls 
 are screwed up, it's because the game is difficult at times. That's good for this tyoe of game.
 
  
  The achievements are pretty easy in this if that's what you're looking for. Easy to get over 500 
 just by finishing the game.
  
  Overall this is worth a buy, but if you're buying it now, you better make sure you buy it used 
 or in the bargain bin. EB had it for CDN $19.99. That was a good deal, $59.99, not so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dom_boi14
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 11, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  well im not sure this game was a very good one there is alot of problems with it and it gets pretty 
 boring after the first 3 levels, sure its good to have if you are just in to getting games for 
 your gamer score but its still not worth it.
  I made a big mistake buy the game before trying so now im stuck with it.
  
  here are some of 
 the problems.
  the graphics are not that great, the gameplay is messed up because of the puzzuls you go through, 
 the cut scences are gay the aiming system is the worst, the bosses are way to easy on all modes 
 of the game and half of all the stuff in the game is right out of the movies about Indaina jones 
 or some thing...... come on you do much better than this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sokkratez
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 30, 2007 5:43 am PT
Review:  Most games that call themselves action-adventure nowadays are on the verge of merely being beat'em-up 
 games with a few box-pushing puzzles here and there. Tomb Raider Legend gets it right. Play through 
 the game on hard mode for it to be more rewarding, both in the form of self-satisfaction and in 
 achievement points. The game is far too easy on the easy and standard difficulties, merely because 
 the enemy NPCs you encounter do not inherently pose much of a threat. On hard difficulty, they 
 are at least more damaging to you, as are environmental hazards such as traps and falls.
  
  The puzzles aren't overly difficult as to distract from the narrative, but not so easy that you'll 
 get bored between enemy encounters or cut scenes. The game's top-notch voice acting plays a big 
 role in keeping the pace of the story moving as you're constantly in communication with your sidekicks 
 on a com-link, and they'll chime in from time to time as you progress through the levels. If you 
 aren't a veteran of the Tomb Raider series, I'd say this as good a place to start as any, as I 
 had only played a portion of the original game on the PSOne prior to playing Legend, and I enjoyed 
 the heck out of it. Take your time, go for the unlockables and achievements and this game is well 
 worth the $30 for a new copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: endor1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 28, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  I really loved this game because it brought back memories of the first Tomb Raider game. I still 
 have the first game for the PC Windows 95/98 version and the Playstation1 game. I really thought 
 the other sequels weren't that great. Except for TR 4 The Last Revelation, the sequels just did 
 not get the sense of adventuring and exploring that the first one did. Last Revelation was average 
 but still a little fun because of the exploring elements. The other games tried to be a Bond/Sam 
 Fisher/ Solid Snake rip off adventure with the 1st Tomb Raider's game mechanics. Tomb Raider 3 
 was just plain awefull and is tied with Angel of Darkness as the worst. With Legends, the game 
 play was completely revamped and the total game experience was just way better. I own the Xbox 
 360 version and it was just as amazing and fun to play as the original one was on the Playstation1. 
 The emphasis was placed back on the exploring and the puzzle solving. This was a great adventure 
 game and made me a Laura Croft fan once again. I only hope Eidos doesn't f**k up the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TylerDFC
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 28, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  I picked this up for under $7 from Game Fly so the short length didn't bother me too much, but 
 it's definitely on the short side. It took me 10 hours and I spent a lot of time trying to get 
 the various artifacts and more time then it should have to kill one boss.
  
  Overall, the game is excellent. The only minor problems I have is the camera can get in an awkward 
 position at certain points and the cliffhanger ending. Other then that the game is one of the very 
 best I've played in quite a while. The gameplay is nearly perfect, the graphics are excellent, 
 and Legend may have the best plot in a video game yet. Seriously, if Paramount wants to do Tomb 
 Raider 3 they should adapt this game. It would blow away the lackluster flicks they have been making. 
 The voice acting is excellent across the board. Instead of going with celebrity voices Crystal 
 Dynamics hired exceptional voice over actors to truly bring the characters to life and the decision 
 was well worth it. Instead of noticing Michael Madsen sleepwalking through a pay check, you get 
 into the story and care about the characters, especially Lara. The game is loaded with well done 
 in-game cutscenes that really drive the plot forward, in addition to Lara's near constant communication 
 with Zip and Alister while exploring. The plot unfolds piece by piece and when it all starts to 
 come together you really get into it and can't wait to see what happens next. There is one level 
 in particular that culminates with a discovery that is just so cool I couldn't help but be wowed 
 by it. I won't spoil it, but if you have any interest in mythology you'll love it. The ending of 
 the game, while a set up for Legend part 2, is one of the most emotional payoffs I've ever seen 
 in a video game. I watched the cinema 3 times I was so impressed. I gave up on this franchise after 
 part 3, but after Legend I'm firmly back in Lara's camp. I can't wait for Tomb Raider 10th Anniversary, 
 but I really want to see how this story ends. So bring on Legend 2 now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 27, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  Any gamer who hasn't been living under a rock for the last ten years, knows exactly who Lara Croft 
 is. In fact, even people who don't play games probably know the character from the crappy movies 
 based on the games. The games themselves have been pretty lousy for awhile now and this franchise 
 was looked upon as being dead by many people. The good news is that with 'Tomb Raider: Legend', 
 Crystal Dynamics (the new developer) has made a game that is fun to play and really brings Lara 
 Croft back to her roots. The bad news is that it's pretty short and if you didn't like the good 
 Tomb Raider games before, you probably aren't going to like this now.
  
  I have never been a big fan of this series in game or movie form. I really liked the original on 
 the Playstation, but didn't like the sequals very much. Pushing around hundreds of boxes in a game 
 never excited me. As the series went on, the sloppy controls and terrible camera really killed 
 the franchise. Crystal Dynamics does a good job at taking care of most of these problems. How did 
 they do this? Well by stealing most of what has made the newer 'Prince Of Persia' (POP) games so 
 good. In fact, I find it ironic that POP stole a lot of what the original Tomb Raider did right, 
 way back on the Playstation. And now, all these years later, Tomb Raider is mimicing what POP has 
 done on the PS2 and Xbox.
  
  When you first start the game, you will get a nice little scene that tries to introduce (what will 
 end up being) a pretty lame storyline. But I will give Crystal Dynamics credit for trying, as the 
 Tomb Raider games have never been known for their story telling. As you move on in the game, however, 
 the storyline becomes just stupid and takes a backseat to the puzzle-oriented gameplay.
  
  When I started playing the first level, I literally felt like I was playing POP with Lara Croft 
 instead of 'The Prince'. You can do all sorts of nice acrobatic moves, jump to different platforms, 
 swing from various poles, etc. It's very fun at first and was refreshing to see the Tomb Raider 
 series was actually not a pain in the @ss to play. Controlling Lara Croft is a breeze. All of the 
 buttons are mapped out pretty well and I really had no problem picking up the controls very quickly. 
 The game also does a nice job of holding your hand through some parts of the first level to show 
 you what your character is capable of.
  
  Like I have said, if you have played the POP games you will know what to expect here. You walk 
 into a large room and the game goes into a little scene showing you a path to get out of that room. 
 You then have to use a combination of your acrobatics, items in the enviroment, &amp; your equipment 
 to find a way to the next area. It can be fun to do this and most of the puzzles are fun to do, 
 for awhile. After a few levels or so, the irritation of instant deaths or having to do a large, 
 time consuming puzzle all over again because of one little slip off a ledge is annoying. The puzzles 
 are fun enough to make you want to do them again, but the game is very unforgiving in some spots. 
 There were many times where I was hoping I had the 'Sands Of Time' to reverse time and go back 
 to that jump I just missed. This style of gameplay certainly doesn't revolutionize the genre in 
 any way, and feels like a blatent rip-off of POP, but it's still fun.
  
  The combat in the game is another story, though. While it's not terrible, there is really no challenge 
 to it. You basically just hold down the left trigger to auto-aim and push the right trigger to 
 fire. As long as you move around while doing it, you shouldn't take too much damage and will breeze 
 through most of the firefights. The real challenge here comes from the puzzles, not from the boring 
 combat. Another area that could have used some work were the motorcycle sections. The controls 
 aren't very good and the whole concept of this gameplay style feels very tacked on and makes no 
 sense in the storyline. And I didn't really care for the quick-button pressing sections that just 
 start with little or no warning and if you miss one button, it's instant death. Thankfully, the 
 game has an excellent checkpoint system. So even if you do die, you will never have to go back 
 too far to retry the area. I must say that this was a HUGE deal to me. There are many moments where 
 you have instant deaths in this game and without a adequate checkpoint or save system, that would 
 have killed the game for me. So I applaud the developers for doing that part right.
  
  I have played several games for the 360 that have been ports of current-gen titles already. While 
 some have obviously made a vaild attempt at making the game look better (Burnout Revenge) , there 
 have been some pretty lazy and insulting games to come out (Far Cry Instincts Predator) that are 
 obviously there to just make a quick-buck. Tomb Raider looks very good for a current-gen port and 
 looks outstanding in some areas. I don't think I have ever played a game that has had me 'wowed' 
 at one moment and disappointed the very next moment. It's very strange actually. Lara Croft herself 
 looks very impressive and so does most of the game. Then you get the moments where you see another 
 character up close and wonder if this is the same game. I will give Crystal Dynamics credit for 
 the effort and at the reduced price, I can live with these visuals.
  
  The voice acting is all very good and I really liked some of the music. There isn't anything here 
 that is going to blow you away, but it's all pretty good. I like how the game uses the achievements, 
 as it can get addicting trying to find all of the hidden items. I really like how you can run around 
 in your own mansion for hours and looks for items, as well. It's literally like having another 
 game along with the main quest. And there are some nice extras to find and collect as well.
  
  Overall, I would say that I am happy with how Tomb Raider: Legend turned out. To be honest, 
 I thought this game was going to be terrible and I was just hoping they would finally put this 
 fledgling franchise to sleep. And while Crystal Dynamics didn't create a masterpiece here, they 
 did show us that this series is capable of better things. I am not a big fan of these puzzle-adventure 
 style games, but if you are into them and if you liked the Prince Of Persia titles, I would highly 
 recommend checking this out. Lara Croft is back &amp; I can't believe I am actually saying that 
 in a positive way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dantebk
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 22, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Legend for the Xbox 360 has been widely heralded as the return (or the debut?) of 
 awesome Tomb Raider games, and for me it lived up to the hype.
  
  In this game, Lara Croft is searching for the broken pieces of an ancient sword. Of course, they're 
 scattered all over the world in different exotic locations. Not only does this sword possess crazy 
 supernatural powers, and not only are dangerous armed men also searching for it, and not only will 
 it change everything we think we now about history, but it also holds the key to her mother's disappearance 
 many years ago and her father's professional disgrace shortly after. But even with all the baggage, 
 the story never feels like it's intruding on the gameplay.
  
  And the gameplay is excellent. Most of the time is devoted to climbing things, jumping from one 
 thing to another, swinging from ropes, and other assorted acrobatic feats. The rest of the time 
 you're either solving puzzles, engaging in gun fights, or occasionally racing a motorcycle.
  
  The graphics are beautiful, especially the outdoor scenes in the first level. My girlfriend 
 often lamented how absurdly underdressed and overendowed Lara is but that's par for the Tomb Raider 
 course, and it didn't stop her from watching me play for hours to see what would happen next.
 
  
  The sound effects are great. The voice acting is good but not stand out. The little sidekicks who 
 are always talking in her ear can get a bit annoying, and the villains are definitely melodramatic 
 (not that that's necessarily a bad thing for this type of pulp adventure) .
  
  The achievement points skew on the easy side but I kind of like that. If you play through the game 
 on the hardest difficulty, you'll end up with 3/4 of the points. The rest involve playing through 
 the game twice more, once to beat the time trials, and another to find all the hidden treasures.
 
  
  All in all an awesome action-adventure game. The ending hints at a sequel and if it's as good as 
 Legend, I will be thrilled. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-ramone
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 9, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  What can I say, the style of this game is just unreal and the way Lara jumps and swings and hangs 
 from ledges is just uniquely done and looks so great and really makes you want to take the long 
 way up the cliff. The gunplay is pretty weak but once again it's the style that saves the gunplay 
 from the depths, as long as you dont just stand dully like an idiot and add some acrobatics it 
 can be quite fun and it looks great. Another bad thing about the guns is the weapon variety, i 
 think throughout the game you come across 5 - 6 weapons at the most but seeing as you have the 
 infamous duel handguns and wont be shooting that much thats no big deal. A great new feature in 
 this game is the motorbike missions, they aren't very challenging but are extremely fun and look 
 really cool and movie like and well lets face it, Lara would look silly in a car. You also have 
 the option to do some puzzles in the Croft Manor which adds some more gameplay to the game. With 
 that being said, including the Croft Manor this is game is too short and that's a pity because 
 what you do get to play is very good. Although it is short there are some bits that might take 
 a while as the puzzles are expertly designed and really get you thinking. Another great thing about 
 this game, which i didn't know whether to put in the graphics or gameplay section, is the button 
 pressing cinematics, if you have played Resident Evil 4 or God of War you will know what i mean, 
 these work surprisingly well and look very cool and something it did that i like was the fact that 
 the buttons you press if you were to press them in normal gameplay they would do that action which 
 meant if you really used your head you could guess what button to press next. The main thing I 
 loved about this game was the gripping storyline, I think this game's storyline is the best one 
 ever put into a game and is just so farfetched at parts but you would be lying if you said it didn't 
 keep you intrigued and wondering what would happen next. This game has no multiplayer, which is 
 neither dissapointing or unexpected, but I personally would have liked a time trial leaderboard 
 for Live.
  
  The graphics are very good and definetly best on 360. For a start the visuals in general are just 
 beautiful everything looks just great which brings me to my next point the level design, you will 
 spend time in deep, dark, dank caves, snowy mountain tops, sunny mountain tops and japanese skyscrapers 
 and they all look very well. The normal cinematics in the game can be watched over and over again 
 via the main menu which is good because they are really good and without the great graphical cinematics 
 the storyline just wouldn't be the same. The Lighting and Shadow (especially in the Croft Manor) 
 is just some of the best I have ever seen and you would have to see them yourself to just know 
 how great they are. Another thing in the game which i liked was that when you went for a swim and 
 just came out you were wet but even better than that was when you went through a very dirty level 
 (which is almost every level) Lara's face and knees and hands all got mucky and it looked very 
 well and i was very impressed. My only problem with the graphics was very very minor, it was the 
 graphic gunplay. The guns didn't have much graphical beautifulness in them and i would have liked 
 it to look a lot more realistic when bullets came out and i loved the way the pistols smoked when 
 you shot with them a lot but it looked ugly. The Art in the game and in the level design was very 
 good looking and priceless artifacts and their tombs have never looked cooler. I also though the 
 art on the loading screen was very very good.
  
  The sound in this game was superb, I would like to congratulate who ever voiced Lara because they 
 didn't an absolute brilliant job and she did ten times better than Angelina Jolie. Other characters 
 were voiced well too but thanks to whoever voiced Lara because she is now one of my favourite game 
 characters. Voice acting isn't the only good thing in this game soundwise though because there 
 is a great orchestral soundtrack that add's a lot to the game.
  
  As i have already said, the game is very short and although there are time trials and a harder 
 difficulty, why would you wanrt to do that on a PS2 or Xbox. That's why I think value wise the 
 360 version is by far the best because the achievments make you want to do these again, but achievments 
 or no achievments this game is too short and it is a pity because it is it's only downfall really.
 
  
  I loved this game a lot and I though it was very underappreciated and if you have a 360 definetly 
 download the demo because it is a great demo and gives the jist of what to expect so if you like 
 the demo you will love the game.
  It's a great game and I can't wait for the next in the series.
  7.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yandor
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 1, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Oh how I've missed Laura, and Legend makes it very easy to forgive the trash that's been sporting 
 her name over that last several years. I'll start with the graphics, which is really what next-gen 
 is all about. This game is beautiful. So many times I simply stopped playing and looked around 
 at the environments; the jungles come alive. Unfortunately -- though she's looking her best -- (and 
 I love the crazy selection of outfits!) Laura and the other characters seem underdone compared 
 to their surroundings. They made some nice touches, like water on Laura's face, and some excellent 
 physical movements, but she seemes a bit cartoonish standing next to an incredibly rendered tomb. 
 The gameplay is pure joy, and the hidden tokens make it worth replays. Sure, some of the puzzles 
 were a little too easy, and once you figure out how to use a big crate, it's kind of the same no 
 matter where you are, but it's the mix of fast-paced shooting and mind-boogling puzzles that really 
 click. Biggest disappointment, and the reason for my less that superb score is the inane boss fights. 
 Do we really need boss fights anymore? Anoying, irritating, and simply pathetic. Give me a death 
 trap puzzle any day instead of some guy throwing green plasma at me repeating the same tired line. 
 Give Laura a try; she won't let you down! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zfreak1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 4, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  Ever since angel of darkness hit the ps2 it seemed lara croft was never going to adapt to current 
 technology. But now she is back and not only did she serve up a dish of whoop @$$ quite nicely 
 but she also made an excellent next gen debut as well. In Tomb Raider Legend you will spend most 
 of your time climbing and swinging on ropes and getting machines and gadgets to work. The game 
 feels entertaining even without you having to fight. Even sometimes you may just want to explore 
 ruins in peace without having to fight. That being said the graphics are very impressive in Legend. 
 My only complaint is when she is talking during gameplay like while your controlling her run her 
 mouth doesnt move... anyways the combat in the game is just gun use. The guns dont really seem 
 to have much power since your enemies fall rather weight less after getting shot several times. 
 Guns like the assault rifle and the shot gun just enhance range and make different sounds. It would 
 be better to carry around the assault rifle cause it holds more ammo. The twin pistols never loose 
 any ammo. You also get to fight dogs and serpeants and a leopard. The locations you go to are bolivia, 
 peru, japan, ghana, kazakhstan, england, and nepal. All these levels but japan and kzakhstan are 
 very fun to explore. The game could have used more countries since the game can be completed at 
 around 8-12 hours depending on difficulty... heck even six hours if you keep playing nonstop. Everyone 
 is voiced great like Lara, Zip, Alister, and the enemies. There are a couple extras you can get 
 to via Lara's mantion which can be accessed through the main menu. Time trials, extra outfits, 
 character models, and such await.\ The music is also topnotch with nice tunes from epic to just 
 the im exploring some really boring tomb right now. So if your a Lara Croft fan... a fan of adventures 
 or some one who's bored you cant go wrong w/ Tomb Raider legend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asfandyar
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 1, 2007 5:35 am PT
Review:  One of the best game so far in the series of the Tomb Raider franchise, to take it to a whole new 
 level.
  
  This game has some great soundtrack and sound effect, the puzzles in the game some times can be 
 very troublesome and hard to figure out. The camera sometimes gets out of place and can very troublesome 
 when fighting some of the bosses in the game. Best use of vehicle chases and fighting sequence. 
 Great level design for both Xbox 360 and PC version of the game.
  
  Over all a great a game if you can look over some of the problems, but it still lacks in play value. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donpellegrino
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 27, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  I wish the XBox 360 had more platformer/adventure games like this. It is a fun game. The play is 
 fun and not too difficult. The criticisms that it is a short game or that it lacks replay value 
 are misplaced. If you want a really long game check out Oblivion. I find sports games have the 
 best replay value. Tomb Raider is a different genre.
  
  Tomb Raider: Legend gives me just what I want from this genre. A fun story, with a beginning, middle 
 and end. The story is not as strong as the good old Sierra adventure games but it held my interest 
 enough to want to check out the next level. The scenery is beautiful. I loved exploring the environment 
 and large rooms just so that I could see the art in more detail. If you have an XBox 360 and a 
 week off from work then this game is just the right fit.
  
  You should be able to find a used copy for $25.00 or less and you will get 10-20 hours of play 
 out of the game. This is a good value proposition in my book. I hope we see more games like this 
 on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxmax1234
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 24, 2006 7:03 am PT
Review:  Well i bought it, Jea and fast i thought. it isn't good, its just bad.
  the graphics are okay. but the gameplay just suck's. its just way to fast for me ( im not very 
 slow;) ) you need to play at least 2 games to get the controls in your head. If you still thing 
 this game is good enough for you to buy. DONT. I just never really got the feeling of big excitement, 
 and that just sucks. after half an hour, i just didn't wanted to play it any more. So thats the 
 reason why i bought it in June, and never played it after june. THIS GAME SOME KIND OF SUCKS.
 
  That's what i think, but if your really a big fan of these 3'd person shooters, you buy it, and 
 wast lot's of time playing nothing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hpboy831
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Legend follows the exploits of Lara Croft as she tries to solve the mysteries of her 
 past. Specifically, she's investigating the death of her mother several years earlier. One thing 
 leads to another and somehow the legend of King Arthur becomes involved, along with a magical sword 
 that has been broken into fragments and scattered throughout the world. The story is barely coherent, 
 but it serves its purpose in that it gives Lara an excuse to travel from one exotic locale to the 
 next in search of these artifacts. The game takes you to places such as Ghana, Peru, Tokyo, England, 
 and Kazakhstan, and all of the locations look great. And while Lara sticks mostly to tombs and 
 ruins, she also spends time exploring a deserted research facility, hopping about atop skyscrapers, 
 and shooting up bad guys in a rustic village. The variety of levels is great, although you'll end 
 up seeing pretty much the same platforming and box-pushing puzzles wherever you go. The puzzles 
 in Tomb Raider: Legend can be a bit deceptive at first, but once you learn how the game works, 
 the puzzles become very simple. Most of the game is spent solving basic switch puzzles as you work 
 your way through each level in search of the next artifact. Aside from dragging around boxes to 
 weigh down switches or jam traps, there are a lot of fun platforming sections that let you take 
 full advantage of Lara's affinity for high-flying acrobatics. You can hang on ledges, swing on 
 ropes, swing between platforms (via a magnetic grapple) , and vault off conveniently placed beams. 
 The controls are a lot more fluid and responsive than they have been in previous Tomb Raider games, 
 which makes Lara movements feel much more natural than before. The controls are precise, but not 
 punishingly so. You often only have to jump in the general direction of the next platform and the 
 game will compensate by automatically connecting Lara to the intended surface. Once you get the 
 hang of it you can effortlessly overcome even the most imposing obstacles without difficulty. It's 
 also always abundantly clear which ledges you can hang on or jump between, so the only challenge 
 is positioning the camera so you can see where you're trying to go, which can be frustrating. In 
 tight spots it can be difficult to get a good view of the ledge you need to jump to, and sometimes 
 it's easy to misjudge a jump if you don't have the camera aligned just right. The camera problems 
 are intermittent though, and most of the time you have a fairly good view of the surroundings. 
 And even though the platforming is fairly easy, it's still satisfying thanks to some great-looking 
 animations and level designs that convey an excellent sense of peril. Of course, Lara is skilled 
 with weapons and is more than willing to serve up some hot lead when the situation calls for it. 
 You'll have to shoot up plenty of generic enemy goons and a few leopards here and there. You can 
 lock on to an enemy by holding a button, and then you mash the fire button until the enemy is dead. 
 You can also throw grenades, as well as perform slide tackles or aerial assaults. When you run 
 up to an enemy, you can jump off his head and flip through the air in slow motion while shooting 
 him. It's a neat effect, but not especially useful or necessary, since it takes more time to get 
 in close to an enemy than it does to just blast him from afar. Sometimes you can shoot at certain 
 objects in the environment, which are clearly indicated with a large button icon. You can shoot 
 barrels to blow them up, shoot stone pillars and watch them fall on enemies, and initiate all kinds 
 of other scripted events. The gunplay is not that fun though, because it's easy and because the 
 guns don't feel powerful or distinct at all. Aside from solving puzzles and indiscriminately killing 
 enemies, there are a few other activities you can partake in. There are two motorcycle levels where 
 you have to hop on an improbably placed Ducati and speed after other vehicles while shooting wave 
 after wave of mobile enemies and catching air off jumps. The motorcycle physics are very loose, 
 and the riding sections in Legends feel more akin to a rail shooter than a racing game. There are 
 a handful of interactive cutscenes that require you to press a certain button as an icon appears 
 on screen, much like the cutscenes in Resident Evil 4. And like Leon Kennedy, Lara can meet her 
 demise in many different ways with some crazy death sequences that you get to see if you fail to 
 hit the right button at the right time. On your first play through, you can easily beat the game 
 in less than seven hours on the default difficulty setting. You can then go back through and play 
 again on a higher difficulty, but it doesn't make much of a difference because the challenge in 
 Legend comes from the puzzles, and those never change. Once you've figured out how to solve each 
 puzzle, the only challenge left is to find all the hidden items in each level or to replay each 
 level in time-trial mode. You can unlock new outfits, movies, models, and so on, but even with 
 all that, you can easily see all this game has to offer in a single weekend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thorpe89
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 12, 2006 4:08 am PT
Review:  So, here we are with Lara's first adventure onto the Xbox 360. It proves pretty good and you'll 
 notice some bits look much better on this console than the other consoles. Tomb Raider: Legend 
 on the Xbox 360 proves that she will keep on exploring tombs in the future.
  
  Learning the controls is easy and shouldn't take that long. In Bolivia (the first environment) 
 you should pick up some moves from the tutorial such as jumping, swinging and grappling. You'll 
 also be facing enemies bigger than your house and dozens of men. Tomb Raider is all about climbing 
 and working out how to progress through the level. You'll need to work out how far it takes to 
 jump from one ledge to another. The puzzles will probably puzzle you at first but after a while 
 you should get the hang of them. Boss battles are good as each one is different. You don't just 
 keep shooting the boss until they die. You will need to work out how you can destroy the boss. 
 Like for example, one boss requires you to drop cages on its head in England.
  
  The environments are impressive. I think the hot environments look the best. When you play through 
 the first environment you'll probably be amazed to see how they have evolved. My favourite environments 
 are Bolivia, Ghana and Nepal. You won't be avoiding traps and enemies in tombs all throughout the 
 game, though. One level set in Japan will have Lara Croft in a totally different style. There is 
 one level I do remember in Tomb Raider II where she had her own mansion. This is where you could 
 practice your moves and climbing skills. Well, in Tomb Raider: Legend there is an enormous manor. 
 There are loads of rooms to explore (and some hidden too) . The swimming pool looks very pretty 
 and in general, the whole manor looks outstanding. If only it was real?
  
  The main differences in terms of graphics (compared to the other console games) is the water. It 
 just appears more realistic and you will come to notice that in Bolivia. Of course, Lara is looking 
 great on this game too. She seems more tanned and whenever you see her face close up you should 
 notice more detail in there. Some of the costumes you unlock will also feature sunglasses which 
 are exclusive to next-generation versions of the game only. Other notable differences include the 
 walls and floors of the tombs. There is much more moss and weeds growing out and more details can 
 be notice on the walls. Reflections are superb too and it's great to make it more realistic by 
 reflecting the sun from the ground.
  
  The voice acting is clear and fits in well. Lara will also reply back with sometimes sarcastic 
 comments and saying she isn't afraid of anything when she is on top of a cliff too high for me 
 to believe. This commentary doesn't really get in the way and can often help you progress through 
 the level.
  
  The soundtrack is like something from a movie. The main theme song on the user interface is probably 
 my favourite. It is like an adventure themed soundtrack. Each environment will have background 
 music suited for it. I noticed that it gets intense at different parts. So, whenever you are in 
 a quiet part of the level you will notice the music is calm but when you have several men after 
 you it will get very intense.
  
  If you have not played Lara Croft Tomb Raider: Legend yet then I highly recommend you do. I think 
 you'll enjoy it as a Tomb Raider or no Tomb Raider fan. If you have played the PlayStation 2, Xbox 
 or GameCube version of this game then don't expect to much difference. Of course, you'll see even 
 better environments on this version but that's about it. There are also many achievements you can 
 try and get. This includes you playing through all the time trials and going through the levels 
 on Tomb Raider difficulty. You are looking at less than ten hours of gameplay here. It may take 
 you a bit longer depending on whether or not you can solve the puzzles. Some of them left me puzzled 
 for quite a while. Some may say ten hours is a bit short and I agree. You may probably play through 
 some of the environments again to get 100% and for the achievements. I suggest playing on at least 
 normal difficulty. Easy is a bit too easy I think.
  
  Great game that shows how Lara performs on next-generation. Hopefully she'll continue to grow for 
 generations to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorj11111
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 4, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  This is a much improved Tomb Raider from the previous one. The controls have been modified to make 
 gameplay much easier. There are great puzzles in the game that will make you think. The graphics 
 are also much improved, with gorgeous background detail. I loved this game because they went back 
 to their roots in actually going into tombs, the India Jones stuff we all love. It also has a great 
 story line and cinematics. The only down fall of the game is that it is kind of short. You could 
 pass it in less than 10 hours. There is also not a lot of replay value unless you just want to 
 go back though to find the gems or just pass it on a harder level. Overall, this is a game that 
 all of you should play. However, it is short so you may just want to rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43211
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2006 3:09 am PT
Review:  I recen that tomrader is good good. so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so 
 so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so 
 so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so 
 so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so 
 so good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shasam712
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  *DISCLAIMER! This game has been reviewed in Standard Definition. Any graphical issues suffered 
 during the game apply to SD only, and will not necessarily occur when playing the game in HD.*
 
  
  With the emergence of the original Playstation gaming truly hit the mainstream, with the PS1 selling 
 over 100 million units worldwide. The Playstation gave us many things, including the first icon 
 to ascend into mainstream culture and out of just the gaming world. Mario may have captured the 
 hearts of gamers when he first jumped into the living room, but it was Lara Croft who was to go 
 on to become a cultural icon, a symbol for the Playstation Generation.
  
  Six games in and the series reached a stagnant point, being graphically under whelming and sticking 
 with the same game play it had since day one did not do this figurehead any favours. However, Crystal 
 Dynamics has taken over the reigns and has put forward a promising edition with Tomb Raider: Legend. 
 Giving the game more of an action game feel, removing the old inventory system and remapping Laras 
 moves have resulted in something that feels fresh and, perhaps surprisingly, for the better.
  
  The initial comparison you want to reach for with Legend is not to another game but too the 
 movie, aptly titled Tomb Raider: The Movie. It would be obvious from the outset if you were to 
 merely set foot in Croft Manor, making an appreciated reappearance to the series, that the game 
 has at the very least the same visual style, but the pacing of the game really does go along with 
 a more action orientated affair. While you may be more used to puzzle solving and only shooting 
 the occasional lowly henchman or Jaguar from the old games, Legend exercises your trigger finger 
 a lot more regularly.
  
  The story of the game is a little more involved than before too. You start off hunting for yet 
 another artefact, but pretty quickly you are forced to go back into Laras past and uncover what 
 really happened to her Parents and what she spent her teenage years doing. Along the way you will 
 travel through the usual Tomb or two, an abandoned Soviet Research Facility, the Tokyo rooftops 
 and an even more disjointed array of locations.
  
  The game play has changed, not too much so that it feels unrelated to the Tomb Raider games of 
 yesteryear, but just enough to keep things fresh and exciting for both a new and old audience alike. 
 Gone is the old jump system where you could flip in any direction with relative ease, now Lara 
 will do a simple jump in whichever direction you please, saving the fancy stuff for the lock on 
 targeting. In fact, that is something else which has been changed for the latest instalment. Now, 
 at a touch of a shoulder button, you can lock on to your enemy and let rip, shooting, flipping 
 and sliding in any direction you please. There are also some bullet time effects if you can jump 
 off of your enemies shoulders, because what action game would not be complete without a bullet 
 time effect? At the very least it must have slow-motion.
  
  The game no longer features the wheel of items that the old games utilised, instead there are no 
 items in Legend, simple weapons. Of course, this leads to a much simpler affair, but Legend makes 
 good use of environmental puzzles a la Prince of Persia, so it evens out. In fact, although it 
 perhaps lacks the same pacing to its puzzles, Legend does bare similarities to the Prince of Persia 
 games. You travel from one area to the next, swinging, climbing and crawling you way there as fast 
 as you can, then you face off against some enemies. The formula is not original, but just like 
 Prince of Persia it works.
  
  Perhaps the true problem with Legend is its amount of content. The game looks incredible, especially 
 when compared with Angel of Darkness, it plays at a nice pace and can definitely hold its own in 
 those regards. However, the game will take you about 8 hours to complete, you do have Time trials 
 of each level, harder difficulties and trinkets to find, but these dont add too much to the time 
 you will spend on the game. In the case of the 360 and its achievements, you can get them all 
 in no time at all.
  
  Legend is the best Tomb Raider for a good while, and it adds a little life to the series. Hopefully, 
 there will be a next instalment and it will be just as good as this, but until then you dont have 
 much to tide you over until then, especially with the small amount of game play offered here. However 
 short it is though, its a great game, and should be played by all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: livethemusiclif
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 29, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  First off... I was very impressed with the controls of the game. That was the most frustrating 
 part of every Tomb Raider previously, because it just wasn't smooth. Of course I played the games 
 anyway. This game, althought the graphics could be better, at least for an XBOX 360 next-gen title, 
 has amazing gameplay. The story is actually fairly decent compared to most adventure titles with 
 sub-par boring story-lines... it's fun to keep up with. The game is a bit too short and left me 
 wanting more, but it was fun while it lasted! Get it now - or rent it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 4, 2006 4:07 am PT
Review:  I have never been a fan of the Tomb Raider games. I have always found the controls to be poor and 
 gameplay a bit stop and start: shoot stuff then wander around for games, then shoot stuff,... and 
 so on.
  
  I am a fan of platform and adventure games, particular the high quality titles published by Nintendo 
 (Zelda etc.) . The greatest complement I can pay Tomb Raider: Legend is that it has taken the basic 
 dungeon crawl elements of Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time and remastered them in a slick, contemporary 
 and iconic package. The core gamplay remains the same as previous Tomb Raider games. You navigate 
 a series of tombs filled with puzzles, traps and bad guys in order to resolve the story. Lara has 
 her incredible acrobatic abilities that enable her to swing, climb, roll and leap her way through 
 each area or room within each level. Previous Tomb Raider games had dreadful controls and camera 
 issues, partly due to the poor Playstation controller. Crystal Dynamics, the new development team, 
 have done a fantastic job at re-engineering the game engine to make Lara's controls and moves both 
 slick and silky smooth. There are still the occasional camera issues but, on the whole, the gameplay 
 and controls are extremely well done. There are a couple of vehicle based missions on a motorbike 
 which break up the main action. These are more like a 2D shoot-em-ups with you shooting mercs on 
 bikes and cars, whilst dodging rocks and collecting power-ups (health packs) . These driving missions 
 do feel a bit tacked on but are fun never-the-less.
  
  Combat has been improved and the bullet time effect is just brilliant when used in combination 
 with Lara's acrobatics. The Combat is also nicely balanced so that it doesn't feel like it is unnecessary 
 or over the top. Lara's guns can be controlled with a lock-on auto aim -which works fine- but also 
 in a pseudo 1st person view as well. Switching views can sometimes be tricky but it doesn't effect 
 the game too much.
  
  The blend of puzzles and exploration is good with hidden rewards strategically placed to increase 
 the puzzle depth and replay value. Most of the puzzles are easy to resolve, although I did find 
 two of them quite cryptic; particularly the Bell . Solving the puzzles always leaves you with a 
 sense of satisfaction.
  
  The graphics on the '360 look great. I have read some criticism of them not looking next-gen enough, 
 but the use of textures, water effects, dust and smoke are excellent. The draw depth and quality 
 of the textures is also worthy of merit, as is the Lara character model which features some neat 
 animations.
  
  The sound effects are good, and what you would expect. The music is exceptionally good with some 
 catchy Bond-style tunes, a good end credits song and some atmospheric background music on each 
 of the levels.
  
  If there is a criticism, and it's of the genre rather than the game, the plot is a bit weak. The 
 basic premise is nice, the the excuses to visit each of the international locations is never really 
 explained. It is a bit like the classic Roger Moore Bond films: he would visit the exotic locations, 
 but the reasons are never really known.
  
  The game offers some nice bonuses for collecting rewards or completing the additional time trials. 
 These include clothing and gun upgrades as well as special features. The XBL achievements are nicely 
 balanced and you should be able to unlock a good 500 just playing through the game once.
  
  Overall this is a highly polished and enjoyable adventure game. If you have never tried Tomb Raider 
 before or, like me, had never liked the previous games you'll find a lot of fun and entertainment 
 here. If you are already a Lara fan, you'll love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teap
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 25, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Lara Croft is off on another adventure after a long break in Tomb Raider: Legend. In it, she tries 
 to solve the mystery of what could have possibly happened to her mother in a floating rock accident.
 
  
  You play as, you guessed it, Lara Croft, an archaeologist with smooth moves and dual pistols as 
 you traverse several different and diverse areas. There are jungles. There are snowy mountaintops. 
 And there's a broken down King Arthur exhibit.
  
  First thing's first: the gunfights. The gunfights are more prevalent earlier in the game, for as 
 you progress the gameplay becomes more puzzle-oriented. None of the gunfights are particularly 
 challenging (I'm not sure what they'd be like on hard mode though, seeing as I played on medium) . 
 Lara can jump, dodge, and backflip, all while firing her pistols. She can also use her grapple 
 hook to pull enemies toward her, and jumping on an enemies head and backflipping off of it will 
 send you into a bulletime sort of mode that lasts for a few seconds. She has plenty of other moves 
 at her disposal but none of them are really worth using as shooting the enemies usually gets the 
 job done. A cool feature of TR: L is that hazardous objects will have the Y button symbol floating 
 above them, and pressing Y will get Lara to shoot at them and hopefully cause an explosion or two 
 to kill baddies faster.
  
  Occasionally thrown into the action are bike sequences in which you mount a motorcycle and speed 
 through an area while other enemies on motorcycles try to kill you if you don't kill them first. 
 These are fun and make the game less repetitive. In one bike area, though, the terrain actual tiles 
 itself (and it's very noticeable) , so you'll be driving through the same mountains and hills 4 
 or 5 times during the course of about 10 minutes.
  
  The main feature of any Tomb Raider game, however, is not the killing; it's the puzzles. And believe 
 me, this game has lots of 'em. During the course of the game the puzzles get progressively harder. 
 However, they are built on logic, and a bit of common sense and reasoning will get you figuring 
 them out. They are very challenging, however, and without a little bit of patience you will be 
 getting frustrated. Not throw-your-controller frustrated, however.
  
  What WILL make you throw your controller is the climbing sequences in which you, well, climb things. 
 You jump, you spin, you grapple, etc. In some parts of the game, platforms you land on will actually 
 break off and slide away, and you only have a split second to make a decision on which direction 
 to jump or you will fall into a mysterious abyss. Making the right decision is mostly based on 
 luck, or doing it over so many times you've finally figured out what the hell to do. People with 
 amazingly quick reflexes will find this part not as hard, but for the normal people out there, 
 you will get very angry. It wouldn't be as bad if there wasn't a loading screen every time you 
 die. Yes, a loading screen. Just to send Lara back to a position she typically was about 10 seconds 
 ago. And the loading screens are about 10-15 seconds each, so if you die and realize what you did 
 wrong, you will have to wait to try again.
  
  Another aspect of the game that takes advantage of ridiculously good reflexes are interactive cutscenes, 
 much like what is found in Resident Evil 4 only slightly more annoying. Each interactive cutscene 
 usually uses the x, y, a, and b buttons on your controller once, and sometimes an analog direction. 
 They're very hard and you will probably have to do them several times to get them right.
  
  The graphics in TR: L are very nice. There are pretty water effects, and all of the environments 
 are extremely detailed. The entire game is pure eye candy and is a good example of what the Xbox 
 360 can do.
  
  One of the biggest gripes about the game is the overall fact that it is very short and does not 
 have hardly any replay value. The entire game took me around 9 hours to beat, and I take forever 
 to figure the puzzles out, so it is probably even shorter for most people out there. There are 
 several unlockables though, including costumes, models from the game (which are pretty much pointless) , 
 and some concept art you get by finding various rewards (bronze, silver, and gold) hidden throughout 
 the game. Crof t Manor (Lara's house) is also accessible from the beginning of the game, and within 
 it are several secrets that let you unlock certain things.
  
  Overall Tomb Raider: Legend is a very fun game that can at times be frustrating but for the most 
 part is pretty easy, however it leaves you wanting more as the single player campaign is ungodly 
 short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentBliss
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  While the game is not exactly amazing graphics wise its still a pretty fun and enjoyable game. 
 The cool moves make up for it getting to do like 5 to 6 flips is really cool, but like others have 
 said weak gunplay. The game is quite short and, like the other games it was hard this one however 
 was pretty simple and took less than a day to beat. So its more of a rental game not a game to 
 own. Once you beat Tomb raider you beat it theres really nothing else left to do. The croft manor 
 is pretty neat, but not many rooms to explore. The game when set on expert its still very easy. 
 So overall rental worth. Hopefully if they make another Tomb Raider it will be longer than this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabbit_pie
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 14, 2006 3:54 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Beautiful graphics of the enviroment and lara, acrobatics are easy to get to grips with 
 and fun, some challenging and fun puzzles, good choice of weapons!
  THE BAD: Weak gunplay, boring bike missions pretty short game, one to many boss battles, good voice 
 overs but english people dont talk like that!, AI is nothing spectacular and some bad camera angles.
 
  
  Back in the days of tomb raider 1,2,3 and the awful dark angel, the acrobatics were an annoying 
 feature that just came up a little to much... well this game is set around them but the gameplay 
 has improved dramatically - its also alot more fun!
  
  The graphics on this game are great, the water looks very realistic, the weather looks good and 
 the general attention to detail deserves a medal - especially the landscape. Lara also looks impressive.
 
  
  The acrobatics are very easy to get to grips with making it alot of fun, compared to past games 
 where you had to perfectly line yourself up with a rope to jump on it, this game is more forgiving 
 and providing your jumping in the right direction, you will grab hold of it. Most (probably all 
 but 1) are straight forward and fun. Most involve putting boxes on switches to open doors, but 
 although this sounds boring, they put you in situations where the boxes arent exactly easy to get 
 to. Some (about 2) puzzle arent very straight forward and at one point i had to look in a walkthrough 
 to know what i was supposed to be doing, but on a whole, is a decent addition to the series.
  
  In the game you get to pick up weapons from the enmies you defeat, and theres quite a decent 
 amount of them (probably not as many as the last tomb raider games) , from grenade launchers to 
 shotguns, and the dual pistols are still in there. near the end of the game you get excaliber, 
 a sword that fires this green power source stuff which is pretty fun to play with.
  
  The sad thing about this game is that the gun play has got worse, when you shoot somebody or something, 
 it always looks like your shooting metal, i was shooting a jaguar at one point and instead of blood, 
 this may sound grusome, but it does take away the realism and therefore the fun. the guns seem 
 a bit weak aswell, the jaguar took around 10 of my pistol bullets - very unrealistic. The range 
 on your weapons is also pretty bad, your pistols can accurately shoot about 3 metres in front of 
 you and then they are flying all over the place. Lastly the weapons dont seem to effect the enemy 
 when your shooting at them, they just take and and shoot back until one of you is dead. But the 
 good thing about the weapons is that the jumping bullet time move is pretty sweet.
  
  The bike missions are also very boring and theone where your chasing a train goes on for longer 
 than you would want it to, the steering is basic and theres no real fear of crashing because most 
 of the time when you do, you just stop instead of falling off.
  
  The boss battles are also a bit annoying, especially when you verse one after every second mission, 
 but they are all different so it isnt to bad.
  
  The sound of the enviroments and guns are good, and the voice overs are alsogood, but nobody in 
 england speaks like lara does, even the posh dont speak as annoyingly as her.
  
  The AI is pretty weak in this game, when an enemy sees you (and thats another thing, theres a lack 
 of stealth on the game) they pretty much just stand there and shoot at you, and all the enemies 
 look pretty much the same, which is also a bit disappointing.
  
  Finally the camera can be a nuicence in close quater acrobatics, it stops you from seeing where 
 you want to go and therefore can make you miss the jump, this is rare however so is nothing major.
 
  
  In coinclusion this is a decent addition to the tomb raider series and i would recomend it to any 
 fans of the tr serreis and anybody that like the prince of persia series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nordicwonder
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  First off, I have never been much of a Tomb Raider fan. Nothing personal but I didn't care for 
 the controls and the boxy look. The idea of the games were great but I never finished one all the 
 way through. Not until I played Tomb Raider Legends. My girl is a big fan of Tomb Raider so we 
 rented it for XBOX and I was blown away at the detail on XBOX alone. When I finally picked up the 
 XB 360, I picked up a few used games to get my game library started and Tomb Raider was one of 
 them.
  
  The detail on XB 360 was phenomenal. I loved the detail in the graphic and nothing was lost in 
 game play either. In fact, I found the game easy to control and had no problems doing what ever 
 I needed to do to complete the missions. I did find some camera angles to be a little funky but 
 it didn't take long for me to adjust. One thing I really like is the cinematic action where you 
 have to press buttons in mid-action to clear a jump or dodge a demon-like character. First time 
 I saw a cinematic seen, I died because I put the controller down to take a bite of food and sip 
 my drink. Then I almost threw my drink when I noticed I was supposed to hit buttons and I frantically 
 tried to grab the control but was too late and almost made a mess! LOL!
  
  This game is well worth the purchase. It has lasting appeal and is challenging. I really hope the 
 remake all the old Tomb Raiders and release them on XB 360 because I would certainly get them. 
 If you haven't played this game yet, I recommend you go buy it next time you go to a gaming store. 
 At least rent it if you don't purchase it. You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 9, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  I loved the first two Tomb Raider games but felt massively let down by their sequels as Lara left 
 tombs behind in favour of the more fashionable (and more generic) city based style. However, Legend 
 puts the series right back where it should be, at the top.
  
  Visually this is on of the best 360 titles so far and the platforming is superb. Anyone who has 
 played the recent Prince of Persia titles will feel right at home as many gameplay mechanics have 
 been adapted from this game for Legend. The gunplay also suits the game well. It only appears in 
 short bursts in order to provide some variety and is very well balanced between technical trickery 
 and straight-forward blasting; anyone can do it well but mastering it takes a lot of practice. 
 The motorcycle sequences are stunning too, borrowing heavily from EA's James Bond titles but worked 
 into Legend's levels in a style that's just right for Lara. The plot is a bit convoluted but that 
 doesn't really matter when the gameplay is so fantasic.
  
  Should you buy it? Definitely. This is a great adventure game, despite being a little on the short 
 side, because everyone will have a favourite level they will return to and play again and again. 
 This is a great reminder of how Tomb Raider should always has remained; as a genre defining platform-adventure 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic85044
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 30, 2006 5:13 am PT
Review:  Lara Croft is back in Tomb Raider: Legend, a game that follows Lara Croft as she looks to unlock 
 the secrets of what happened to her mother. Although this game may be very short, the experience 
 that you have when you first play through it is a great one, and the game has a very enjoyable 
 storyline.
  
  The game, at heart, is more of a puzzle and logic game than an action/adventure title, even though 
 some of the gunfights can be pretty good, even if it's not necessarily the whole crux of the game. 
 The boss battles of the game are just ok, they are very basic and awfully short, and they usually 
 involve their own little puzzle in them.
  
  Like I've said before, the replay value isn't very good, although you can play through the game 
 again on a harder difficulty if your feel like it, but there are also little medallions, called 
 rewards, that you can collect, but you might not find this that entertaining unless you have the 
 Xbox 360 version, because the game offers you rewards for colecting a specific amount of these, 
 but collecting them will also un lock costumes for Lara. Even though these costumes are very basic, 
 they look pretty good, and might be worth it to collect them.
  
  In conclusion, this game is a lot of fun and it should keep you occupied for a little while, especially 
 if you decide to look for all of the games rewards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaWeapon9
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 12, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  These days it seems that Laura Croft is the kind of character that would completely fall off anyones 
 radar. For those not in the know, the Tomb Raider series of adventure games was an ungratified 
 hit during the early days of the original Playstation . And as the series was eventually left for 
 the backburner, and disappeared. There have been some sequels hear and there, but most of which 
 where below average and didn't by any means represent the amazing games that grazed the Playstation 
 . However, those fans that have long awaited the day that Laura Croft would return to glory. You 
 wait is finally over. For Laura's new adventure in Tomb Raider: Legend is without a doubt that 
 game. While it isnt perfect by any stretch of the word. Those that step, yet again, into Laura's 
 shoes will be reminded what makes this character so special in the first place.
  
  The story of Tomb Raider: Legend takes place with Laura and her team mates doing there best to 
 discover what happened to her mother after a terrible accident when Laura was a child. Its hard 
 to go too deep into the story elements without ruining anything. However, it does eventually send 
 Laura threw a journey threw many exotic hotspots around the world, and eventually getting locked 
 into a rather strange conspiracy. While the story in itself isnt very interesting, the characters 
 do a very good job driving it. And Laura's character was done with very good care. As she with 
 the most greatest driving force of ever facet of Tomb Raider: Legend .
  
  The Gameplay is the most improved factor of this series. The one factor that was the most largest 
 complaint of past games was the way you control Laura. As it used to play on an invisible world 
 of grids. And Laura controlled like a large tank. The control scheme was cumbersome and felt very 
 unwieldy. Now, Laura has been given a more nuanced feel. As you can now controller her with the 
 right analog stick, and the left analog stick is used to control the camera. It feels much better 
 being able to have full control over the character.
  
  The games core gameplay is a mixture of platforming, puzzles and gunplay. The platforming and puzzles 
 are done very well, and it feels very nice being able to jump from place to place in all of these 
 different locals. The gunplay on the other hand isnt very good. It is way too oversimplified and 
 is definitely not the real focus of the gameplay. However, the only real problem with the gameplay 
 is the fact that it lacks any form of challenge. While there is some areas that will require continue's 
 to progress. The game is overly easy, and doesnt really feel very challenging in any way. Another 
 factor that helps this is that checkpoints are done very well, as it saved during every new level. 
 Making it very nonflustrating, and equally very easy. It also should be said that the games camera 
 can definitely get in the way at times. However, compared to how past games where, it cant go without 
 saying that Tomb Raider: Legend is a very much improved game on this aspect then past games.
  
  The audio visual side of the game is rather impressive from ever angle. The game looks rather 
 amazing in many ways. And really uses the power of the Xbox 360. Levels and characters look very 
 nice and the effects and environments brim with life. There is some frame-rate issues at times. 
 However, this is a very nice looking game. But the real aspect that steels the show is the audio. 
 The dialog of Laura and all of the characters is done very well. With a sharply written script 
 and witty one-liners coming from Laura really make her a much more interesting aspect of the overall 
 game. And the soundtrack is absolutely amazing, while it is understated at times, there overall 
 orchestral score is unignorable. And remains one of the most amazing parts of the game.
  
  Though Tomb Raider: Legend is a very enjoyable single player experience. The game really serves 
 as more of a rental then a full fledged purchase. Mainly because of the lack of replay value. While 
 there is some unlockables in the form of Time Trials and unlockable Costumes . Chances are that 
 you will play threw the single player game once, then forget about the game. The single player 
 experience, is also very short, lasting no longer then around 5-6 hours. Making it a very good 
 choice for a weekend rental.
  
  While Tomb Raider: Legend doesnt redefine the series, it does without a doubt revive the love 
 some those have for the spunky and enjoyable character of Laura Croft. While past games have had 
 there ups and downs, Legend proves that there is still some life in this franchise. And chances 
 are that it will only get better from here. If you are a fan of the series, or just someone looking 
 for some good adventure gameplay. You will more then likely find what you are looking for in Tomb 
 Raider: Legend .
  
  While not perfect, Tomb Raider: Legend proves that there is still some life in this long forgotten 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FyreHeart
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 27, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  I haven't been wowed by the Tomb Raider series - until now. I didn't especially like TR2. TR3, 
 was pretty good, but this takes the cake. TR: L gives Lara and her team all the personality and 
 characterization of an intrepid explorer like her, the puzzles made a lot more sense while still 
 being challenging, (TR2 - smashing gondolas in Venice? Please.) , and the plot was sufficiently 
 far-fetched to merit a Tomb Raider game.
  
  Gameplay was solid, with occasional direction glitches when she was jumping off poles. I also liked 
 the fact that time trials were an optional game feature, as I'm not a big fan of them.
  
  Graphics were appropriately good for a next-gen game, though the PSP version struggled with framerate 
 issues from time to time. The X360 version was excellent. Lara actually looks like a believable 
 person now.
  
  The voice work was excellent. Alister sounded like a wussy genius and Lara looked at danger with 
 the flippant calm you'd expect. Music was understated but complimentary.
  
  If this is the future of Tomb Raider, I have finally become a fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlyrYaKA
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 23, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  Lara Crofts back. In this edition their is a fantastic script that is hooking till the end, unfotunately 
 the end pops up abruptly after a few hours. The puzzles are fun the first time round but soon get 
 repetitive and boring soon. I argue with the video review on the gunfights. I actually rate this 
 as one of the most fun shoot'emups ever, but the fights are few and far between, doesn't require 
 any intelligence but is great fun none the less. The motorcycle chases were much the same, you couldn't 
 fail and was just about good timing but fun. A good waste of a weekend and a must play!!! Dumb 
 but fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 19, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  Finished Tomb Raider Legends a few days ago but didnt feel like writing a review right away. This 
 is the second or third Tomb Raider game Ive played, I even think I have Tomb Raider 2 in my collection, 
 but I was never really interested in these games. Their main attraction to gamers was a big breasted 
 female lead, block puzzles and a big breasted female lead. I usually stayed away from them but 
 I heard a lot of good news about this game.
  
  Ill start off with the gameplay. Pretty much the emphasis on black puzzles are gone but not totally. 
 They still tend to turn up in the regular place this block here or pull this block to get up 
 there places but they are also used as shields for traps and the such. There is still a lot of 
 concentration on platforming though, with the majority or levels making Lara Croft use all of her 
 acrobatic skills. While I found this approach to level design tedious in the previous games I played, 
 Legends did a good job of keeping me wowed by the visuals or just the intricate ways the levels 
 were designed. Gunplay is rather boring and hasnt changed much over the years. I would have liked 
 to see a more intuitive lock on system that doesnt rely so much on the camera, as foes that should 
 be targeted by at least peripheral vision werent because the camera wasnt on them. The boss battles 
 were nice additions and rekindled some memories of early gaming days where bosses had a pattern 
 and a set way of beating them, however Legends never captures the difficulty of finding these patterns 
 and exploiting them. Also tossed in were quick time events which actually work well in this game 
 to change up the gameplay.
  
  The Graphics were a mixed bag in which Ill start out with the good. The locales in the game were 
 beautifully designed and this is seen in the unlockable galleries of concept art. A ton of detail 
 went into making each place different, closely resembling the actual places they were copied from. 
 On the other hand, the character models in the cut scenes were so-so, not by design but to the 
 contrast of the environments. The locales all looked realistic but the characters during the cut 
 scenes displayed an almost caricature quality to them. The in-game character models seemed much 
 more seamless with the environments. There are a few instances of just ugly textures and one that 
 comes to mind is the water fall in the England level. Though Legends is never an ugly game, it 
 lacks the consistency of beauty.
  
  Voice acting was spot on and nothing bad could be said about it. Dialogue was good for the most 
 part and the story flowed very well. Music, once again, complemented the places the game plays 
 out in, speeding up during action sequences and slowing down on exploration scenes. As for the 
 value part of the game, Tomb Raider Legends comes with a bunch of extra goodies to unlock; from 
 cheats to skins to just simply concept art and models. These things are unlocked by finding bronze, 
 silver and gold items in each level and also by completing the levels in time trial mode. This 
 is one of the few games that Ive gone back and tried to find everything in simply because the 
 levels look beautiful and getting some of these items were a test of skill, not just wandering 
 around.
  
  Legends has honestly changed my point of view of the Tomb Raider series. Now I can look to Legends 
 qualities such as pretty visuals, engaging platforming, a nice story and, yes, a female lead with 
 big breasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leprechaunv
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 12, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  I'm gonna be honest with you, I've never played any game of the Tomb Raider's series, just watched 
 them and made me play something different than that.
  
  I played Tomb Raider LEGEND in a Rental Store (BB) , and loved it. Once you get how to bring action 
 to the game, you start feeling the great game play it has, also, you get involved into an amazing 
 environment, that makes the game a masterpiece. The riddles you have to solve, are not that easy... 
 you need to check out every single detail, in order to get it.
  
  The game play, as I told you, is almost free to do whatever you want. The only mistake I found 
 is the swimming control, is really tough to get it at first time, but also, once you get it, It'll 
 be a piece of cake.
  
  SFX and Music involve you into an exciting action environment, with Lara giving her best performance, 
 shooting, jumping and bouncing those big things, that make Lara very special for the player.. hehehe.
 
  
  Well, It's a short game, but you may try it at least once. You'll decide if just rent it, or buy 
 it.
  
  Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 11, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  Being that it was the game that ruined the Tomb Raider franchise, let us forget about Angel of 
 Darkness for a minute. To be honest, it is hard for a decade old series to be ruined by one specific 
 game, but Eidos managed to pull it off with their last attempt. Thankfully, Legend fully makes 
 up for Angel of Darkness and is possibly the best game in the series.
  
  Legend follows the story of Lara Croft as she searches through her past to uncover the
  legend 
 of King Arthur and Excalibur and whether or not the myth is real, all the while trying to stop 
 an evil group from finding pieces to the sword and destroying it before her. Yes, its your basic 
 clich&eacute; storyline of a rare item that both sides are after, but Legend makes the story seem 
 like half the game, as the action and exploration is where Legend truly shines.
  
  The search for the sword will take Lara around the globe, in locales ranging from England to Kazakhstan. 
 Each location offers new clues to the myth and how it connects to the overall scheme of things. 
 Naturally, each level also has its fair assortment of puzzles to be solved, and the physics in 
 Legend make the puzzles that much more intricate and amazing to decipher. Lara will push blocks, 
 climb mountains, swim under waterfalls, and even swing over gaping holes to fulfill her task.
 
  
  Graphically Legend is gorgeous. The cutscenes seem a little drab, but the in-game visuals really 
 shine. All of Laras currently equipped gadgets are shown on her utility belt, and even her weapons 
 are holstered on her back. This amount of detail is not only specific for Lara herself, but the 
 areas. Walls have decay, birds fly in the distance over waterfalls, and not to mention. Lara Croft 
 looks pretty damn good (for a game character that is) herself.
  
  Possibly the best aspect of Legend is the sound. Excellent voice acting captures the nature of 
 the game perfectly (although one of the antagonists sounds like a whiny bratyou know which one) . 
 The musical score is phenomenal, fully capturing the heat of the moment and the location for which 
 you are in. For instance, Nepal has a sort of Asian feel to it with a high key, for you are climbing 
 the mountains for most of the level.
  
  My only gripe would have to be the short story mode. It is over rather quickly and only took me 
 around 8 hours to complete. Also, replay value is dedicated mainly for time attack, which is only 
 for those hardcore gamers who want to get all the achievement points. Other than that, Legend is 
 a suitable addition for the Tomb Raider series, and one that fully resurrects what Angel of Darkness 
 killed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbelluk
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 5, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  Having not played the last Tomb Raider game Angel Of Darkness and being slightly underwhelmed by 
 Tomb Raider IV its fair to say that I had low expectations of this game. It was a pleasant surprise 
 then that the game was a pretty good all rounder. The story is decent enough but its just the 
 standard stuff to tie all the locations together. Graphics wise the game is good but, it doesnt 
 really push the XBOX 360 hardware in any way but its still a nice looking game. Sound wise the 
 game is good as well featuring some great incidental music.
  
  The main game is a little short taking approximately 7 hours to complete but the time trials could 
 extend the game longer if you have the patience to do them. The game is a source of some fairly 
 easy gamer points, playing through on hard gets you the majority of the points available. The most 
 difficult to get are the time trials which seem incredibly hard to achieve and so I just game up 
 in the end.
  
  I rented the game and I suggest thats the way forward, there isnt much replay value here but 
 I think its definitely worth a look if you want a decent single player game.
  
  Crystal Dynamics seem to have proved that there may still be life in Lara yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomdogg
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Hi, its me again. This time, the review is about Tomb Raider legend for the Xbox 360. Since Ive 
 had no new reviews up for almost a month, I decided what the hell? Anyways, The Xbox 360 version 
 really dosent differ much from the PS2 version, other than in graphics, and slightly shorter loading 
 times. Thats really all there is to it. I know I could just leave it at this, but Im going to 
 do a full review anyway. There will be some cutting and pasting from my PS2 review, but I really 
 dont feel like typing all that in again.
  
  The story starts off in Bolivia, with Lara climbing some cliffs. Shes basically there to examine 
 a stone dais in some ruins, which is believed to have caused her mothers untimely demise some 
 years ago. While shes on her adventure, somehow the legend of King Arthur becomes involved, and 
 something about one of her friends thought to be dead. So, Lara is basically trying to solve the 
 mystery of her mothers dead and wrap it all up.
  
  Graphics- 8/10
  The graphics actually look the best on the Xbox 360, but they do look really good on all the other 
 platforms too. They might not be the best visuals around, but they do look good nonetheless. The 
 Xbox 360s version really only has more detail to the environments, and better lighting effects. 
 Other than that, theres really no difference. Laras model looks pretty good, the environments 
 look great, and the explosions, dust, debris, and special effects all look pretty good. You can 
 even see the number of grenades on every character which is somewhat impressive. The models that 
 dont look really good however, are the non main characters and the vehicles. They lack a lot of 
 detail and look somewhat ugly. Overall, the visuals are impressive, but they arent the best on 
 the market.
  
  Sound- 9/10
  The sound is really good. Tomb Raider legend boasts an all new sound track, along with flawless 
 voice acting. Crystal dynamics also got the individual flooring sounds just right, and there are 
 also different sounds based on whether Lara is wearing shoes or not. Furthermore, the explosions 
 sound awesome, and the environmental sounds are really good as well. The only complaints that I 
 have lie with in the guns. They dont sound very realistic when you are playing, and dont sound 
 as realistic as they should in the cinematics.
  
  Gameplay- 8/10
  The gameplay is exactly the same as the PS2 version, but heres the original paragraph. Some new 
 changes have been made to the Tomb Raider formula. To start off, you can now carry only two weapons 
 at once. Your pistols and one other weapon, whether its an SMG, an assault rifle, etc. This gives 
 a more realistic feeling to the game itself, unlike the other tomb raider games where you could 
 carry 20 weapons at once. The controls have also been changed. For instance, triangle is now the 
 action button and not X. You also have some new nifty gadgets, such as your personal light source. 
 This is more reliable and slays the need for flares. You also have a pair of binoculars that has 
 a special RAD mode that can identify useful objects such as mechanisms, and explosives. This is 
 especially useful when solving puzzles. There are a couple of motorcycle scenes where you get to 
 ride on a motorcycle through a part of the level and they pack some pretty good action. Furthermore, 
 there are some bonus objects in the game that can be collected and help unlock some bonuses. These 
 secrets havent been around since Tomb Raider 2 which I thought was cool. Theres also a new 
 manual aim, which helps hit objects that cant be hit when using the auto aim. There are a few problems 
 however. The game is very short and the puzzles arent very challenging. I mean they are challenging 
 the first time you do them, but you will see a lot of them repeated over and over again. There 
 are some frustrating camera angles and the gunplay is kind of weak.
  
  In the end, Tomb Raider Legend may be a short game, but its still a fun game that pretty much 
 everyone can get some enjoyment out of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_chewbacca
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 1, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Legend is a game where you play as Lara Croft, a tomb raiding bad ***. She totes around 
 dual pisols and swings around with a grappling hook. Tomb Raider takes place in numerous locations 
 including Japan, England, and Bolivia. You must roam around these locations in search for an ancient 
 artifact. Tomb Raider: Legend is a great game with ok graphics, good gameplay, good story, and 
 awesome environments.
  
  As you play you must scower around various dungeons and ruins in search of artifacts. To get where 
 you want you will have to engage in many puzzles and jump, swing, and swim your way to the end. 
 Lara is very acrobatic and you will be jumping from rock to rock and alot of other slick moves 
 that look great. The graphics arent great but the environments you are in are always unique and 
 interesting. The character models arent the best (except for Lara ofcourse) but otherwise the great 
 gameplay really adds the the gaming experience.
  
  The gameplay is great! The controls really work out and are easily maneuvered. When you play, you 
 will drive vehicles (a black motorcycle) and mainly jump from rock to rock and swing your way deeper 
 into ruins. The puzzles in Tomb Raider are sometimes tricky and can be hard. But this game is mainly 
 about puzzles than fighting, although you will have to fight numerous bosses and you will fight 
 mercs. You can use around 5 different weapons, pistols, smgs, shotguns, assaults, and grenade launchers. 
 But as I said before you will be walking more than shooting (thankfully because combat is kinda 
 dry, with a bad lock on system.)
  
  Overall this game is great and I highly recommend that you RENT it because the story mode is short 
 (i beat it in one day.) The game is very fun, challenging and sometimes puzzling.
  
  Good Points: Great gameplay, really fun and addicting, neat ways to maneuver around runes, beautifull 
 environments, and really well done.
  
  Bad Points: Some puzzles get tricky, loading times after dying are long, character models are bad, 
 too short, and fighting is kinda lame (with crappy lock on.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muppen
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 17, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  The buxom adventurer Lara Croft is back in a new adventure which offers a good amount of fun whether 
 you've played Tomb Raider before or not.
  
  In this game Lara is investigating the death of her mother, which happened when she was a child. 
 The clues takes Lara to diffirent parts of the world like England, Ghana, Japan and Khazakstan 
 which all looks very nice on the 360. There's good variety in the levels; some requries you to 
 solve diffirent puzzles before you can move on while others you just need to shoot some bad guys 
 to continue your journey. Lara has, like allways, her basic dual guns to take down enemies but 
 she can also pick up SMGs, shotguns and grenades. She can also do slide tackles and kicks if she 
 gets close enough. A pretty neat thing in this game which is new is the aerial assault . Lara can 
 get close to an enemy, jump off him and go into slow motion while shooting. The controls are simple 
 enough so it shouldn't take you long to learn them.
  
  Another cool thing which is back from the previous games is Croft Manor , Laras house. You can 
 explore, unlock secrets, change into diffirent costumes and so on. You can replay all the levels 
 in Time attack which is pretty challenging. In this mode you basically need to know the levels 
 like the back of your palm.
  
  Tomb Raider: Legend is one of the best and most entertaining games in this series, but it lacks 
 two or three levels to make you completely satisfied at the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FyreAndIce83
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 28, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  While I wasn't sure what this game would bring to the 360, I was pleasantly surprised. Having not 
 played the series since it's final attempt on the Playstation 1 (Revelations) , I was skeptical 
 to say the least. How hard would the jumps and button combinations be this time around? Would the 
 levels be monotonous and basically located in just a tomb or jungle? I am glad this game was nothing 
 like I expected.
  
  This time, the game decides to delve into Lara's childhood experiences with her mother and friends 
 Amanda and Anaya. Barring any spoilers, you begin the game with a tutorial in the jungles of Bolivia, 
 then to Peru, then... Japan?! You're all over the world in this game, basically uncovering the truth 
 behind King Arthur and His Knights of the Round Table.
  
  Now to the technical stuff. On the 360, the graphics are fluid and beautiful, like you'd expect. 
 The jungle looks and feels real, as does the water. No really odd looking cliffs or angles. Very 
 smooth and pretty. Same with the sounds, absolutely beautiful. Cutscenes and cinematics are flawless. 
 Overall, just a very well done game.
  
  Introduced in this game as well, are the interactive scenes where you have to hit a particular 
 button that is shown on the screen to survive whatever's going on. I believe this was also used 
 in Resident Evil 4. Jumps are extremely easy in this game as there is less chance of falling from 
 cliffs and ropes. You can jump at an angle and still somehow end up grabbing whatever you need 
 to grab. Also in this game are rewards, that earn you extra cinematics, outfits, and other prizes 
 in the extras menu. Don't want to give any more spoilers, so if you want to know, download a game 
 guide.
  
  Well, I'd say that wraps up my review. All in all, an extremely well put together game that's ending 
 leaves you craving for more... and the next Tomb Raider game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nico4
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 28, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  Lara Croft is one of the most famous video game character (of course, who dosen&acute; t love a 
 girl with big boobs huh?) , but she kinda lost some of her reputation, because of her sixth game. 
 Angel of Darkness. Now she&acute; s finally back and she&acute; s better than ever!
  
  This time Lara&acute; s trying to solve something about her mother&acute; s death. The clues leave 
 her to the legend of King Authur and his magical sword. Of course she isin&acute; t the only one 
 looking for the sword, so Lara must do asnything to retive the 49 peices, in order to solve her 
 mothers death.
  
  The gameplay is something like the old Tomb Raider games, except that it&acute; s miles of better 
 than the old games. Controls are responsive and not clunky like the old Tomb Raider games. This 
 really helps when jumping from cliff to cliff because it&acute; s important to line your jumps so 
 that you don&acute; t fall to your doom (which you&acute; ll probably do anyway) . Of course Lara 
 is skilled with weapons, and she&acute; s once again equipped with her standard (and trademark) 
 twin guns. She can pick up other weapons, but it&acute; s not worth it. The twin guns have unlimited 
 ammo, and works well against emenies, so it&acute; s not worth to equip some new weapons. Even her 
 hand-to-hand combat is very weak (like the shooting then) . Tomb Raider Legends does have puzzles, 
 and while they are a little hard at first, you&acute; ll always doing the same puzzle. Evey puzzle 
 is a variation of pushing a cirtan item from point A to point B, with some complications along 
 the way. The game also have some driving sections and these are suprislingy good. The motorbike 
 handles really well, and it&acute; s fun to drive it too. Also there&acute; s quick time events (which 
 you may know if you played: Shenmue, God of War, Indigo Prophecy (Fahrenheit in EU) and Resident 
 Evil 4) but evey one of them is limited to 3-4 botton presses, besides that, they are very easy. 
 Also the game is very easy!
  
  Remember that the old games where about 40-50 hours long? Well that&acute; s because of the clunky 
 controls, and the fact that it where so hard to complete them. Tomb Raider Legend is easy and have 
 good controls, so the game is only around 10 hours or less (disapointing!) However after the game, 
 there&acute; s bronze, silver &amp; gold medals. They give some replay valve.
  
  The graphics are done really well. Both the characters and backgrounds looks stunning!
  
  The 
 sound is filled with some good music (although not any tracks from The Prodigy, as they said a 
 couple of months ago) and voice acting is just fantastic.
  
  Tomb Raider is out for the PC, Playstation 2, Xbox &amp; Xbox 360 and is due to get released on 
 the PSP, Gamecube and Nintendo DS later this year.
  
  The PC version features the feature to play it with current generation graphics and next generation 
 graphics. However the frame rate is so bad when playing with next-gen graphics and controls aren&acute; t 
 excalty food on the PC too. The Xbox 360 version features the same next-gen graphics as in the 
 PC version, but without the frame rate problems. Xbox 360 version also have Achivements, so there&acute; s 
 plenty of replay valve there! The PS2 and Xbox version are alike, but the graphics are still pretty 
 good.
  
  Overall Tomb Raider Legend is a good reiveal of Lara Croft. It&acute; s just a shame that Crystal 
 Dynamics dinin&acute; t want to do any major this with it. If your a fan of Lara. Buy it. if not 
 avoid it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gSp0t0210
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 25, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit, the idea of a new Tomb Raider game was something I didn't want to look forward to. 
 Recent memory served up some rotten cherries, with Angel of Darkness promising to be the peak of 
 Tomb Raider greatness, ending up only to be one of the worst in the series. So, being reluctant, 
 I downloaded the XBL demo to get my feet wet for what I was expecting to be a quick swim in shark-infested 
 seas. However, to my surprise, the sharks were dolphins, and the sea was actually an aquarium. 
 The game offered not only an interesting story, but redone controls (about time!) and very decent 
 graphics for an early XBOX 360 game. Although this game lives on short thrills &amp; sometimes 
 bland graphics, Legend delivers a good quickie &amp; a great story.
  
  The game starts out on the same level as the demo, based in Bolivia. We join Ms. Lara Croft climbing 
 up a mountain to get to some old Mayan ruins, in hopes to find some closure to an event that has 
 happened in the past. Right away, they throw you into the game with a built-in tutorial (something 
 that I wish they would keep, but not make it throughout the game) . Throughout the game, they will 
 support you with more tool-tips, but none of which will really get too annoying in the long run. 
 The game also includes some very in depth puzzles, ala Indiana Jones, God of War, or any fun Action/Adventure 
 game. There are also button-command shorts, like Indigo Prophecy, that keep you on your toes. Although 
 these are really easy, it's still a fun break to watch the action of the game.
  
  I would explain more of the story, but I'm afraid that the game isn't that long. In fact, the game 
 took less than 10 hours to beat the main story. I will say that the story does keep you interested. 
 There wasn't a dull moment throughout the main game (which granted, the game wasn't long enough 
 to be boring) . There are few things to keep you coming back to play more, unless you're a fool 
 for unlockables. The Croft Manor is back in full stride, but I'm a sucker for the 'old-school', 
 so I was a little disappointed when there was no outside Obstacle course. However, I was satisfied 
 to see that there were plenty of nooks &amp; crannies to explore, plus the option to collect more 
 rewards within the house. I was able to enjoy this for around 2 hours without getting bored, so 
 for not being part of the main game, I was content with what they did with her Manor.
  
  The music of the game was intense and always set the proper mood. I'm a sucker for game soundtracks, 
 so I always have a bias towards games with a great score. I didn't once have to change the music 
 to my custom soundtrack. Yes, there are times where the music did a little redundant, but I saw 
 past the coding glitches (there were times where I had managed to kill all the mercenaries, and 
 the battle music was still playing) . But a good mix of upbeat techno/trance and the dulcet sounds 
 of a more slow electronica were always there to keep me entertained.
  
  Overall, Tomb Raider: Legend is a fun game for rent or cheaper purchase. As I said earlier, I was 
 able to hold out and only spend $25 at Best Buy last week (it's currently $30 right now) , and it 
 was worth that in every way. However, if you're not much of a collector, or just want a quick game 
 to enjoy for a weekend, then rent this one. Legend gives you those short thrills of a chocolaty-action 
 packed gameplay, with some creamy puzzle centers and a nougat of story to make this a delight for 
 even the skeptics. Just one bite, and you'll want the rest of the bag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btaylor2404
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 24, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  After several bad Tomb Raiders this one returns to what Tomb Raider does best. The game play is 
 fun, challenging at times, and has a good story. Even those who have never played Tomb Raider before 
 will pick up the controlls fairly quickly, my son is 13 and this was his first one, and he made 
 it thru fairly quickly as well. This one does a great job of using many different locations, some 
 great, some ok. Only problem is it's very short, for most players, espically those used to Tomb 
 Raiders you should fly right through it. You can probally finish it in a weekend rental rather 
 than buying it. But if you do buy it there is not much left to do after finishing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gennatay
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 10, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  I'm playing this now and I'm flying through it. It's simple and easy to learn. It hasa lot of puzzles 
 and shooting, basic Tomb Raider but better graphics. Sometimes the shooting angle is off and Laura's 
 POV camera angle is off. This is the game I play while my boyfriend watches sports and I don't 
 want to play on the big screen. But, I should have just rented this game instead of buying it as 
 it has little to no replay value. But that being said, I did only pay $30 for it on sale at best 
 buy and the trade in value is at $20. I will definitely be trading this game in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quagmire555
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 14, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  U may think a Tomb Raider game on the Xbox 360 would me great., but his game makes u want to put 
 a gun to ur head. This game has absolutely no fun in it watsoever. All u do is jump, jump, jump. 
 There is barely any enemies to shoot, and that makes this game very aggrevating. This game totally 
 makes past tomb raider games look stupid. I recommend 2 stay away from this game. I threw mine 
 in the trash can. Bottom line, this game sucks and i am angry at the craetors for makin tomb raider 
 look this bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saruman1719
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  My experience with the Tomb Raider series, prior to Legend, has been extrememly brief. I played 
 a little bit of Parts 1 and 2, and while they seemed like good games, they never held my interest 
 enough to go out and actually buy them. As the years passed on, and the series seemed to be fading 
 into nothingness, it virtually cemented the fact that I was never going give Lara the time of day.
 
  
  However, something changed when I came across this game. The previews looked good, the graphics 
 were nice, and the clunky controls were supposedly touched up in this one. For some reason, I found 
 myself looking forward to its release. When I got my Xbox 360, Tomb Raider: Legend had the distinction 
 of being my third game. 
  
  The controls feel tight. The days of making Lara jump towards something and not hanging onto a 
 ledge or plummeting to her death are pretty much gone. There's nothing amazing about the gunplay, 
 but there's nothing to knock about it either. There are some puzzles of course, but nothing too 
 crazy. All the locations you go to in the game are fantastic. You are virtually all over the globe, 
 from Bolivia to Japan to England, and so on. I never found myself bored with any of the levels, 
 and they all seem to end just before it had the potential to drag on. 
  
  The game looks great, that's for sure. Lara has never looked better. The music and sounds in game 
 are fitting and the voice acting is done well, especially with Lara. All her quips and comments 
 are rather charming and just add to the good time that the game provides. I also have to give special 
 mention to the main menu music that plays if you just let the game sit there. Call me crazy, but 
 I liked just sitting there listening to the stirring score every now and then.
  
  Due to the 360's achievement system, the game has decent replay value. From collecting various 
 rewards, time trials, beating the game on different difficulties, you may see yourself doing these 
 to get the achievements. I took a chance, buying this game at $60 back when it came out, and I 
 truly feel like it was worth every penny. Now with the recent price drop, it seems like a no-brainer 
 to give this series a chance again. Tomb Raider: Legend may be short, but it provides enough thrills 
 and fun to make it worthy of taking its place in my collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akif22
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 1, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  After the disappointment that was Angel of Darkness, the Tomb Raider is quickly getting back to 
 its best.
  
  I really liked this game. The gameplay and level design were both great, and the story was above 
 average.
  
  However, there are a few downsides. Firstly, the game is pretty short. Even by completing the time 
 trial and hard modes, and getting all secret rewards, the game didn't last that long, which was 
 a shame.
  
  Also, there wasn't really enough combat in my opinion. There are quite a few mercenaries to kill, 
 but what I liked about the Tomb Raider games was the wide variety of animal enemies, which this 
 game lacks.
  
  Still, it's an enjoyable game that's still worth playing, especially if you're a fan of the series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laracroftwest42
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Who wouldn't want to buy this game and i love it. Best in series. IT is tottlay worth it to buy. 
 I LOVE IT. It is so beautiful. It was easy . Lara Croft travels to find ancient artifacts to put 
 together a sword (Excalibur) to find out about her mother. But suddenly she runs into her old friend 
 Amanda. Long thought dead. She never knew this would happen but now amanda is bad. She finnaly 
 defats her and saves the world but the ending is a total cliffhanger so you will have to play it 
 to understand the whole story.
  
  
  
  Story=10
  Graphics=10
  Sound=10
  Easyness=10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jusplainme
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 26, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  I can't say I've been much of a fan of the series, but this game I like. It's a good rental for 
 anyone interested in an adventure/puzzle game. I would even say that it is worth the $30 dollars 
 it is going for now if you haven't already played this game on the ps2 or the xbox. With this game 
 you get decent graphics and sound, good controls, a crappy camera system that gets you killed from 
 time to time, and a good amount unlock-ables as well. I will be eagerly waiting for the next installment 
 in this series to take more advantage of the next gen consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: random58
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 25, 2006 9:21 am PT
Review:  legends has a good polish to it at first site but you soon find out that it doesn't compare to 
 the first 3 in the series, as usual the developes haven't took advantage of the raw power the xbox 
 has to offer. the storyline is still a good part of it though and will keep you hooked till you 
 find out what happens in the end. some things rattle you, for instance controlling lara isnt always 
 too easy as you'll find she sometimes just likes to jump any which way you dont want her to. there 
 really isnt much difficulty aswell as you can breeze through the game and unlock most of the extras 
 within 10 hours
  and smoke come from the guns when you shoot them but looks really silly when they come 5 mins afterwards. 
 but all in all this game is worth having a go at 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FossilMan23
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 21, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  Yes, you heard correct, Lara Croft is back and better than ever  and its about time too. In fact, 
 I dont think there has been a Tomb Raider game this good since the originals sequel way back 
 on the original Playstation. But amongst all the celebrations that will no doubt erupt in the wake 
 of all the good reviews and fan word of mouth, there are still some issues with this game that 
 need addressing. 
  
  First of all, as good at resurrecting the franchise as Crystal Dynamics Tomb Raider: Legend has 
 done, the game is far from being labelled a classic. In a nutshell, Tomb Raider: Legend is just 
 a good, solid, all-around action/adventure puzzler. Aside from injecting new blood into a dying 
 series and effectively getting it back on its feet, the game is nothing too special or fancy. 
 
  
  What Crystal Dynamics has done, in essence, is build the franchise back up slowly, delivering a 
 game that would draw the millions of fans back with a game that would satisfy them and ultimately, 
 to whet their appetite for more Lara. And that is what this game is: a clean slate, and a new foundation 
 from which to build on. 
  
  So where will the franchise go from here? Well, it can go anywhere now that it is firmly back on 
 its feet. From here, Crystal Dynamics and Eidos Interactive can continue to build the on foundations 
 Tomb Raider: Legend has laid down. And I think that when the next inevitable instalment arrives, 
 Lara is only going to bigger and better still. 
  
  Graphically, Tomb Raider: Legend is a decent looking game. On the Xbox 360 and PC you will find 
 that the game is notably better looking than the PS2 and Xbox version, but the general theme is 
 the same: the game looks good on all systems, much like Peter Jacksons King Kong in fact. Though 
 one thing must be said about the Xbox 360 version, and something that stands out more on that console 
 than any other. On the Xbox 360, the visuals look vaguely previous generation, despite their high 
 resolution dexterity. 
  
  I suppose the sheer fact that Tomb Raider: Legend was designed as a multi-platform release on both 
 previous and current next generation systems was to blame for this, but it would have still been 
 nice for Crystal Dynamics to enhance it a little more for the Xbox 360 version. Still, the visuals 
 are very pretty to look at, and the newly improved Lara is a treat for the eyes. 
  
  Another thing that was radically (yes, radically) improved for this re-imagining of the Tomb Raider 
 franchise is the games controls. Finally we have a set of controls that will not end in the hurling 
 of the controller across the room in sheer frustration. Crystal Dynamics have completely reworked 
 the controls, making the whole game more fun and a lot easier to navigate. So after years of frustration, 
 you can now finally be at peace with the motions of Lara, and believe me when I say that this is 
 a true godsend. 
  
  As good as the new control system is however, the camera system leaves something to be desired. 
 It is often a little too fragile for my liking and seems a touch sensitive at times. Dont get 
 me wrong, the camera isnt bad, it just isnt brilliant, and may take a little while for you to 
 get a suitable grip over it. 
  
  The gameplay here is fun and highly enjoyable. About three-quarters of the game are solely focused 
 on adventure and innovative puzzle-solving, with the last quarter interspersed with action. The 
 puzzles really are a blast, and some may have you stumped for minutes, maybe hours at a time, but 
 youll never lose interest or get bored. On the contrary in fact, you will be drawn in so deep 
 that youll have the willpower and determination to solves the many riddles the game throws at 
 you. 
  
  As for the action elements, they are fun too. Lara can do some pretty fine acrobatics, and her 
 combat system is slick for the most part. She can destroy environmental hazards to cause a cave-in 
 on her enemies, swing off vines, slide down hill-sides, drive a number of vehicles and interact 
 with the environment in new, unique ways. So no matter whether you are into action or adventure 
 games, Tomb Raider: Legend has both covered with plenty of variety and style. 
  
  Fans, Lara Croft, that buxom British adventurer, is almost well and truly back where she belongs 
  right at the top of the roost. So although she might have a little way to go before we can bow 
 before her like we once did, the important thing to note is that she is getting there, and real 
 fast thanks to the new developers. Tomb Raider: Legend is easily the best game in the franchise 
 for years, and an all-out adventure game thatll have you hooked for days, maybe weeks. Does it 
 come recommended? You better believe it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 12, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Pros: 
  Good looking surroundings
  Fun puzzle solving
  
  Cons: 
  Characters don't look particularly sharp
  Voice acting doesn't fit in with the rest of the game
 
  Weak gunplay
  
  Bad Glitch Areas:
  Bullets "change their path" when you jump off someone's shoulders and shoot for their faces.
 
  
  Overview:
  The first 4 TR titles were marvels of games, released on the PS, PC and other platforms, they were 
 all pretty successful. Then Chronicles and Angel of Darkness showed up and brought Lara down a 
 peg. Did Legend bring her back up? NO. And I'll tell you why. The Guns, this game is all about 
 the guns and very little about tombs. And despite the fact the game is based around guns, the gunplay 
 is weak and unimpressive, so why focus the game on one of it's weak-points? We'll never know. But 
 in all, this extension of the dying TR series is an easy and enjoyable ride while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natakureborn
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 5, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  It is a good story I did enjoy myself. My only real issue is its really short. I did like the interactive 
 movies, were you had to push 'a' or what ever at the right moment. It puts you more into the game 
 not just watching it. The controls were spot on and never had one issue with them. I did notice 
 one time Lara was on a stair case, no floating both feet were on the stairs. It speaks loudly about 
 care for the game. Over all the experince was well worth it. I'm an old school tomb raider fan. 
 This is a great return to her roots. King Aurther LIVES! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Opticon12000
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 4, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  I thought i would review this as it is my first Xbox 360 game, so here goes. 
  I would say this game is much better than the last lot of Tomb Raider games as it appeals to a 
 much wider audiance with smoother animations and faster gameplay. It would appeal to a wider audiance 
 in another way, the fact that you can drive vehicals, swing from ropes, grapel hook items to bring 
 them down / swing from them / or change them in a way to solve a puzzel. I wouldent say the puzzels 
 were hard although for some you do have to stop and think a while before you can plan your route 
 ahead.
  
  Looks best on the Xbox 360? 
  
  Sure does, i have played the Xbox 360, Xbox, PS2 and PSP versions of this game and can truely say 
 the Xbox 360 makes a big big diffrence.
  
  Gameplays better on the Xbox 360?
  
  I would have to say it is a draw between the PS2 version and the Xbox 360 version. The PSP version 
 makes it a little hard to turn the camera and the Xbox version isnt at its best with the use of 
 the White and Black buttons.
  
  Overall this game is fun to play and does hurt your brain as much as the last ones so its quick 
 and easy to pick up. It also provides some nice quick gamerpoints too if you want some.
  
  Liked the other Tomb Raider games? Then this might not be for you as is the case of one of my friends, 
 but give it a try anyway on demo / rent it / play it at a friends house to see i you do before 
 you buy.
  
  Its a game that people who didnt like Tomb Raider in the past will probably like this time around. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangaminx
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 3, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  Having played every major title in the Tomb Raider series (not counting handheld and mobile phone 
 versions) , taking Lara all around the world and pitting her against a variety of enemies no title 
 in the long running series has really ever been as good as the original. When I sat down to play 
 Tomb Raider Legend therefore my expectations were not that high, however I was nicely surprised 
 how good this title was. While not being quite as amazing as the original, Lara's seventh (think 
 I counted correctly) console outing is the strongest the series has been for a long time.
  
  Story (Minor spoilers below in story section)
  While I wasn't quite sure what was going on 
 100% of the time in the storyline, this adventure has some good moments in it's plot as well as 
 a cast of good characters. The game see's Lara travelling to various locations round the world 
 (Bolivia, Nepal, Ghana to name but a few) attempting to discover what happened to her mother a 
 long time ago and getting involved in a much bigger adventure in the process. Amanda was certainly 
 my favourite character in the game, and acted as suitably deranged villian with her rather mad 
 looks and demonic pet in tow.
  
  Gameplay
  This is really where the game excels, impressively so. Gameplay wise nothing here is wonderfully 
 new however you'll be having way too much fun, jumping, swinging, hanging, motorcycle riding and 
 puzzle solving to care. With the exception of the Kazakhstan and Japan levels the game really gives 
 you the feeling of exploring long lost valleys and deep dark tombs the gameplay style making the 
 environments seem all the more believable. The England level in particular is home to some particularly 
 good puzzles and gameplay elements all set in one of the best enviroments Lara has ever been in. 
 Where Legend manages to improve over nearly all the other games in the series for me is the fact 
 that the gameplay is finally recombined with level design that rivals the original. 
  
  Graphics
  Again I was surprised by how nice the visuals for this game are. Sure I'm playing on 
 a 360 so I expect nice graphics but the Tomb Raider games have never been visually stunning. This 
 time round though I was actually surprised by the sheer beauty of some of the environments, wherever 
 you are in Lara's world the graphics make everywhere seem far, far more believable.
  
  Sound
  Yep. You've guessed it. I was surprised here too. The sound in Legend is spot on. Firstly 
 you have the background music and effects for the worlds which again suck you right into the games 
 environments, everything really working well (I especially liked the "twinkling" sounds used in 
 the icey caverns of Nepal) . Secondly you have the great voice acting with all the cast being voiced 
 well, no voice for any character sounds badly acted or out of place which in the world of video 
 games is no mean feat in itself.
  
  Value
  Three difficulty levels (I just played it through on the hardest first time) , a time trial mode, 
 hidden objects in the worlds and unlockables are what await you to complete here. The game itself 
 isn't the longest (took me about 11 hours on the hardest setting, finding every item) there is 
 still a fair bit to do and certainly isn't as poor value as suggested by some.
  
  Overall
  Legend is a successful return to the Tomb Raider franchise after the disaster of the 
 previous game. Here's hoping Tomb Raider VIII (which the end of the Legend sets itself up perfectly 
 for) continues with this quality.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChromeGrill212
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 31, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  If u aren't a Tomb Raider fan, u could start to turn into one from playing this game. It is really 
 easy to be a Tomb Raider fan if u like playing action adventure games. Cuz it happened to me. but 
 the bad thing is that the storyline is too short with a lil bit of levels. Atleast some missions 
 are a little too long to beat. Which is a good thing cuz u could save game into check points. Even 
 though it could take a short bit of time for u to beat the whole game, u could still do other things 
 like collecting the rewards that u left out back from the previous levels. And U could also collect 
 rewards from the croft manor to unlock extra stuff. But the game still wouldn't be worth buying 
 cuz all of that stuff is simple to do and wouldn't take a long time to do. Maybe this game could 
 be worth buying if u could play it into Xbox Live. And it also would be a good idea to play this 
 game into Xbox Live against other people. cuz this game is pretty fun to play when u could shoot 
 people and do other types of physical moves like doing a backflip dodge and kicking people. Too 
 bad that the game doesn't have Xbox Live gameplay availabe.
  I would have bought it if it did. U could still have lots of fun playing this game though. When 
 u get into the parts of some levels where u could ride on motorcycles, it just makes u really glad 
 that u played this game in the first place. The puzzles in this game could make u feal stupid sometimes. 
 But that's not really a big deal. Cuz once when u find out about how to solve a puzzle or get through 
 a complicated area, u could do much better next time when u get into the next level. So anyways, 
 remember to rent this game and not buy it since u cant play it in Xbox Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mallraider75
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 31, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of Tomb Raider since TR3 came out. Now, I love the new version of Tomb Raider a 
 whole lot more. Lara Croft has got a complete makeover, from the controls, to the sexy graphics. 
 She is more agile and tough than before. Her mansion is bigger than in previous games. Once you 
 beat a certain level, Time Trial is unlocked. There is also bonuses to earn by searching for Bronze, 
 Silver, and Gold rewards. This game has some sweet replay values to master each level, and more 
 bonuses to unlock, especially on the Xbox360 version. It took me a full month to finish the game, 
 and it's the first TR game I beat from start to finish.
  
  Lara is on a quest to find pieces of a sword fragment, and finding out what happened to her mother, 
 only to find baddies working for Rutland and Amanda. With places like Ghana, Peru, and Nepal, Lara 
 is not afraid of anything that gets in her way. There's some puzzles to solve and rewards to collect. 
 She still has her trademark pistols, but she can take other weapons that are useful, like SMGs 
 and Assault Rifles. She also has a ton of outfits, perfect to wear during Time Trial mode. My faves 
 are Legend: Pink, Legend: Blue, and Evening Gown: Red. The classic outfit makes a return, but she 
 would look a lot cooler and sexier if it was pink or blue. Even the cutscenes are sweet. This game 
 is every gamer's fantasy. They would love to be in her boots anytime. Hopefully, the next version 
 would last longer. I can't wait.
  
  Pros: Everything you always want in a TR game. They put back the "Tomb" in Tomb Raider.
  
  
 Cons: Short game. Only 8 levels. Can you believe that it takes at least five hours?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: odamkevin
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 29, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  if you've never been a fan of the series, theres no reason to start now. this game is based on 
 the same, old tomb raider concept of exploring and puzzle solving. graphics are decent but honestly, 
 i think that legends only give an experience thats easily passable. the gun-play is just weak and 
 after the satisfaction of solving a finding the way to get to the next stage, tomb raider legends 
 just doesnt provide an exciting experience at all and i would rather rent a chris tucker comedy 
 12 times in a row from blockbuster than spend 60 smackers on this game. i guess the loyalists will 
 be at my doorstep first thing in the morning, dual wielding their pistols and all, but sadly, cant 
 recommend the title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YankeeDan345
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 25, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  I'll get straight to the good and bad of this game right away.
  
  The game is too short. You'll note I have "10 hours or less" spent with the game. This is after 
 beating the main game and spending about an hour in croft manor. You can reply the missions in 
 Time Attack mode which is nice, but you'll be able to beat each level in maybe half the time it 
 took you the first go through, so that doesn't push the length up to much. If you rent the game 
 this is great, no worries about not beating it in time. But for buyers, your not really getting 
 your money wroth. That's my major complaint, but there are some other problems.
  
  The gameplay here seems a bit easy. Experianced TR players my miss hearing Lara's cry of death. 
 The story is the best of any TR game yet, which leads to some dissappointment at it ending so soon. 
 Lara's guns still sound like pea shooters. I was hopeful that they would really do something with 
 the levels in this game. You don't get the feel of making your own way through the levels, maybe 
 next time.
  
  Now that I've complained so much let me get into the good. The game looks good, not good like some 
 360 games, but you may stop to take in the view from time to time. The gun battles have finally 
 been improved, theres no lame stlealth missions, Laras not the "angel of darkness," acheviement 
 points plus item hunting make me happy.
  
  I really feel like there is more good to the game then bad, I'm just a cry baby at heart. The game 
 has the one thing missing from the last few: FUN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misenhelter89
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 22, 2006 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Lara is hot. She looks good. Her latest game is awesome, its fun, it is short. Beat it and be happy. 
 My recommendation? Rent it or be sorry, unless you have sixty bucks to blow. Also, has a cut off 
 ending that is like a kick in the balls. I mean, getting to that last level was awesome, and I'm 
 not going to spoil it but its so much fun, and then you get hinted like you are going to a new 
 place, and then it just ends, so unexpectedly that you dont want to play the game anymore, its 
 frustrating..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: USmellLikePoopy
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 22, 2006 12:14 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Legend is a pretty good game. If you like puzzle type games and some action this is 
 your game. I thought this game was pretty good in a couple ways. The graphics aren't that bad, 
 the puzzles can be challenging, the shooting is fun and the levels are cool.
  
  The graphics were ok but in some places they could hae added more artwork. Some objects could have 
 had more color and all that. The sound was also pretty good. The voice actors did a good job and 
 the music is pretty good.
  
  I started playing this game and I couldn't stop because I wanted to beat it. Eventually though 
 it started to get boring. It wasn't long enough of a game. I think the puzzles were challenging 
 but if you know what you are doing you could finish this game pretty quick. I beat this game in 
 less then 1 day. The puzzles were also very repetitive, you jump from ledge to ledge or swing on 
 a couple ropes. That is what I didn't like about the game. 
  
  Another thing I didn't like is that the enemies were easy to kill. To me they didn't put up much 
 of a fight. The fighting style also got boring, you dive around while locking onto a target and 
 holding the right trigger down. The game had some melee moves you could perform but you don't really 
 ever need to use them. Also the boss fights were a little to easy for me. All you have to do is 
 dodge and shoot. Every once in a while you might have to do something special to make sure a boss 
 doesn't heal but nothing really fun. 
  
  In my opinion you should just rent the game from Blockbuster or wherever you rent your games from 
 and beat it instead of buying it and only playing it for a short time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotapplepie
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 19, 2006 5:34 pm PT
Review:  INTRO SECTION
  The Tomb Raider series is a long running adventure series that started way back in 1998 and has 
 spawned countless sequels to the original Tomb Raider. When the plethora of squeals came out, they 
 were a mixed bag of quality. Some of them were excellent while others never needed to see the light 
 of day. Recently a few horrid Tomb Raider games were released which made the Tomb Raider franchise 
 the laughing stock of the gaming industry. When Crystal Dynamics announced that the studio was 
 working on Tomb Raider Legend, no one knew what to expect from this game, they could only wait. 
 Luckily for us gamers, the wait was all worth it in the end. 
  
  STORY
  The story for Tomb Raider Legend follows the path of looking into Lara Crofts past and the legend 
 of King Arthur. Laras parents were archeologists who would dig deep into ancient ruins to search 
 for interesting relics. Laras mother decided to take Lara on one of her digs at Ghana. On the 
 plane flight to Ghana, a strong wind caused the plane to crash at an ancient ruin that held many 
 mysteries. When little Lara pulled a strange sword out of a rock the ruin started going haywire. 
 Laras mother got Lara out of the way just before something in the spinning storm of stones took 
 Laras mother away from Lara forever. Lara never knew what had happened to her mother that day 
 at the ruins but she was determined to find out what happened. With this as the basic plot to the 
 story with the added dimension of the King Arthur legend, the story turns out to be one of the 
 most memorable in recent gaming history. 
  
  The story starts with a phone call from one of Laras friends that a temple in Ghana was uncovered 
 which turns out to be where Lara went with her mother when she was small, and the same place where 
 her mother was killed. At the site where Laras mother died, Lara meets up with a new nemesis name 
 Rutland who is set out to stop Lara. After Rutland escapes the ruins Lara finds a piece of a sword, 
 the same sword Lara messed with that got her mother killed. Lara needs to find the rest of the 
 sword to unlock the secrets of the sword and her past. Her quest to solve the puzzles of the past 
 takes Lara to Ghana, Tokyo, Peru, Bolivia, Kazakhstan, England, and Nepal. 
  
  Lara meets up with some interesting and shocking characters from her past which all end in violence 
 and more mystery. Crystal Dynamics put great time and thought in the story telling in Tomb Raider 
 Legend which makes the game that much more enjoyable. One of the best parts of the story telling 
 is when Lara thinks about a dig with her and some of her friends, which the player can control 
 Lara, and all the terrifying events that proceed.
  
  Overall the story is a highly memorable fiction story with many twists and turns. The story telling 
 is near perfect with great cut scenes and very helpful dialog. Turning on the captions can help 
 the story go along smoother by letting the gamer see every word said. All in all, the story in 
 Tomb Raider Legend is one of the most memorable since Halo Combat Evolved.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The gameplay in Tomb Raider Legend is one of the most entertaining parts of the game. With Legend 
 being an adventure game there are naturally a plethora of puzzles to solve. The puzzle difficulties 
 range from easy to insane with some puzzles that seem impossible before the gamer sits and thinks 
 about the puzzle. The objects that are used for a puzzle flash every few seconds with a glow around 
 that object. Most of the puzzles involve switches or putting a heavy box on a pad to open up a 
 door. While the puzzles may be interesting in nature, the presentation of the puzzles are anything 
 but. Legend shows no effort to explain the basics or the puzzles, for better or for worse, leaving 
 the player sometimes running in circles not knowing what to do. The puzzles in Legend show up frequently 
 and overall are pretty well done. 
  
  The weakest part of Tomb Raider Legend by far is the gunplay aspect of the game. There is a small 
 selection of guns in Legend but dual pistols are always available. There is an automatic targeting 
 system in the game that can cause some very infuriating moments in the heat of battle. For some 
 odd reason the guns bullets shoot out with a stream of blue color which makes the guns much less 
 enjoyable. Luckily the only time you have to use the guns is when Lara is fighting the paid mercenaries, 
 which doesnt come often because the puzzles greatly overshadow them. The guns in Tomb Raider Legend 
 are terrible, and slow down the overall gameplay.
  
  Ms. Croft has a myriad of impressive moves that she can extricate throughout the world. Lara can 
 twist and flip in ways that are unimaginable to the average human. These elegant can help out in 
 combat and are there just for looks. If Lara is to hit a mercenary with one of these extravagant 
 moves the mercenary flies up in the air, giving Lara a few seconds of free shots. The beautiful 
 moves that Lara pulls off bring a graceful aspect to Tomb Raider Legend. 
  
  Tomb Raider Legend has a few bosses at the end of a select few of the stages with some ranging 
 from epic to boring. The bosses range from a regular guy to a giant serpent type monster. There 
 are a few boss battles are with regular humans and both are boring with nothing epic going on. 
 The boss battle with the serpent is epic and interesting with Lara having to use the environment 
 to her advantage. The bosses in Legend are fun but underscored by the preceded level. 
  
  Most of the levels in Tomb Raider Legend occur deep down in a cave or ruin. With these environments 
 being so dark, Lara carries around a light on her shirt to keep the area lit up. Lara is also packing 
 a grappling hook that can help her out big time. When an object is shining Lara can hook her hook 
 into these objects and swing on the object or pull the object to get to the next area. Lara also 
 comes equipped with binoculars complete with a RAD mode that highlights things that can be moved 
 or objects that are fragile. Lara came packed and ready for the mission in Legend and she has the 
 tools to prove it. 
  
  There are hidden rewards throughout each level of Legend that Lara can collect to get achievement 
 points. There are 3 classes of objects, bronze, silver, and gold. There are varying amounts of 
 bronze and silver awards in each level but only one gold per level. The bronze rewards are made 
 to be found fairly easy, while the silver rewards are harder, and the gold rewards are made to 
 be found only by master treasure hunters. These rewards add a great hide and seek aspect to the 
 game. 
  
  Overall the gameplay is a tremendous aspect to Tomb Raider Legend and brings the game together 
 despite the feeble gunplay. 
  
  GRAPHICS
  While the gameplay may be exquisite, the graphics outshines the gameplay by at least 2 notches. 
 Tomb Raider Legend is a shining example of how to port a current gen game to a next generation 
 console. While the current gen Legend looked pretty well, the Xbox 360 version looks bounds better. 
 
  
  The textures in the 360 version of Legend are overall pretty well done. The objects scattered throughout 
 the game world look polished if not a little current gen. The boss battles that include something 
 other than a human all look very good. The creatures look like they were well thought out and well 
 implemented in Legend. 
  
  The character models in Tomb Raider Legend look good in detail but uncouth in design. The models 
 look fine from a distance but once Lara gets close to them the real unearthly design comes out. 
 The models look like they have too many wrinkles on their skin that just kills some of the cut 
 scenes. Of course Lara looks amassing all the time but her helper Zip looks awful. The mercenaries 
 look all the same but that model doesnt particularly look bad. One person from your past, which 
 if the name is said part of the story will be given away, and her partner both look pretty well 
 done as they are a main part of the story. While some character models look great others look ridiculous.
 
  
  The background and environments of the Legend levels have a level of detail unparallel to any other 
 360 titles. The level of work put into the backdrops must have been hours upon hours of hard labor 
 to get these beautiful vistas to appear on the TV screen. The water is by far the most intriguing 
 water every to grace the Xbox 360, along with the highly detailed mountains and old ruins. Sometimes 
 Lara will fall off a tall ledge because the player will be admiring the beautiful scenery. These 
 are the best backgrounds that I personally have ever witnessed. 
  
  Overall the graphics are extremely polished and the best-looking port the Xbox 360 has gotten. 
 
  
  SOUND
  While the sound may be above average in Tomb Raider Legend, the soundtrack supplies nothing much 
 memorable. The basic gun sounds in Legend are a disappointment at best. All the guns sound basically 
 alike, which can cause some confusion on what gun Lara is currently wielding. Besides all the guns 
 sounding alike, they all sound weak which puts an ever more hamper on the already unstable gunplay. 
 
  
  Unlike the gun sounds, the voice-overs are top notch. Lara sounds just as good as ever which his 
 sexy English accent. Laras helpers all have nice voice over work but all their rambling about 
 Lara not being careful can get a little tedious after a while. The mercenary voices are all the 
 same and usually say, There she is! and Get her! The boss battles that Lara fights humans are 
 annoying in the state that they always say the same thing over, and over. Overall the voice-overs 
 are good but they can get dull and repetitive after a while.
  
  The overall sound in Tomb Raider Legend is good but provides nothing memorable. 
  
  CONTROLS 
 
  The controls in Tomb Raider Legend are smart and well designed which helps the flow of the game. 
 Most of the buttons on the 360 controller pad which seems like it could become confusing but it 
 doesnt. 2 or 3 buttons are used to help the guns and only 2 are needed at a time. A button is 
 jump and the thumb sticks are used to move the camera around. Overall the controls are nothing 
 to worry about because they are easy to learn. 
  
  REPLAY VALUE
  Tomb Raider Legends single player campaign is short; personally I completed it in a little over 
 8 hours. There are no multiplayer modes what so ever. The game will provide entertainment for a 
 couple of weeks. While the praise is high for the game in this review, the short length kills part 
 of the game. There are time trial modes but that is just rushing through a level again. The replay 
 value in this game is pretty bad, but the ending set up perfectly for a sequel. 
  
  CONCLUSION
  Overall Tomb Raider Legend is a short but greatly enjoyable adventure game for the 
 360, with great graphics but short single player.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: colegallop
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 19, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  Lara Croft Tomb Raider Legend is a very good game of Lara following the story of all her games. 
 She tries to find out something about Excalibur, King Arthur sword, and she reconstruct it! I don't 
 think this game deserve 7.8.
  
  You have many things to do in the game:
  Story mode-You play the story of this game (very interesting) , unlocking rewards, location concepts, 
 newclothesand so...
  Croft Manor-You play on her house! There are many interesting things to do in her house like puzzles 
 and more. You can find all the rewards unlocking more clothes and having fun with her swimming 
 poll, hertraining area, her bedroom, lybrary, and more.
  Special-Here you can see everything you have unlocked for her, like pistols upgrades location concepts 
 cheat codes the unfortunate mishaps videos and much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolgamer48
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 16, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Lara Croft Tomb Raider Legend is a pretty good game that's a little too short. I recommend renting 
 it first.
  
  The gameplay is fairly good. It's a combination of 3rd person shooting/fighting, puzzles, and platforming 
 (I don't know if that's a real word, I just mean jumping from platform to platform.) Fighting is 
 okay, though it is a little repetitive. You always take out your guns, lock on to a target, hold 
 down the right trigger (or press it rapidly) , and start jumping around so the enemies can't fire 
 at you. However, there is some diversity based on your environment and there are some cool melee 
 moves you can do.
  
  Puzzles are interesting, but can sometimes be frustrating, as can jumping from platform to platform. 
 You often don't know what to do, and spend lots of time scanning objects with your visor to see 
 if they do anything. Then you run around the area trying to find out what to do. Then you do some 
 banging on the controller, get frustrated, stop playing, play a different game that you like a 
 little more, then decide to give it a second chance, you might repeat the above, and then finally 
 figure out what to do. This is an exaggeration, a bit. But many of the puzzles are kind of annoying. 
 Much is the same for jumping from platform to platform - but at least you know what you have to 
 do with that.
  
  The graphics and sound are great. Although there isn't much detail in some objects, the graphics 
 are very clear and Lara looks very nice, in more than one way ;) , as do the other characters and 
 environments. Sound is also great, with nice voices and sound effects.
  
  Now the game is short. There are 9 or 10 levels (I didn't play the whole thing through because 
 I had to return in within seven days, and it is not worth what I paid.) Sixty or so bucks is not 
 worth it for this game. The gameplay is not that good, and the game is too short. Sure you can 
 go back and spend hours trying to find a floating token in a level you already beat, but it doesn't 
 sound like too much fun to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oni_black
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Lara Croft Tomb Raider Legend is a very good game of Lara following the story of all her games. 
 She tries to find out something about Excalibur, King Arthur sword, and she reconstruct it! I don't 
 think this game deserve 7.8.
  
  You have many things to do in the game:
  Story mode-You play the story of this game (very interesting) , unlocking rewards, location concepts, 
 newclothesand so...
  Croft Manor-You play on her house! There are many interesting things to do in her house like puzzles 
 and more. You can find all the rewards unlocking more clothes and having fun with her swimming 
 poll, hertraining area, her bedroom, lybrary, and more.
  Special-Here you can see everything you have unlocked for her, like pistols upgrades location concepts 
 cheat codes the unfortunate mishaps videos and much more.
  
  The game is very good with a good gameplay one of the best graphics for ps2 background music all 
 the puzzles clothes and so... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 07pimp
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 12, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so I have to say that this tomb raid wasn't that hard. It took me while to beat some levels 
 but hey I got the hang of it after I gathered a 56 page stagie guid off the internet. Yea thats 
 the only bad thing you should know, that when buying this game you have to like games that make 
 you think, i mean make you think really hard! It is extremley hard to beat some things only cause 
 you dont really know were to go after to do something. But it teachers most of the moves and helps 
 threw the first and second level. It teachers you all the fighting moves so I have to say that 
 it is good at explaining. When getting to a checkpoint that usually means that their is some hard 
 coming up or that you almost beat the level. Theirs one puzzle after another. I love this game, 
 but thats me some of you may hate this game. They keep it realistic on how high she jump. The dual 
 guns blow but hey you can get upgrades and plus they just look cool. So if you like actoin games 
 with puzzles then this is diffently the game for! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 11, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  In this edition of Tomb Raider, Lara Croft finds herself traveling & exploring one exotic place 
 to the next in order to piece together her past - and more specifically - what happened to her 
 mother with the help of her two pals Zip & Allister.
  
  Its your basic Tomb Raider game with a lot of jumping, flipping, swinging from ropes, sliding down 
 ramps/hills, grappeling onto objectsand shooting things. You get a few weapons like a shotgun, 
 SMG, assault rifle, grenades & grenade launcher, and the infamous dual handguns with the bottomless 
 clip. Also, there are a bunch of "rewards" hidden throughout the levels and if a lot are collected 
 you unlock new outfits and areas in Lara's Mansion. Oh, thats the other thing - you can run around 
 Lara's Mansion.
  
  Whats good though is that this game places you back into ruins and tombs instead of trying to make 
 Lara some special agent (Angel of Darkness anyone?) . So you'll find yourself in areas such as Ghana, 
 Bolivia, Nepal, Lara's homeland of England, and many other areas. Each level looks absolutley beautiful 
 - especially the jungle looking stages. The water effects are magnificent, and the lighting is 
 beautiful. The character models are alright, nothing spectacular with the exception of our main 
 heroine herself.
  
  The music was superb. I can't really explain it.. it was just really good. Each stage has it's 
 own song which fits beautifully with the level's culture and design.. sso for instance in Nepal 
 - a really empty & voide of life snow stage - it has gegorian chants which help intensify both 
 the beauty AND the lonlieness of the level. You just have to hear it for yourself. The voice acting 
 was GREAT and there are some really interesting and funny conversations between the characters 
 at points.
  
  So whats Tomb Raider: Legends' downfall? Well for starters its extremley repetitive - you'll be 
 doing pretty much the same thing in every stage. Secondly, its a pretty easy game. Thirdly, its 
 very short; its only 7 missions long come on!, and lastly the gunfights are kind of lackluste r. 
 The guns don't sound powerful, nor are they - I literally had to empty a clip with my assault rifle 
 into a Jaguar before it keeled over - and they ae terribly inaccurate. Thankfully the targetting 
 system is pretty right on.
  
  The ending to this game was interesting to say the least. You wind up at the stone dias after beating 
 Amanda in her beast form. From there you place the ancient sword into the stone, the dias starts 
 up, and you see your mother in a parallel universe doing the exact same thing you are. Amanda awakes 
 and begins screaming to your mother for her to pull the sword out so the dias explodes while Lara 
 tries to silence Amanda. Anyway, the mom pulls the sword out, the dias explodes, and Lara loses 
 a chance to re-unite with her long lost mom.. so in a rage she threatens to kill Amanda at gunpoint. 
 Amanda reveals that Lara's mom is in Avalon, Lara is so heated she begins shooting basically right 
 next to Amanda to freak her out.. then she pistol whips her so hard she KOed Amanda. Then Lara 
 says a great line, "every breath you take from now on is a gift from me.", and proceeds to make 
 arrangements to see if she too can get to Avalon.
  
  To finish it up, Legend is a decent platforming game but really not worth the $50 price tag it 
 carries. It's definitley worth playing, even with it's flaws. I suggest you rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmrscore-addict
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 10, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Environments are very well detailed, Combat could be better, Wide range of control options, 
 Camera isn't a problem.
  
  The Bad: Croft Mansion isn't as interactive as some would like, Still easy on Hard setting, 7 1/2 
 Hrs of gamplay on hard isn't the best.
  
  
 
  
  Lara comes back on the 360 with brand new adventure that delivers a full adventure experience. 
 While the game doesn't last long it still has great gameplay. The storyline is great and gives 
 you a glimpse of Lara's childhood.
  The game mainly consists of puzzles. Shooting is just there for story because it really doesn't 
 have a point, plus the story wouldn't be all that interesting without combat. Thankfully, camera 
 isn't a problem which is quite rare for a platformer (while TR: L isn't quite a platformer it has 
 platformer qualities) . You may have to move the camera a bit when you are free climbing.
  If you have ever played Resident Evil 4 you would understand how much fun the action cutscenes 
 are, well in Legend we have the same type of thing. During a cutscene Lara will do actions and 
 you must press the assigned button during the cutscene so Lara will complete the action correctly. 
 If you don't press the right button or in time then Lara will fail the action causing her to die 
 a horrible death.
  Combat is alright in Legend. It uses a lock-on feature and you use A and B buttons to dodge. There 
 are grenades but they arn't that handy because the AI will not take cover and just stand out and 
 shoot. There is an aim feature but really doesn't help too much because it is mainly used to fin 
 stuff in a room, cave or tomb. You can find stuff with the aim because objects you can interact 
 with are in a shade of blue or red. There are mainly three weapons, your pistols, assault rifles, 
 shotguns and grenade launchers. It isn't that wide of a selection but it doesn't really matter 
 because the game is based around puzzles not combat.
  The graphics are great on the environments but the ledges are a perfect, jagged corner and it makes 
 it look bad because i cant really see that on a cliff or a wall. Strangely in this game i find 
 the actual game has better graphics than the cutscenes, probably because they are close up and 
 you can see all the glitches.
  The sound in this game is just great, from Lara's beautiful British accent to the gun shots and 
 explosions. Near the beginning of the game during a cutscene a bullet just misses Lara's ear and 
 you can hear it zing past. Voice acting is great, you can hear great expression in there voice. 
 It is just so great and i was not expecting this great of sound.
  I gave it a low value just because it so short. You can easily beat it in three days on "Tomb Raider" 
 difficulty. It is only worth a rental.
  The controls are great because they are so simple. You have great working choices if you don't 
 like the default controls.
  Tomb Raider: Legend is just a great new way to play Tomb Raider and it is a must rent for everyone 
 even if your not a fan of the series (plus its easy points 750 at least if you beat it on hard, 
 yes I'm looking your way Jeff Gertsmann) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DingDongChavez
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 9, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  After the last let down in the Tomb Raider series, fans where begging for a return to form from 
 one of the biggest gaming icons ever. The original Tomb Raider games where, as the name suggests, 
 all about exploring tombs in exotic locations, with vintage traps and imaginative puzzles that 
 would have your mnd buzzing for hours. Ever since the end of the PS1 era, the series has changed 
 direction much to fans disappointment. There was a lot of hope that this installment would take 
 a trip back to the old days and try and rediscover the magic that made the first games such a phoenomenom. 
 While Legend in some ways achieves this, it lets itself down with some repetitive gameplay and 
 the fact it is simply to short.
  
  The story isnt very strong in Legend. Its slightly confusing, dosent have much of a plot and is 
 difficult to follow. The game follows through various locations, from Kazakhstan to Ghana. Although 
 the scenery is varied, puzzles are essentially the same. Most puzzles are simple, usually asking 
 the player to move a box onto a platform to open a door or using a crate to get thorugh traps. 
 Although simple, they are amusing and fun. Climbing on scenery is great to play, especially on 
 the later levels where obstacles fall if you are on them for to long. Running, jumping and climbing 
 is very amusing and cinematic, and Lara moves excellently. It is clear however that not alot of 
 thought went into the level design. On some of the bike missions, the scenery repeats its self 
 numerous times, aswell as the ramps and obstacles. Infact every enemy henchman is almost exaclty 
 the same and there is little weapon variation.
  
  One of the weakest points of Legend is the poor gunplay. There is no blood and bullets look more 
 like plastic pellets. There is little variation between the guns and they simply feel wrong. The 
 targeting system is also frustrating and can become very annoying when it targets the wrong thing 
 at the crucial time. The best weapon in the game is the sword near the end, which throws enemies 
 back with immense power and is very amusing and fun to use.
  
  But it must be said that Tomb Raider Legends biggest letdown is the length, It took me 6 hours 
 to complete the game on the hardest setting, first time. This is way to easy and short. It certainly 
 dosent warrant the price tag and is definitly not next-gen. With all that said however, Tomb Raider 
 Legend is fun and will keep players amused with a satisfying experience for the most part, with 
 a nice mix of running, jumping and climbing, as well as other acrobatics. Lara moves very well 
 and there are some nice features in the game. Do not pay full price however, instead rent the game 
 as it is definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawnm00
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  I have to say something about the XBox360. As much as there's been some issues and a lack of titles, 
 it's such an amazing system that I've found myself playing completely new genres of games that 
 I've never played before. I was pretty much only a sports game guy. Now I find myself playing all 
 types of games and Tomb Raider is one of those.
  
  For those of you who are die-hard Tomb Raider fans, take my review for what it's worth. It's from 
 a guy who's played very few adventure games since Super Mario Bros. I've played some story-based 
 FPS and a few similar games, but probably not a real adventure/puzzle-solving game like this.
 
  
  Let me first start with the visuals. This game looks fantastic. The detail is wonderful: extremely 
 realistic and just a pleasure to look at. Sometimes I'll just stand there and look around the surroundings 
 to appreciate it. The exteriors, for the most part, seem very large and vast. The distance perspectives 
 and sense of enormity really add a feeling of reality to the game. Water effects are also done 
 extremely well. The interiors are equally impressive, if not better. Again, the detail is really 
 nice and the lighting and textures are fantastic. There are a few moments when things get a little 
 "cartoony", but that is seldom. The character models are also really nicely done. Lara herself 
 is fantastic. And Im not saying that just because of her body, but the model in general. I mean, 
 if she gets wet, she actually looks wet. Thats impressive to me. The detail in her movements and 
 the way she looks around is really awesome. Not all the characters look that good, but theyre 
 still very nice. You just have to enjoy every visual detail in this game. There are some moments, 
 like swimming underwater, when I honestly just stare in awe.
  
  As for the sound, this is one of the best sounding games I've played. It's right up there with 
 Call of Duty, in my opinion. The surround sound is just awesome. They really do a great job with 
 atmospheric sounds to help create the scene. In England, for example, while climbing down to the 
 dark, damp catacombs, you can hear the rats in the walls and the dripping water. It's just perfect. 
 The voice talents are rather good, although the repeated dialogue in the fight scenes can be a 
 bit annoying. Lara is well done and the other main characters are also impressive. The music is 
 very appropriate and adds to the scenes as it should. Not distracting or annoying at all. While 
 the weapon sounds are not too exciting, they work well enough. I imagine they could be a little 
 more solid, but, it didnt bother me too much.
  
  In terms of gameplay, Tomb Raider: Legend was a both a pleasure and a pain. Honestly, it took a 
 little getting used to in terms of controlling the view/camera separate from the player. But, honestly, 
 I really liked it a lot. I wish more games would do that sort of thing. While I like FPS, there 
 is some pleasure in seeing your character (especially when youre character looks that good) . Its 
 also nice to be able to see around your character without moving her/him. The movements are simple 
 to learn and make perfect sense. I like the idea of using the left trigger to lock focus on a target. 
 That makes combat much easier and more intuitive. The jumping, sliding and swinging is also really 
 well done. It looks great and isnt too hard to figure out, although, that is my one complaint 
 of pain. Jumping can be really frustrating sometimes; especially when youre hanging from a vertical 
 pole or something and need to jump in a certain direction. Its not easy to direct where you want 
 to go and can often lead to retrying certain jumps many times. This was extremely frustrating in 
 Croft Manor when trying to collect all the rewards. My only other downer on the game would be 
 the combat. The inaccuracy of the pistols and the lack of weapons can be annoying, but not terribly. 
 That doesnt bother me too much though, because Tomb Raider: Legend is really about the adventure 
 and the puzzle solving, not about combat.
  
  All in all, Tomb Raider: Legend is right at the top of my list of favorite games. Its right up 
 there with Perfect Dark: Zero and Call of Duty. Its an easy game to learn, challenging to conquer, 
 and a complete blast to play. It looks great, sounds great and is a whole lot of fun. All I can 
 say is, bring on the next chapter!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotFox
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 2, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  Legend is an action-packed platform game that brings Lara Croft back to her roots: exploring tombs 
 and ruins in pursuit of obscure artifacts. In this adventure, Croft is on the trail of a relic 
 from her past, one with ties to an ancient legend. Naturally, she isn't alone in this pursuit, 
 and so she will have to battle against ruthless mercenaries in a world-wide scavenger hunt.
  
  The game unfolds as a standard platform game, and you may be struck by its amazing similarities 
 to games like Prince of Persia. As Lara, you'll navigate your way across narrow ledges, pillars, 
 and horizontal poles as you leap, swim, and run through crumbling edifices, villages, and dank 
 tombs. A lot of the obstacles in Lara's path can be overcome by her magnetic grapple, a new addition 
 to the Tomb Raider series. With this useful gadget, Lara can swing across certain chasms, latch 
 on to metallic objects to pull them closer, or yank open blocked doorways. 
  
  The controls are very basic and easy to master, especially during the combat sequences. Lara has 
 her duel-wielded pistols once more, and you can bolster her armament by retrieving weapons from 
 her fallen foes. The choice of these secondary weapons is rather limited, so you'll wind up with 
 an assault rifle, shotgun, or grenade launcher in addition to a small arsenal of grenades. Combat 
 degenerates to "shoot, shoot, dodge, shoot" button mashing rather rapidly, aided by Lara's ability 
 to slide into her enemies and knock them into the air so that you can shoot them without having 
 to worry about them returning fire. The largest drawback to the combat engine is that it all too 
 often locks onto a far away, non-threatening mercenary as opposed to the one shooting you in the 
 face.
  
  Graphically, this game kicks some serious tomb. The animation style doesn't vary between the cinematics 
 and the actual game, which is always a nice thing to see. The environments are varies and interesting 
 to look at, from the mountains of Bolivia to the snowy fields of Russia. While Lara is - ahem, 
 nice - to look at, her enemies all seem to be cut from the same character model (the largest flaw 
 in the graphics department) .
  
  The music stays in the background for the most part without any real stand-out sequences, although 
 it swells quite dramatically during boss fights. The dialogue is well-acted and actually witty 
 on occasion, a real virtue for platform games.
  
  While the story itself isn't very long or convoluted, the game stretches itself out with a secondary 
 scavenger hunt. On each of the levels, there are rewards scattered about that can unlock additional 
 Croft outfits and minor scraps of bonus material. Collecting enough of these will also net you 
 achievement points. There's also a time trial mode that will unlock more outfits and - you guessed 
 it - points. Finally, there's also a mode of play that lets you explore the secrets within the 
 Croft Manor. While these modes won't add more than a handful of extra hours onto the game, the 
 Manor level is by far the most interesting segment to see.
  
  Overall, Legend is a fun game that's at least worth a rental to net some quick and easy achievement 
 points, especially since the story isn't really worth a return trip. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Konochi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 30, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  Trust me you want to be a tomb raider. This game makes it seem fun to spend time outside in 100-degree 
 weather while having people shoot at you. It makes it look like fun to rob dead people. It makes 
 it look fun to totally rip your cocktail dress take off your heals and shoot everyone at the party. 
 This game just creates a fun environment. 
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics are nothing special, but they definitely are a big step up from the other Tomb Raider 
 games. There is no noticeable clipping. But sometimes if Lara doesn't tie her hair back her hair 
 looks pretty stupid. But it seemed like Lara looked slightly more like Angelina Jolie, and that 
 is a good look for her.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay is very fun in this game. The shooting is fast and easy. But the real true difficulty 
 lies in the puzzles. I spend a LONG time playing this game, not because it was a long game, but 
 because I couldn't figure out what to do. The puzzles are fun, but can get very frustrating, especially 
 when it takes an hour to get out of one room. The shooting is fun. And riding the motorcycle is 
 fun too.
  
  Sound
  
  The soundtrack fits the game. There arent any great memorable tracks, but some nice ambiance for 
 temples and tombs. Lara's voice is very nice, it fits her personality very well.
  
  Value
  
  This game is fun and all, but when it comes down to it, the game just isn't long enough. 
 I beat it on a blockbuster rental. But if you do decide to buy it, then you should be kept busy 
 earning all of Lara's extra costumes.
  
  Keep in Mind
  
  This game is not for the weak minded, it challenges you mentally. I'm not exactly the smartest 
 girl ever, but I am pretty intelligent, and I did have trouble figuring out some of the puzzles. 
 Just make sure you arent a total dumbass before you start to play this game, either that or get 
 ready to print out a walkthrough.
  
  The game is definitely worth playing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: petejennings
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 29, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider is pretty much same old, same old. Its got a few decent levels for Tomb Raider diehards, 
 but apart from that its WAY TOO SHORT. The combat system seems shoddy (after playing Hitman: Blood 
 Money) , and the boss fights aren't up to much.
  
  On the plus side, there are (some) nice visuals, and the soundtrack and surround sound is pretty 
 good, also achievements are fairly easy to obtain if thats your cuppa tea.
  
  Definately rent it because you can finish it in a weekend. Its a fun adventure though for fans, 
 and there are a few decent touches. Hopefully the next in the series will be more rewarding (and 
 Next Gen) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ckoch87
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 29, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Legend is an okay game for fans of the original despite the fact that it's very VERY 
 short. This game can be finished in about 6 hours if you're a moderately experienced gamer. But 
 the good thing is, there's TONS of extra unlockables, most of which are costumes for Lara, but 
 there's a few other things as well. The game is simple: run through the levels, jump up and down 
 ledges, shoot bad guys and you're done (I think I died maybe three times on hard mode) . The story 
 is mediocre at best and the gun-play isn't that great, but it doesn't have to be because the guns 
 aren't a big part of them game, they just get you past the enemies you encounter (which consist 
 of guys in camo, and tigers... THAT'S IT!) There's no enemie variety at all. This game stresses 
 acrobatics over guns and I think it works well considering. Although a better gun system would 
 have been nice. The environemnts are beautiful; this game is great eye candy and you can interact 
 with a large part of the environments like swinging on vines and climbing walls and such. All in 
 all, I had a blast just looking at all the scenery and jumping around this visually stunning game, 
 but the price on it is definitely NOT worth it for the Xbox 360 and even the original Xbox price 
 might be too high for the amount of time you'll invest in this game. I would rent it first before 
 buying it, because you'll most likely finish it before you need to return it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gjb-sensei
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 28, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  The video game industry's "original" first lady (original is in quotation marks because it's disputable) 
 returns several years after her last adventure, the poorly-received Tomb Raider: Angel of Darkness. 
 Angel of Darkness would eventually turn out to be the last Tomb Raider title developed by series 
 creator Core Design, as Eidos Interactive, the long-time publishers of the series, would turn the 
 reigns over to Crystal Dynamics, who you may know for their excellently-reviewed Legacy of Kain 
 franchise of games. Crystal Dynamics had one key goal in mind when they started work on Tomb Raider: 
 Legend, and that specific goal was to reinvent people's thoughts of Lara. What better way of doing 
 that then by releasing a new installment in the series, only one that is actually more than respectable 
 in most regards? Yes, you read correctly. The latest game in the Tomb Raider saga is actually worth 
 your while.
  
  Tomb Raider: Legend for the Xbox 360 is a fantastic title that superbly demonstrates what the console 
 is capable of, allows the user to have an immensely enjoyable experience thanks to easy-to-learn 
 controls, and offers up a storyline that you actually want to follow from beginning to end. Sure, 
 there are some faults, like the fact that you can get through the main portion of the game in around 
 seven to eight hours, but aside from that, there's really nothing but good times to be had in Legend.
 
  
  The latest installment in the legendary Tomb Raider series places you once again in the shoes of 
 famed explorer, Lara Croft, who has clearly received quite a makeover for her latest adventure. 
 She's on a journey to find some very rare and highly sought-after artifacts, but along the way, 
 as you can imagine, she'll encounter her fair share of death traps, booby traps, and evil-minded 
 individuals who are either after the same things as she is, or simply want to get rid of her for 
 other ulterior motives. You'll trek through various terrains unique to one another, like Bolivia, 
 Japan, West Africa, and Nepal. Each and every area you delve into differs from another. Bolivia, 
 for instance, has you running through jungles and climbing up and around waterfalls, while Japan 
 might be a little closer to home as it has you going through buildings (a particular mission in 
 that area actually has you going to a party; that's something you don't do rather often in a Tomb 
 Raider game) . There are seven distinctive levels in all in Tomb Raider: Legend, but one of them 
 you'll be visiting on two separate occasions.
  
  The game is very impressive visually. It looks like a next-generation game, especially if you compare 
 it to media of the PlayStation 2 and Xbox versions. The difference in Lara's model alone is huge; 
 it's like night and day in terms of quality. Obviously, though, Lara's model isn't the only thing 
 in the game to get a next-generation makeover through the use of the processing power that the 
 Xbox 360 provides as the game's diverse amount of areas themselves also appear quite spectacular. 
 The textures are certainly much more high-res than usual, and, as an example, the water you'll 
 occasionally venture through looks breathtaking. Also, once you get out of the water, you can, 
 if you adjust the camera to the appropriate spot, see drops of it falling down Lara's face. It's 
 little things like that that are not possible on the PS2 or Xbox, or at least not to the effect 
 that it's done on the 360.
  
  As you venture through each area, Lara can perform several different traits of hers, like swinging 
 from vine to vine, and climbing up and down mountainsides. Lara is even equipped this time around 
 with a magnetic grapple, which will become very vital in the game to advance at certain points. 
 Basically, Lara can use this particular item to hook onto things to pull them over to her if they 
 are away in the distance, or she can use it to grapple onto something above her and swing.
  
  The control system in Tomb Raider: Legend is also, thankfully, very easy to handle, unlike 
 prior games in the series. The analog stick obviously moves Ms. Croft; the right trigger is used 
 for firing your gun (s) ; the left trigger, in conjunction with the right analog stick, is used to 
 manage which enemy you want to target; the "B" button is used to roll around (if you hold it down 
 you can crawl) ; "A" makes her jump (you'll need to press the button twice consecutively to do double 
 jumps) ; "X" unleashes the aforementioned magnetic grapple; clicking the right analog stick will 
 enable you to target animals and other creatures in an "over-the-shoulder" point-of-view (if you've 
 played Resident Evil 4, it's similar to that) ; and "LB" will center the camera, which is controllable 
 by the user through the use of the right analog stick. It's a control scheme that is very effective 
 and very easy to learn, so within the first few minutes of your time with the game you should have 
 no issues at all moving Lara around and shooting and moving various objects.
  
  The game has several weapons ready and waiting for you to equip, including an assault rifle and 
 a shotgun. Unlike Lara's dual pistol configuration, which comes with unlimited ammunition, the 
 other implementable weapons have a set amount of ammo. Of course, it's not like ammo is hard to 
 find; any enemies you kill that drop their weapons will grant you access to even more ammo to use 
 to unload on their friends. You can even shoot some parts of the environment, like a column, a 
 set of bricks, or an explosive barrel, which will help you cause even more damage to your adversaries 
 than usual.
  
  In addition to that, the gameplay also varies in the regard that you merely won't be walking, running, 
 and jumping around. There will be moments where you will be summoned to ride a motorcycle -- which, 
 if I may, is a breeze most of the time to use, fortunately -- and a forklift. As you can likely imagine, 
 these aren't here just for fun; they will be used to progress in certain levels.
  
  Legend also sports a nice soundtrack and some excellent voice-acting. In case you didn't know, 
 Lady Croft is British, and the woman who voiced her, Keeley Hawes, who you may or may not know 
 from her role as Zoe Reynolds on the BBC show Spooks, did an absolutely phenomenal job. She really 
 is the ideal candidate to voice the new Lara. As well as that, every major character that plays 
 some integral part in the story is voiced, and they are all handedly marvelously. And, in addition 
 to that, the lip-syncing is actually quite acceptable. It's much better than the norm, though it 
 isn't quite spot-on. Still, it's not often that video games actually do a more-than-decent job 
 in this one category; if I were a teacher and I were grading it, I'd give it an "A".
  
  Unfortunately, though, it's not all roses for Tomb Raider; Legend. As I mentioned previously, it'll 
 only take you around seven to eight hours on Legend's default difficulty setting (Explorer) to 
 complete it (there are two other settings, Adventurer and Tomb Raider) , but that's assuming you 
 don't truly try to go out of your way to collect the various hidden artifacts throughout the game. 
 You see, each locale you're planted at for a mission has some items that are not clearly evident, 
 waiting to be discovered by you. They can be bronze, silver, or gold; there are plenty of the bronze 
 ones, but, on the other hand, only a few gold pieces, which mean that they're much harder to come 
 by. They all vary in location, too. Some can be hidden in or behind boxes, while others may need 
 you to scale into a waterfall. It's here where the replay factor for Tomb Raider: Legend is greatly 
 enhanced.
  
  Another area where replay value is furthered is in the game's achievements; there are twenty-three 
 in total. Some of them simply require you to complete a mission, while others are more focused 
 on the amount of bronze, silver, and gold artifacts you discover.
  
  There's also the Croft Manor, which hides its own fair share of hidden items that you'll need to 
 find should you be looking to complete the game 100%. Plus, I don't want to forget mentioning the 
 Time Trials mode, which has you going through each level and trying to beat it within a specific 
 amount of time. If you do so, you can unlock things, like pieces of art, models for that level, 
 or even cheat codes. Kudos to the gang at Crystal Dynamics for adding in all of these things.
 
  
  Simply put, Tomb Raider: Legend sees Lara Croft shine in a light unlike before. For long-time Tomb 
 Raider fans who have been suffering through each seemingly yearly (or bi-yearly) and awful installment, 
 your time has arrived. Lady Croft is, once again, starring in a game that you'll definitely be 
 proud of. While it's a bit disappointing that you'll be able to finish the game in a day or two, 
 the fun you'll have exploring is absolutely worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metron4
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 27, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  While everyones favorite whip-toting archaeologist always seems to be lost in the Cubicles of 
 LucasArts, Lara Croft has thankfully been there to fill in the gap. Having given us seven main 
 adventures to the paltry two made for Dr. Jones, the Tomb Raider series has been a (mostly) welcome 
 edition. In Legend, developers Crystal Dynamics utilize every advantage the Xbox 360 has to offer, 
 giving fans a visually forceful, thrilling adventure. In her latest adventure, Lara sets out to 
 solve a mystery from her past while confronting an old friend-turned-foe. Despite the brevity of 
 each level, the ingenuity of puzzles plus the inclusion of achievements rounds out the experience, 
 making Legend a more than worthy chapter to the series.
  
  * Gameplay: All the mystique, danger and exploration featured in previous chapters is back again, 
 with more tomb raiding and less urban commando-ing, although the latter does appear briefly 
 in the form of a Tokyo mission (arent there any other cities in Japan besides Tokyo?) . Every level 
 is organic, with passageways leading to open areas, twisty corridors, staggered platforms and serious 
 rock-climbing. That anticipation you felt in previous games when rounding a corner pays off when 
 a jaunt through cobwebbed doorways leads to an ancient temple, underground lake or mechanism of 
 archaic construction. Even her mansion has plenty of stuff to see and do, including puzzle-solving. 
 Laras compilation of moves are much more diverse than in previous games thanks to the advanced 
 technology inside the Xbox 360. Her flips, cartwheels, kick slides and dismounts put other gymnasts 
 to bed. Shes not constrained to those moves, however, do to a very Dragons Lair-esque feature 
 that puts you in the middle of a cinematic. Youll have to resist the temptation to stare at her 
 injury-cringing feats in order to press the right buttons at the right times. That infamous camera-control 
 issue rears its ugly head a couple of times, which will no doubt cause a restart or two, but they 
 are thankfully brief. The lock-on feature for weapons can also interfere with your ability to look 
 away from a target, but it never became a real issue with me. Lara is so good with her weapons 
 that the enemies you face are once again minor annoyances. As far as grenades are concerned, Larawell, 
 throws like a girl. Its really hard to aim those things. The shoulder lamp is rarely needed, although 
 it looks cool shining in dark areas, and the binoculars are more like a cheat tool. Her two cohorts 
 that communicate through her headset are mildly entertaining, occasionally contributing information 
 that advances the plot. A couple of motorcycle driving levels are total fluff, neither adding nor 
 detracting from the experience. I would prefer to have seen an open-ended use of the cycle, similar 
 to the use of a forklift later in the game.
  
  * Graphics: Legend makes good use of the Xbox 360s graphics capabilities. Lara is truly lifelike 
 as seen from the back and in motion. Thankfully, the designers left her face similar to previous 
 games and not as realistic as it appears on the box art. Her numerous costume choices finally do 
 her large closet space justice. The outfits are unlocked as you progress through both the story 
 mode and also as you perform side missions. Textures are seamless and realistic for their respective 
 environments. The foliage in outdoor levels is truly life-like and organic, complete with flickering 
 insects and flocks of birds. Seed heads and blossoms float about like dust, mingling with rays 
 of light that contribute to the overall feel of a natural environment. If its made of stone, clay, 
 wood, ceramic or metal, you can count on the surface to accurately reflect those properties. Water 
 effects are first rate, looking best when it flows as a stream. The residue shines on her skin 
 after she climbs out of a pond or river. The cinematics are created with whatever outfit you happen 
 to be using which looks even more impressive than when I saw the same feature in GTA: San Andreas. 
 I really enjoyed the sepia-toned flashback level, which included a layer of film grain to give 
 it a more memory-like feel.
  
  * Sound: World music is abundant, featuring appropriate rhythms that reflect the location Lara 
 is exploring, like kinetic drum beats in the jungles of Peru. The opening soundtrack hits a little 
 too close to a James Bond theme, but makes up for it with the dramatic percussion and string Gaelic 
 piece that accompanies the menu screens. The voice work is first rate for all characters with a 
 nice mix of dialects from around the world. Laras butler doesnt have anything to say in the mansion 
 level, but I guess thats better than having a target strapped to your chest like a previous adventure. 
 Rumblings from stone objects that move are accompanied with the rumble of the joypad for extra 
 impact.
  
  * Value: The achievement feature unique to the Xbox 360 adds up to one thousand points, which are 
 awarded for completing each level, finding bronze, silver and gold hidden artifacts, finishing 
 the game, finishing the game on hard difficulty and completing all the levels in time-trial mode. 
 Each achievement is fairly easy to accomplish, which may explain why the levels are so short. The 
 designers most likely took into account the idea that players would be happily revisiting each 
 location over and over, and thats probably where most fans are going to split. If you dont much 
 care for hunting down hidden items or doing time trials, you may feel cheated by the shortness 
 of each mission.
  
  * Tilt: Love that Tomb Raider! Ive been playing them since the beginning, through good times and 
 the Darkness. I can only hope Legend speaks for where the series is headed. If you are new to 
 the adventures of Miss Croft, now is an excellent time to jump in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sentino
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 27, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  This game is basically fun to play. A trip back to the good ole' days of playing as Lara Croft. 
 This time however, there are no more of the annoyances. You can't fall off a ledge, the movements 
 are more fluid and realistic. The control is fantastic, great graphics, and a great feel using 
 some pretty accurate physics. An example is when you jump on a heavy stone sphere, it rolls a little 
 bit, or when you kick some crates, they fall, and tumble, kicking up a little dust too. Awesome. 
 The cut scenes where you need to press a control button at the right time are seamless with normal 
 game-play, and pretty fun. The only annoying thing I found was when she swims on the surface. Its 
 awkward how she cant just tread along without having to dunk her head on every stroke. All in 
 all, it's just simply a fun game to play with not too much heavy thinking, or planning to do. Just 
 turn on, and start exploring, and kicking butt! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dannyboi68
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 25, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  First things first; congrats Eidos, you saved your premiere series from extinction, now keep it 
 alive. When I first turned on the 360 and pressed start, I have to confess that my stomach tensed 
 up, mostly because I was expecting to have a beautiful, new, wirelessbroken controller in my hands 
 from trying to get Lara to do what I wanted. 
  
  Thanks to these intuitive controls, I could use the conscious part of my brain to concentrate on 
 the fun stuff, which is climbing around and exploring tombs. Legend has the formula down to a science: 
 Lara delves into ancient ruins, evades deathtraps, repairs crumbling mechanisms, and loots corpses 
 in true Prince of Persia style. The game looks really pretty, with crystal clear graphics. Lara 
 moves fluidly yet still tackles obstacles with precision, and there is a good variety of levels. 
 
  
  Legend puts a lot of focus into puzzle solving instead of combat, which is a great thing because, 
 even though gunplay is fun; targeting sucks, the bad guys A. I is spotty, and long range skirmishes 
 are like watching a stormtrooper battle: everyones shooting, but nobodys getting shot.
  
  Legend has poached some gimmicks from other recent successful action-adventure games, including 
 God of Wars one button recovery option (which gives you another chance to nab a ledge that you 
 initially missed) , interactive cut scenes from Resident Evil, and pole swinging from Prince of 
 Persia. But copying is fine as long as it works, and it does here. 
  
  It also took Halo 2s cliffhanger ending, but I didnt like the cliffhanger ending  I dont like 
 having to wait more than a year for resolutions. But when the next game does come out, rest assured 
 Ill be there to see what happens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TanRam13
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 24, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Legend is a well executed game compared to the other Tomb Raider games that had come 
 before it. (*cough* Angel of Darkness) Anyways I'll keep this short and sweet. This game has the 
 regular good all around things you would expect from a adventure game as this. Well executed puzzles 
 and varied boss battles to keep the game and story going.
  
  The graphics are good but the charecter models look a lil clucky compared to the beautiful background 
 visuals. The gameplay is solid with lots of jumping and swinging to go around, however, the gunplay 
 and motorcycle parts of the game felt clunky and not as smooth as they could.
  
  However, the camera is something that needs to be redone there was always at least one area were 
 it would go into a funky twist or turn to mess me up while i was either hoping over a pit or swinging 
 over a spiked trap. This also hurt me when trying to finish the time trials. The game was also 
 way to short with only a limited number of levels to adventure through.
  
  With the shortness of this game the only thing that kept me playing was the achivement points which 
 I hate to say about a game because that is not the reason I should be playing a game. The reason 
 I should be playing a game is because it is fun and play the whole way through without camera problems.
 
  
  Overall this game is a solid game to rent especially in the summer when you have more time to play 
 the games you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zmaleh
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 17, 2006 11:05 pm PT
Review:  The game has come a ways from the first Tomb Raider. The graphics are good but their are some frame 
 rate problems which honestly should not be happening with a 512MB video card. Anyways the game 
 is fun the different locations are pretty. The gun play is good but nothing outstanding or new. 
 The game is a rental in my opinion. Unless you are a real die hard Tomb Raider fan then play the 
 game by renting it and say your money for another game. If you are buying the game just to look 
 at virtual hot bodies then buy Rumble Roses XX. But if you like the third person puzzle shooters, 
 then drop the $60.
  
  I personally will go back to playing Oblivion. But did enjoy the adventure.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofan1314
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 17, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  Lara Croft has had many, many adventures but this one by far is the best ive saw the games visuals 
 are great, gameplay is really fun, and the gun controls are the easiest ive saw in a long time! The 
 story is fun to try to figure out the only problem i had was how hard the puzzles were! They were 
 so frustrating that i thought math class was easier!!!! Anyway controls get hard for people who 
 dont take time to read the tutorials in the first level also the game comes with Motorcycle chases 
 what a surprise (not) well this game is pure fun so the next time you come across this game and 
 think its good you made the right choice! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marko_Ragnos
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jun 13, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Easy to pick up and play, but a total let down to the line of tomb raider games. 
  Nothing that has not already been seen before. Within 10 min I had the grasp of the control system 
 and the entire jist of the game.
  
  The good =
  Lara Croft :p
  umm... Lara Croft?
  Lara Croft?
  
  The bad =
  Weak story
  Short
  Gets very boring very fast
  
  I don't 
 think there is anything here for people who are not fans of the tomb raider series. I would not 
 recomend this to anyone who is not a die hard fan of tomb raider, take your cash and spend it on 
 Graw or Oblivion or anything... anything but this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nationyde5
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 12, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  The first thing you will notice about this game is the stunning graphics. The locale look exceptional. 
 the characters, especially Lara look and move realistically. But the eye candy alone is not enough 
 to carry the adventure. The main flaw that I found in game play is that it tries to trick you into 
 thinking you are free to explore the settings, but you the levels are definitely linear. They are 
 are also short, very short. you could beat the game in one sitting, only a couple of hours. It 
 tries to make up for this with rewards and unlockables that you earn by finding treasures in the 
 levels. Some people will find getting 100% completion and the achievements intriguing enough to 
 warrant playing through it after you beat it, and you can explore Laras home, which also has itss 
 own secrets, so it does have some replay value. All in all, I would recommend renting this game 
 to see if it is your speed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jking98
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  I dont see how you people think everygame is short , I think the length of the game was just right. 
 I had lots of fun playing this game with the interactive game play and all the other stuff it was 
 fun to play. I cant wait for the next one to come out cause I was always playing this game, cause 
 all the cool stuff you could do in it was pretty amazing. I always shooting someone and running 
 up to them and jumping off of them that was fun to. And the puzzles in the game were always cool 
 to do to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xSpitFire3x
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 11, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - Biggest improvement aside from the obvious graphics overhaul, the controls are tighter 
 and more fluid and very few times will u ever be agrivated with the game. The puzzles while not 
 very complex actually fit into the gameplay and the location that they exist in. The gunplay is 
 somewhat weak but its main adventure/Platforming that draws u into to this next-gen blockbuster 
 hit game. Oh yeah dont forget, you can play at croft manor which took an amazing liking to the 
 Movie Croft Manor.
  
  Graphics- By far a major improvement over the current gen consoles with addeed details that just 
 cant even come close to this 360 counterpart. The details are crisp and Lara looks REAL good in 
 all 20 or so unclockable outfits. Oh did i mention the water looks like you could seriously lick 
 ur screen and taste the rushing water, Its that good!
  
  Sound - Not as memorable as the old Tomb Raider game but it inspires alot from the TR movies which 
 actually had decent music for its genre so it aint at all bad. The most pleasing soundtrack had 
 to be Nepal and Croft Manor.
  
  Value - This is were the game sadly falls short, it takes roughly ten hours for ur average gamer 
 to beat Tomb Raider Legend, its a quick story but definintly satisfying with its story which definitly 
 shows way better production value than in the past few bombs in the series. Now unclockable outfits, 
 secret artifact colleting and Time Trial difficulties all add to the longevity of this title and 
 in the end really help out the short amount of time it takes to complete the latest installment
 
  
  Its a worthy addition for anyone who enjoys a good action title and solid platforming, and most 
 definitly a must buy for anyone who loved the TR franchise and lost hope when the last few games 
 totally ruined the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turgore
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 10, 2006 9:40 am PT
Review:  This is the best tomb raider ever ! Graphics are very attractive and framerate is good if using 
 the 360 on a regular tv. THe puzzles are chalenging and you need to check teh internet for tips 
 how to pass them. 
  The game has a few flaws :it's too short ,not many types of enemies and gunplay is preety weak. 
 
  The thing that kinda bored me about this game was that the climbing and exploring wasn; t mixed 
 with gunplay meaning there are just shooting segments and no enemies pop up when you dont expect 
 . Also the enemies are just soldiers and a few jaguars (and bosses offcourse) .It would've been 
 nice to see some rock monsters like in the movie .A nice upgrade was the way Lara moves .it's so 
 controllable and balanced.
  The graphics as i sayd are gorgeous and lara looks better than ever. The locations are appropriate 
 from Tokyo to Ghanna .The 360 version could've used high dynamic range lightning so it wouldve 
 looked even better .
  The music is the best I ever heard in a game able to make you cry and it; s very well balanced with 
 gameplay like motorcicle race has it's type of music.
  The story is very well put together and entertaining .Also a few segments make the game seem more 
 cinematic
  Shortly Tomb Raider Legend is the best in the series bu since it's so short just rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bengameaholic
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 10, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider : Legend stretches off from other Tomb Raiders by having it much more graphically enhanced. 
 These graphics pull off many things to the game that make it that more likable. The curves of Lara 
 Croft, both facial and bodily. Nice, swift movement to the characters which is great when Lara 
 Croft is jumping all over the place pulling off an array of cool moves. The scenery is utterly 
 fantastic which is beautiful. It gives the areas better feel and better life to it. But what can 
 be tricky is the camera that can sometimes take you all over the place.
  
  The gameplay of the game is very straight foward and pretty much the same as the previous Tomb 
 Raider games. The traveling across areas is a really fun part of the game. Because it is so cool 
 getting Lara Croft to find her way up a waterfall as one example. The shooting part of the gameplay 
 is not so great. It is very basic and has no real feel to it. The bullet resistance isn't realistic 
 either giving some shooting battles a bit more bother and making the whole system that more tedious.
 
  
  The sound of the game is actually genuinely nice. There are some lifelike sounds that bring an 
 improved touch to the game. Both speaking and atmospheric noises. The shooting sounds are also 
 not bad at all.
  
  The lifespan of the game is a huge letdown. This game is finish and over and down with very quickly 
 and I feel that that is a big letdown. To what could have been a big compelling storyline that 
 takes you across long areas of land and you are always wanting to find out what happens next. Sadly, 
 the whole thing is over too fast.
  
  Overall the game is not bad at all and I feel that Tomb Raider : Legend is a good game in many 
 aspects and it matchs up to the other Tomb Raider games but it doesn't match up to the name; Tomb 
 Raider : LEGEND. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperRacerC91
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 9, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game looking for purely Gamerscore. I then came to realize that I love Lara Croft 
 now. I'm planning on getting all of her other games so that I can piece together this story line. 
 The gameplay is very fun and will keep you entertained for a while. Like all Tomb Raider games 
 however this consists a great single player mode and nothing more. However, Eidos did add The Croft 
 Manor this time around. It's a ton of fun to explore, as certain parts of the mansion become availible 
 to you as you progress through the main story line. With just about everything in this game being 
 interactive, you'll have tons of fun playing through it and trying to find all of the rewards. 
 This game calls Prince of Persia to mind, with many improvements. For one, you have a beautiful 
 Lara Croft to play as, instead of a dude on steroids. You can do tons of acrobatic moves and many 
 death defying climbs and leaps. You'll love playing through the story line, and trust me the ending 
 is well worth the game. Once you get through the puzzles and tons of great fighting you'll see 
 your hard work start to pay off. The fights are something else all together however. You have about 
 four guns to choose from with grenades and the best part is going to have to be when you run up 
 a guy's chest and backflip off of him, and then proceed to rip him to shreds. Trust me, when I 
 say I've never played any Tomb Raider game in my life, I fell in love with it almost immediately. 
 The only draw back to this game however, would have to be no LIVE play. So if you don't mind a 
 single player only experience, this is a must have for any collection. You'll love playing through 
 and gaining access to every secret in the entire game. So good luck and happy hunting, I say this 
 is a great game and worth at least a rental from everyone, if not a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mranlett
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 6, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  Great game - smooth and challenging but very quick to finish. Once done, I'll probably never pick 
 it up again. There needs to be a way to make it multiplayer and bring some Laura Croft action to 
 Xbox Live.
  The way Laura moves around, especially the climbing and jumping sequences are exceptionally smooth. 
 Spiderman should be jealous. She can pretty much climb anything, although you might have to look 
 a while to get all the required handholds.
  One of the features that seemed impressive at first but finally were just annoying were the interactive 
 film sequences. You watch an impressive cut scene of, say, the floor falling out below Laura. Suddenly 
 you have to control her motions with one well timed button press. Fail and she dies. There are 
 usually a couple of things you have to do like run, jump, and grab. This distracts me from the 
 cut scene and can cause unexpectedly needless deaths. Good intentions but I'd recommend the developers 
 skip this next time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdknight21
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 15, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  So with the review deck being said, this game is graphically, very very impressive. I played through 
 it on HD, and the detail in simple things such as flowing water, planks of wood, and design of 
 ancient 'tombs' throughout the levels were amazing. But you aren't just confined to 'tombs'. At 
 one point of the game you move in Lara Croft style through city high rise buildings, snow capped 
 scenery, and even a building in England. While most places eventually lead you underground, there 
 is plenty of difference in each level that the gameplay never gets boring.
  In my opinion, if you had trouble with the controls, it was because you were trying to move to 
 fast, and not use the camera effectively. You can easily adjust the camera with the right analog 
 stick, target and lock on enemies with the left trigger, fire with the right trigger, and you'll 
 use A for the action button to do most jumps etc... There is more to it button wise, but the learning 
 curve was fairly easy because of pop-ups on the first stage, which were not too excessive, and 
 a training dummy at the start of the 2nd.
  I really enjoyed this game, and I believe any fan of the Prince of Persia series would, also. I've 
 only played through one Tomb Raider before playing through this, but I understand why this series 
 was always highly recognized.
  My only complaints with the game, was that the shooting was about as good as it could get for this 
 type of game, but the enemy AI was slightly dumb. The dirtbike stages could have used a little 
 more polish, and the game the communications between Lara and her crew seemed to be on a lower 
 level of volume than the rest of the games sound.
  Those complaints shouldn't keep anyone from playing this game. The motorcycle stages were a decent 
 change of pace, and the rest of the sound in the game was great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NocturnalThoth
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 5, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  The game starts with some back story about the disappearance of the heroin's mother, Lady Croft. 
 You immediately start out in your first of 8 levels, taking you to Bolivia. The first level is 
 a sampling of what can be expected throughout the rest of the game. After you play the first level 
 you should adjust your settings to hard, once you have the controls down the rest of the game flows 
 and you might as well start working on the Gamerscore achievement. 
  
  From there you progress through Peru, Tokyo, Ghana, Kazakhstan, England, Nepal, and back to Bolivia 
 for the ending. There is also a bonus level available anytime after you complete the first level 
 (it is an exploration mission inside Croft Manor.) Each level has it's own set of puzzles and through 
 you can collect bronze, silver, and gold tokens unlocking more outfits to don throughout the game. 
 
  
  This Tomb Raider focuses on mainly on human enemies with animals only making brief appearances. 
 The weapons used by the enemies (and of course Lara) are generalized depictions of various classes 
 of weapons. There is a shotgun, a sub-machine gun, an assault rifle, a grenade launcher, and of 
 course Lara has her dual pistols with unlimited ammo refills. Lara can also pick up Grenades which 
 creates a nice method for dispatching with some of the large groups of enemies. The enemies also 
 carry grenades so if it looks like someone threw a small object near you they probably did.
  
  The ending of the game was great and after spending the entire game trying to solve the mystery 
 surrounding her mother you are shown what really happened and left to wonder if there is anyway 
 Lara can change it. That brings up the only downside to Legends, the ending comes far to quickly, 
 the game is far to short taking maybe 15 hours if you take your time. So that should figure in 
 to anyone looking to purchase, especially if you are paying the ten extra dollars for the XBOX 
 360 version.
  
  With this Tomb Raider game Crystal Dynamics has succeeded in all the areas where Core failed, save 
 length. The controls on this game handle superb, and you will find moving Lara easier than any 
 Tomb Raider game and that is what really adds to the overall game making it so great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chybby
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 3, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  This new version of the legendary tomb raider shows a new beginning for the stacked brunette. The 
 gameplay is nice and intuitive but the camera lack a certain freedom, the gameplay cut scene are 
 really nice looking but they suck in the long run. Wait there is a cut scene.... no you have to 
 press the yellow button to save her life. there is still new stuff to discover to get new outfits, 
 but they are not that nice so you fast get bored of trying to get them. The bike driving levels 
 also sucked big time because it is very limited in the freedom of the riding of the bike, the enemies 
 in those levels are the toughest that anything else in the game.
  
  The interaction in the croft mansion is nice but extremely limited.
  
  I like this game, but 
 the replay value does not justified me keeping it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IKKF
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 2, 2006 9:32 pm PT
Review:  By far this game is just pure fun! This is the kind of game where you can just pick it up and play, 
 not like a certain relative of crack named "Oblivion." The story starts out in Bolivia. If you 
 know you're geography like me, you will always know where the heck you are! The 360 is the best 
 console to play it on... well, mostly cause of the enhanced graphics. If you are having trouble 
 with the game's difficulty, put the controller down and head to GameFAQ's like I did several times. 
 This game is short, but challenging, also there is a replay value to this thing, because you WILL 
 miss atleast one treasure. I like how the shooting is toned down to a minimum, because if it was 
 non-stop action, I would have given it a lower score. Well it's a great game and it's fun, and 
 it's great... and it's... fun? Well I give Miss Lara, soon to be Mrs. ehem -- a 7.9. Not bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesinginlucas
Rating: 8
Date: May 31, 2006 11:12 pm PT
Review:  The game is cool. Decent graphics... some pretty nifty effects, like the wet look on skin after 
 getting out of the water, or dirty clothes and skin. Not nearly "mysterious" enough. Lara did not 
 have enough cool gear. There were a lot of cool cutscenes. Too much of the story was done in cutscenes, 
 rather than actual gameplay. Some of the levels seemed to have no purpose. Not enough unlockables... only 
 clothing. Not enough puzzles. Also, some of the puzzles were more aggrivating than they were fun. 
 The game is way way too short, and not interesting enough. Still fun to play, but not so much after 
 you've beaten the game once, regardless of whether you've unlocked everything or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IXON
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 31, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  Well here, we go this is my first review and I decided to go for a game that I have spent a lot 
 of time playing, for most people Tomb Raider was dead when they brought out AOD. Then Crystal Dynamics 
 (who took over from Core) have taken the series under their wing and literally given it a complete 
 overhaul now lets get to the review.
  
  Well let me start with the graphics they are by far the best graphics in the Tomb Raider series 
 period. The graphics are highly detailed and the environments are amazing, especially when it gives 
 the impression the levels go on as far as the eye can see. The water effects are pretty good unless 
 you have seen the DX-10 ATI demo that is, but all the same they do look amazing and will probably 
 take your breathe away in some levels but I wont spoil it.
  The lighting effects are pretty nice due to it makes the tombs and outdoor levels come to life 
 which make you feel like you are there with Lara on her latest adventure. The NPC character models 
 are OK but there is still a feeling that they could have done more with them. Especially considering 
 that most of the enemies look the same except for your main villains, still they show signs that 
 more could have been done but for Crystal Dynamics first attempt at the series, it is still awesome.
 
  Laras character model is by far amazing she is beautiful and all of her animations look fluid, 
 and a lot of time must have been spent on her but that is a good thing because you will never get 
 bored of looking at her.
  One nice touch is when you shoot a weapon a couple of times you get a smoke effect from the barrel 
 which is nice, as well as water effects on Lara when she gets out of any of the lakes or streams 
 that you come across on you travels.
  One problem that some players (including me) have come across are some graphical glitches in the 
 cut scenes and some times the game itself, which kind of look like stretched triangles or clipping 
 problems in the levels which is annoying since the rest of the game is spot on.
  So to sum it up, the graphics are amazing but just short of Next-Gen status and the odd glitch 
 here and their spoils it overall but not to the point that your jaw wont drop.
  
  Next up is the sound well in all the Tomb Raiders the sound has been great, which is the same for 
 this title in the series. The music score fits the game to the letter and gives it a feeling of 
 tension in some places as well as some beautiful music, which gives some of the tombs, an epic 
 feeling of discovery when you enter some of the areas.
  The voice work is good as well as some comical moments from Laras team in England. These kind 
 of add to the story in a way but can become a distraction sometimes especially when you trying 
 to make a jump and they are chatting nonsense in you ear but you can get a few hints from them 
 as well, so it is swings and roundabouts in a way.
  The ambient noise is spot on including gunshots and background noise such as crumbling rock and 
 so on which really helps give this game a really nice feel that you are in a ancient tomb which 
 hasn't been touched by human life for centuries.
  It is also nice if you have a 5.1 surround sound system to play it through because it adds an extra 
 dimension to the game, to sum it up the sound in this game is not going to blow you away, but it 
 will leave you thinking you just watched a blockbuster movie or something along them lines.
  
  Controls are next and boy are these a MAJOR improvement to the series, they feel very fluid 
 and are mapped to the pad in the best possible way and are very easy to get the hang of.
  Ok no Tomb raider game has had a perfect camera but what game has, and the camera in TRL is no 
 different. It is still something that will probably get in the way of some of the jumping puzzles, 
 but it can still be managed better than most games of its genre hopefully this the developers can 
 get right in the future. Some nice touches are the lifesaver controls, which is what I would call 
 them anyway. Say, you make a jump and Lara just makes it, you will be asked for a short period 
 to hit Y so that she does not slip and fall to her death, which is good because it gives you the 
 feeling of tension every time you make a jump. In short, the controls still need a little work 
 but the way they are will not hinder you from playing the game but will probably frustrate you 
 in certain places but it is nice to see that horrible block level design and the shimming to the 
 end of a ledge is gone.
  
  Now for the gameplay, well most of the gameplay in the Tomb Raider series was held back by the 
 dated and awkward controls that were mentioned above. But this TR is different the story keeps 
 you going through each of the levels and it is a enjoyment to get to the end of each level, so 
 you can find out what happens next. However, the problem is that for some gamers their may not 
 be enough here to keep it fresh and the short amount of time it will take to complete the game 
 which is about 6 to 8 hours for most gamers.
  It does try to mix it up though with the motorcycle levels but the problem is they are a bit rigid 
 in design. This is due to you are limited on what you can do on these rare levels compared to the 
 depth of the platform levels which is a bit of a let down, this on a whole could probably make 
 the whole game feel a bit stale if you play through it more than once.
  The combat is very simple, you lock on to your target and shoot, and as simple, as it sounds it 
 can still be very satisfying when you gun down multiple foes even though the AI is not very smart 
 in some cases. However, the AI can still give you a run for you money in certain parts and on higher 
 difficulties.
  Another way the combat has been overhauled is you can pull off slow motion kills if you jump on 
 to an enemy which makes Lara pull off a back flip. This then gives you time to fill them full of 
 lead in slow motion, which is a nice touch to the pacing of the combat but does have the problem 
 of getting a bit old. To sum up the gameplay and its value in the long run is that the gameplay 
 is mixed up a bit in the short period of time that it lasts which isnt very long, this is annoying 
 because it kind of ends with the sense that their should be more to do. This could be a off putting 
 factor for most gamers and fans of the series, considering the price tag, but the game is enjoyable 
 and of course their are plenty of relics to find. Which in include gold, bronze and silver the 
 2nd been the easiest to find, which could give it some replay value due to you could go back through 
 and try to find them all. Once you collect a certain amount of these relics you can unlock costumes 
 and upgrades for you to use in the game, and not to mention them lovely achievement points for 
 your gamertag also the time trial option gives you the added extra of trying to beat levels in 
 a certain time to unlock stuff as well.
  
  So is this a good game well that all depends on how you look at it, if you are series fan you will 
 love the game due to you have a epic story and some good gameplay to keep you amused while it lasts 
 and of coarse Miss Croft.
  As for general gamers, you may find it enjoyable but their might not be enough to warrant a 2nd 
 or third play through and may be worth renting instead. Overall, it is Tomb Raider and of course, 
 it has its small flaws, may be short, and will kind of leave you hanging at the end but it is just 
 the beginning of Laras Next-Gen adventures.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zymase
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 29, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Legend borrows heavily from other franchises, notably Resident Evil 4s split-second, 
 button-pressing interactive cinematics, Prince of Persia's platforming, and even basically an entire 
 boss from God of War, in a set-piece fight where broken controls are your real nemesis.
  
  The graphics are a hit-and-miss in high resolution, as some shots are well-done, particularly panoramic 
 and scenery shots, while the character animation and most textures could have used some improvement. 
 The camera does well for the most part, though it has its moments.
  
  The puzzles remain satisfying, even if the combat is far from it. Each level features at least 
 one brain-teaser, and this is where the game does well. The puzzles leave little in the way of 
 speculation, but are frequently rewarding when solved.
  
  Combat is easily the game's weakest spot, as Tomb Raider's targeting system is nearly broken, and 
 the weapons themselves feel paper-thin. The boss fights in particular are a struggle, not for challenge, 
 but because the controls are as tough as the boss - and in many cases, tougher.
  
  Overall, the game is recommendable as a rental, since it has its occasional fun moments - notably, 
 the platforming and puzzle-solving - but the shoddy targeting system and lackluster combat prevent 
 it from being worth adding to your collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: capt_karem
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 29, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  I have played the first three of the Tomb Raider games way back when i was in college and thought 
 that they were awesome. After those three, I got bored and everyone said that everything after 
 TR 3 was crap anyway (not to mention those god-awful movies) .
  After reading a few reviews, I took a chance and bought the game. I think that it is a good return 
 to the series but there are some flaws that bring it down a little in my opinion;
  
  -It is too short. I beat the game in about ten hours. In the first TRs I played it usually took 
 about three time that long to get to the end of the adventure. 
  
  -The supporting characters in the series are too one-dimensional. The cool hip hop computer guy 
 and that other character (I forgot his name) where just pathetic attempts to be 'hip'. Part of what 
 made the old series work was the fact that Lara was on her own 99.9% of the time, which enhanced 
 the sense of adventure. Not to mention that goth-chick antagonist!
  
  -The timed events where you had to press the right button at the right time made me feel like I 
 was playing the old 'Dragons Liar'. 
  
  What worked;
  
  -The graphics are outstanding! Especially the scenes with rivers and waterfalls. I truly think 
 some of those scenes were almost photorealistic.
  
  -The parts of the game where it was just you and Lara navigating the enviroment. Like I said earlier, 
 these are what TR games are (were) all about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skof2050
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 29, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  An asome game you can play in X360. Wow mouth watering Lara Croft. has Done it aging. Graphic is 
 great and so is the voic acting. Can anyone get mee adrink I'm to lazy to get out from this game. 
 lol Taking about X360. It can surley get the best out of game can wait for other game to come up. 
 I'm curently renting Hitman Blood money hope is the kick I'm looking for. It shoudn't have be that 
 hard to play TRL. I't a assome game to strat of X360.
  
  P. S.
  A great game you can play in X360 My score was 9.1 game ON.
  
  P. S.
  A great game you can 
 play in X360 My score was 9.1 game ON. P. S.
  A great game you can play in X360 My score was 9.1 game ON. P. S.
  A great game you can play in 
 X360 My score was 9.1 game ON. P. S.
  A great game you can play in X360 My score was 9.1 game ON. P. S.
  A great game you can play in 
 X360 My score was 9.1 game ON. P. S.
  A great game you can play in X360 My score was 9.1 game ON. P. S.
  A great game you can play in 
 X360 My score was 9.1 game ON. P. S.
  A great game you can play in X360 My score was 9.1 game ON. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soc1al
Rating: 9
Date: May 28, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  PROs+
  Tomb Raider Legend Delivers Good solid gameplay combined with great cutscenes and graphics. This 
 game really delivers the whole Tomb Raider feel, unlike Angel of Darkness. I like the environments 
 in this game and how they combine with the gameplay to bring the WHOLE Lara Croft package... The 
 Environment's graphics are stunning (need i say anything more about that.) The puzzles are quite 
 fun and the gun fights are intense.
  
  CONs- 
  The real flaw in Tomb Raider Legend is the length of the Story... It took me around six hours... 
 and I'm not even that good. There are times in the game where you will have no idea what to do... 
 or you might get lost in an underwater tomb. I think the character models are a little sloppy but 
 have improved drastically since the last Tomb Raider. Although this game is quite fun to play it 
 is not worth it going through the levels again to collect tokens and artifacts. The value in this 
 game sucked, it might be an awesome game to rent if you like the Tomb Raider series, but if you 
 love the Tomb Raider Series I suggest buying this game.
  
  WHATs?
  After playing the new adventure starring Lara Croft I couldn't help but wonder what was going on 
 throughout the *6 hours of story*... I had no clue who I was killing and why they were shooting 
 me. I understand that Lara's mother has been killed by some powerful green glow.... But who were 
 all of the people in the tomb being killed by that thing? Was it the same tomb???? 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZianGama
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 25, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is definantly the best looking Tomb Raider game and an ok graphics wise game for the 
 360 but just like the last 3 Tomb Raider games the controls have sucked this game has a good story 
 short but good but the controls ruin alot of the game experience to me instead of having such complex 
 controls they should simplify them for the good of bringing in more money because this game is 
 definantly worth a rent but i wouldn't suggest buying it I would rent it because the game is like 
 6 hours to complete and buying it would be a BIG mistake! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherbie1989
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 25, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is ok at first but then becomes stupid. All u do is go in tombs over and over. The graphics 
 are pretty good especially lora croft =) .
  The rest is dumb only a couple of my friends play it and i think they are gay for buyin it games 
 a rental but overall dont buy it. The game is pretty long i guess maybe like 10 hours maybe longer 
 depending on how good you are.
  If u like the tomb raider series buy this game its the best in the series but overall rent it make 
 sure u like it and gonna like it for a long time so buy it if thats gonna be u but if not save 
 ur money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleigh316
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 23, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Basically a resurrected franchise, the Tomb Raider series was in very, very bad shape following 
 the utterly awful Angel of Darkness. But Crystal Dynamics, makers of the Legacy of Kain games, 
 swooped in and saved Lara Croft by constructing a brand new engine for a new Tomb Raider. Now Lara 
 more resembled the Prince of Ubisoft's Prince of Perisa games, as Lara's movements would become 
 alot more fluid and acrobatic, not to mention cause fewer cheap deaths. And CD created Tomb Raider 
 Legend, a great, yet kinda short, new entry in the Tomb Raider franchise that reinvigorates the 
 series and gives it hopes of living in video game luxury once again.
  
  The same basic concept for TR: L is intact from the earlier TR games, action adventure exploring/platforming/puzzle 
 solving while working your way thru exotic locales. Its just that here Lara controls alot better 
 than she used to. And a hundred thousand times better than in her previous entry, Angel of Darkness. 
 Like I said, Lara's moves resembles the Prince, except for that time travel stuff, but Lara makes 
 up for that with her dual pistols, plus any other weapons she picks up along the way (shotguns, 
 machine guns, grenades) . During your adventure you'll explore the typical ruins of places like 
 Bolivia, Ghana and Nepal, but also the rooftops of Tokyo. The action always keeps you on your toes/fingers 
 as you never know when you'll walk into an interactive cutscene, or a room full of baddies. Either 
 way, the gameplay is a blast. Even the puzzles are integrated well as they rarely feel impossible 
 to figure out.
  
  The graphics are pretty good throughout the game, and in a few spots look fantastic. The detail 
 on Lara is incredible, as in her default Legend outfit, each weapon and gadget you use can be seen 
 on her digital person. Grenades can be seen clipped to her belt, shotgun or machine gun on her 
 back, pistols at her sides, the detail on Lara is fantastic. Most of the baddies you fight along 
 the way don't vary too much, but the villains you run into do look great as well. Plus like I said, 
 the visuals in a few areas do look very good.
  
  The audio fares very well. While the music that plays is pretty good, its the voice acting that 
 really does well. Keeley Hawes, who hasn't done any big projects, does a great job voicing Lara. 
 Her voice fits the new Lara perfectly and she performs her dialogue very well. Also worth noting 
 is veteran Kath Soucie who does the voice for one of the main villains. She also does a great voicing 
 her character, not surprising considering her pedigree (check out her filmography on IMDB) . Plus 
 the other voice actors do a great job with their characters. Which leads to the story, which is 
 surprisingly very good, once you finish the game and have all the details, but its best to experience 
 it without spoilers.
  
  Overall, Tomb Raider: Legend was a great new entry in the TR series. It is pretty short (there 
 are time trials and rewards to find to pad the gameplay, but I finished in over 8 hours) , but hopefully 
 that can be remedied in a sequel now that the Tomb Raider name has been re-established. If so, 
 I cannot wait for another one, as Legend was a great restart for the Tomb Raider franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: traitor1
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 22, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game in the series. Now don't get me wrong though, it still is not that good. 
 Yeah, the puzzles are good and the chase seens are very fun and the graphics are very good. The 
 normal gameplay is bland and WAY TOO EASY!! I started the game in hard mode and beat it no problem. 
 It is also way too short. I beat the game in three or four days playing only a few hours a day. 
 There is some replayability, but not much. This is a rent at best, unless youi enjoy short, bland 
 games with some exciting bursts, than by all means, buy this game today, but if you are a rational 
 person, rent first. DON'T BELIEVE THE HYPE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fool_throttle
Rating: 8
Date: May 22, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  Generally I'm all for shorter games, because I don't have the time to play 30hr plus adventures. 
 However, for $60, this should have been longer. Only because there aren't a lot of HD games out 
 there is this possible. 
  
  For action/adventure fans, you'll love the new Tomb Raider. Controls are snappy, the puzzles are 
 interesting, and the soundscape is rich. Her complex moves seem to have quite a lot of depth and 
 variety. Camera can get a bit akward at times, but overall it wasn't a problem. 
  
  It may play a little easy for it's target audience, and as I said, it's a little short. With no 
 multiplayer, your best bet is to play it through in a hurry, then go back and hunt for secrets 
 and beat the time trials. That can chew up the 30hrs, although the first time through may be under 
 10. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yucelh
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 20, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  Graphics are detailed but a bit choppy at times. The addition of binoculars to navigate through 
 puzzles is nice. The few Dragon's Lair-like sections are entertaining. For these one has to push 
 the right button at the right time to avert disaster. The game is short but worth playing as the 
 next-gen graphics breath life into the series. The gun play could use improvement however. The 
 camera can be awkward but only at a few places. Tomb Raider fans may find it a bit on the easy 
 side. Coupled with a good storyline, overall its a decent package of entertainment. Hopefully the 
 next instalment will be longer and slightly more challenging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scooooters
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 19, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  What a great game! I didn't play the original, but picked the series up with the second Tomb Raider 
 and loved it. Hated the old controls... these are MUCH better. Gone are the days of trying to perfectly 
 line up your jumps and having them screw up totally. If you are just a casual gamer, this is really 
 a neat game that will not suck the life out of you. And if you are hardcore, the acheivements and 
 costume searches alone will give you plenty to do. And what a great storyline! Really easy to follow 
 if you don't play the game straight through. I couldn't be happier. And don't get me started on 
 the beauty of the game. Really shines on an HDTV... really shines. And I love the story cliffhanger... means 
 we get more in the future. Way to save the series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazedColombian
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 17, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  I just have to say i was worried when I got this game.... Couldnt get any worse than tomb raider 
 4 haha. Or that awful game angel of darkness taht killed the series.. Thank god Crystal Dynamics 
 took the series and brought life back to it. Its like tha batman franchise the 1st was was great 
 the second one was ok and then they killed it. This game is the tomb raider begins of the series. 
 Only problem is that its  
  short. I beat the game in around 8 hours, but in the games defense u want to keep playing. Its 
 very entertaining, and I have played it through about 4x. I also just rented the game and did not 
 buy it. I dont no about paying $60 for it.
  
  The graphics r xbox like to say the least and are not a strong virtue of this game. The gameplay 
 is were its really at... you actually tomb raid in this game which is really fun. I also like that 
 it was more realistic than the other games..
  there is not an army in an ancient cave that was impossible for the best tomb raider in teh world 
 to get into but the army has all there equipment and stuff. One stage england has no enemies in 
 it what so ever.. its just 100% tomb raiding which sounds werid but is really fun.
  
  i cant say enough praises for this game and cant say much that is wrong with it other than its 
 short and a bit expensive for $60 considering the graphics and the length 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGS2244
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 17, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  After Angel of Darkness, most people lost their confidence and hope for a good Tomb Raider game. 
 Even Eidos saw dark clouds pulling together above Lara's pretty little head and decided to remove 
 Core Design from it's functions and installed Crystal Dynamics which you probably know from last 
 years Project Snowblind. The big question now is.... did they do a good job? Well... They did thank 
 god. Tomb Raider Legend is just plain fun on a adventure which involves Lara's past, friends and 
 parents. Lara moves around smoothly and the controls react perfectly, but sometimes a little bit 
 to perfect. You have 2 new weapons in this game, a magnetic grappling hook, that can be used for 
 swinging around or pulling an object ,and a scope with a sensor in it so you can check what objects 
 can be used or moved (kinda like the sensor in Metroid Prime) . There are also a few interactive 
 cut-scenes like in Resident Evil 4 were u have to react fast and push the button that pops up on 
 you screen. The camera can be a little annoying sometimes, but it's never frustrating. There are 
 a lot of locations to explore (all over the world) and a level will never be to long or frustrating. 
 They vary from various tomb's off course to a nightclub and even some snowy mountains, and it all 
 looks great and lively. The puzzles aren't to hard to solve, a few ones will take a few minutes 
 to figure but most of them are easy, you will be climbing and jumping and pulling levers a lot. 
 Altough the game looks great, it looks like the designer used the same character (Lara) model for 
 all the females in the game which is a little bit sloppy, they all seem to have the same size, 
 height and... wel.... you know. And they could've made the game a little bit bigger. It took me about 
 9 hours to finish the main storyline. It can take a bit longer if you decide to find all the bronze, 
 silver and gold awards which are hidden in all the levels (for achievements) When you finish that 
 storyline you can explore Lara's manor which then will be fully unlocked to do some more searching 
 and climbing for awards to get achievements and dresses. There is also a time trial for each level 
 which will unlock a cheat and an achievement if you make it in time. But I did'nt feel like rushing 
 through all the levels again anyway. It looks like a bit of last minute adding to extent the gameplay. 
 This is maybe not the best Tomb Raider ever, for that the puzzles were to easy and the game was 
 too short, but the story worked well and I had a great time playing this game and that says a lot. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazzx625
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 15, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider is a fairly long running series, and with most long running series, has its ups and 
 downs. All 10 of you that actually bought Angel of Darkness will be pleased to know that Legend 
 is an actual, playable game... And a pretty fun one at that. Lara is back to raiding tombs, instead 
 of whatever the hell she's been doing in her other games... It's a great comeback to breathe life 
 back into a series, and there is more on the way.
  
  While the game is eons more evolved than some of the others in the series, it's not without it's 
 share of problems. Camera oddities are kind of a drag sometimes, but nothing too serious. Thankfully, 
 the camera was the only thing I encountered that was really "buggy" with the game. Sometimes it 
 would work fantastically, others It would be stuck underneath me while I needed to make a precise 
 jump... You'd think with about 10 years of 3-D platformer/adventure games they would have perfected 
 the camera control by now.
  
  The game itself isn't really anything new, in fact, it's almost a reiteration of the first game 
 in some ways... which is a good thing. The story is actually pretty good, which surprised me, and 
 the levels are all distinct and memorable. The puzzles that are encountered all make you think. 
 There was not a single puzzle where I knew what to do based on years of video game experience. 
 Above everything else in the game, this is what made me love it. The enemies didn't pose much a 
 challange, and there weren't that many to begin with. Tomb Raider is about solving puzzles. Even 
 the boss fights had some puzzle elements to them, which makes for a fun, but oft frusterating, 
 time.
  
  There are some distinct things that are borrowed from other great games of recent memory. The cutscene 
 button pressing from Resident Evil 4 was a nice touch. I was also reminded of God of War on more 
 than one occasion. The boss fight in England was the most notable God of War "reference", the entire 
 thing was played like Kratos with guns. Again, not a bad thing by any means, nothing felt out of 
 place or stolen. Borrowing ideas from great games could have been horrible, but those games were 
 great for a reason, and it turns out borrowing from them helped.
  
  My main gripe with the game is the trial and error portions of it. Especially later on in the game 
 (Nepal, especially) there are parts where you have to jump from A to B to C to D and so on.... But 
 sometimes getting from A to B will be trial and error... Then from B to C might be trial and error... This 
 doesn't happen so often that you just have to memorize your way through the level, but there were 
 some parts that were kind of just too much. Thankfully, the game has an autosave feature that saves 
 right before these parts. I never had to muck my way back through a level... Which is a huge plus 
 in these situations. These parts of the game are almost inevitable given the context of what you're 
 doing, but I still wish there were some better ways around it.
  
  Overall, the games ending is not satisfying... compounded with the fact that I beat it in 7 1/2 
 hours and I took my sweet time through most of the levels. This game makes for the perfect weekend 
 rental. It's got everything that makes a great game, except for longevity. The only reason to play 
 back through is to get the rewards, which unlock outfits and other goodies, but other than that, 
 there's not much left to explore. At least we know there is a sequel on the way, and I would be 
 surprised if it doesn't go even further in making this series worthwhile again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crshnbrn
Rating: 7
Date: May 14, 2006 3:56 am PT
Review:  Overall this game is pretty good. It is the best Tomb Raider game ever. Not only was the story 
 good, but the controls were much better than all the previous games. The big disappointment however, 
 was the game is way too easy, even on hard mode. I flew through hard mode, like it was a piece 
 of cake. Other than that the game plays and looks great. Being as non-challenging as it is though, 
 I would say to rent this game instead of buying it unless you're a big Tomb Raider fan. The replay 
 value is not that great, not even to just use the cheats you can unlock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p-virus
Rating: 7
Date: May 12, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  It's not unusual that someone says the word Tomb Raider and the first thing that pops into one's 
 head is Lara Croft. She's a symbol that has been around since the early days of the Playstation 
 game console. In some cases even earlier back. We all remember what it was like to take control 
 of her for the first time. The controls a little clumsy, but hey, for this game they worked. There 
 was no camera control but we didn't care it was still fun. A couple of years went by and the sequels 
 became more and more forgettable. Just when we thought that the series was spent, out came a little 
 star named "Tomb Raider Legend". First things first, there is now a free flowing controllable camera 
 and the controls have been mapped out for a very user-friendly experience. Once you start you will 
 definitely not want to quit. TRL has brought back what the series once had with clever and intuitive 
 puzzles, and fun fire fights. The Aiming has been given a little bit of a make over, there is now 
 a targeting system from which you can choose your victim on the fly. Lara herself is quite a bit 
 more acrobatic, she almost resembles a little well-known Prince of Persia. If you're a fan of the 
 Tomb Raider Series or just looking for a nice yet quick adventure game then this is the game for 
 you. TRL will remind you of what it was like to have met Lara Croft for the first time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imm
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 12, 2006 11:31 am PT
Review:  The series lost its way, but this title brings us back to the adventure/puzzle goodness that helped 
 make the first title popular. (Lara's proportions notwithstanding)
  
  Pros: Graphics are good, camera is decent, easy to pick up and play, gameplay is varied and interesting, 
 controls are good
  
  Cons: Motorcycle sequences aren't very exciting or fun and combat is a little simplistic.
  
 
  Although they don't do a very good job of telling you why you have to push block A onto floor 
 switch B, it seems as though they put at least a little effort into telling a story about why you 
 are adventuring in the first place.
  
  It might not be your first choice for 360, but a good addition to your library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gingy_The_Kid
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 11, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  She wowed gamers around the world when she started off on her Ind'esque adventures around the globe. 
 And than she has progressively slipped to a level that could almost be described as disgusting. 
 Sadly, one of gaming's best heroines became a joke.
  
  Well no longer, Miss Croft is back, and with a vengeance.
  
  It would seem, that Eidos, and 
 Crystal Dynamics have rebuilt the tracks under this locomotive. Learning their lessons from the 
 past and other games, they took pages from the Prince of Persia and Legacy of Kain sagas, which 
 as is evident from the get go is one of the things this franchise sorely needed.
  
  The best part I would have to say, is that you no longer have to spend an hour or so in a boring 
 tutorial sections - just start exploring. The combat is somewhat... clunky. But they took a combat 
 style from a melee style games to their range target, the focus mode balances it moderately, however 
 it is not as a "free style combat" as we were lead to believe. But than, not often do they deliver 
 as expected.
  
  All in all, the gamer score is easy enough to get the basics of it, but gets difficult in the long 
 run to unlock all achievements. But this can be said, Miss Croft on the box does not disappoint. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerZer0
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 10, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  It was better then the last Tomb Raider but it ended to quickly it was to short I enjoyed playing 
 it though the shooting gets a little repetitive but overall its still a good game.. rent it before 
 buying to see if its your kind of game ither way just check it out Id recommed it but everyone 
 has different taste the graphics kind of look better then the regular x box by a little bit more 
 so if your looking for something that has good graphics on the hd tv i wouldnt recommend it Id 
 recommend picking up fight night if your into sports games for graphics or king kong if your into 
 adventure .. even without and hd they look awesome so imagine it with and hd.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angelodivita
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 13, 2006 7:01 am PT
Review:  I remember when the first Tomb Raider was out for the PC/PSX. It was such an incredibly massive 
 game for its time. You could have spent dozens of hours on the game and you might still have had 
 a ways to go yet.
  
  Everyone is probably aware that this version is short ... but also packs a punch. It's in just 
 about every review you read about it. It's also mentioned that this game brings new life to the 
 series, which I'd also agree with. I just think I'll add to what makes and doesn't make this game 
 happen. 
  
  Doesn't Make It Happen:
  - On a medium difficulty level, shooting a guy feels like you're shooting a stationary sand bag. 
 The enemies will just stand there and only jostle the slightest bit by a speeding bullet repeatedly 
 ... until finally they've had too much and fall back or down or what not. It would have been nice 
 to see better reactions from the bullets.
  - Limited range of weaponry and the shooting does get tiring. 
  - Let's add a limited enemy list 
 as well. The enemies are all dressed the same, which gets very boring. There's a lack of the animal 
 enemies that livened up the first few of the series.
  - The motorcycle levels are WAY too long and boring. It feels like you just wasted 10% of the game, 
 hehe.
  - There's still a cartoonish element about the game, aside from the impressive environments, I 
 think one big detriment to the series is how cartoonish Lara Croft looks herself. The oval shaped 
 face without much realism (e. g. texture) makes it harder to consider it realistic. We're in the 
 age of the 360 and PS3 and the face is still modeled from the polygonal limitations of the PSONE 
 that made her face shaped just so.
  
  Makes It Happen:
  - The gameplay is great in terms of her movement and interaction with the environment. I think 
 that's been the forte of the series in general, the interaction with the jungle gym environment. 
 It kinda gets you to looking at your own environment like "I wonder if I could climb this ledge 
 here, swing from that pole to there ..." hehe
  - Though the weapon choices are limited, she can pull off some pretty cool moves with a pistol 
 or two. She can flip off of somebody's head and slo-mo shoot them as she lands.
  - The environments are beautiful and very well detailed. I was impressed with a lot of the atmosphere 
 in terms of its look and design. They seemed to nail what they were hoping for, looking at the 
 concept art, much like Condemned.
  - The story was actually rather interesting and kept me wanting to know what happens in the end.
 
  - The lip movement was suprisingly good. Not the best I've seen, but still deserves a pat on the 
 back. Some other games pay no attention to that, even with close-ups, but this one does.
  
  Overall:
  Good value. I might recommend renting it before you buy it ... however ... I am finding 
 that even with a thorough playthrough of the game that I still have yet to find quite a few of 
 the hidden items. I even accidentally erased a save file with like 75% completion and ended up 
 having to play it back through and still didn't find everything. The extras are decent, but not 
 too much to brag about. Her manor is a level in itself, which is pretty neat. Anyhoo, that's my 
 review.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 8, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  I will start off by saying this is my first Tomb Raider game. Saying that, I am very impressed 
 with it. The game ran smoothly and the story was very well written. I enjoyed it alot. Now, lets 
 review:
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  The game runs very well and the flow and control is smooth as butter. The game is a twist of Prince 
 of Persia and Splinter Cell puzzles. Of course, the combat is not stealth at all, but the combat 
 is still good. The motocycle parts were boring but very fun at first. I have to say, for the most 
 part, the game ends before its gets boring.
  
  Graphics:
  
  On the Xbox 360, the game was beautiful I enjoyed its lush worlds and temples. I think my favorite 
 level was the one that took place in London. Of course, the downfall is that you can tell the game 
 was made for a PS2 thanks to the SUVs looking like they are PS2 graphics.
  
  Sound:
  
  Good music throughout the game, but it does get rough around the edges. the games music does not 
 have variety so you may get stuck listening to the same song over and over.
  
  Value:
  
  This is where the game takes the biggest hit. The game takes 10 hours to complete 100%. yes 
 that means beating every level on Hard. the game was that easy. of course, a person who never games 
 well find some difficulty, but don't expect too much. So I reccomend the game as a rental, but 
 buy it at 20 bucks if you hold off. Of course, those 3 points come from a gorgues game and the 
 360 achivements (For the PS2/Xbox/PC/GCN gamers, take off a point from value for your score) .
  
  Tilt:
  
  I will admit it: Lara is hot. but shes a video game character, but still, you 
 can't go wrong. The game was wonderful and I can't wait for Lara next adventure. 
  
  Overall: 8.3/10
  Awesome game, but I recommend rental. Don't waste the 60 bucks.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keylay_X
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 8, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Lara Croft is back in her all new adventure, Tomb Raider Legend. After Angel of Darkness (Tomb 
 Raider 6) failed to meet expectations, Eidos took Tomb Raider from Core and gave it to Crystal 
 Dynamics (Legacy of Kain creators) . Its been ten years since Lara was born and she has been reborn 
 in Tomb Raider Legend. 
  
  The story has Lara searching the globe for pieces of an ancient artifact. She hopes that finding 
 all the pieces and putting them together will give her some insight on what happened to her mother 
 when Lara was a little girl. The story is told and shown nicely in 60 cut-scenes. Lara character 
 is better than ever. She is a woman that knows what she wants and doesnt let anyone get in her 
 way. Shell say a few witty lines along the way, such as Youll be amazed with how persuasive 
 I can be, even with dangerous men. Eeeewww, you have a dirty mind for thinking that line was suggesting 
 she performs special favors to persuade men. Very dirty mind. 
  
  Besides the normal cut-scenes, youll encounter interactive cut-scenes where you have to press 
 the button displayed on the screen to save Lara from dying.
  
  Lara controls much better in Legend than she has ever controlled before. Gone and sent far away 
 (in space, into a black hole where it can never ever come back because you couldnt attack enemies 
 when they went behind you and couldnt avoid a boulder because Lara ran in the wrong direction) 
 is Laras grid system control. Before, when you pressed up on the D pad, Lara moved in the direction 
 she was facing and pressing left or right made her turn. Now you can press any direction and she 
 moves in the direction. Move Lara with the right joystick and you can use a health pack, binoculars, 
 flash light, and switch weapons by pressing a direction on the D pad. 
  
  To help bring Lara back to life Eidos sent Toby Gard, the creator of Lara Croft, to Crystal Dynamics 
 to make it a success. Thankfully, many of the old Tomb Raider elements you have enjoyed are still 
 around. Youll be able to go to Laras mansion and complete an obstacle course, change outfits, 
 and find rewards. Also returning from the old games is Laras infinite ammo pistols, her swan dive 
 and sideways jumps, and her classic costume. 
  
  Most of the puzzles are fairly easy and linear but there are a few that might cause you some trouble. 
 Compared to past Tomb Raider games, the puzzles in Legend are easier mainly because you dont have 
 to look for a well hidden lever or key. But fans of past games shouldnt fear. Accompanying the 
 easier puzzles are bronze, silver and gold rewards you can find. Bronze being the easiest to find, 
 silver being somewhat hard, and gold being the hardest. Youll have to spend hours looking in every 
 nook and cranny trying to find them.
  
  To beat puzzles youll be pushing boulders, jumping to platforms, and shimming along an edge just 
 like old Tomb Raider games. New to the series is Laras ability to swing on poles, climb rope, 
 and jump from an edge to a higher edge  Yes, shes that strong. Also, she has a new device called 
 a grappling hook that lets Lara swing from place to place just like Spider-man. The grappling hook 
 can be used with any object that shines (or has a flashing white light) . The grappling hook is 
 good for swinging over gaps, moving objects, and pulling items closer to Lara.
  
  If the puzzles prove to be too difficult for you, there will be plenty of assistance. Zip, Laras 
 right hand man and tech expert, will be talking to Lara at all times, giving her clues on how to 
 overcome puzzles. In addition, Lara is able to use the RAD mode of her binoculars. The RAD mode 
 will highlight all objects that have some mechanical function, can be pushed, or are destructible. 
 
  
  The obstacles are pretty straight forward and can sometimes be done in more than one way. Usually, 
 there is boulder that Lara can use to push her way through blades or lasers but you can also learn 
 the patterns and jump through them at the right time. Also, there are a few fast-thinking obstacles 
 such that you have to move really fast because the ledge or pole is going to break.
  
  The gunplay isnt too deep but its much better than previous installments. When you lock onto 
 an enemy, either a red or gray reticle will appear on them. The closer you are to an enemy, the 
 more damage they will take. A gray reticle means the target is out of range so most of shots are 
 missing them and a red reticle means your enemy is in range and taking almost all your shots. It 
 either color is dimmed, then that means the enemy is behind a wall and can not be hit.
  
  Each weapon has a different range and amount of damage it inflicts. The shotgun has the shortest 
 range, so the red reticle only appears when you are close to your enemy, but it can kill an enemy 
 in one shot depending on your distance from them. The pistols have medium range and dont do too 
 much damage (but you have unlimited ammo) , and the M16 has the longest range and inflicts a good 
 amount of damage. Youll also find objects you can shoot that will explode. Press the Y button 
 and any enemy next to it when it explodes will die.
  
  The last reticle is a blue reticle that will appear when your opponent can be grappled but you 
 can also grapple them when they have a red reticle (you just have to be within the same range) . 
 You can use the grapple to hook your enemies from high places and pull them to the bottom floor. 
 You can also use it on ground enemies to stun them. Another new weapon is grenades. Lara can carry 
 up to four grenades at a time. But watch out, the enemy can also throw grenades and they can kill 
 Lara if they go off right next to her. After you kill an enemy, youll be able to pick up anything 
 they drop (weapons, grenades, health packs) .
  
  Lara also has some new fighting abilities. She can kick an enemy, slide under them and launch them 
 into the air, or jump off of them and go into Aerial Assault mode. In this mode time moves in slow 
 motion and you can inflict more damage.
  
  The enemy A. I. however isnt too great. They can be smart at times like when they throw a grenade 
 at you but there a few times where they run away from you. Dont they want to kill Lara? And how 
 come a tiger will just stand in one place while I shoot it. It wants to die? This wont happen 
 every time so its not that bad.
  
  Other than fighting, while roaming through towns and tombs, youll be shooting enemies while you 
 ride a motorcycle. It might take a while to get used to the controls but it can become pretty fun. 
 Enemies will crash into you and try to knock you off the road but you can jump ramps to dodge them 
 and shoot barrels (with theY button) that will explode.
  
  The graphics are very nice. The Xbox 360 version looks much nicer than the Xbox version. Shadows, 
 clothing texture, and Lara herself look much better on the Xbox 360. The water is amazing and animates 
 very nice. When Lara gets wet or dirty (no, not that kind of dirty) , you can tell by looking at 
 her. Even in the cut-scenes, Lara will look wet or dirty (still not talking about that) if you 
 just came out of water or rolled around in the dirt. Dont worry though. After a couple of minutes 
 she will become clean Lara again. Lara has a plethora of animations. She is basically a gymnast 
 (without the manly muscular build) .
  
  Lara makes all the same sounds as she did in previous games (just a different voice actress) . She 
 even screams when she falls of a high building (although it isnt nearly as fun to watch as it 
 was in previous games) . The music is well done and goes well with the surrounding Laras in. 
 
  
  Once you beat the game (which will take 5 to 10 hours) there are a few things to do. You can beat 
 the Time Trials to unlock achievements and collect all of the rewards to unlock costumes. Theres 
 more reason to replay this Tomb Raider over past games because Lara moves and plays so well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godmachine0603
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 8, 2006 1:01 am PT
Review:  When i found out that the next Tomb Raider was coming to the 360, my first reaction was "Cool, 
 a Tomb Raider with good graphics!" Having not dived into the Tomb Raider realm since the second 
 in the series, i went ahead and rented it. The first hour or so was kind of boring, but i forced 
 myself to keep playing, and i was glad i did. After another 2-3 hours i found myself immersed and 
 it was difficult to put my controller down. I thought finding the artifacts was kind of lame until 
 i attempted to find them all. The controls are solid (Lara's new moves rock!) , the puzzle solving 
 is decent, and the sense of adventure is pretty good also. Seeing a variety of level desings was 
 nice to see considering most of the levels in the first 2 were the same. Lastly i thoroughly enjoyed 
 going through Croft manor and finding all the goodies. Now the bad. What is with the weapons and 
 health packs?! I remember having to search high and low to find extra health packs and new weapons/ammo. 
 It made finding secret areas more satisfying, as well as adding extra depth and challenge to the 
 game. Like i said before, the artifacts were a nice touch, but they should of coupled that with 
 having secret areas for weapons etc as well. That is by far my biggest complaint. Don't let my 
 score fool you, over all Tomb Raider Legends is a great game thats alot of fun. Im very glad i 
 rented it, however i definitely would not buy it. Its just too short and easy, and not worth the 
 $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yazu13
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 7, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Opening
  
  Crystal Dynamics has re-imagined the super star Lara Croft, giving her new moves, toys, and graphics 
 in her newest next generation adventure, Tomb Raider: Legends. In this new addition to the Tomb 
 Raider series, Legends includes much needed updates to the long-running franchise and introduces 
 free-form elements into both the action and the adventure, and despite gameplay quirks that can 
 sometimes send you jumping and shooting in the wrong direction, Tomb Raider: Legends is the best 
 Tomb Raider to date.
  
  
  
  
  
  Story
  
  Legends follows a surprisingly eloquent plot that takes Lara Croft around the world in search of 
 the truth behind the legend of King Arthur, and in addition to the central story, there are several 
 well-woven subplots, each revealing interesting information about Lara's history. Also, to change 
 the pace of the series, this game takes Lara out of the tombs and rural areas, and drops her into 
 urban jungles like Tokyo, making the plot feel like a decently written Indiana Jones film. On another 
 note, the story moves quickly in this game, and like in an action movie, it never lets the details 
 overwhelm the adventure, which has destroyed games like this many times in the past. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Gameplay
  
  The brand new free-form design of Legends is a welcome 
 change from previous Tomb Raider titles and allows Lara to roam all over each giant room and open 
 space. The result of this is a game that moves along much faster and plays more like Prince of 
 Persia than a Tomb Raider sequel. Also, The combat system adds all sorts of acrobatic evasive maneuvers 
 as well as a bullet-time affect for certain melee combinations. You can pick up any weapon your 
 enemies drop or use your standard dual pistols. Not to mention also, Lara has a new array of gadgets 
 which include a personal light source for dark corridors, remote analysis binoculars for finding 
 hidden mechanisms on pathways, and a magnetic grapple for swinging, dragging enemies, and manipulating 
 objects. The remote analysis binoculars however, might annoy adventure gamers because they take 
 the guess work out of finding certain things that will allow you to move on in certain areas, but 
 the magnetic grapple endows Lara with all new spider-man abilities which adds a great deal of variety 
 to the game's puzzle solving aspects, especially for people who have endured the last 2 Tomb Raider 
 titles. However, there are some annoying aspects to moving Lara around. Pulling off tricky jumps 
 and aiming during combat are often more difficult than they should be. It's also pretty rough pulling 
 off acrobatics when lara is out of Aim Mode and the response of this and some of the controls aren't 
 at a level that they should be for a series that defined the genre. Though these flaws will irritate 
 Prince of Persia and God of War fans, the gameplay is still lightyears ahead of Chronicles and 
 Angel of Darkness.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Graphics/Design
  
  As the first major third-person action adventure title for the Xbox 360, Tomb Raider: Legends looks 
 phenominal. The levels are expansive, and for the most part, the details look fantastic. Unfortunately, 
 it's just an upgrade over the current generation titles, so this probably isn't all that the series 
 is capable of in the next generation, and it would have been better to have a zoom function on 
 the camera to enjoy the character animations and places a little bit more. However, The only element 
 that will take you out of the visual experience is the lighting. The shading on Lara is often not 
 as dynamic as the textures in the background. This makes lara stand out like a cartoon in some 
 portions of the game. It does however help that there is an in-game menu for changing the brightness 
 and contrast, but fans of the franchise, and the lead videogame icon, deserve better. Also, one 
 last thing, Legend allows you to play every aspect of the game from flashbacks, to negotiations. 
 Many of the cutscenes include playable elements too, so if you don't have your controller ready, 
 Lara might die a tragic and comical death. Also, motorcycle missions tend to break up the gameplay, 
 and are easy and loose, but still pretty fun. However, the solutions to some of the puzzles in 
 Legends are frustrating to figure out at times and most of the game is appropriately challenging. 
 On another note, Legends also allows you to roam around the Croft manor and play a series of exercises 
 at Lara's home. These are some of the toughest puzzles in the game, and even after beating them, 
 there's only about 10 to 12 hours of gameplay. Once you've finished the game, you can play levels 
 over again for time trials, and attempt to find all of the hidden treasure to unlock new features 
 and outfits, but omb Raider fans will definitely be left hungry for more.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Ending
  
  Tomb Raider: Legends is better than the five sequels that came before 
 it in every way. Fans of the franchise will be impressed and newcomers to the series will find 
 this game entertaining. So, if you can overlook the hickups and gameplay quirks, you'll discover 
 the updates to the design and the freestyle platforming make being Lara Croft finally living up 
 to the hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameDestroyer88
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 7, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Back when Tomb Raider Legend was announced I sat back at looked at all the internet skeptiscism 
 flying around. The failure of the PS2 game: Angel of Darkness was enough to warrant some major 
 outcries from the public. Now that TRL has hit stores and circulated through homes, it's clear 
 that Eidos has managed to do the impossible and bring Lara back from the dark depths of Hades.
 
  
  Gameplay: Remember that invisible grid that Lara moved on in the past games? Well get down on your 
 knees and thank the gaming gods that Eidos had enough sense in them to ditch that bull$% control 
 system. One of the most thankful aspects of this game is the way Lara gracefully moves around. 
 I would have shanked myself if Lara was once again restriced to that grid that made her stiffer 
 than my cock-a-doodle-doo. The biggest focus in TRL is platforming. I tell ya' TRL has some of 
 the greatest platforming moments this side of Prince of Persia. Multiple traps and puzzles lay 
 around making the game much more memorable and fun. Ever since God of War came out developers all 
 over the globe have emulated the syle of the game with timed button presses.... TRL... is no different. 
 At times you'll be in a cutscene, then all of a sudden Y!! pops up and before you know it Lara 
 has died in a most amusing way. Thats the thing about the TRL button presses, if you fail, you 
 get treated to some of the most hilarious death sequences, that usually involve Lara either getting 
 her neck, or various parts of her broken, Lara getting slammed into a wall, Lara being blown up, 
 or even Lara being eaten by a giant eel. The gunplay in TRL is fun.... but it comes up short. There 
 are a grand total of 4 other guns to use, besides the pistols, the bad thing is that they don't 
 feel any different. They don't feel more powerfull or less powerfull, they just feel like fully 
 automatic pistols. I can forgive the lacking but still fun combat, especially when you have platforming 
 as good as this.
  
  Graphics: Good Lord this is beautiful. I couldn't help myself but stare out at the enviroments, 
 the ruins, and the fantastic looking water. The 360 did an amazing job with taking the ports to 
 the next level graphically. And hey check out Lara.... damn this hunny has never looked better in 
 her entire career. I swear to god I must have spent hours upon hours looking at her, changing her 
 outfits, dunking her in water to see that glisten of the water roll down her shirt, and manipulating 
 the camera to get those "naughty" views.... you know looking down her shirt, checking out those 
 DSL's and getting that glamourous clevage right into my face.
  
  Sound: The sound in TRL brings it one notch closer to it's awesomeness status that is so rightly 
 deserves. The voice acting is excellent, from Lara's sexy british accent, to all the other people 
 whom I didn't pay attention too 'cause I was looking at Lara the whole time. The music is pretty 
 good too, the vocals in the music sounded great and brought the center experience to it's apex 
 in key situations.
  
  Overall: Overall TRL has managed to bring back one of themost beloved video game, and sex icons. 
 The game could have been better, with several touch-ups on the games combat, and specifically length, 
 but if you can look past the bad stuff, and take your concentration of the T&A for a minute you 
 can find yourself a worthy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluebird3434
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome, a joy to play for all ages. Should you have a surround sound system then 
 this sound was made for it . I can't say enough about this game. Honestly, this game will be game 
 of the year. If I could find out where Laura lives..
  
  Challenging puzzles to keep you alert on Laura's missions. When you die you don't go back to beginning, 
 start from point of death. Keeps game flowing. First played I played for 6 hours non stop. I have 
 not done that in awhile. Once and awhile I had to get help from a guide.
  
  I will say story line is a bit murky, but it all ties together and makes some sense. How many of 
 us play for outstanding story lines - thats what movies are for.
  
  Go ahead and buy this game you won't be disappointed. Trust me. Heck, I would not be writing this 
 review if I didn't. That s all I got to say and a box of chocolates. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendorocks
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 7, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider has made a very steady decline since it's debut on the PlayStation. Although, the console 
 versions of the Tomb Raiders have stayed fairly decent. (well, besides Angel of Darkness, Tomb 
 Raider 2 and The Last Revelations and... you know what I'll stop there) Ok, so maybe some have stayed 
 fairly decent. Tomb Raider has really shined on the PC, once on the GBA, and even once on the mobile 
 phone. (which I think is the best Tomb Raider since the originial) So, now Tomb Raider has another 
 decent Tomb Raider. But this one is just a bit better then the rest. Ok, let's start with the good: 
 Legend has a really great interesting story with lots of twists and turns to keep you playing. 
 The graphics are super-real and really look next-gen. The puzzles are cool and interesting and 
 they kinda make you think. On the down side: the game is very short and not all that challenging. 
 The only challenging aspect of the game is the camera. Strangely, it is hard to platform when you 
 can't see where your jumping. Hmm... Although, not all that much of the game is using the guns, 
 the guns are not fun to shoot. Until, the end of the game when you get the... of well you'll see. 
 =) Tomb Raider seems to back to the glory days, although there is still a lot of room for improvement. 
 I recommend this game to any Tomb Raider fan or any person looking for a little platforming adventure 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: April_Full
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 7, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  The original Tomb Raider game was released in 1996 on the Playstation to great critical acclaim. 
 The game amazed players with its large varied levels, its imaginative puzzles and its well endowed 
 heroine. 10 years, 5 games and 2 movies later it is fair to say that many followers of the series 
 have been left feeling disappointed with the direction the series has went.
  
  So here we arrive at Tomb Raider: Legend, swan diving its way onto the xbox 360. Fans of the series 
 will no doubt be pleased to hear that you will actually spend a good proportion of the game exploring 
 the tombs this time around, a feature strangely absent from past games. 
  
  The story mainly centres around Lara trying to find all the pieces of a lost artifact. Although 
 the game gives you a few interesting glimpses into her past it is mainly just an excuse to go off 
 globe-trotting with levels ranging from Ghana to Kazakhstan and back to England. There are 8 levels 
 in all and if that doesn't sound like a lot - it isn't, a good player should be able to complete 
 the game in 5 or so hours.
  
  The first thing you will notice in stepping into the game is that Crystal Dynamics have attempted 
 to fix problems with the movement controls as well as camera, which both could be very off-putting 
 to players in the previous games. The good news is that this works really well, Lara now moves 
 much more fluidly so that jumping from cliff to cliff, ledge to ledge and back again looks and 
 feels effortless and fun. Lara no longer moves like a tank and you won't find yourself wrestling 
 with the camera before you have to make a key jump. This makes the game as a whole more entertaining 
 to play.
  
  The game is split up with a few motorcycle sections which while doing a good job of breaking up 
 the action they do seem to go on a bit long and tend to get repetitive. Legend also uses interactive 
 cut scenes like those seen previously in God of War and Resident Evil 4 although not used as interestingly 
 or as often as in both of those games it is a nice touch. Furthermore Lara is now in constant contact 
 with her two male companions back at Croft Manor which is an interesting addition to the game, 
 gladly they don't try to help with what to do next in the game but rather they add a bit of comedy 
 throughout the story.
  
  The game definitely looks sharp on the 360 in HD, the environments are interesting and the textures 
 look good although the character models still look a bit like plastic dolls. The sound is really 
 impressive and is more than effective in enhancing the experience of playing through the levels 
 and adding to the mood of the environments.
  
  The biggest criticism that can be made against the game is the fact that the levels involve going 
 from point X to point Y - swimming, jumping and swinging with a few puzzles thrown in. The problem 
 is that these puzzles don't really present much of a challenge, at the most they will cause you 
 to stop for a few seconds and look around for some kind of object to move.
  
  Replay Value? Well there are costumes, upgrades and cheat codes which can be unlocked by playing 
 through the game on different difficulty settings. Unlocking all the achievement points will involve 
 playing through the levels against the clock in Time Trial mode. Although these features attempt 
 to extend the life of the game, the majority of people will just play through the adventure once.
 
  
  All in all Tomb Raider: Legend is a good game and is definitely a step in the right direction compared 
 to more recent games in the series. It is enjoyable enough keep the player entertained through 
 to the end of the main adventure, however it most likely won't compel them to come back after it 
 is finished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razakco2003
Rating: 7
Date: May 6, 2006 8:39 am PT
Review:  It has been a rollercoaster ride for the proclaimed first lady of video games, Ms. Lara Croft, 
 since her 1996 debut on the PlayStation. Many gamers were immediately charmed by Laras voluptuous 
 appearance and cheeky disposition  her tomb raiding adventures werent too shabby either.
  
  After the sequel, the Tomb Raider franchise unfortunately hit a stone wall, and was unable 
 to find its way out of mediocrity. This all culminated in the abnormally long titled Lara Croft 
 Tomb Raider: The Angel of Darkness. This one was certainly no angel, and Eidos was left to ponder 
 their next move with one of gamings most popular properties. Enter Crystal Dynamics  the development 
 studio most well known for the Legacy of Kain series. After looking at the success of the 2003 
 release, Legacy of Kain: Defiance, Eidos saw many aspects that the next Tomb Raider could draw 
 from. Make no mistake; raising a floundering franchise to its once prominent heights is no easy 
 task  especially with millions of fanboys waiting in anticipation. Was Crystal D able to right 
 the ship?
  
  Gameplay
  
  Its apparent that Crystal Dynamics wanted to take the Tomb Raider franchise back to its roots, 
 which means plenty of adventure and puzzle solving. There is a good mix of third-person action 
 elements and the occasional motorcycle ride, but these feel like afterthoughts when compared with 
 the Indiana Jones-inspired exploration. This is even more evident in the overall production of 
 Tomb Raider Legend as it has a legitimate cinematic quality to it. The in-game cut-scenes are excellently 
 written and framed, and the story even touches on Laras childhood, the loss of her mother, friends 
 (supposedly) , and more. Despite trekking to seven different worldwide locations, Tomb Raider Legend 
 ties things together fairly well. The story progression leaves just enough info to whet the appetite 
 before moving on.
  
  Control wise, its out with the old and in with the newsort of. The clunky controls that were 
 so limiting in previous Tomb Raider efforts have been replaced with a more free form mechanic. 
 Its not completely open-ended, as the geometry and level design ultimately determines exactly 
 where Lara can explore. Those familiar with Legacy of Kain: Defiance will immediately notice how 
 similar both games feel.
  
  Probably the most lackluster portion of Tomb Raider Legend is the combat. Shooting consists of 
 a lock-on targeting system that can be a bit sketchy. Flicking the right stick cycles through enemies, 
 but because Lara must stay nimble in her gun battles to avoid damage, the targeting system often 
 feels like it is ignoring your requests. When in close, Lara has a few melee actions at her disposal 
 (boot kick, slide attack, etc.) , but the Aerial Assault includes a little slo-mo action where she 
 can still fire off rounds into a foe. Its pretty snazzy when it works right. Most of the time, 
 youll stay at a distance by picking up dropped weapons, like the SMG and shotgun. Lara totes her 
 patented dual pistols by default on most missions, so you usually have some firearm to fall back 
 on.
  
  Much of Legend consists of simple platforming concepts  jump here, scale this ledge, climb this 
 pole, and so on. For the most part, everything works as it should and you arent left fighting 
 the controls and camera. As with any third-person action/adventure, there are trouble spots, but 
 thankfully they have been kept to a minimum.
  
  Puzzle solving can be tricky on occasion, but it is usually due to missing a hint or important 
 item that is just out of view. When things get tough, Laras Remote Analysis Device (R. A. D.) can 
 be used to indicate specific objects and how they can be interacted with. For example, a set of 
 fasteners on top of a giant computer monitor will blink while in R. A. D. mode to demonstrate that 
 they can be moved. While you may know it can move, the answer isnt just handed to you. How can 
 I move it? Can I climb up there? Should I use my magnetic grappling device? While the moving box 
 puzzle may be an adventure clich, Crystal D managed to spruce things up a bit. After a few hours 
 with Legend, the puzzles do follow similar patterns, but they still provide some challenging (a 
 fun challenge, that is) moments.
  
  To emphasize some of Laras exploits, a few cinematic action sequences make an appearance in Tomb 
 Raider Legend. This is simply a game based on timing where a specific button or direction must 
 be pressed at the exact moment the indicator pops onscreen. Remember how Dragons Lair worked? 
 Same thing, but without the bumbling Dirk the Daring. 
  
  A few motorcycle chases are thrown into the mix, but are merely filler in between on foot stages. 
 The targeting system is simplified so you can keep one eye on the road and the other on enemies, 
 but it really isnt all that important. You can usually just keep the throttle down and jet through 
 with little effort.
  
  Each environment is sprinkled with a number of rewards. The bronze are of course the easiest to 
 find, while the gold ones are only for the real diehard explorers. Its a simple concept: the more 
 rewards you find, the more unlockables and Game Achievements youll attain. After completing each 
 mission, the opportunity to replay them on a new difficulty or in the Time Trial mode is available. 
 Time Trials are tough to say the least. They play just like the regular story missions, complete 
 with the same puzzles, same enemies, but now you have the clock as an added foe. The Croft Manor 
 provides a scavenger hunt-like mission for true completists.
  
  Overall Gameplay Impressions:
  
  It seems as though that the Tomb Raider franchise is back 
 on track. Thanks to a renewed focus on adventure and exploration, Lara no longer feels like an 
 aging hag. I particularly love how you are thrown to the wolves from the get-go. No boring tutorial 
 sections - just start exploring. Some of the combat could need a shot in the arm, but the pros 
 of Laras latest endeavor far outweigh the negative. Expect 10 hours tops to complete Legend on 
 the medium difficulty  just about the norm for action/adventures nowadays. The inclusion of the 
 Croft Mansion as a scavenger hunt, and the ability to replay each mission in a Time Trial adds 
 some replay value. The Game Achievements (23 in total) are thought out well, consisting of bronze, 
 silver, and gold reward collection, along with the overall completion of the story and each time 
 trial. Its nice to have Lara on the Xbox 360, and her debut doesnt disappoint.
  
  Graphics
  
  When it comes to a next-generation game, many Xbox 360 owners hem and haw over 
 ported titles. The criticisms of Tomb Raider Legend began even before the first Xbox 360 screenshot 
 was released. Well, quit yer **** because Lara looks mighty fine. Admittedly, we were a bit skeptical 
 of what Legend would bring to the table graphically, but surprisingly it really provides that extra 
 something that makes it special.
  
  Even on a non-HD television, the increased clarity of the bump mapping and lighting effects add 
 to the entire Tomb Raider feel. In fact, this is the most Tomb Raider-ish that the series has ever 
 been  if that makes any sense. Up close youll notice the pores on Laras skin, the detail on 
 the weapons are amazing, the water effects impress  everything just pops off the screen.
  
  Unfortunately, all is not rosy. Even though the majority of the environments have an organic 
 quality to them, youll still notice more than a few flat textures. Despite the action onscreen 
 never really going into overdrive, the framerate has a tendency to slow slightly. 
  
  Audio
  
  Crystal Dynamics always manages to include strong voice-over performances in their 
 games, and Tomb Raider Legend is no different. Lara is just as sassy as ever, but doesnt come 
 across as a spoiled brat. She is intriguing, she is sexy, and you want to play with her  in a 
 manner of speaking. Even the chatter from joe bad guy comes off well.
  
  The surround sound aspect is subtle, as it should be, but plays a vital role in replicating locations 
 like Bolivia and Ghana. Throw in a finely crafted soundtrack that includes everything from tribal 
 beats to a full symphony ensemble, and you have the finishing touches to a solid adventure experience.
 
  
  The Bottom Line
  
  Its about time that Lara Croft received the prime treatment. While many gamers put such a strong 
 emphasis on the British beauty, Tomb Raider Legend would be a solid action adventure title, even 
 without Ms. Croft as the heroine. With a renewed focus on adventure and the inclusion of a less 
 restrictive control scheme, Crystal Dynamics has managed to rekindle the fading flame of the Tomb 
 Raider franchise. Although it is a bit on the short side, a multitude of extras and the tough Time 
 Trial mode will extends the Croft experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SLEEPING_GI4NT
Rating: 6
Date: May 5, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  OK where do we start the game itself is awesome it really gives a feel of the old tombz but for 
 me 6 hours 1000 gamerscore isnt a lifespanned game. i dont know about yourselves? me personaly i 
 didnt have to spend my well stolen cash on this game my friend did LAWL the story is good puzzles 
 puzzling and the boobs big but not worth the uk price of 50 i must say tho adventuring around 
 the mansion was alot of fun but sadly not as fun as tombraider 2 graphics on this game though were 
 rather smooth mind you not the best game to illustrate the soul power of the 360 but does the job 
 with fast charecter animations and clear sounds making adventuring a worth while experience whereas 
 the aftertaste not so worthwhile im giving lara a 6 as the only thing that lets her down is the 
 length. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardcore0115
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 4, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  This game looks beautiful, is really fun to play, has solid controls, has a great story, but is 
 really short. I completed it in a little under 7 hours. There is still the manor with all of its 
 secrets to explore and I guess I could go try to beat the game and the hard difficulty level, but 
 I don't really feel intrigued to do it. A linear action adventure game like Tomb Raider is fun 
 because of the great gameplay and story, but there's not much reason at all to play through again. 
 There is a time trial mode, but you're still playing through the same levels again.
  
  I've been playing Oblivion for a while and have been wanting a good, not so long, linear game to 
 play through. This game was perfect. Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: napstero
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2006 4:56 pm PT
Review:  very goooooo ooooooooo ooooooooooo ooooooo oooooo ooo o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 
 o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 
 o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 
 o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o ooo oooooooo oooooooo  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elise111R
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 4, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  At the begining of the game it was the same than the game demo but when you start getting deeper 
 in the storyline its preatty fun and complete the only problem is that the game is to short but 
 it has some great replay value such as unlockable archivements and time trials. The game is good 
 and has some great looking on the 360 but the music its too adictive that you can hear the songs 
 again and again the best lara croft game ever!!!!!
  
  I have played all the tomb raider games to date but they where good but booring and it looks like 
 this one is more focused to action but it keeps the taste of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 3, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Legend is short but sweet, and worth at least a rental.
  
  Gameplay: This game is more of a toned-down Prince of Persia. Legends has slower gameplay than 
 that of POP, but at least this is an innovation (finally) to the series. You can run, shoot, hang 
 on ledges, use poles (not what you think for) , and a few other things. The game is easy to jump 
 into, but it seems a bit short. The worst part of the gameplay is probably the combat; shooting 
 soon becomes a bore later on in the game. The puzzles slowly get repetitive yet the gadgets seem 
 to add a little bit more life to the game. Replayability consists of time trials, reward medals, 
 and a few extra costumes. Also, finally, they fixed how Laura walks and it is much more smoother 
 than in any of the other TR games.
  
  Graphics: Graphics are crisp and nice on the 360 but as always, they could have been better. As 
 such with most multiple system releases, it isn't much different from those of the other game versions. 
 Yet the Laura Croft model is enjoyable (woot) and the levels (especially the water) is very nice. 
 Biggest dislike I have is the repetivity of the enemy skins.
  
  Sound: This aspect of Tomb Raider is pretty nice, but after about 5 minutes into the game your 
 "associates" get quite annoying. Otherwise, soundtrack is background to the occasional grunts and 
 shuffling of the feet of Laura during a puzzle.
  
  Value: Could have added more. The achievements are nice but the game is packed small and probably 
 only worth a rental if not maybe... 2 rentals!
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Best of all the Tomb Raiders, this is undeniably a good few hours of fun. Truly 
 innovative to the series, removing the annoying movement controls and adding great skins, level 
 design, and fun.
  
  One Sentence Summary: This game has a sub-par story, short campaign, and no multiplayer; rent this 
 only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: montgoau
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 3, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  This is the first game for my 360 that I've had a hard time turning off each night. Overall I would 
 say that this is truly a great adventure game mixed with some mediocre action sequences.
  
  Let me start by saying that I'm not a great gamer, but I do play a fair amount but you are never 
 going to see me atop a leader board. Recently, I feel more and more of the games that are coming 
 out are being aimed at hardcore gamers with advanced skill sets. Which leaves Mr./Mrs. Average 
 Joe gamer with a games that turn out to be more frustrating than fun. Ninja Gaiden comes to mind, 
 I think it was a fantastic game but I lost interest half way through because it was too frustrating 
 to make forward progress. I would assume that the number of average games far out weighs the number 
 of hardcore games but more and more games are aimed directly at the hardcore audience. It doesnt 
 make sense to me.
  
  Tomb Raider Legend is not aimed at the hardcore game; it's aimed directly at the casual gamer. 
 I was able to jump right in and blaze through the first level with ease. This game is very good 
 a providing frequent checkpoints and presenting puzzles that are pretty straight forward. Many 
 reviews have counted the somewhat easy puzzles as detriment to this game but I think they are hard 
 enough to keep you busy for a while without becoming too frustrating. 
  
  Thats not to say there aren't a few frustrating moments in this game. This game struggles a bit 
 when there are shooting or driving levels; they just feel a little sloppy. It's hard to go from 
 the precise shooting and action of a game like GRAW and then hop on over to the type of shooting 
 that's in Tomb Raider Legend. But then again I didn't buy the game because it was an action packed 
 shooter I bought it because it's an adventure game and in that context it really succeeds.
  
  The levels are gorgeous. There several times that I have stopped playing just to take a look 
 around. There are some moments in this game that let you feel what a great interactive medium video 
 games truly are. A moment that stands out for me is when I was standing at the edge of cliff in 
 front of a giant waterfall. I did a swan dive off the cliff into a pool of water below hundreds 
 of feet below. For me it was a "wow" moment, only to be topped a few minutes later when I opened 
 up that levels tomb.
  
  The sound in this game is great when you are running around the jungles and tombs. The surround 
 channels are filled with ambient noises and echoes that really gave me the sense of space. In contrast 
 the sound in the action sequences and boss battles is loud and filled with gunfire and explosions. 
 Dont get me wrong; the action sounds great; my complaint is during the action sequences they dont 
 use the sound channels to add to the experience, they are just used to pump in more noise. Its 
 the quiet parts of the game where the sound really stands of for me.
  
  On to the graphics which are great in this game. It has great textures and cool water effects to 
 go with its lush jungles and icy mountain tops. They arent the best graphics Ive seen on my 360, 
 that title still belongs to GRAW, but this is by far the best looking Tomb Raider game Ive ever 
 played.
  
  To sum up I highly recommend this game to fans of adventure games. I also recommend it to the average 
 gamer that has been a little turned off with how difficult some games have become. This is a game 
 that you can actually sit down and finish in a resemble amount of time. I would guess that it would 
 take about 10-12 hours to finish the game which if you think about it might take you a month or 
 so depending how much time you have to devote to playing games. 
  
  The game is $60 which I think it a little pricy but I guess its better to buy one good $60 game 
 that you play all the way through than a $60 game that you have to put down after a few sessions 
 because its too frustrating.
  
  I hope you liked my review.
  
  Look for me on Xbox Live
  austinMINI 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterrobau
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 3, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  After years of unsuccessful attempts to reinvigorate the Tomb Raider franchise, Lara is finally 
 back in top form. Crystal Dynamics has turned around the franchise, making it far more accessible 
 and returning to the series' beloved puzzle solving roots. 
  
  Placing more emphasis on platforming than combat, players are invited to take Lara through various 
 different exotic environments. From a Bolivian tomb to a modern city-scape, each environment looks 
 unique and shines with a next-gen coat of paint. Added bump-mapping, better lighting, and impressive 
 water effects set this version of the game apart from its current-gen counterparts. 
  
  The platforming in the game, while definitely not revolutionary, is well implemented, nixing the 
 aging movement control schemes of past Tomb Raider games. Now, Lara can fully move in all directions 
 allowing her to tackle fully realized physics puzzles that are challenging yet not frustratingly 
 difficult.
  
  The gameplay is kept fresh with combat sequences, which are clearly not the focus of the game but 
 serve to break up the platforming. Lara has different attacks, ranging from firing pistols to jumping 
 over baddies and blasting them in slow motion. The animations are very fluid, and the attacks are 
 smooth, fast, and fun. 
  
  A few problems with the game include poorly thought out motorcycle sequences, which are frustrating 
 and boring. The game is also pretty short, and will last focused players only about 10 hours. As 
 a result, it makes a solid rental but only a decent purchase. Tomb Raider fans will most definitely 
 be pleased with this installment, as will those new to the series. Solid control, fun and simple 
 gunplay, and excellent platforming make this game a solid choice for anyone looking for an action/adventure 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neTxTor
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 3, 2006 5:10 am PT
Review:  I thing that u have to rent this game before you buy, why? Because you 'll finish on 6 days (1h 30' 
 / day) . Yes it too short.
  But ! Game play is the best ever ( i have a little problem accustom to swim ) . Graphics are wonderfully 
 and sound is perfect for this game.
  I really don't understand why developers create a masterpiece like Tomb Legend too short. We have 
 to wait approximately a year to play ten hours, anyway...
  I suggest that you have to play and accompished this game, to explore the 7th (i think) wonderful 
 world of Tomb raider. Finally good things hold less
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neverender
Rating: 8
Date: May 2, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  Original review here...
  http://mattbrett. com/archives/2006/04/tomb-raider-legend-review/
  
  Its been a long time coming, but Laras finally back with an all new adventure. Tomb Raider 
 Legend brings to the table exactly what youd expect. Nothing more, nothing less. Which is both 
 good and bad. I had a lot of fun playing the campaign and have gone back and played it a couple 
 times, but its an odd feeling you get when youve picked up a new game for a next gen console 
 and it feels dated. In a time when online play is such a huge part of the gaming experience, its 
 strange to see single player only titles. But none the less, this is still a great game. Its just 
 a drag that its so short lived. It took me just over 7 hours to play through the campaign the 
 first time. The second time you revisit the game, its much quicker as you already know how to 
 complete the puzzles and what your objectives are.
  
  Tomb Raider Legend for the Xbox 360 and PC looks absolutely fantastic! Xboxyde has posted some 
 screenshots comparing old gen to next gen and the difference between the two is pretty amazing. 
 In particular, water and foliage are really impressive. There are some spots where Lara is running 
 through ankle deep water and the reflection of the world and Lara herself is perfect. It looks 
 real, plain and simple. Waterfalls and rapids also seem almost photo realistic at first look.
 
  
  I cant say I was overly impressed by the sound. Nothing really stood out as being exceptional. 
 Its well done and the music is fairly atmospheric. But the gun sounds are pretty weak and theres 
 a couple motorcycle sequences where the vehicles didnt sound all that great either.
  
  Gameplay wise - the controls are solid. Theres an easy auto-targeting system you can use to keep 
 an eye in your crosshairs simply by squeezing the left trigger. While youve got an enemy in your 
 sights and if youre close enough, you can do some cool hand-to-hand moves. If you jump, then jump 
 off an enemys head/shoulders, it goes into a slow-mo cutscene like animation that lets you shoot 
 your enemy down extremely easily. You can also kick him up in the air and shoot him while hes 
 flailing about, which is pretty funny to see. The camera is over the shoulder, third person as 
 youd expect. And again, as youd expect, its gets caught in some awkward spots leaving you more 
 than a little frustrated when it suddenly changes direction just before you make a big leap only 
 to fall to your death. This didnt happen all that often, but enough for my to mention it here. 
 The acrobatic stuff is done really well. Its very similar to that of the recent Prince of Persia 
 games but I found it more fun to be flipping around as Lara. Its just more fluid and theres less 
 figuring out where you need to jump, swing or climb to next and more simply doing it. I will admit, 
 there was a few times after missing a ledge when I found myself squeezing the left trigger to go 
 back a few moments in time and try it again.
  
  Tomb Raider Legend is really good for the gamerscore. Youll rack up over 500 points after completing 
 the campaign. More if youve collected a certain number of treasures. Once youve beaten the story 
 mode, theres a few other things to keep you playing. Theres time trials which are actually very 
 challenging. The first time I played the first level, it took me 28 minutes. The time trial for 
 this level is 12. You pretty much have to just run through without missing a beat to complete these. 
 Theres also a fair bit of unlockable content. Most of which you wont care about - character bios 
 and concept art. Yay. But theres lots of alternate outfits as well which are gained by gathering 
 all of the silver rewards. By far the best extra is Croft Manor. You get to roam around Laras 
 home where theres a handful of collectibles and some pretty challenging puzzles. Theres also 
 a beautiful pool area and a gym thats pretty fun to climb about.
  
  After playing about half of the campaign, I hooked my 360 up to my LCD monitor to see how it looks 
 in HD. While it appeared even more beautiful and vibrant, the struggling framerate while running 
 at 720p was a huge disappointment. Thats one thing that always made PC gaming hard to swallow 
 - getting a smooth framerate. But at least on the PC you can tone down the visuals to get it running 
 better. I guess you can lower the resolution on the 360 - but I dont think I should have to. Its 
 kind of worrisome to see the console struggling with games with it only being a few months old. 
 How is it going to fare a year from now?
  
  Its kind of hard to recommend this game as it is very short. Im actually a little embarrassed 
 to say, but I finished it in less than 24 hours from the time I bought it. If youre big into achievement 
 points and a fan of the action adventure genre, Tomb Raider Legend is at least worth a rent. Its 
 just good, old-fashioned fun at its best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princesszelda
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 2, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  Laura Croft.... whats more to say about Ms. Laura Croft. Well she tries to come back with a vengeance 
 in this game, but Im not to sure if it works. 
  
  The basic story, without giving too much away, is that Laura is in search of her past.... her mothers 
 death. There is a broken sword with pieces in different countries like England, Russia, Africa, 
 Tokyo and Peru. The sword is magical elements that can give Laura a little more insight on the 
 death of her mother. 
  
  The game play is very simple and repetitive. The puzzles are the basic 'push the box on the switch' 
 puzzles that were innovative 10 years ago when the first Tomb Raider was released. The controls 
 have improved from the last Tomb Raider game but they are still far from perfect, especially since 
 there is a lot of platforming in the game. There is actually more platforming in the game than 
 there is fighting. Which isn't a bad thing, but I would have enjoyed shooting more bad guys and 
 wild animals. I did however like the interactive sequences that where thrown in, even though they 
 were way to easy. 
  
  The graphics are awesome for the 360. The game does a good job with lighting and shadows especially 
 in the dark caves and castles. I enjoyed the music and the voice acting and that includes Laura's 
 crews sense of humor. 
  
  Overall Legends is an average platform game with generic elements of gun play. It's well worth 
 the play for any Tomb Raider fan or for those who just enjoy playing a short fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turbo_prelude
Rating: 7
Date: May 1, 2006 7:04 am PT
Review:  I have to say this is one game thats makes you think alot i got to some point in the game were 
 i just wanted to throw the controller but i just have to spend alot of time looking around. I would 
 have to say that this game makes me think alot more than the other type of games i play but i recommend 
 this game to anyone looking for a challenge though. I hope they make another next year just with 
 it had some type a online like leaderboards or sometthing just an idea its still a great game and 
 hope everyone enjoys it as much as i have im about to go home and play it some more hopefully i 
 can beat it to day 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miniceebs
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 30, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  even though gamespot only gave it 7.8 i believe it deserves alot more. I bought it the other day 
 and i am addicted. This game is known to be very short, but i've had a great time playing it so 
 far. You might think that Tomb Raider is looking to be a bit samey. Like the whole wall crawling 
 thing is so Prince of Persia and the whole paying attention in cutscenes because you might just 
 have to press the odd button is so Resi Evil 4. But i think it's great. the wall crawling is awesome, 
 and you feel more into the game when your paying attention in the cutscenes. I think this game 
 deserved a better score than 7.8 but then again it's not an absolute stunner. If you're familiar 
 with the Tomb Raider series then you should feel right at home but if you are a newcomer then you 
 will love it even more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_blakeney
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 30, 2006 11:35 am PT
Review:  I snagged Tomb Raider: Legends one night after getting shot down on a date, so I dropped by Blockbuster 
 with the hopes of renting something with a near-tasteless display of cleavage. They were out of 
 Basic Instinct, but the XBOX 360 Rack held the answer: TRL. 
  
  Upon popping in the disc, I noticed they had changed Lara's appearance yet again. It was a fairly 
 low-res version of Karima Abibe, the newest iteration of the extreme-chested Lara Croft. The graphics 
 are a bit cartoony, which I actually enjoyed - it just served to further bring you into a world 
 of what is - essentially - fantasy. However, I soon found that the lack of substance behind it 
 is a bit disappointing. The person who said, "You've played one Tomb Raider, you've played 'em 
 all," wouldn't necessarily be lying.
  
  The truth of the matter is where Eidos could have gone for something captivating and amazing, they 
 went for the generic, and consequently leaves you jonesing for some new gameplay. Sure, there's 
 the button-mashing sequences we saw in Indigo Prophecy, but they don't really infuse the game with 
 a "Hey, that's kick-ass!" feeling. You get a handle on your "Bad-Guy-Killing" Strategies mighty 
 fast, and after that, combat loses lustre. The violence seems toned down in this one; as if it 
 were made for the pre-pubescent. 
  
  I fondly recall the first appearance of the lovely, low-poly Lara Croft nearly a decade ago - that 
 game had a mix of sex and violence that was both shocking and enthralling. Odds are, this next 
 statement will account for some disorder later on in life, but I have to say, that balance between 
 shooting bad guys and being fixated on Lara's assets was astounding. Trying to position the camera 
 so you could perpetually see her boobs but still be able to cap the Rabid Tigers? Priceless.
  Unfortunately, this latest installment in the Tomb Raider legacy is just bland - lackluster visuals, 
 lousy combat, and a 59.99 price tag make this game barely up to par.
  
  It may be that the series is old, but the more probable answer is that gamers are old now. We've 
 grown out of the novelty of a brunette Jenna Jameson blowing away hordes of evil henchmen with 
 nary a falter in her British accent - we need more substance, be it a more enthralling storytelling, 
 intuitive and bloody combat, or a Nude Code. 
  
  No, seriously Eidos... Release it already.
  
  Thanks for reading,
  
  --Buster Blakeney
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dapmediainc
Rating: 5.9
Date: Apr 30, 2006 11:31 am PT
Review:  I know for a fact that Microsoft stated that all Xbox 360 games will have online capabilities. 
 What happen? This game is missing online game play. Co-op missions and a whole much more. Game 
 is way to short and does not deserve the 59.99 price tag.
  
  The graphics are not even close to nex-gen. Sometimes Laura looks good, other times she looks to 
 square. The camera is the worst, very hard to control at time very difficult to navigate.
  
  The sound is the only this the game has going for it. They did a very good job with the voice 
 overs and characters.
  
  This game is a rental at best. Next EDIOS, please spend a little bit more money and thime with 
 development and stop porting over games to the 360 and build from the ground up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uniqueJ
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 30, 2006 6:13 am PT
Review:  I think this game is by far the best game in the tomb raider series, narrowly beating Tomb Raider 
 1, because the graphics are stunningly, gameplay is sweet, smooth and flowing, the voices are quite 
 good and the storyline is brilliant as well, I do also, like many other people, wish it was longer 
 and also I feel she is becoming a little bit too cocky for her own good but still this is, in my 
 opinion, in the top 3 of best games in the xbox 360, behind the like of Elder Scrolls: Oblivion 
 and possibly Ghost Recon advanced Fighter whichever floats your boat
  
  Xbox Live Gamertag: prem4eva 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigjeffery82
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 30, 2006 3:27 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider legend is a great game. The controller config is laid out cleverly. Although the game 
 only has 8 small levels, some of them are fantastic. Sush as Peru. You start of in a small town, 
 go into a moterbike chase and then you relive Lara's past before jumping and climbing round a tomb 
 which has an Aztec feel to it.
  One or two of the levels are just annoying. For example Kazakhstan. It's really boring to play 
 and takes the whole 'Tomb Raider' feel away from the game. There are plenty of unlockables, from 
 pistol upgrades to a variety of costumes which enhance Lara's lovely figure.
  There are also artifacts hidden within all levels including Croft Manor, which are quite difficult 
 to locate. I spent more time replaying the levels trying to find them than actually playing through 
 the story.
  Once you have completed a level you have an option to replay that level in time trial mode. This 
 adds a bit of value to the game but not much else.
  Overall this games rocks but it doesn't have the wow factor that i got when playing the original 
 game. It's just not long enough to compete with Lara's first outing but I preferred playing it 
 ahead of all the other Tomb Raiders.
  Tomb Raider Legend is well worth playing but 50 quid is a bit much to ask price wise. If you can 
 pick it up 2nd hand go for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthur_uther
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 29, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  You can tell they really spend allot of time weighting/enveloping/ect, ect the deformers with the 
 Lara model. This is so nice to see. This is by far the Best gluteus maximus i've ever seen any 
 model anywhere. I love the Flips and Handstands to.
  
  Swiming with Lara was very easy and i can remember back when that was not the case. These guys 
 should win some type of "comeback" award with a Great title that so deserved better all these Years.
 
  
  The Combat gameplay is good to, i think people are overly critical because it gives them a False 
 sense of importance and undue negative comments are often stemmed from Full Blown Envy.
  
  The cut scenes where you have to press buttons in time reminds in a way of that laser disc game 
 "dragons lair" from the arcade . 
  I would like to seem more of this to.
  
  The motorcycle stuff Rocked and was very refreshing to play.
  
  I have not finished it yet, 
 i'm on the 360 with it now and just got to Africa.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 29, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider : Legend for the Xbox 360 is a return to form for the battered Tomb Raider series starring 
 everyones favorite treasure hunting heroine. Lara Croft is back and she brought a bag full of fun 
 as you play through an engaging yet somewhat short game thats not only informative on Laras past, 
 but it actually manages to grab a hold of you and makes you want to keep playing just a little 
 bit more. I used to love Tomb Raider, at least the first 2 games. Then it started taking a nosedive 
 due to bad decision-making and poor art direction. It looks like Eidos was wise in handing this 
 game off to Crystal Dynamics because the game is not only fun again, but a beautiful Xbox 360 port. 
 
  
  Sure, its not a true next-generation masterpiece by appearance like say Ghost Recon : Advanced 
 War Fighter or Project Gotham Racing 3 but then it again, it doesn't have to be. We all know we 
 are playing a port. That said, the visual improvements like normal mapping and real-time lighting 
 do grab your attention and play a role in making the game more beautiful as does the slightly better 
 character models. Could this game have been better? Visually, the answer is a resounding yes. Coming 
 from an art background myself, I can tell that this character model while much more attractive, 
 could have looked leagues ahead and more beautiful while still staying true and faithful to the 
 established personal style Eidos has set for the series. The character model could have benefited 
 from a few thousand more polygons and we all know that could have happened if this game was developed 
 on next generation hardware initially but I guess we will have to wait until Eidos / Crystal Dynamics 
 decides to do that.
  
  Even so, the gameplay is FUN, FUN, FUN much same way Need for Speed : Most Wanted for the Xbox 
 360 was. Its so fun infact that there are times when you may have trouble putting down the controller. 
 Also, the puzzles are engaging again even though the game as a whole is a bit short. So you are 
 probably asking yourself now, "Should I get this game?" -If you like (d) Lara Croft / Indiana Jones 
 at any point in time, then the answer is YES. Its fun and engaging just like the first 2 titles 
 and a beautiful Xbox 360 game even though it is a port and could have looked better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grant_Guy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 29, 2006 5:37 am PT
Review:  This game is fun if your looking for a game for one day this is the game. It takes an average gamer 
 about 4-6 hours to finish this game. The graphics are good but the physics aren't used to it's 
 potential (dammit we wanted lara to bounce like the doa girls) the graphics look like a port from 
 the ps2 version so if your looking for a game to show off to friends this is not the game for you. 
 Gameplay is okay but it reminds me to much of Prince of Persia and when your useing the guns it 
 is so boring. If your a fan of platformers or prince of persia type games I would get this game 
 other than that this game is a good rental for anyone who wants to get the easy achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmprodguy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 28, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  You may... or may not remember Laura Croft's great games. They were long ago, just after the big 
 bang and the creation of the universe. At the dawn of Windows 95, when chunky graphics were amazing. 
 It set several firsts though. One of the first platformers to let you drive something. One of the 
 first fun platformers with adventure, shooting, AND was fun. One of the first 3d paltformers that 
 was playable.
  
  But then it's developement seemed to stop. After Tomb Raider 2, the new games seemed to use the 
 same engine, bairly updated. Sloppy design and plot...
  
  Then... 
  
  The Angel of Darkness.
  
  The most bugtastic game I can remember, and a huge let down.
  
 
  Now, Finaly Laura is back... AND MY GOD the game is worth playing. Saying it's Prince of Persia 
 ish, is both fair and unfair, since POP's play and graphics style one could argue was inspired 
 by Tomb Raider... Or that Ark movie, what's it call... LOL
  
  Bottom line is, it's not perfect, not even close. But what it is, is FUN. Mostly tight in the controls. 
 Laura is babe o licious again. And on every system from the PS2 version to the Xbox 360 version 
 it looks great. The graphics on the 360 are awesome, and the PS2 version still impresses.
  
  The eye candy is nice, the control is tight, the camera is imperfect, but isn't it in every 
 3rd person game!?!? You could complain about it being a bit short, but almost every game of this 
 type is.
  
  All in all If you like these types of games... If you like Laura Croft from the past... If you 
 like hot babes and platformers...
  
  You will like this game.
  
  But if your Uber gamer who zooms through these types of games and are looking for a huge game, 
 and tons of depth, not the game for you.
  
  It's deaper than a puddle, and bigger than an pond, but this game is no ocean, to get that, you've 
 got GTA and ES4: O
  
  For me I had to buy it, and I'm happy I did.
  
  T 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 28, 2006 5:31 am PT
Review:  being a longtime Tomb Raider fan, I was very excited to play this game. And even more excited an 
 Xbox 360 version was in the works, as i could work for achievements and play it in HD.
  
  the game is fun and has some interesting platform events. The puzzles aren't overly difficult, 
 but not basic... so everyone will find some enjoyment, even if you're a vet to these sort of games. 
 The action is actually quite good, and its great that you can take advantage of some of the environments 
 in the process of causing kills. 
  
  However, the game is way too short (i beat it in 6 hours, 10 mins... not rushed) . Sure, you can 
 make the incentive to go through the game again for time trails and explore the mansion (which 
 i did, and ya... its fun) ... but in the end, that is way too short for an exploration/action game. 
 The visuals, although sometimes nice, lack and its noticable the game is a port. The controls, 
 although responsive sometimes, cause a lot of problems when trying to switch from accessory to 
 weapon (i. e. water monster boss) . And the camera can cause problems at times, as it can be shaky 
 and confused.
  
  in the end, the game is still fun and is definitely worth a rental. But as a purchase? I couldn't 
 advise anyone to spend $50 on a 6 hour game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Estearns
Rating: 5.4
Date: Apr 27, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  sorry to talk **** but I was really excited about this game and I feel like it let me down. It 
 is worth playing if your roommate rents the game. Otherwise I would skip it and pull out the old 
 pc version with the nude patch. I am going to **** through this one for a couple more days and 
 I hope that it redeems it's self. I don't know it feels like the game was pushed for release. I 
 played the game for an hour and already was running into graphical glitches. The game play is fun 
 but I feel that it has been done before. The one thing that separates it form the Prince is the 
 gun play. So you would think the gun play would carry it, but that falls short. The cartoon arcade 
 shooting feels boring and ineffective. I shoot and I shoot, thank god I have infinite amo on the 
 pistole because I am going to need it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theshway
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 27, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  Tomb raider legends is a game that combines bits of all it predeccers, the game consists of only 
 8 levels which may put some people of. The story line is ok, but again simple and easy to understand. 
 This didn't take me long to complete as it won't anyone (unless you get stuck on a puzzle and give 
 up for a few days) but some of the missions are about an hour long, that's if your not rushing 
 them. 
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics is, well mediacore to say the least, there will be some parts in the game where you 
 will think "wow, that's not bad" but all in all its similar to the ps2 and xbox version. Lara looks 
 well detailed throughout, but nothing mind blowing. I must say though, the lighting effects have 
 been pulled of well, as they bring out a mile of a diffference to detail when comparing them to 
 previous generation versions.
  GAMEPLAY:
  The gameplay is extremely simple, but feels freeform at the same time. Some may be dissapointed 
 with the gunfights, due to the lack of abilities and moves lara is able to pull of. The camera 
 isn't always spot on either, for instance, you'll be in a gin fight and lara will flip over the 
 enemy which will enable slowmotion, but if you are near a wall the camera may zoom right into the 
 back of lara's head. That said though, the acrobatics and climbing is almost as good if now better 
 than Prince of persia series. 
  SOUND:
  I was pretty impressed with the sound in this game, the guns sounds are solid and the music is 
 great, if only there were more of it. 
  VALUE: 
  Now this is a big letdown, prevoius tomb raider games had you traveling the world, but made the 
 journeys feel lengthy and rewarding, but in this case, because there are only 8 levels the "journeys" 
 don't seem anything more than a stroll. 
  CONCLUSION: 
  After my general critisisms you may feel i don't like the game and that its not worthwhile. Well 
 thats wrong, i do infact really like this game, it has solid gameplay and everything you could 
 want in a game. It's worth a purchase for hardcore fans of the series and for people who feel like 
 a "short" adventure. But bear in mind the length of the game, don't be suprised if you complete 
 it with 7 to 8 hours, i did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phatjesus
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 26, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Being the latest in a well-known series, Tomb Raider: Legends has a lot to live up to, especially 
 since some of the recent installments havent been living up to the hype and have been more frustrating 
 than entertaining. Since its on the Xbox 360, the graphic quality is very good; the water does 
 look like water and not some repeating pattern of pixels. The game is very pleasing to the eye, 
 using the 360s power to allow the player to navigate through the frosty mountains of the Himalayans 
 and the lush forests of Bolivia. Aside from being eye candy, the audio isnt as great. The script 
 between characters is pretty much clich and corny at best. In addition, Lara still has the same 
 grunts, pants, and yells as she always had in the other games. The environment does have proper 
 music when it comes to the right times, so in that aspect, the music is decent. Other than that, 
 you really dont notice the music much while playing, which could be a good thing or not, unless 
 you do like to hear Laras metrosexual hipster comrades chat away about nothing important The controls 
 are pretty much like the previous Tomb Raider games; they take little than 5 minutes to get used 
 to. The pda is a nice touch, but you wont really need to use it much, since the games tip system 
 pretty much does all the navigating for you. The gameplay may feel the same, but a seasoned Raider 
 will notice the difference right away; the game is too short and too easy, even when set on hard. 
 In previous Tomb Raider games, the average pass time for a single level would range from 30 minutes 
 to an hour, some of Legends levels can be passed in less than 13 minutes, as the time trials can 
 prove. Enemy AI is clunky and very simple; point, shoot and dodge. There really isnt an emphasis 
 in the battle system, aside from the 3 somewhat odd boss battles you have in the entire game. Furthermore, 
 there is less than 10 levels to complete the story, probably take about 3 good hours to pass the 
 whole thing. There is some incentive for replay as there are several alternative costumes and cheat 
 codes unlock while meeting certain conditions, such as passing the game, beating the time trials 
 and such. In short, Legends is a fun game that looks very nice, but doesnt truly encompass the 
 classic Tomb Raider experience and is too short. Unless you are a big fan of the series or this 
 is your first Tomb Raider game, renting would be the way to go for this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: madltu2005
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 25, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  It's been years since the last release of a Tomb Raider game. Many gamers and fans have had many 
 doubts that the series is dying due to the release of Tomb Raider Angel of Darkness and the flop 
 of the second film starring Academy award winner Angelina Jolie. With great promise, Eidos planned 
 to overhauled the series by taking it away from Core and bringing it to Crystal Dynamics. From 
 the look of this game, they made just the right choice. Crsytal Dyanamics took away the grid system 
 and brought a fresh approach to Tomb Raider. 
  
  Breath of Life in Lara
  Tomb Raider Legend is 70% adventure and 30% Action. The freshly modeled Lara looks over 20,000 
 polygons better. There are more humanity to her. She gets hurt and she tells it like it is, thanks 
 to voice acting by Keeley Hawes an astounding british actress lends her voice to this action packed 
 adventure. Lara felt more human and can now be related a real person. They paid such great detail 
 to her clothing, when she gets wet you will actually see drips in her skin. The look for Lara looks 
 good in all systems but better for the Xbox 360 because of the finer lighting the system has to 
 offer. 
  
  The game start you off to Bolivia and flashbacks occur before Lara begins her adventure. All the 
 places you travel somehow relate to each other. The story captures the player as you feel a sense 
 of aggression in Lara voice as she discovers what she now holds a legend unfolding. The level of 
 detail in the game is tremendously soft in the eyes. Very easy to look at, very wonderfully designed. 
 Each level breathes in a new life and gives you a great feeling of adventure. This time around 
 you really do want to make her live. The water detail flows like a dream and the 60ft waterfall 
 in Ghana looks amazing. CD also added some elements of Angel of Darkness, very briefly she will 
 speak with a bartender in beginning level in Tokyo (actual game-play) However, the level are not 
 as long as her past adventures. Some levels will take you 24minutes to play through second time. 
 There are time trials where you can replay the level and can beat it in 15minutes. When you complete 
 a level you may get new costumes for her to wear in the Croft mansion or past missions. Moreover, 
 this truly proves that its not about quantity but the quality of the game and Tomb Raider Legend 
 proves that. 
  
  Nevertheless, Tomb Raider Legend is a great action packed adventure that leaves you wanting more. 
 Crystal Dynamics wets their hands in their first development of the series and does an excellent 
 job. Lara Croft Tomb Raider Legend is a game that must be played by anyone who enjoys action adventure 
 games. As you traverse in the mysterious world of the past we begin to realize that the world is 
 a huge place to discover and that Lara still proves to be a great tourist guide
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: carolynmichelle
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 25, 2006 11:56 pm PT
Review:  For many who grew up dreaming of exploring ancient, trap-riddled ruins a la Indiana Jones, Eidos 
 Interactive's Tomb Raider series has served as a kind of fantasy fulfillment. With frequently exceptional 
 level design and a heroine with lots of... umm... personality, the original game was a truly fresh 
 and exciting experience. However, the series didn't develop enough with each sequel, and even some 
 of Lara Croft's most stalwart admirers started losing interest in her adventures at some point. 
 For Lara's latest outing, development duties were handled by Crystal Dynamics rather than Core 
 Design, and the new game definitely has a slightly different feel to it as a result. Some may be 
 a bit disappointed that Tomb Raider: Legend is both significantly shorter and significantly easier 
 than its lengthy, often punishingly difficult predecessors, but this is the most widely accessible, 
 broadly appealing Tomb Raider yet. 
  
  The plot of Tomb Raider: Legend is certainly the best storyline the series has seen so far, involving 
 Lara not just in a quest for mythical relics from mankind's past, but for answers to questions 
 from her own past, as well. The discovery of a stone dais in Bolivia triggers memories of her mother's 
 disappearance, and the search for clues to the dais' significance puts her at odds with the pompous 
 son of a wealthy American political dynasty, and with an old friend. Lara gets support via radio 
 from her assistants, the computer expert Zip and the bookish young scholar Alister, and while they 
 don't usually have much to say that's particularly useful, their frequent banter with Lara does 
 help alleviate the feeling of isolation that one sometimes experienced in earlier games. Lara's 
 adventure takes her to a wonderfully diverse range of places ancient and modern, from crumbling 
 temples to a Tokyo skyscraper to a British roadside tourist trap where yea, verily, cheesily narrated 
 animatronic tableaux doth regale you with tales of King Arthur. The key problem with the story 
 is that it ends all too soon and all too abruptly. There's a turning point at the game's conclusion, 
 but not a resolution, and while it answers certain questions, it raises a host of new ones. Obviously 
 the story will be continued in the next Tomb Raider, but some may find this game's ending a bit 
 unsatisfying. 
  
  Lara definitely controls much better in this game than she has in the past. Despite her athletic 
 prowess, she's often felt downright cumbersome to steer around, but here the controls are as tight 
 and responsive as you could hope. In addition to her classic arsenal of moves like leaping great 
 distances, swinging on ropes, and hanging from ledges -- you know, all the stuff you'd expect an 
 archaeologist to be able to do -- Lara now has a nifty new grapple gadget, which can be used both 
 to swing from metal objects and to maneuver them around when the situation calls for it. It's a 
 relatively minor addition, but a very cool one nonetheless. There may be times when it's not immediately 
 clear how to get from where you are to where you want to be, but Lara Croft is a very lucky girl, 
 and there's always some ledge or rope or other environmental feature she can exploit to progress 
 on her journey. Figuring out how to do that is part of the fun of Tomb Raider: Legend. Thankfully, 
 Lara seems to have refined some of her skills, as the game is a bit more forgiving than earlier 
 titles in terms of helping you make that death-defying leap, even if you weren't precisely aimed 
 at where you were trying to go. This means that figuring out what to do, rather than fighting with 
 unresponsive controls or a lousy camera to actually do it, is the source of the challenge. 
  
  Exploring the environments has always been one of the great pleasures of the Tomb Raider series, 
 and it certainly is a joy here. The levels are richly detailed and outstandingly designed. There's 
 a real sense of wonder to be had in experiences like navigating through the narrow, deadly corridors 
 of a South American ruin only to emerge into a vast chamber filled with crumbling statues or grandiose 
 contraptions. Surviving to get to these places can be a bit tricky sometimes, as you'll have to 
 avoid the whirling blades or poisonous gas or crushing walls that stand in your way, but there's 
 always a way to do it, and it's usually pretty apparent what it is. When Lara gets herself into 
 situations that are especially perilous, the game sometimes shifts into an interactive cutscene 
 in which you must match the button presses indicated on-screen or witness Lara meeting her demise 
 in spectacular ways. The technique isn't new, as anyone who has played Resident Evil 4 will know, 
 but these scenes do give the game a bit more cinematic flair. 
  
  In true Tomb Raider fashion, Lara will frequently encounter puzzles in her journeys, though the 
 puzzles in this game are generally on a smaller scale than those in earlier games. That's not necessarily 
 a bad thing; one could say that the puzzles in this game are more focused than those in previous 
 titles, which often required you to do things like pull levers in many different rooms to open 
 up a central door. In this game, the puzzles are typically limited to a relatively small area; 
 everything you need to open the door in front of you is usually right there in the room with you. 
 If you're unsure of just what elements of your surroundings play a part in the puzzle, Lara's binoculars 
 leave no doubt, highlighting everything that can be used, moved or broken. Some may feel that this 
 makes solutions a little too obvious, though of course you're never required to use the binoculars 
 if you don't want to. The puzzles are usually moderately engaging, especially because they take 
 place in such captivating locations, but they generally have so few elements that, even if the 
 solution isn't immediately apparent, a little bit of trial-and-error experimentation will make 
 things clear. 
  
  Lara is also still equipped with her famous dual pistols, and the game gives her an excuse to use 
 them every now and then as she meets up with generic goons, predatory animals, and powerful bosses. 
 The game introduces you to all kinds of stylish moves Lara can use when fighting enemies, including 
 a few that allow her to slow time down and deal more damage. The combat is so basic, however, that 
 these techniques aren't really necessary. They're there if looking cool while pumping people full 
 of lead is important to you, but using the game's lock-on function and wailing on the fire button 
 is enough to get through most situations, especially considering that the game is very, very generous 
 with health packs, and should you die, the checkpoint system makes sure you're not set back far 
 at all. Lara can also pick up other, more powerful guns from fallen foes, which do help you dispatch 
 enemies more quickly but don't make the combat any more compelling. The combat is more of an interesting 
 little diversion in this game than anything else, which does at least keep the focus squarely on 
 the game's strengths: the joys of making your way through the environments and solving the puzzles. 
 The few times combat does become more involving are during the game's boss battles, all of which 
 are like puzzles in and of themselves. Lara will face human enemies equipped with powerful artifacts, 
 a huge sea monster, and an ancient, malignant spirit. The challenge in these situations comes not 
 so much from a demand on your reflexes and combat skills as from finding the enemy's weakness and 
 exploiting it, which can be very satisfying. 
  
  If the combat is just a diversion, the game's two motorcycle stages, which require so little involvement 
 from you it's silly, are just a bit of tedium. But there are only two of them and they're over 
 with rather quickly, so they don't really blemish the overall experience. They just don't contribute 
 much to it, either. 
  
  The game is impressive to look at, both from a technical and an artistic standpoint. The environments 
 are full of little incidental details like dust motes and crumbling rock walls that go a long way 
 towards making them feel authentic. Particularly impressive is the game's use of light and shadow; 
 walking into a chamber and seeing Lara's silhouette dramatically projected on the wall in front 
 of her really helps sell the overall experience. Lara herself has long been a source of controversy, 
 and for better or worse, in Legend her outfits are as skimpy and her assets are as outrageous as 
 ever. (It's especially humorous watching her absurdly curvaceous frame waddle around in high heels 
 at a cocktail party.) It's definitely for the better, though, that she is very well animated, running 
 and leaping and swinging with grace. The mercenaries and other disposable foes you encounter aren't 
 nearly as detailed as Lara, but that's okay. You'll rarely get a close look at them anyway. 
  
  The game's sound is equally impressive. Most of the time there's no music, which is fine. The 
 whistling of wind in the caverns, the clanking of gears, and the whirring of blades are more than 
 enough accompaniment to the on-screen happenings. When music does kick in, whether it's ambient 
 and soothing or sounds like something out of an action film, it fits the mood nicely. More noteworthy 
 is the game's voice work. The actors aren't always given the greatest dialogue to work with, but 
 each of them nonetheless brings considerable personality to their characters, which makes the story 
 at least a bit more absorbing than it really has any right to be. 
  
  Most players should find that Legend takes them around eight to ten hours to complete. After that, 
 the game offers numerous other things you can do, like explore every nook and cranny of each level 
 to find a bunch of hidden bronze, silver, and gold rewards, or race through the levels to complete 
 a series of time trials. Whether or not these things interest you depends on whether you want to 
 revisit the game's locales and whether you're motivated by the prospect of unlocking extras like 
 design models, alternate outfits, and character bios. As fascinating as it can be to learn that 
 Zip, in addition to being a computer whiz, is also a world-class chef, most players probably won't 
 feel too motivated to play the game much once the adventure reaches its all-too-abrupt conclusion. 
 
  
  Tomb Raider: Legend is a significant improvement on the most recent games in the ongoing saga of 
 Lara Croft. It has a level of polish that the earlier games were lacking, and that refinement helps 
 to make the game a whole lot more fun. It may not last as long as you would like, but at least 
 it can be said that this is the first Tomb Raider in quite some time that leaves you genuinely 
 looking forward to the next one. Some may have despaired for Lara Croft's future, but Legend proves 
 that the old girl's still got some life left in her after all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevey_p7
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 25, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  I recently played tomb raider for about 30 minutes in Gamestation, Uk and from the outset it looked 
 a real solid game, and it is with the stunning visuals and cool moves you can make the big bosomed 
 lady do.
  
  However there are parts on this game you have to do, like climbing and searching for the next place 
 to go. It did my head in that as soon as i'd fell of something like a ledge, i would need to start 
 all over again.
  
  One big improvement i would implement into this game is a hint feature so the player has an idea 
 of where they have to het to. It can be made optional though because i know not everyone likes 
 te easy route.
  
  I think that on this game you arent given much aids but nevertheless the flips and action moves 
 are well put together.
  
  A well structure game but room for improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killocity
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 24, 2006 3:45 pm PT
Review:  It has been a very long time since I've played a Tomb Raider game. In fact, the only one I really 
 enjoyed in the series so far was the original. While there wasn't alot of action in it, there was 
 plenty of fun platforming and, at the time, some pretty nice looking environments. The rest of 
 the games in the series really let me down, and I didn't even bother to finish any of them except 
 Tomb Raider: The Last Revelation on Dreamcast. Well, it's late April and still the game library 
 for 360 is slim, which I must throw in as an aside, is getting very annoying. So, wanting to take 
 a break from the fragfest that is Battlefield 2, I went to the EB one more time to check the games. 
 With the lack of titles, as I said, I went ahead and gave this one a shot. While Lara looks better 
 than ever, as do her environments, Eidos simply can NOT get their control.. well.. under control. 
 And the camera is just... well... here, let's just jump to the Game Breakdown for this one:
  
  Graphics: The game on the whole looks pretty good, especially environments. There's some very 
 nice water effects to see here, and Lara looks beautiful. Some of the waterfalls in the backdrops 
 can be absolutely breathtaking. However, all the enemies you face come off as being very generic. 
 And by generic, boy, I mean SERIOUSLY generic... like... took 2 minutes to think up and implement 
 generic. 90 percent of the enemies you see in this one look identical, and the detail is non-existent, 
 which is strange considering that they did a pretty good job on Lara herself. There's some nice 
 lighting to see, and the cutscenes look pretty good.
  
  Sound: The sound here is pretty good as well. Voiceovers can be annoying at times, especially when 
 you jump a ramp on the bike and your buddy over the headset hollers like a moron. Environment sounds 
 are very well done, as is the musical score. One thing to mention though: I found myself toning 
 down the music as, on the default settings, the soundtrack tends to overpower character speech, 
 which is frustrating when there's a story being told and you can't hear it. The guns sound decent, 
 and explosions are par for the course. You won't leave this game feeling like your experience with 
 sound effects and music has been a revolutionary one, but you won't find yourself thinking it's 
 tacky either.
  
  Control: In a word? Buggy. Very buggy. You know, back in the day, the Tomb Raiders were pretty 
 famous for having some bad camera angles and not the best jump controls. I am now convinced that 
 Eidos will never get this right. Multiple times, I fell to my death because I could not jump exactly 
 onto a rope. And whoever thought that implementing the Shenmue-esque "hit "x" button within a few 
 seconds or you're dead" style of action... in a Tomb Raider game... should really be relieved of 
 their position. It's totally out of place for a game that has very few fast-paced moments. Granted, 
 Shenmue was no action-fest, but it just doesn't fit this style of game. Worked alright in R. E.4 
 I GUESS.... but definitly not here. Bottom line: Be prepared to redo many, many sections of this 
 game because you can't land that one jump or nail that one rope due to some sloppy control. Nothing 
 like dying because you were trying to jump back away from a ledge, but instead, Lara jumps to the 
 side because of the way the camera is positioned in relation to the controls. This control is a 
 serious issue, and definitly cost a chunk of points on the score because, in this kind of a game, 
 control is critical. And here we have nothing but a critical mistake.
  
  Gameplay: At first, this one is tough to put down. Exploring the different environments is fun, 
 when you're not dying due to the control mentioned above. But as you move through the game, you 
 start to feel like it's getting monotonous.. and I think even Eidos and Crystal Dynamics felt it 
 too because you start to see little "minigames" here and there pop up. Sure, riding a bike and 
 shooting at bad guys can be fun.. but don't make me do it for 5 or 10 minutes at a time.. jeez. Especially 
 because, if you should die (which will occur instantly if you hit a tree by the way) , you typically 
 have to redo the larger chunk of the minigame. And needing to drive a forklift? WTF??? That was, 
 for me, probably the most agitating moment in this game. It serves to highlight in BRIGHT yellow 
 the horrendous control scheme. You're only driving it for two seconds, and in three rooms or so, 
 but it seems like an eternity because when you try to lift boxes out of your way, they either fall 
 off the forks or some other physics issue causes you trouble. Combat here is really simple: Shoot, 
 jump, shoot more, jump more, uh oh.. repetitive pattern. I went up againt the bosses in this one 
 with no medkits and still had no trouble. And the most annoying moment in recent memory happened 
 to me in this game. I won't ruin anything for anyone, so I'll just say it's a "boss fight" in which 
 you get repeatedly pulled off of a machine you need to operate. Horrible idea, horrible execution.. just 
 horrible. As a last note, this one is over quick. I was just sitting there, playing along, and 
 then the next thing I know, it's all over. For $60, I really feel ripped, even though the adventure 
 was a good one.. while it lasted is the thing.
  
  All in all, if you like Tomb Raider or really if you like adventure games, this one is a pretty 
 good play despite my complaints. I would have loved to see some of the bugs worked out, but other 
 than being extremely annoying, they don't actually prevent the game from functioning. However, 
 I've had the game for a day and a half and for me, the adventure has already concluded. My bottom 
 line on this one: Pretty solid rental, and you will definitly beat it before it's due back unless 
 you really take your time with it. But for the full price, this game is just not a purchase, as 
 it's all wrapped up too quickly. Thanks for reading my review. Enjoy your games and remember, have 
 fun with whatever titles you play because that's the whole point of everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ax_prime_basic
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 6, 2006 12:12 am PT
Review:  Lara Croft. Everyone knows who she is, even people who don't play games. Beyond the fact that she 
 was played by the seemingly omnipresent Angelina Jolie in two Tomb Raider movies, Lara Croft was 
 a character you saw everywhere in the glory days of the original Playstation. Unfortunately, the 
 developers and publisher of the series decided to send her out on the street corner for as long 
 as they possibly could, whoring the franchise into banality before they stopped making the same 
 game over and over. Then Tomb Raider: Angel of Darkness was announced, and was touted to be the 
 game that re-invigorated the franchise, and would supposedly once again put her on the top of the 
 heap. Instead, Tomb Raider: AoD came about as close to burying a franchise as you can get without 
 actually doing it. It was an atrocious, maddening affair from the pits of character control hell, 
 and it had long load times, boring characters (even Lara wasn't a strong character) , dumbed down 
 gameplay... and on top of that, it was buggy. All in all, it was one of the worst games to come 
 out that year, and definitely the worst high profile game to come out in many years. And so it 
 was that the once pleasant memory of Tomb Raider faded away, tainted by years of milking the franchise 
 and scarred by a truly awful attempt to revive it. Indeed, it seemed that Lara was dead.
  
  Then Eidos cut Core off from the franchise, upset at their inability to make a relevant, or even 
 competent Tomb Raider installment. Then they handed the reigns over to the very capable Crystal 
 Dynamics, who developed the acclaimed Soul Reaver series and basically said "fix this". To say 
 the least, Tomb Raider: Legend could not afford to fail. Lara's legacy would undoubtedly suffer 
 its final blow if Legend was not of high quality. After being delayed a bit, Tomb Raider: Legend 
 is finally here, and it greatly pleases me to say that the game is not only good, it's fantastic... 
 while it lasts.
  
  Tomb Raider: Legend does away with the ridiculous "innovations" that AoD added, and goes back to 
 the roots of the series. While this may sound like a very bad idea... it isn't, because they went 
 back to the good roots of the series, and ditched what didn't work before. The first thing you'll 
 notice is that Lara controls very well. She's nimble, can turn on a dime, and can even adjust her 
 trajectory somewhat while in the air. The left analog is relegated to moving Lara, while the right 
 analog controls the camera, very similar to Splinter Cell. It feels very modern and intuitive, 
 which is probably the first time you could say that about a TR game.
  
  Then you'll notice how truly gorgeous the environments you're moving around in are. While the game 
 does have its moments where you can tell it's an upgraded version of a current gen game, there 
 are times when Tomb Raider: Legend is just astonishing and looks like CG sequences from the original 
 games. This is mostly due to the amazing lighting effects seen in the game. I don't know of another 
 game that makes light look more natural, not even G. R. A. W. The texturing is generally of high quality, 
 the water is lovely and features nice reflections, the color is very tasteful and realistic, and 
 the physics are impressive. Lara looks pretty good too, and isn't quite as ridiculously proportioned 
 as she was in previous games, though she is still "generously" proportioned. One downside to Lara, 
 though, is that she looks kind of like a plastic doll sometimes. The enemies feature a decent amount 
 of detail, but nothing impressive. The framerate is lower than most people would like, but is still 
 very playable. The art direction is strong though, and the places you'll visit are extremely well 
 designed and interesting. You'll visit a crazy amount of locales, such as mountains, mines, and 
 even King Arthur's tomb. You just can't help but feel good when you've been running through a cave 
 for a while and you follow the white light to the exit to find yourself staring at what could be 
 Niagara falls. There is the occasional bad looking object, but when taking into account the level 
 design and the impressive graphics engine, Tomb Raider: Legend is one of the most luscious visual 
 experiences on the 360.
  
  The sound design matches the great graphics to make the presentation really cinematic and epic. 
 The voice acting ranges from decent to pretty good, and a beautiful orchestral soundtrack with 
 distant vocals punctuates the experience at all the right moments. Sound effects are generally 
 good, and the checkpoint "jingle" is very comforting and pleasant. Overall, the game just sounds 
 great.
  
  Of course, it's not just graphics and sound that make a game, but thankfully Legend has Lara doing 
 what she does best: going into tombs and hop/flip/jumping around until she finds good puzzles to 
 solve or arcane objects to collect. The platforming elements are rock solid and fun, if a bit similar 
 to Prince of Persia. But then again, PoP and TR have always been borrowing ideas from each other, 
 so I suppose that's to be expected. You'll also be shooting stuff for some of the time in Legend, 
 and while this aspect is also pretty simple, it generally works decently and provides a mild amount 
 of action thrills, though it's certainly no Resident Evil 4. You get a few different types of guns, 
 one of course being Lara's standard dual pistol setup. You also get grenades which can be thrown 
 by pressing the left bumper, because grenades are popular in post-Halo games. Overall, this isn't 
 a particularly strong or emphasized part of the Legend experience, but it does offer a few good 
 moments.
  
  The puzzles in the game rely heavily on physics, which is surprising but also nifty and fun. The 
 puzzles are never too hard, though a few will stump you for a minute or two. Unfortunately, a few 
 puzzle archetypes repeat and just aren't as interesting the second time, the most obnoxious offender 
 being the puzzle where you have to push an object in between two enclosing walls/bladed walls. 
 Still, there are new and fun puzzles to look forward to throughout the duration of the game, and 
 combined with the platforming they make the general gameplay in Legend a joy to experience.
  
  Until you get to one of the boss battles. Unfortunately, boss battles are generally pretty 
 weak, with only one or two being any real fun (the leviathan is fairly cool) . Also, during boss 
 fights, the bosses repeat hyper annoying lines every second or two for the entire duration of the 
 fight, so it's not so much a feeling of accomplishment at the end of one as it is a feeling of 
 relief that you don't need to listen to them anymore. One or two of the bosses prove to be downright 
 annoying in the way that they play out, and boss fights are generally overly simplistic, which 
 is a shame considering that most of the game is otherwise of very high quality.
  
  Also unfortunate, is that the game is too short. While it is, in a way, a compliment to say that 
 the game leaves you craving more, it's partly because it ends about two levels short of where it 
 should have. Also weird is that while most of the levels take over an hour to complete, the last 
 three took me 45, 30, and then 9 minutes respectively... as if the game just over-accelerated through 
 the final gameplay sequences instead of fleshing them out a bit more. It's too bad then that they 
 put some of that gameplay time into stretching out the somewhat lame motorcycle segments, which 
 could have used trimming. The first one isn't so bad, but the last one is way too long and features 
 a lot of repeating scenery. They're generally overly simple, and end up being kind of like one 
 big straight stretch with the same two bad guy archetypes coming at you over and over again. Not 
 exactly a sparkling example of a good time.
  
  Thankfully, when Legend is playing to its strengths, which is most of the time, it's a sublime 
 experience, especially for fans of the series who had probably all but given up on Lara. It's almost 
 as if Lara is raiding her own tomb in the game, searching for treasure amongst the ruins of her 
 own tarnished legacy. Indeed, there is gaming gold to be found here. With great graphics, wonderful 
 sound, and sublime tomb raiding/puzzle solving, Tomb Raider: Legend serves up some of the best 
 action adventure gaming seen in some time. It's sad that it's held back by a few snags like mostly 
 lame boss battles, mediocre bike sequences, and a short overall playtime... but when it works it 
 does so quite well, and it leaves you wanting more. One can only wonder what new adventures the 
 developers have in store for a likely follow-up. Welcome back Lara. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 24, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  Lara Croft has become a household name, and her exploits in the Tomb Raider games have even inspired 
 several movies. The Tomb Raider series has fallen from grace in the last couple installments, and 
 has been an example of what not to do with a successful series. Now Lara is back in her latest 
 game, and for the most part its a return to past glory.
  
  The story centers on the disappearance of Laras mother when Lara was a child. Its barely coherent, 
 and there are plot holes big enough to fly a plane through. Whoever wrote the story for this game 
 must have penned it in junior-high. But if nothing more, the story serves its purpose as it just 
 gives you an excuse to explore more tombs.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The controls have been greatly improved from past games. Controlling Lara now feels very natural, 
 and you can perform amazing jumps with just a couple button presses. The camera can be adjusted 
 manually, and for the most part works well. However, when hanging from ledges, it switches to a 
 fixed camera that doesnt always allow you to see where youre trying to jump to.
  
  The puzzles are fun, but not very challenging. Most of them involve pushing a block onto a switch 
 to open a locked door. The real fun comes from the platforming, and exploration. Some of the best 
 puzzles are the ones where you need to platform your way through a room to get to the exit. 
  
  The downside to the game play is that the gunfights are boring. Granted, its not the main 
 focus of the game, but its still a lacking element. Enemies are dumb and take too many bullets 
 before going down. The weapons all do about the same damage. Its just not fun. Its almost like 
 they were going to put some gimmick into the combat system, but forgot to put it in for the final 
 build.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics are bland in some spots, and very nice in others on the 360. There are a lot of objects 
 with shiny surfaces, and high-resolution textures. But the polygon count seems low, and the shadows 
 are very pixilated. There are some places where lighting effects dont seem to work well, or at 
 all with the Personal Light Source. The new Lara is easy on the eyes, while still being more realistic 
 than her previous incarnations. Her movements are very fluid, and lifelike. In general, the graphics 
 arent up to par with 360 standards. Its more like they took the Xbox version, added some reflections, 
 and called it a day.
  
  SOUND
  Much like the graphics, the sound is also hit-or-miss. Laras voice acting is well done, but everyone 
 else seems sort of half-assed. The gunshots and explosions sound halfway decent, but no other effects 
 do. Background music is rarely noticeable, and forgettable when you do notice it.
  
  VALUE
  Despite having some uninspiring elements, I found Tomb Raider: Legend to be very enjoyable. 
 The environments are well designed, and theres a fair amount of replay from the numerous unlockables, 
 and time trial modes. The main story is a little short, and will take most players around 10 hours 
 to complete. But for those that like exploring until every last hidden item has been found, TRL 
 will keep you busy for many more hours after that.
  
  Overall, theres just something fun about Laras new adventure. There are elements to it that arent 
 fun, or even annoying. Yet I found myself compelled to continue playing just by the sheer fun of 
 Tomb Raiding again. It didnt last long, but it was fun while it lasted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rezlow
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 24, 2006 4:29 am PT
Review:  Amazing environments and visuals. Easy to snag achievements. Extra replay through the different 
 "reload" changes for each level and finding bronze, silver, and gold rewards.
  
  The story is a little (more than a little) contrived and predictable (but still better than the 
 movies, blah) , but interesting enough for a video game.
  
  Combat is simple and doesn't distract too much from the puzzle/platforming nature of the game. 
 Most battles that you _have_ to clear in order to enter the next room can be done through holding 
 down both lock and fire and jumping around. You'll automatically lock the next target when your 
 current one falls. I was also disappointed in the lack of variety in the enemies you face, but 
 again, you don't want this game combat-heavy.
  
  I really enjoyed this game and have nearly opened up all achievements, but it is certainly a renter 
 for all those but the true Tomb Raider fans; there just isn't enough meat on these bones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sawred
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 23, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  Was fun to see TR back, and especially on the 360. Liked graphics a lot, puzzles could have been 
 more difficult, more puzzles also would have been nice, less shooting people. The real downside 
 of the game is that the game is over way to fast. Hopefully on the next game out the design team 
 will address this, and we won't have to wait 2 years for the next one this is my first review and 
 apparently you have to have at least 100 words like a short essay case you didnt notice I am trying 
 to fill in at least 100 words 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 69TriP63
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 23, 2006 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Wow, its been almost a decade since Tomb Raider was first released. Given the games history and 
 popularity, it makes reviewing the game not an easy task, as there are many games in the series 
 as well as many other games that have come out since the first release of Tomb Raider in October 
 96, this does set high standards. Overall the game had many good points but because of its history 
 I have to be harsh with the bad. Due to many issues the game has, such as the story shouldnt take 
 you more then 7 hours and its clear right from the beginning with a limit of only 3 health packs 
 the game never gets very hard. As a recommendation I would have to say this game isnt worth its 
 current $60 price for long time fans as well as newcomers, but this game has enough good content 
 that it does merit a rental and certainly there is enough content in the game that if you do like 
 the game the price will surely go down soon enough, making it more worth the buy.
  
  I remember when I first played the original Tomb Raider all my friends gathered around me more 
 interested in the character Lara Croft then in the game. In Tomb Raider: Legend there is no doubt 
 Lara looks better then ever. There are many features that make Lara more realistic, eg. a collar 
 bone, as well as costumes that are unlocked as you progress through the game, that not only applies 
 to game play but also cut-scenes. Her movements all look good and her physique is well balanced. 
 With Lara looking so good, her skin tones look overly soft/smooth much like one would expect from 
 a game character. Although that line may have its negative connotation, it was clear that the developers 
 didnt want to make a real Lara but a realistic Lara and that idea worked out well.
  
  The controls in Tomb Raider: Legend, with the Xbox 360 was good and responsive. Controlling Lara 
 has always been an issue with the series, death came often by being to hasty. In Legend Eidos Interactive 
 and Crystal Dynamics wanted a freer moving Lara and this definitely helps solve that old issue. 
 The developers added interactive cut-scenes, a lot of the death animations are humorous so checking 
 them out isnt a bad idea. Problems arise with the gun control, although there is nothing majorly 
 wrong with it, youll find it to be more then basic. Also at certain moments when locking on a 
 target is needed it might lock onto something else that might not even be anywhere near the direction 
 you were facing. There are a few bike scenes that come of as a slightly basic. In fact in the first 
 bike level, I tried very hard to fall of but she never really loses control unless it means death. 
 At the same time some of the animations of Lara ripping on the bike are quite pleasing.
  
  The sound in Legend is well done. All the characters sound interesting and fitting to their appearance. 
 The story/scripting however is weak. At no point is the storyline very interesting or emotionally 
 moving and a lot of Laras and Laras colleagues comments arent very interesting nor is it very 
 useful. The background music/sound on the other hand is well done and fits in well with the Tomb 
 Raider series.
  
  With the newly vamped controlling of Lara one would hope that death would not come as often from 
 missing a jump. Regrettably the camera angles, in this game dont help you. There will be more 
 then a number of times Lara will jump/move in the wrong direction or you will not even be able 
 to properly see where she needs to move. This definitely happens enough times so that Lara falling 
 to her death does get annoying, but then again that is Tomb Raider for you. Of course it would 
 be nice not to blame the camera so often for my death as opposed to blaming myself.
  
  After playing and completing more then my share of the Tomb Raider series I have become an abusive 
 saver. In Legend the developers added a new checkpoint system. One can call this checkpoint system 
 the AA (Alcoholics Anonymous) for savers as it takes away the Tomb Raider urge to save at every 
 dicey jump. Of course I had to try saving and reloading after missing an easy one and found myself 
 all the way back at the checkpoint, so no more is that acceptable. Unfortunately this new checkpoint 
 system makes the game go a lot faster, of course under normal circumstances that is useful, but 
 in a game as short as Tomb Raider it doesnt help the game.
  
  One main reason that drew me into the Tomb Raider series wasnt how great Lara looked but actually 
 how well I could fare to the level designs. Often after finishing a level I would feel like I accomplished 
 the world, as well as felt a lot smarter. In Legend one sees that the developers were trying to 
 move outside the frustrations that were so common with the preceding games, but here is where I 
 felt they might have messed up. In aid for those frustrating moments, the developers added a new 
 function called RAD mode. It essentially marks out the various objects, and also lets you know 
 what you will be able to do with them. For those of you who remember the old Tomb Raiders, the 
 idea of raiding the locations to find the key to moving forward was always exciting and yet at 
 the same time can become frustrating. Sadly in Legend youll find all the switches and various 
 objects required to move forward all right in front of you and all you have to do is put them together. 
 This makes it very easy to keep moving forward, and one doesnt really end up appreciating the 
 locations. Also one will find Laras path is very restricted. You wont be able to deviate from 
 the set path, nor will you find yourself backtracking aimlessly. This makes the levels often feel 
 constrained. For someone new to the series you might not feel like a tomb raider, which the other 
 games in the series did very well. Also you will find the locations somewhat repetitive and the 
 challenges fairly similar.
  
  As far as Xbox achievements, there is at least 750 points that are pretty easy and dont take to 
 much time to achieve. Youll definitely get most of them with one rental. After that, there are 
 time trials. These can be tough and dont really reward you with many points. Anyone that knows 
 the series will be happy to know that the infamous ammo and health cheat codes can be unlocked 
 by completing certain time trials. Also finding various hidden artifacts are unlockables and although 
 a large portion of them are fairly easy to find, there are some that could take sometime. Certainly 
 finding the artifacts helps make Legend feel like your raiding the locations, but because it isnt 
 critical to finishing a stage one can avoid looking for them completely.
  
  Definitely after looking over all the good and bad points of the game, one might question why do 
 I even recommend it as a rental. Well its simple, the game never gets unplayable. All too often 
 in previous Tomb Raiders, the game would have to be completely replayed if you encounter various 
 glitches. Yet in Legend its hard to believe that someone can get stuck to the point of restarting 
 the game. For those of you who look for games that dont require a lot of time to experience, this 
 would definitely be perfect. Finally, all those Xbox point junkies like me; this games practically 
 giving points away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: area51alien
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 21, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  For anyone looking for a must have game in the action adventure genre, this is the game for you. 
 I'll admit the bad things first. The game is rather short and when I beat it in 8 to 9 hours, I 
 wanted more. Sadly I didn't get my wish. Other than the fact that it was short, I have no other 
 gripes about the game. The graphics in this game are gorgeous, especially the water effects. The 
 sound effects in the game greatly compliment the environments that you play in, from the sounds 
 of the traps to the sounds of the waterfalls. The voice-work is especially entertaining and humorous 
 at times and really adds a great personality to Lara and the other characters in the game. Level 
 variety has gorgeous locales, especially Bolivia. The motorcycle levels were awsome, but the bike 
 physics could have been tweaked, though. I didn't feel that there were enough traps in the game, 
 although the game did have many. I don't have a favorite trap, though. The story is well crafted 
 and I really liked it. It had a cliffhanger sort of ending, in which all great games do. I would 
 like to see how this story could be implemented in the sequel. So many different outcomes are possible, 
 though. Future Tomb Raider games should also keep the controls silky smooth as I thought they were. 
 It was so easy to direct Lara in the direction you wanted her to go. The gadgets should also stay, 
 and I liked how they were implemented into the gameplay, especially the magnetic grapple. This 
 game was worth the wait and is a must for any Tomb Raider fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melonman2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 21, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  really good game great graphics great gameplay great sound but when you pay 60$ u hope the game 
 has a bit more substance for me it was over in around 5 hours and theres no point in playing over 
 again just for costumes and player models. but while it last its a hell of a ride with great visuals 
 and gameplay the only let down on the gameplay is the driveing sections wich seem pointless and 
 kinda drag on also the gunplay could do with a bit of tweaking and made more fluid in all a great 
 game an a return to form for laura and probally the best game in seris but could do with more length 
 and substance 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WmassakaW
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 21, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  Hi all,
  Tomb Raider Legend is a really great game. It's combines a good gameplay with High End Graphic 
 and it make a lot off fun, but it's to short. For Tomb Raider Fans it's to easy, for the rest it's 
 ok. If you have enough money, you should buy it. For all Tomb Raider Fans, i must say, Lara is 
 back and better as even bevore. Forgive Lara the bad time at "the Angel of Darkness" and Have Fun
 
  if you don't believe me, you can download the pc demo at this url:
  http://www. warningworld. com/trlegend_demo/trlegend_demo. zip
  If you will see the High End Graphic 
 you must play the xbox360 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a7medy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 21, 2006 4:33 am PT
Review:  this game is the best tomb raider game of all time its have a lot of action. this game is one of 
 the best adventure games that release. if yo you r a fan of action and adventure games then this 
 game is yours believe me you will love this game 2 much. but the bad thing in this game is the 
 game is short you will complete the whoule game maybe in 10 hours i think but its realy worth the 
 try believe me you will not regret 2 buy this game go and try it good luck thanx and 1 thing before 
 i goes im a fan of shoter but i like adventure games and im wating 4 the real legend game halo 
 3 woooooooooooooow i realy wont say a lot of course you now it : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bonehead316
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 20, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Recently i wrote a damaging review on G. R. A. W. so disapointed was i at the lack of challenge when 
 played on HARD. The campaign lasted less than a week when played a couple of hours a day. However 
 we have a new contender T. R. L. removing the disc from the box proved tougher than completing the 
 game on hard. Perhaps the days of games like Metroid Prime, Resident Evil, Zelda, Halo (on legendary) 
 P. G. R.2. etc are over?. I hope not for as with most things in life, the greater the challenge the 
 greater the sense of achievment. Many may not share this desire for challenge, thats fine they 
 have a difficulty setting they can play on, and enjoy, great!. Alot of gamers however want more 
 from a game, can they not then be made for EVERYONE!!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZakmanZak
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 20, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  I am not much of a Lara Croft fan, but I enjoyed the original Tomb Raider. However the franchise 
 started going downhill afterwards (not even the movies saved it) . It would seem the franchise would 
 die an agonizing death. However, Eidos (with options running out and taking desperate measures) 
 would change developers and that would be one of the smartest moves they had ever done. Even though 
 the develop team was new at this, they delivered what could very well be a promise of rebirth and 
 the gift of life to this slowly dying franchise.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  The gameplay is considered to be one of the most critical of the game. Lara returns with a new 
 story as always and has gadgets to raid any ancient tomb/site. However trouble is not far behind 
 and it is up to you and Laura to figure out this huge endeavour. The controls are responsive and 
 almost easy to use, you have prince of persia styled acrobatics and manuvers, and you have your 
 trusty dual pistols at your disposal. The lock on and firing combat system can be quite a pain 
 to learn and master, but it is fun to watch evil mercs die. As much as it was fun to go through 
 the story, the game is sadly a bit too short.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Enough said. Most people here play the game to view... well... laura herself. For those of you who 
 are graphically inclined, the environments and pretty views of the scenery make this game awe inspiring.
 
  
  Sound: 8/10
  The ambience of the water, the sounds of the guns, the hollow noises of traps and obstacles bring 
 back memories of the original Tomb Raider. Your trusty crew is on the little cell walkie talky 
 thing contacting you with useless/useful information, and also the individuality of the enemies 
 commands and statements. One prob: you will hear this over and over (if you keep playing again 
 and again for the sake of it) , and when Laura talks (and if you move the camera to see if she is 
 talking) her lips aren't moving... that is a classic N64 irony.
  
  Value: 8.6/10
  For all those Tomb Raider fans: here is the game you technically wanted to see and play since the 
 first game. For everyone else: rent it for it's short life span, or buy it for personal reasons. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mculberson1973
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 18, 2006 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Yes, the game is short. Yes, the game is pretty easy. But guess what? It's fun! It's visually excellent. 
 It's like playing a movie. Don't let the 7.8 review on this website scare you away. I'm so sick 
 of game reviewers being overly critical of video games. When did we forget the simple fun factor 
 of a game. For some reason if the game doesn't break some new ground and reinvent the wheel, reviewers, 
 professional ones that is (loose term there) , give it less than stellar rating.
  
  This game impresses from the get-go. Laura looks great. The environments are fantastic, and it's 
 just a nice production.
  
  Well, enough said. This is a fun, great looking game. Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheJustin
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 18, 2006 9:27 pm PT
Review:  This Tomb Raider was awesome! great graphics, great sound, and a good story. The only downside 
 I can really find about this game is the length. I finished the story in about 5 hours. Now I don't 
 sit down and play games for hours upon hours so usually games seem like they are a good length, 
 but this one seemed short even though I only play the 360 for a couple hours a day.
  
  The Graphics are great. Awesome blur effects and it has a good environment. The sound is well done 
 too. Story was a well put toguether one unlike the last Tomb Raider.
  
  Bottom line is if you are even a small tomb raider fan this one is a MUST to own or rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shodog
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 18, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  The game has come a ways from the first Tomb Raider. The graphics are good but their are some frame 
 rate problems which honestly should not be happening with a 512MB video card. Anyways the game 
 is fun the different locations are pretty. The gun play is good but nothing outstanding or new. 
 The game is a rental in my opinion. Unless you are a real die hard Tomb Raider fan then play the 
 game by renting it and say your money for another game. If you are buying the game just to look 
 at virtual hot bodies then buy Rumble Roses XX. But if you like the third person puzzle shooters, 
 then drop the $60. 
  
  I personally will go back to playing Oblivion. But did enjoy the adventure. 
  
  As Star Wars 
 said it best. "There's nothing to see here, move along." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cygnus999
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 18, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Legend is an excellent game in all respects, except for the fact that it's too easy 
 and too short. If only they had made it more difficult (the puzzles, not the combat) , then the 
 game would actually be an acceptable length. Unfortunately, the puzzles never stumped me for more 
 than a few minutes. I even tried to make it more difficult for myself by NOT using the RAD mode 
 of the binoculars (remote analysis of objects) but the puzzles were still too easy to solve.
  
  One thing that made it unnecessarily easy was how the game TELLS you when there is an object 
 you can grapple to by highlighting it in blue and pointing to it with a big "A". It would have 
 been nice if it had been left up to the player to look around and figure out how to cross that 
 deep gap themselves...
  
  There was also an issue with the sound mixing. Sometimes, during cut scenes, it is difficult to 
 hear the dialog over the music. And yes, there is an option to adjust the music/SFX/voice volumes 
 seperately, however, the voice volume slider only adjusts the in-game voice volume. The voices 
 during the cut scenes are apparently part of the "music" track and so therefore cannot be increased 
 in volume in relation to the music. In some parts of the game I had to turn on the subtitles to 
 get around this problem.
  
  My last complaint is that the camera is difficult to position sometimes. It's more of an annoyance 
 really -- didn't affect gameplay much. But, I don't really consider this a serious complaint because 
 ALL third-person 3D games of this type have always had camera problems. It's not really a solvable 
 problem because the game can never know where you'll want the camera positioned at any given time. 
 The game does do a good job of "guessing" and does seem to intelligently place the camera in a 
 good location sometimes, but not always.
  
  However.... aside from these issues, the game is EXCELLENT, and very enjoyable! The graphics are 
 superb (except for the occasional drop in frame rate) , the sound is extremely well done, and the 
 gameplay is very satisfying.
  
  By the way, I also tried out the PS2 version and I must say, I was still impressed with the graphics 
 even after playing the X360 version on an HDTV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weazel1838
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 18, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  good and short with about 10 hours of gameplay, but a few more hours of fun finding the hidden 
 medals (bronze, gold and silver) . Laura jumps onto the 360 in a great game that has great action, 
 but pretty lame puzzles throughout the game. Im Just glad i rented instead of purchasing! Definetley 
 worth a rent to get the gamerpoints (very easy) and to see what laura looks like on the next gen 
 system! oh by the way, laura is looking much better since her days on the playstation. Her assets 
 are good to look at, but hey its just a game people! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shahbra
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2006 4:56 am PT
Review:  This game is great... It was worth playing although the gameplay time is quite short... The creators 
 should make another game... I also think that the puzzles were quite easy but it was a good idea 
 with the gold, silver & bronze rewards. There should have been another country added to the game 
 too make it longer so people can enjoy it. Compared to the previous TR game this one is the best 
 without a doubt. This game is a little like Prince Of Persia but like that game it proves to be 
 fantastic. The moves that Lara has are also a good addition to the game as she can dodge things 
 & also grab things with her grappling device. The loading is a bit long on PS2 but the pictures 
 they show are nice [e. g. The Japan picture] . I also think that the creators could have also made 
 a better starting video... overall gamers should buy this game it's worth it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTAG-daver999
Rating: 4.2
Date: Apr 18, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  This has to be the most boring game yet out for the xbox 360. The game gets so repetitive and is 
 too easy. The only time you would get stuck on this game would be because you can't open a door 
 or you can't find where something is not because there is a big boss or find it hard to get past 
 a number of enemies. Another thing is the game is way to short I completed it in two days and not 
 to mention you can't play on xbox live but only to download maybe a new level or two which probably 
 would be just as boring. Also this game is way to unrealistic for example you get shot about 100 
 times and you still don't die but you can always use a medi kit which makes the game far too easy. 
 And another thing is you have to shoot someone else about 100 times in the head to kill them. Also 
 I didn't like the story line it was no where near as good as the storyline for the first tomb raider 
 or the second or the third. The only good thing about this game is graphics and sound but what 
 do you expect from a next gen console and if the graphics and the sound happened to be bad I would 
 have given this game 2 out of 10. But if you are big fan of the tomb raider series and don't mind 
 unrealistic games you should buy this but watch out because the game is very short 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattngc
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 18, 2006 4:31 am PT
Review:  This is the game i've been waiting for since the first game all thoses years ago. Very faced paced 
 and hasnt left me walking around board at all. Some are saying the game is not very challenging, 
 I dont want to disagree because its not the hardest game in the world but I felt it was reallt 
 well balanced.
  
  I'm playing the 360 version and it looks fantastic in HD but you might want to increase the default 
 brightness. The environments look great and are very detailed and the characters look good aswell.
 
  
  Moving around the environments might not feel intuatie at first but once you get use the the controls 
 you see how well they actually do work and the first level gives you enough time to figure them 
 all out and there is some on screen help at first.
  
  Another great idea is the kinda interactive cut scenes a bit like indego prophecy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdt532
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 18, 2006 1:16 am PT
Review:  At one time Tomb Raider was very popular and Laura Croft was an icon. However over the years when 
 other games were pushing gameplay ahead Tomb Raider apeared to stand still. After the release of 
 TR1 Core was pumping out another TR game almost every year like clockwork with more polygons, smoother 
 textures and maybe a new move or two which didn't add a whole lot to the gameplay. TR: Legend fixes 
 allot of the issues the old TR games had while keeping the things that once made this game a huge 
 success. 
  
  Gone is the old grid system that made the old TR games feel rigid and clunky, in Legend Lara controls 
 much more fluid and natural. In past TR games the camera system was buggy, sometimes you would 
 find yourself looking behind Lara when you're about to make a jump. The camera system in TR: Legend 
 while not perfect is a vast improvement. For the most part the camera will stay behind Lara giving 
 you a view of what's in front of her.
  
  The game-play in TR: Legend plays like a classic action adventure platformer. Like classic TR games 
 you will be traveling the world to exotic locations such as city roof tops, tombs and snow covered 
 mountains. Along the way you'll be navigating death traps, jumping from platform to platform, shimmying 
 across ledges, etc. Occasionally you'll be riding a motorcycle through a level, the motorcylcle 
 controls are very arcade and forgiving. While on the motorcycle you'll be making jumps and shooting 
 pursuing badies. These motorcycle levels are fun and a nice change of pace.
  
  The combat in this game while improved from old TR games is a weakness in TR: Legend. Gone is the 
 old system where all you had to do is draw your weapon and Lara would automatically aim at the 
 nearest enemy in front of her. Now you have to hold in the left trigger to lock onto enemies and 
 fire with the right trigger. Crystal Dynamics has added a new matrix like feature where you can 
 run close to an enemy push the jump button and the game will go into slow motion while Lara leaps 
 off the guys head and flips behind him, at this point you can fire your weapon at him. There are 
 other melee attacks you can perform that aren't worth describing. Most of the time you will find 
 it's easier to just roll around on the ground and fire at the enemies. Because of this it makes 
 all the other combat options in the game pointless. Another game-play element is a thing I like 
 to call QTE (Quick Time Event) , basically during cut-scenes at certain times during the action 
 you will be prompted to push a controller button. If you fail to press the right button in time 
 poor Lara dies. Those who have played Shenmue or Resident Evil 4 should be accustomed to this game-play 
 element. 
  
  Tomb Raider: Legend is a fun game with a few blemishes that can be over looked for the most part. 
 If you're looking for good action adventure game with an interesting story and awesome main character 
 this game is for you. My only problems with this game was weak combat and it wasn't long enough. 
 This game is arguably the best in the series, if you're a TR fan than this is a must have.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fhaid
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 17, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Ok.. I Bought the game the other day and played the first level which was really great ! I started 
 with The "Normal" mode so it was pretty easy.. Its true that the game is kinda short, But believe 
 if you like this type of games you will love this one, I Thought Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones 
 was really realy good but this Tomb Raider is great !! I mean its the one of the best experiences 
 I had with my baby (X360) :P So I say if you think its over-priced for a short BUT great game, 
 Then just rent it ! But I like owing great games.. + The Mansion's there and lookin' amazing, Kinda 
 like the Mansion in Angelina Jolie's Tomb Raider movie ! But overall the game is really fun to 
 play and the aint that difficult its Just Right ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiggerboy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 17, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  We all can remember when Tomb Raider first hit the gaming world. We immediately fell in love with 
 the polygonal beauty in the short shorts and cropped shirt, oh yeah the gameplay was good as well. 
 Now she's back and smoother than ever in Tomb Raider: Legends. 
  When I first started playing the game, all my old Tomb Raider memories came rushing back to me. 
 The game play is very similar to the original, which is good because it worked! The graphics are 
 much better than the others, especially on HD. The gun play is a little weak and the aiming system 
 kind of sucks, but you can make it work. 
  The puzzles are fun to figure out. This is mostly because of the good graphics and game play, but 
 they can get frustrating at times because the camera angles can be quite helpless. The swimming 
 is pretty difficult and you can easily get stuck and drown if you aren't careful. 
  All together, if you are into the Tomb Raider saga, then this is a must have. If this is your first 
 experience its okay as well because the story, as short as it is, doesn't fall to much onto the 
 older titles so you wont be lost on this one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wedgeski
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 17, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  GameSpot have underrated this game, in my humble opinion, unless they are marking it down on length 
 much more than they usually do.
  
  Remember the feeling you got when you played the first Tomb Raider? You know the one... it pretty 
 much crumbled under the weight of about 86 totally average sequels. Well I remember that feeling, 
 and Legend brings it all back. Graphically sumptuous, with pixel-perfect controls almost across 
 the board (swimming is much harder than it should be/ever was) , terrific physics-integrated puzzles, 
 excellent voice-acting, a brilliant variety of mini-games... this is a real winner. Every level 
 brings a cheeky surprise or exciting sub-game, so you never *quite* know what it's going to throw 
 at you next, and this is a real accolade for a game which is about six sequels into a franchise.
 
  
  Legend is short, there's no two ways about it, and for price tag, it's way understuffed. To counter 
 this you should set the difficulty real high from the beginning; the gunplay becomes more deadly, 
 and you often find yourself one missed jump away from death. Far from being frustrating, a good 
 checkpoint system ensures that the game benefits from the added tension.
  
  Obviously this is a cross-platform release but on the 360 Legend is a must-have title as far as 
 I'm concerned, showing off the system with a clean, exceptionally designed and great looking title. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jervo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 17, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  I never played the original Tomb Raider games, though I probably would have if I'd owned a PS1 
 or whatever other systems it was on. I was interested in the new one not because of Lara Croft's 
 boobies but because I love Prince of Persia-type games and the graphics in the Xbox360 demo were 
 surprisingly awesome. 
  
  And so I got it last week and finished it over the weekend; took about 8 hours in all, without 
 doing the time trials or harder difficulty, and with a few hidden objects yet to be discovered. 
 On the default difficulty setting the game is actually quite easy; aside from a few tricky jumps, 
 there are a few specific instances which aren't the Shenmue/RE4 button presses but instead are 
 quasi-boss fights where the camera angle changes dramatically and there's a wierd icon in the lower 
 right corner indicating that something has changed, but it's not clear what, and suddenly you die 
 because you didn't know what the hell you were doing. Aside from those moments - and if I remember 
 correctly, there are only 2 or 3 - the game is pretty fantastic. 
  
  It's also, as previously mentioned, very short. I beat the game in around 8 hours, and I probably 
 spent a good 20-30 minutes per level scouring around for hidden artificats and secrets - the time 
 trial deadlines reveal that each level can be beaten in a very small amount of time, which did 
 not come as that much of a surprise. Aside from the fact that you only have to figure out the game's 
 puzzles once (some of which are trickier than I was expecting, due to the game's novel use of physics, 
 of which see below) , there are cheats that can be unlocked by beating the game and finding certain 
 quantities of artifacts - specifically, I suspect that the "one-shot kill" cheat will make those 
 time trials substantially easier to complete. 
  
  The puzzles in TR: L are generally pretty interesting, even if they rely too heavily on crate pushing, 
 thanks to the game's physics engine. I'll admit that the game's first major "set piece" puzzle 
 (which is also featured in the demo, so hopefully I'm not spoiling anything) had me pretty stumped 
 for a while: there is a locked door which can only be opened by placing 3 crates over 3 pressure 
 plates; 2 of the crates are in the water below the player, so there must be a way to get them up... 
 it took me a good 20-30 minutes before I accidentally discovered that I could use this gigantic 
 lever as a springboard. Getting that puzzle to work was a genuine surpise, and I must say I felt 
 pretty clever to have worked it out - and I'd like to hope that the "Eureka!" feeling is what the 
 developers intended. 
  
  The combat in TR: L isn't as horrible as I anticipated; indeed, I think I might even like it (well, 
 as compared to Prince of Persia, which never got it right) . It's also pretty straightforward and 
 while Lara has the option of picking up the dropped weapons of fallen enemies, her dual pistols 
 are always adequate and her grenades do come in handy. The enemy AI is pretty stupid, but, I mean, 
 come on - nobody plays these games for the gunplay, so it's not really that big a deal. Her special 
 moves are fun - the move where she jumps on an enemy's head and the world moves into slow-motion 
 bullet time is not only awesome to watch but quite helpful.
  
  In terms of presentation, TR: L is almost perfect. The voice acting is generally well done (if a 
 little obvious) and the sound effects are outstanding, not to mention a soundtrack that's really 
 quite good. Graphically, the game looks almost fantastic - the environments (especially the water) 
 look great, and Lara animates very well, but the character design is clearly (and somewhat surprisingly) 
 the only obvious clue that this game was also designed for current-gen systems. Specifically, all 
 the characters (except for Lara) have very heavy texturing all over their faces and bodies, which 
 look incredibly out of place considering how snazzy everything else looks. Lara continues to have 
 an anatomically impossible figure, but she's very well animated and it's quite a lot of fun moving 
 her around.
  
  I'm not a 14-year-old boy, so I'm almost certainly not the target demographic for this game; however, 
 I'm happy to note that there's a great game to be had here for those of us who are interested in 
 other things besides Lara's bodacious ta-tas. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: swamptick
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  Lara Croft is one of the most identifiable icons in gaming history. She is in the upper echelon 
 of franchise characatures. Lara belongs with the mighty of gamedom.... names like Mario, Pac-Man, 
 The Master Chief and Solid Snake. Alas, as of late Miss Croft has been in the company of lesser 
 game heros.
  
  The series which was once so relvolutionary, began a steady decline after the release of The Last 
 Revelation. Sure the graphics were getting better, but Lara continued to move like a cheap toy 
 robot from the late 80's. 
  The game that was once to trend setting became a laughing stock in the media and a sore subject 
 for casual gamers and hard core Tomb Raider fans alike.
  
  Fear not though devoted gamers!! The series has finally come into the new century. Controls are 
 crisp and fun to play. Lara hosts a cornicopia of new acrobatic moves. The developers have done 
 a wonderful job of requiring the players to make full use of this new array of techniques.
  
  The graphics are good but not anything to marvel over. The one complaint most players have 
 had is the weak gunplay. The gunplay is not good but does not take away from the fun of the game. 
 If anything, the gun play is just ultra simple. Just hold left trigger and pull right trigger. 
 The enemies are not all that challenging but it is still alot of fun to lay them over.
  
  The puzzles are fun and just what you would expect. 
  
  GET THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hungfar
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 16, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Fans of the Tomb Raider franchise have had quite the emotional roller coaster ride throughout it's 
 existence. The first two games in the series are widely regarded as the best and sequels have been 
 either poor or painfully mediocre. So publisher Eidos handed Tomb Raider off to Crystal Dynamics 
 in a last ditch effort to finally make a good game and this turned out to be an extremely wise 
 decision. 
  
  Tomb Raider : Legend is the game that finally rights the main wrong that has plagued the series 
 from the beginning, and that of course would be the controls. Navigating the impressive environments 
 is at last intuitive and responsive which makes Legend much more immediately enjoyable. The visuals 
 are fantastic, mainly due to the beefed up textures the Xbox360 enables. However you can still 
 tell that it's not really next-gen. The audio is also very solid but doesn't really stand out too 
 much. 
  
  The game play here is familiar but pretty well done. The emphasis is mainly on exploration and 
 puzzle solving, with gun play punctuating the varied areas you'll go to. The gun play isn't particularly 
 well done but it definitely works. But it's also not the main game play feature. But overall the 
 game feels pretty polished and is, most importantly, a lot of fun to play. The story is quite engaging 
 once it gets moving but it's all over way too quickly. But we all know there'll be a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gregoreocookie
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  There's no point to writing a review for this game. If you like tomb raider one than you will absolutely 
 fall in love with sixth iteration of the series. Excellent game on all fronts. Graphics are stellar. 
 Sound effects are right on point. Voice overs, right on. It's the complete package. Lots of people 
 complain about the game being too short, but it really isnt. If you're an adventurer and you like 
 to explore like i do then the game can take like 20 hrs to complete. But once you find all of the 
 rewards theres really nothing left to do but to just watch it collect dust. With all that said, 
 I cant wait for Tomb Raider 7... damn 7... seriously.... omg.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lion629
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely amazing and is by far the best tomb raider game ever. Tomb raider legend 
 just looks phenominal and runs at a perfect frame rate especially if you play the pc version and 
 put the graphical settings just right. The control machanism in this game is perfect and does great 
 for a platforming game i never once even found a problem with the camera angleing. The levels and 
 the puzels for that mater have a very wide variety and though at times the puzzles may become frustrating 
 when you figuer them out you will either think "ohh i was so stupid" or "wow that was cool." this 
 game has a lot of replay value as it is absolutely packed with unlockable and besides the main 
 game croft manour is a secret on its own filled with puzzles and prises. The action in this game 
 is absolutely exellent and you will find it to grow on you and you will have a wide variety of 
 moves to pull off. 
  And if all that aint good enough for you Lara Croft looks Hawt :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefuse1032
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 16, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Legend definitely looks great on the 360. The game play is fun, but then again the 
 game is actually really short i thought. Besides that the game is fun to play and gets its point 
 across (girls can kick ass too) . i just started getting into the whole Tomb Raider series and i 
 found out that it is actually a great series so far. The good thing about this game is it makes 
 you think about what u have to do to reach your next point or next goal. I thought the game was 
 a decent game and well made one too. Im always looking for a great adventure game and this one 
 puts it in the box for me. If you have played Prince of Persia at all, it reminds you of that, 
 without swords and the reversing time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyt66
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 16, 2006 5:29 am PT
Review:  Now we all have off day... it's a fact, weve all been there, some days you just can't do anything 
 right, and game characters are no different Dante had Devil may cry 2, the civillians of Racoon 
 city had to struggle awkwardly through Outbreak, and Lara croft had Angel of Darkness, but now 
 having played Tomb Raider: Legend I can safely say: Welcome home Lara, all is forgiven.
  
  Tomb Raider : Legend sees the series move to a new developer, our old friends at crystal dynamics, 
 and im pleased to report that the change of direction has really brought the series back up to 
 the high standards of gameplay we used to see back when Lara first started raiding tombs 10 years 
 ago.
  
  For those not familiar with the series tomb raider is a third person action adventure game with 
 focus on exploration and puzzles. This adventure begins with Lara investigating a tip she has recieved 
 about an ancient ruin and throughout the adventure you'll be visiting ancient ruins in locations 
 such as Bolivia, Peru, and Ghana not to mention abandoned soviet bases in Khasikstan, Yakusa owned 
 office buildings in Tokyo and mysterious Catacombs under old London town in the course of this 
 treasure hunt.
  
  The first thing you will no doubt notice when picking up this title will be the visuals, as a standalone 
 showcase this is a fantastic display of texture and detail, from the rich environments, stunning 
 landscapes and the ornate details on the ancient tombs you visit to the little touches added to 
 the games leading lady both in general appearence thanks to the customary makeover Lara undergoes 
 between most sequels and also the great ammount of work that has gone into the character animation, 
 no longer is Lara a girl of straight simple jumps and forced slow crawls, but now she moves like 
 the world class gymnast and athlete her character profile sights her as being be it when she's 
 swinging from bars, smimming in a underwater labyrinth, scrambling up cliff faces, or just doing 
 some stretches to stay limber if you've left her standing still for a while, the presentation here 
 is of an excellent standard.
  
  Gameplay wise old fans of Tomb Raider will know pretty much to expect plenty of climbing around, 
 avoiding traps, and some good old fashioned gunplay but to breathe new life into the old girl crystal 
 dynamics have taught her a few new tricks...
  
  Firstly Lara no is no longer without company on those long journeys into the unknown thanks to 
 advancements in mobile technology she retains contact with her friends back home, these characters 
 provide help with puzzles, and perhapsmore importantly give the story further depth and chance 
 to develop.. (dialogue is always much easier when there is someone to talk to) .
  
  Next up Lara has a few new toys to play with too... a personal lighting device clipped to her belt 
 now makes short work of those dark and dingy tombs but the real gadget of the year award goes to 
 her handy new magnetic grapple, with this handy new device you can swing grapple onto mechancal 
 objects and swing from them... or pull them towards you... or pull yourself towards them or whatever 
 else you might care to do, either way this handy new device adds a much needed new dimention to 
 gameplay and is a welcome addition to Lara's ever increasingly Batman esq utility belt.
  
  It's also the little touches added to the game that for me at least have made this title such an 
 improvement over previous Raider titles for example after years of frustration over the fact that 
 Lara who we regularly see in cut scenes beating folks up had absolutely no melee combat skills 
 while you were playing the game whatsoever, now however you'll see her kick, slide tackle and even 
 kickflip off her opponents heads which allows you to enter a bullet time like state giving you 
 more time to distribute some more lead ridden death. On top of this using a health pack is finally 
 simplified to an upward press on the d-pad, no more trawling through the backpack menu.
  
  Comparing the game to a meal of sorts you could decribe the main meat of the adventure coming through 
 your standard exploration with all your switches, puzzles and climbing around and I must say just 
 finding your way around the locations really is a pleasing expierience working something out and 
 landing that slick jump across a chasm really is a great joy, and this title is a lot more forgiving 
 than previous entries in the series, the game will now generally compensate for direction and send 
 you in the right direction, no longer are there seemingly impossible sections requiring pixel perfect 
 jumps, which leads to a great deal less frustation on my part and a lot less screaming crunchy 
 death for our Tomb raiding heroine.
  So if the exploration is the meat of the game I assume that the potatoes must be in the combat, 
 the gunplay is fairly standard though improved by the new melee element, however it remains fun 
 and gives a nice change of pace from the carefull exploration, it's also kept fresh by the inclusion 
 of environmental hazards Lara can turn her guns on during battles to gain the advantage be it, 
 explosive barrels, unsteady debris or wall mounted plasma screen televisions. The essential seasoning 
 comes for the games vehicle based sections which provide a brief move into high pased more arcade 
 stlye action with blazing guns, high speed chases and dare devil jumps. Finally were have the dessert 
 in the form of QTE cinmatic scenes that leap into the mix every so often, those of you familliar 
 with Shen mue or Resident Evil 4 will know what to expect here, interrative cut-scenes in which 
 the player is prompted to make a quick button press in order to avoid disaster.
  
  Food based analogies aside there are a few issues that aren't all that perfect in the game. Firstly 
 the big one that a lot of people have been bringing up is that it's fairly short, which is true 
 the average player is probably looking at 10-12 hours worth of game time but the most agreeable 
 quote I have read on this issue so far is that I'd rather play an excellent for 10 hours than a 
 mediocre one for 30, so it's all within balance and if you consider that I finished Shadow of the 
 Colossus and Resident Evil 4 within a similar time frame yet very few people chastise these games 
 for their length it makes me wonder if perhaps people are just picking fault. In an attempt to 
 add some longevity to the game there are bonuses to unlock by finding in level secrets, the Croft 
 manor to explore and a time trial mode.. a decent distraction for all formats and on the 360 a great 
 source of those all important gamerscore points.
  
  Secondly I would have liked to have seen some differet animals to fight as the selection is quite 
 limited but this is a minor issue and I guess we cant have everything, who knows perhaps Lara can 
 visit Noah's Ark and Jurrasic Park on her next adventure to make up for it.
  
  All in all I found this to be a deeply enjoyable and memorable game that was entertaining throughout, 
 difficulty remained fairly constant and the puzzles are challenging while allowing you to always 
 know exactly what it is you need to do (It's the how that requires the thought.) It's relative 
 briefness if anything succeeded in making me want more, and its downright quality has restored 
 my faith it what was becomming an ailing series. So it's a big thankyou to Crystal Dynamics for 
 an enjoyable game, a big welcome back to the illustrious Lara Croft and a big thumbs up from me.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fragulator
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 15, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  The tantalizing, titular Lara Croft of Tomb Raider: Legends titillates and tempts us once again 
 by traipsing along trails and in tombs that taunt us with traps, trials and tribulations. Crystal 
 Designs captures the core of the original with a cornucopia of comprehensive, cohesive game play, 
 culling from our collective memories a culmination of carefully choreographed aspects of Cores 
 past success. The past perpetuates into a pleasurably playable portal of post-AOD perfection pleading 
 for prolonged playtime. The lack of length leads one to languish longingly in lush locales that 
 are left. Surely the superior graphics and sumptuous sound surround and scintillate the senses 
 with seamless scenes of cinematic succulence leaving us supremely satisfied and salivating for 
 sequels! Long live Lara and may our lasting loyalty launch her into limitless adventure and longevity. 
 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Trav1s_
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  Crystal Dynamics exploit the power of the Xbox 360 with its newly created graphics system for Tomb 
 Raider: Legend. With support for real-time per pixel lighting, shadows and normal-mapping among 
 other improvements, the Tomb Raider world has never been as lifelike. Gamers will be dazzled with 
 hardcore adventure and exploration as well as organic environment and physics-based puzzles within 
 an incredibly detailed world. Bringing to life a new sense of awe and wonderment in stunning and 
 immersive environments, the Xbox 360 demonstrates Lara's intricately animated expressions, fluid 
 movement and realistic abilities, equipped, of course, with state of the art gear and weaponry. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PspSquad
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 15, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  Stars Lara Croft as this fighter and she is fighting very hard battles!
  This significant game is so cool, it's hard even for the best gamer!!!
  The big difference is 
 that Lara Croft looks different and she looks better than the old Lara's in the Playstation 1!!!!!!!
 
  
  This game will be so tight, that you could buy this game in Best buy. I love Best buy alot. I wish 
 i have a gift card from gamespot!!!
  
  This game packs a punch alot so you will play this for an amount of time like 6 or 7 hours and 
 be bored later...
  
  Enough of that crazy talk!!!!
  
  Lets talk about the game....
  
  People say that there is a part where people are n***d!!!
  
  I think ---------I mean I know 
 i told you alot-I mean alot about this game so remember that Lara Croft is so hot!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black_Man85
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 15, 2006 7:14 am PT
Review:  You'll enjoy this game for the first two levels then it will get VERY BORING. Its the same crap 
 over and over. Jump to this platform, Jump to that platform, swing on this rope, swing on that 
 rope, swim Lara swim. She can atleast do some different moves you know. The gunplay, come on, how 
 many bullets to the head can one guy take? I can understand if i had to shoot him in the legs 500 
 time, but the head?!?!? He sould be dead instantly. Plus this game is TOO easy, even on hard mode, 
 sure it gets complicating at times but when you figure it out you just want to slap yourself in 
 the head because it was SOO obvious. Plus this game is WAY TOO SHORT, with no replay value. Seriously 
 Im just staring at it right now. The camera is irratating and the mortercycle scenes are weak. 
 There are no extra features besides costumes. Overall if you want a platform game of great caliber 
 get Prince of Persia or wait till this game is $30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lauryn2000
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Lara's back..... tell a friend. She has been sought of a friend to those of us who have played her 
 many, many years ago. And like some friends, she seemed to have lost her way a few games ago. But the 
 Lara Croft we have come to love playing and adore...... IS BACK!!!
  
  Lara Croft returns to familiar grounds that made the game so much fun when she first was introduced 
 to us.
  
  Controls are the easiest I've ever played in a Tomb Raider game, her movements flow just as sweet 
 as the graphical river or waterfall.
  
  It's easy to find rewards and manipulate and manuever within your enviroment a task that was kind 
 of difficult to do in previous Tomb
  Raider games. This game has come full circle which is greatly appreciated.
  
  The sound is clear 
 and precise, the developers fully use the characters interaction with each other to heighten the 
 fun and adventure in the game.
  
  This time Lara Croft goes back to her roots, it's the adventure of the hunt compared to previous 
 games where it was more or less about gun play.
  
  Loads of fun and entertainment will be had when you play the Xbox360 version of Tomb Raider: Legend.
 
  
  Welcome back Lara................ we've missed you!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Are_Ya_Ready
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 14, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Lengend is one of the best games out there for the xbox 360, in my opinion. There's 
 no other wood to describe it but brilliant. You play as Lara Croft, who is looking for anchient 
 artifacts. 
  
  Gameplay- 9 - This Game is amazing! involving every type of game techniques: from puzzles, to stealth, 
 and even to some fun "aerobic" type stunts. This game is very indepth and a game that WILL keep 
 you hooked.
  
  Graphics- 8 - The surroundings and textures are beautiful, but the character models could be fixed 
 up a little bit; except Lara, she looks fine. Another bad spot is when u see ur shadow up close, 
 its blocky, but it doesn't hurt the score when you see the beautiful surroundings.
  
  Sound- 8 - What can I say? there is nothing really to say, the sound is nothing spectacular, but 
 nothing horrible either. You won't remember it. 
  
  Value- 7 - I have not yet completed this game, and i've heard its rather short, so its probably 
 not worth ALL the $60, but there are tons of extras. like u can go back and do the missions again 
 in a time trial, and you can also visit Lara's Manor and do a whole lot there; like swim, explore 
 her house, and she even has a gym type room, just a lot of bars where u can swing off, but it's 
 HUGE!
  
  Tilt- 10 - I tilted it so high because i thought it deserved the score i gave it. 
  
  Overall- 
 8.8 GREAT!!!
  
  _Justin_ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Creool_Enzo
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Legend, while at first it plays well, and I enjoyed it, something just wasn't right. 
 It is the Tomb Raider feel, Crystal Dynamics did their best but this game just hasn't got it. It 
 doesn't feel like Tomb Raider. The controls are quite poor in my opinion, and Lara doesn't come 
 near her predecessors. The gameplay isn't all that bad but it doesn't add anything new, tha graphics 
 are awesome but worthless if the gameplay sucks, and the game is way too short! You can buy this 
 game, but it's very mainstream, there's nothing wrong with that, but I prefer the real games over 
 this one, games like Oblivion and Ghost Recon, you can't compare these games to Tomb Raider but 
 at least they give you value for money. Tomb Raider just isn't what I wanted it too be, and that's 
 a shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: montynana
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 14, 2006 7:10 am PT
Review:  The game started off with alot of potential. The graphics looked stunning and the sounds were great. 
 But after finishing the game in lets sayabout 6 hours on hard i dont think it really is worth the 
 80 dollars people will pay for it i think it might have be worth what i rented it for. a free renyal 
 at block buster. Sure the storyline is kinda kool finding out that excaliber does exist and so 
 does king arthur but the problem is that it is way to short. when i say way to short i mean passed 
 the story in 2days and in three hour sesseions. And to think i put graw, oblivion and blazing angels 
 on my shelf for two hole days. I personaly think that people should save thier money for games 
 like graw or maybe timeshift. I had been a ran of the first tomb raiders. But i dont feel that 
 a pretty girl in a 6 hour game can keep this game coming out with more games. This game should 
 have had depth and thats where the problem started. With no depth how can u have a long game. Ad 
 the graphics they started off sharp but got worse as the game went on. The slips were so not next 
 gen quality. I could see the lighting on her face in squares common. The first stage started so 
 good but it was a rushed job for not only the story line but also the graphics. For the 360 i will 
 say this game over all was a rental and maybe a game u might think about picking up used for 10.99 
 if somebody reads this in a year but for now i saw rent it enjoy it for the day for hard core gamers 
 and for everyone else maybe 2. U might get another day with the extra time trials and looking for 
 the hidden objects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: babyloniani
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 13, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Just very quickly had to say. This is a great game. I kinda liked the first tomb raider for the 
 all the places you visited even with all the breaking of bones going on. Thats all my fault though 
 i guess!! As the years have passed my interest had faded. UNTIL NOW!!! Even if this game is very 
 easy and the puzzles are pretty much the same all the way through. Only a few games in the last 
 17 or so years have kept my attention so easily and really made me want to see the WHOLE thing 
 which for me was more like 12 hours. Anyways if even for a second you've thought maybe i'll play 
 this game. You should really give it a go!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1valiantknight
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 13, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  TRL has it's high points and low points but ends up being pretty competent, pretty fun, and pretty 
 good. And no I'm not talking about that horrible MTV show.
  
  It's been a while sense we've had a good Tomb Raider game. Comparing Tomb Raider Legend to the 
 last few Tomb Raider games and saying it's better doesn't really mean very much. Although if you 
 were to compare TRL to say the first or second Tomb Raider games and then say it's better, that 
 might be saying something. 
  
  Tomb Raider one and two were both great games for their time. Lara was new to the scene and her 
 name had not yet been tarnished by bad sequels and movies. Now flash forward to 2006 and tell some 
 one a Tomb Raider game is coming out that will actually be good, that will actually revitalize 
 the series. You'll probably be met with some skepticism, but Tomb Raider Legend is exactly that. 
 A good game that revitalizes the series that will actually leave you saying "hey. . .when is the 
 next Tomb Raider coming out?"
  
  As I said before TRL has it's high and low points so let's break it down just like that. We'll 
 start with the high points.
  
  The heroine, Lara Croft. Almost everyone knows who she is, she set the record for most well known 
 female video game character after all. With a reputation like that she's has to keep up appearances 
 and in this latest installment she's never looked better. Thanks to next gen graphics we can see 
 Lara in all her glory. She will jump, swing, somersault, climb, swim, and blast her way through 
 each level with grace and next gen shine. When Lara rolls in the dirt you'll see the mud cling 
 to her body. When Lara goes for a swim you'll see the wet gleam of water on her skin, see where 
 the water droplets run down her face. These are nice touches all in all, but whats more she's still 
 the Lara we know and love with more facial expression than ever. The developers have captured her 
 beautifully and this is no doubt due in part to the fact that the original creator of Lara came 
 back to make this game what it should be.
  
  The controls are pretty solid, leaps and bounds better than the series has ever had before. Finally 
 Lara will do what you want her to do and a nice new feature is that Lara will do her best to grab 
 on to the nearest ledge when making a leap. This should keep you advancing more often than falling 
 to your death, but no one ever said Tomb Raiding was safe. Lara's moves are actually very reminiscent 
 of a certain Prince, and this is a very good thing. Along with Lara's new moves there are also 
 interactive cut scenes ala Resident Evil 4 so don't set that controller down for a moment.
  
  As you progress through the game Lara will visit several different types of terrain. From snow 
 and jungle covered mountains, to dark and sometimes flooded caves, ruined buildings, murky crypts, 
 to the building tops of Japan even. Each area is unique with it's own style and character and each 
 area promises to be filled with puzzles and platforming Prince of Persia Style. Some levels even 
 require you to hop on a motor cycle to cover some ground and take the bad guys out while on two 
 wheels. While some reviewers would call these bike levels one of the low points, they were still 
 to my liking. They are not long and they break up the adventuring with some fast paced action.
 
  
  One of the great things about the 360 are the achievements and there is no lack of them in TRL. 
 You'll get a good amount of points for getting to the end of each level, but also there are relics 
 hidden though out each level to find and thus unlock even more achievements. On top of unlocking 
 the ever so addictive achievements you'll also unlock extras! Extras contain everything from new 
 outfits for Lara to cinematics, character profiles, cheats, pistol upgrades, and even an unfortunate 
 mishaps video real, ouch poor Lara.
  
  Now we'll get into some of the lower points.
  
  The graphics are good no doubt about it, but are they up to next gen standards? If your only looking 
 at Lara I'd say yes. Although it can be hard to tear your eyes off her, your going to have to and 
 thats when you'll start to see the things that aren't so next gen. None of the character models 
 other than Lara look very next gen at all, some worse than others. The land scapes are laden with 
 next gen touches and texturing and the water is very nice too. In the end though you can tell it 
 was a multi platform title, although one could argue that part of the reason the 360 version doesn't 
 feel so next gen is because the other platform versions look so good themselves. In the end it's 
 just a very fluid great looking game.
  
  Although the controls in TRL are much better than any other Tomb Raider game has ever offered the 
 gun play comes up a little short. The guns seem under powered and even though you've got guns you 
 have to be up close and personal to fight. Some guns offer better rang than others, but if your 
 too far away your just not going to hit your enemy.
  
  Sadly the games value takes a bit of a hit due to it's length, or lack there of. You'll sit down 
 to play, eight hours will fly by and the game will be over. It will have been a great eight hours, 
 but still only eight hours. When your paying $60 bucks per game length is something you start to 
 look at. On the up side their are a fair amount of achievements and unlockables that should make 
 the game last a bit longer. After it's all unlocked though there's little to no reason to play 
 the game again, except to get the achievements for beating the game on the different difficulty 
 levels and to get ready for the sequel. 
  
  In the end Tomb Raider Legend is a great game and one heck of an achievement considering how stagnant 
 the franchise has been. It may not take very long to beat, but the time spent is quality time. 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: acerbicgeoff
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 13, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  since the beginning, i've been a big fan of the tomb raider games. lara's exploits in exotic locations, 
 the dual pistols, the crazy acrobatics, the innovative puzzles, the sassy **** attitude ... all 
 of it combined to create a great game with lots of playtime and even replayabilty. the only downfall 
 of the games is that they have all basically been the same game just with different locales and 
 some minor tweaking to character models and storyline.
  
  tomb raider: legend really isn't much different.
  
  i'm a bit torn in my opinion on the graphics. 
 while some are amazing and cause me to express disbelief, others simply remind me of ps1 graphics 
 with stuttery framerate and papery, one dimensional images. while lara looks gorgeous and she has 
 curves now instead of corners ... she still can't seem to get rid of her blocky movement and robotic 
 stature. when i think of lara -- if she were a real person -- i think of fluid movement, graceful leaps 
 and acrobatic agility, however, lara as a game character is somewhat reminiscent of mario from 
 the famous plumber bros. games. she's very stiff when she jumps, but the added tweaks of missing 
 a grip with both hands and dangling with one is a nice change.
  
  one thing that i am completely impressed with is the physics engine, which becomes very apparent 
 when at one point in the game you have to get a movable block up onto a ledge. a see-saw is set 
 up and at first it took me a moment or two to figure how to do it and when i discovered that i 
 had to 'jump' on one end to throw the block up in the air, i was impressed. other instances have 
 occurred so far that impress me, but i've only been playing the game for about 5 or 6 hours at 
 this point and i'm hoping there are more. 
  
  movable objects in the game drive me crazy and it's more work than it's worth, sometimes, to move 
 a block where you need it to go. one slight turn and the box swivels the wrong way or out of control 
 and it can be a bit frustrating as can be the targeting system -- which, actually, seems more like 
 the original than anything new.
  
  overall, the game is fun, but it's really nothing new. we've seen it before in previous consoles 
 and until they really revamp the game, i think lara will forever be the stiff legged robot that 
 we've all come to know and love. but because i am a fan of the originals, i do enjoy this game, 
 but if i had never played tomb raider before, i don't think i'd be all that impressed.
  
  -g 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3604liffe
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 13, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  this is the best tomb raider game out there. this reminds me of the old tomb raider games. it brings 
 back everything and it is still challenging this is a really good games. i did not like angle of 
 darkness and the last previous ones but this one is great, i think alot of people droped tomb raider 
 because the others where no good but this one does not disspoint. i think lara croft is back and 
 she is better than ever, she wins all the old tomb raider fans hearts back. if you dont have this 
 one you are missing out on lod tomb raider action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madjockmcmad
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  This game I think is more playable on the 360.... I have played the other ones and the improved 
 garphics and the chance to replay for some (if a bit standard) achivemants make it stand out above 
 the rest, and for some reason the control is a lot easier on the 360 in comparison to the PS2 and 
 Xbox (might have something to do with the fact that I've been on my 360 pretty much consantlyfor 
 months now) . Some kind of online play would have been nice, but the biggest gripe I have is that 
 it is way to short and easy. But its good, not worth 50 quid maybe..... but good none the less. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xhybrid_bombX
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 13, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Overall this game is really good, the graphics are slick and very detailed and not blocky like 
 the other Tomb Raider titles this game beats their reign of terrible games and the hardest part 
 I exeprienced through this game was learning to swim. This game inlcudes good challenges that aren't 
 **** and annoying and they are relatively easy and requires sum but not much thinking...... I think 
 Ms. Croft has returned sexier and as awesome as ever. I can't remeber in the other games but in 
 this one when you go through the game u can unlock differnt outfits for laura anda whole bunch 
 of other stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lammejan
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 13, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  tomb raider legend is a nice mainstream game with easy controls and interface, you will not find 
 any real challanges, except for the occasional jump/switch puzzels.
  the controls are much like prince of persia, this is good and bad, but it works out well, and it 
 inst a direct copy.
  about the graphics: the games looks nice, not GREAT but just nice.
  everyone is talking about the games graphics but there not that exepsional.
  the framerate sucks 
 on xbox360 and its limited to 30 frames on p, not much of a problem, its a improvement to the older 
 tomb raider games.
  but i think that this one should be the last.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aassddfff
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 13, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  the game is like 9 hours long. it starts with a tutorial and once you learn them it seems all cool. once 
 you start the shooting it gets kind of dull. Tomb Raider fans will really like this game. the puzzles 
 in this game gets repetitive and the acrobatics reminds me of prince of persia. also some cutscenes 
 are interactive like resident evil 4. once you beat it you dont feel like playing it again. if there 
 going to make a new Tomb Raider they should keep it developed by crystal dynamics. also the graphics 
 looks good on ps2 and xbox but is better on xbox 360. so people should check out for this game it 
 is a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: actionnerd
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 13, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  Maybe the "professional" critics have developed a bit of cynicism, but to say "Tomb Raider" is 
 not Next-Gen looking on the 360 (look at Gamespy. com's review) borders on petulant.
  
  Perhaps they need an LCD hooked up with the VGA cord, as I am fortunate to have, or the new Lasik 
 procedure. 20/400 is no way to go through life playing video games! Just kidding. I most strenuously 
 object to the assertions that this title does not look Next Gen.
  
  I do agree that the game is too short. I'm not finished with it, but no matter the length, it's 
 gonna be too short for me. I love the gameplay, platforming elements, and diverse environments. 
 I find the story compelling, the characters well fleshed-out (pun intended) , and the artistry magnificent. 
 High points are:
  - Superb Animation. Fluid, accurate movements combine with intricate detail (i. e. eyes that move 
 naturally, facial expressions) bring Lara to life.
  - Powerful Engine. Dynamic lighting, mapping method and textures create a believable world. Check 
 out Lara's reflection on the surface as she treads water, healthy skin tones that look fit to touch, 
 or the shadows from the loose hair above her neck. Incredible. Very immersive.
  - Voice Acting. Better than most Hollywood efforts, the characters' every inflection serves up 
 an emotional smorgasbord. Nicely done.
  - Combat. Simple, effective, and refreshing in the face of the vast monotone sea of FPS's. It's 
 fun without overpowering the platforming or storytelling.
  
  I hope to spend some good quality time with Ms. Croft, and anticipate this title will get repeated 
 play. "Tomb Raider: Legend" earns my strongest possible recommendation for Xbox 360 owners.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rich8581
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 13, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  For a while now Tomb Raider has been on a steady down hill slope getting progressively worse with 
 every new release. Now realising the errors of there ways the have tyred to bereave new life into 
 the series by going back to their roots and using the the formula that made the original games 
 so popular. In Legend, Lara is looking better then ever and now has some cool new gadgets to play 
 with. She Carry's a "Metallic Grappling Device" witch helps you get around the levels and also 
 makes the game a lot more fun when your swinging from ledge to ledge over huge drops. Lara also 
 has a PLS or light to you and me witch will shed some light on the subject when needs be but also 
 makes for some spooky lighting effects witch show off the graphical abilities of the 360 making 
 everything look a hole lot more impressive overall. The gadgets aren't the only new additions to 
 the game, they've also added interactive cut scenes witch while being short play out really well 
 and there are now parts of the game which will require Lara to take to two wheels and chase down 
 some baddies at high speeds. While these aren't perfect they do add something to the experience 
 and were worth adding to the game. Apart from these new additions the game stays fairly true to 
 the originals in its gameplay style. They have tweaked the aiming functions with the guns so now 
 you hold the left trigger to lock on to enemies before shooting, also you can do some crazy ass 
 flip moves off your opponents to kill them in style. The story in Legend tells of the death of 
 Lara's mother as a child and how she plans to find out the truth of what really happened. The story's 
 mainly told through well voiced cut scenes and flashbacks of earlier years and laras childhood. 
 It's hard to explain how the story unfolds without giving it away but i will say this. If you like 
 English mythology, then you'll love this. It's not the longest game you'll ever play so don't expect 
 to be playing it for more then 10-13 hours on the first run through, but there is some replay value 
 by playing the levels through again in time trial mode which requires you to complete the level 
 in a certain amount of time with is actually quite hard and allot of fun. Of cores there is also 
 croft manner to explore where you can try and find some hidden unlikable's, try out some of Lara's 
 unlikable outfits and find secret passages among other things. All in all i was very impressed 
 by how well this game played and the quality of the story, however i was slightly disappointed 
 with the length of the game. I would say if your a fan of the series then you have to own this 
 game but if your undecided, then there's never been a better time to start playing Tomb Raider. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: livewire29
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2006 1:21 am PT
Review:  Everything about Tomb Raider Legend is amazing, the graphics, the controls.. It also seems to be 
 back in its roots in someways... The invirements are so awesome, huge... They did a really good 
 job with this game here.. This is a great way to start the new Tomb Raider on the next gen console... 
 This is one of the best Tomb Raider games... This game was everything i was hoping it to be... 
 its so good to have Lara back can't wait for the next Tomb Raider I will be playing Tomb Raider 
 legend until the new one comes out for sure.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZZoMBiE13
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 12, 2006 11:47 pm PT
Review:  The Tomb Raider series has been through it's ups and downs over the years. From early praise from 
 fans and critics alike, to the lesser loved sequels that came later in the series, Lara has run 
 the gamut of good and bad through her grave robbing video game career. It is nice to see that the 
 series is on an upswing with Tomb Raider: Legend for the Xbox 360. 
  
  It will come as no surprise that you take on the role, once again, of the formidable Lara Croft. 
 At her disposal is a wide array of gadgets, guns, and gear that will offer fans a fun and enjoyable 
 ride through a variety of locations around the world. And hopefully non fans will opt to take this 
 game for a spin as well since it is an overall well made game with lots to offer. 
  
  As expected, the 360 version of TR: L looks great. Textures are solid, polygon counts are high, 
 and of course Lara herself has never looked better. Whether it's thick foliage, stone gateways, 
 ancient archways that have gone unseen by human eyes for centuries, or just muzzle flare from the 
 firing of weapons, everything looks well done and solid. 
  
  TR: L's sound is decent and believable. Gunfire, running water, Lara's British accent. It's all 
 done well enough if a bit unremarkable by comparison to other popular 360 titles. 
  
  One place where TR: L can really shine is in the controls. One of the big complaints with the lesser 
 games in the series is that the control was buggy and difficult. Thankfully, that is not the case 
 here. Controls for the game are tight and responsive and the button layout is perfect for the adventure 
 style gameplay on offer here. Gun play is simple thanks to the target lock and navigating the landscape 
 is equally as easy thanks to the intuitive design. Gadget controls mapped to the D-pad are easy 
 to use and with a mode swap the binoculars can even offer hints as to where you need to go or what 
 you need to do next. 
  
  In summation, this new Tomb Raider offers a fun adventure that looks good, sounds good and plays 
 great. If you have had some bad Tomb Raider experiences in the past, or if you are a newcomer to 
 the saga of Lara Croft, you should consider downloading the first level demo from the Xbox Live 
 Marketplace to see if this new version has what it will take to change your mind. It's free and 
 it offers a good vision of what the final product holds in store for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexiska
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 12, 2006 11:02 pm PT
Review:  this game is pretty good not elder scroll 4 or f. e. a. r but the enviroments look shiny and beautiful. 
 the voice over is good but that english accent is really irritating. the gameplay nice but the 
 gunplay boring and the puzzzzzllles is reaaaalllyy simple but this game better than the previous 
 cause previous was horrible. and i heard that the game was developed by the developer of deus ex 
 and project snowblind. i think he must return to fps and stop with the tomb raider. but it only 
 my opinion. i have to say it a solid game but it not on the same level with elder scroll 4 or the 
 godfather. ok that all for to day good bye kids!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biga407
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 12, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Its been awhile sence ive wanted to play a tomb raider game. back on ps1 i loved them... but over 
 the years they got really bad and that alone made me think twice about the $60 i was about to drop 
 on this game... luckly it was worth it. if youve played the demo like most of us have then you've 
 seen that the graffics are pretty nice. well from the opening moment of the game theres alot more 
 2 the story that the demo doesnt show.. i wont give it away but i will say from the few hours ive 
 spent with the game i really like the way they went with the storyline. also the game involve's 
 flashbacks and cutsense were u have to push certain buttons to make laura jump, dodge, grab or move 
 things and if u dont preform them ur pretty much a gonner ( Like Resident Evil 4 ) all in all im 
 loveing it and even if its short thats cool for me becuase i will go back and beat it on time trial 
 for achievement points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Oblivion_20
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 12, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Maybe is the shortest game that I saw, but it's also the most beautiful adventure game of the moment! 
 
  
  Tomb Raider Legend is short, ok, but, can we see, for a moment, the good parts of this game? Ok, 
 well :
  1. The graphic is the best thing that I saw in this last game's generation, also it's more beautiful 
 than God Of War, really! Well, then, the XBOX 360's graphic is the best!
  2. The gameplay is fantastic!
  3. Lara is also Lara!!!
  4. Tombs and dangerous locations are 
 returned!
  5. It's a very Tomb Raider, not like Tomb Raider Angel of Darkness.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Necros_21
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 12, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  The game is good, better then the earlier ones.
  
  Good graphics, nice soundtrack, average voice acting. The controlls are very good but the camera 
 is not. It gets lost sometimes.
  
  You can get stuck at simple problems and when you learn how to solve it you'll say: :OMG. :D
 
  
  But the game is fun, Lara looks great, so go and play it.
  
  I give it a 8,5 because it's fun to play and I know that it's the first of the new games. So let's 
 hope, the following games will be a bit longer. ;)
  
  Maybe the game helps a bit too much but it's good for beginners.
  
  The extra content is not 
 very much but the new clothes are very good. There's an unlocker too. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dumbmonkeyjerk
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 12, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  This game is a ton of fun. It looks, feels and is fun. I was never a big fan of the old Tomb Raiders 
 since they all felt like I was playing Resdient Evil before, lol. But with the new Price of Persia 
 like controls this game is fun and at times a bit challenging. I can't say to much let but so far 
 it is worth the buy but it seems to be a bit short. I do like the aerobatic moves and the destructable 
 enviroments. I am on the 2nd level for instance and there was a guy shooting at me so I blew up 
 a canister underneath his platform and he went crashing down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bergelius
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 12, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  The Game is very fun to play. it has all the great , spooky, interesting and cool challenges.
 
  But there is just one think that I am very disappointed about.
  It took me about 9 hours to complete the game.
  I where looking forward to a whole lot of puzzles, 
 and also a few days of game play like the others in the series.
  
  Overall.
  The game is great and and the graphics is so nice, but the fact that it only took me 9 hours to 
 complete makes me very sad.
  
  But one thing is for sure make another one but remember add some more story and make it longer!!!!!!
 
  
  Regards Bergelius 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madder128
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 12, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  in england i have been waiting for the release of this game for some time now and recently i (well 
 christmas) i managed to get a xbox 360 so last friday when it came out in the UK i went along to 
 my local gamestation and bought a copy.
  The first thing i noticed was how good the thing looked on a HDTV and was pretty impressed by the 
 water affects, another thing was the level design was good and lara actaully controlled pretty 
 dam good unlike the previous tomb raider games.
  The gun fights are a big let down though because their very mundane and overall bog standard but 
 the puzzle was a xhallenge and kept my brain thinking a good sense of time.
  But sadly after the first level all the levels feel the same as each other and i thought the game 
 towards the end (last three levels) were very repetitive infact most of them were.
  Its the same story with the motorbike game sequences as well, the first time you play them you 
 think their great but the novelty wares of when you have to do it so many times after another and 
 the bikes themselfs have very clumsy handling.
  But the biggest let down of them all is the short ending which ends the game of too fast.
  overall 
 it can be pretty fun but the games just far too short and overall repetitive and no replay value 
 either.
  worth a rent but no point buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josh3735
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 24, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is excellent. i have always loved the tomb raider series and i think this one is probably 
 the best. angel of darkness wasn't bad, the graphics were good and the gameplay was too but i just 
 didn't like the lame running system, but that was fixed when you obtained the ability to sprint. 
 Anyway tomb raider legend is better that tomb raider angel of darkness.
  
  the graphics are amazing and so are the cinematics. the gameplay and controls are fun, fluid but 
 the game is fairly short. But who cares? the game was great and there were many unlockables so 
 who cares if the game was a little short. QUALITY NOT QUANTITY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blademast0r
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 12, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  What a great comeback. From the very first moment, the graphics were fascinating. Don't be surprised 
 when catching yourself trying to find the coolest camera position and lighting, because Lara looks 
 better than ever! And so do her outfits. Pity it takes just a few hours to get her through the 
 game, because the gameplay is fun as well. The PoP - style areas should never get boring - if so, 
 just look at how your character moves. The background scenery is amazing at some points. Just the 
 shooting scenes were a bit ... er... stupid to do. The aiming and camera sometimes don't quite 
 do the right thing, but the fights aren't too difficult anyway. Which could be the disadvantage 
 of this otherwise very cool game. If it took you more than 10 hours to complete the game, you probably 
 looked half of the time at Lara instead of playing. So better try to rent that game, the time doesn't 
 really match the price.
  
  But: After the last few Tomb Raider games by Core, "Legend" gives hope to Lara-Fans that progress 
 can be made even on TR :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prue7
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 12, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  lara croft is back. the often proclaimed slogan really fits its product as lara croft and her very 
 famous tomb raider franchise have never been better in its entire history (and im a die-hgard fan 
 since TR 1^^) . The grapics are simply smashing (though i play this game on PC and cant even activate 
 the next-gen-effects as i dont hvae a shader 3.0 card : ( ) ; you are sure to find yourself stunned 
 by the beautifull environments more than once. to complete the impression of a very much alive world, the 
 sound is also quite impressive (esspecially the dialogues are absuloutely superb and funny as hell 
 :) ) so the cosmetic aspects of the game are pretty much "perfect". now, concerning the gameplay: i 
 loved it. its exctining, adrennalin-pumping and most important, its just plain fun to play!!! even 
 though its a little short (it took me 7H 16min to complete it the first time) theres plenty of 
 replay value as there are lots of secrets hidden throughout the gigantic levls, which unlock outfits, cheats, gun 
 improvements, etc. the theres the time attack mode (also outfits, specials etc) ; in order to get all 
 these extras and goodies for miss croft, it took me almost 30H which i think is very appropriate. An 
 for fans of the fist TR movei theres a littel suprise: you can visit Croft Manor (as you just to 
 in TR1,2,3) but now it had a major remodeling and looks exactely like in the movie :) )
  after all, TRL (^^) is just a blast and i'im so glad that lara is back on top, showing her competition 
 what a hook is 
  if you have any interest in action adventures or anything that goes into this direction, you absolutely 
 have to buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kolyoninja
Rating: 3.8
Date: Apr 12, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  I am very disappointed of what LEGEND has to offer. It isnt a bad game at all  LEGEND has some 
 great looking environments (great looking Lara) and is definitely a very fun game to play. But 
 THIS IS NOT a Tomb Raider game. It is something like Prince of Persia starring Lara Croft or something. 
 It is very easy, linear and man its short  and I mean SHORT, SHORTER, THE SHORTEST. Just think 
 about how long Tomb Raider 4 was in example. It comes to this - Legend (x) 50 = Tomb Raider 4 !!!
 
  You should play Legend but you shouldnt buy it  rent it. You can finish it in less than 5 hours 
 like I did. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: point_blank123
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 12, 2006 3:41 am PT
Review:  Well first things frist I played alot of tomb raider games in the past and nothing compares to 
 this. The game is really slick and the movement is fluiet. Crystal dynamics still brings back the 
 charm of the old series but with a few changes that is probably benificial to the sereis they still 
 have the old puzzle sovling, and good ol exploring the depth of eoxitic caves .When your jumping 
 from rock to rock upove sea level with no climbing equipment atoll, You get the sense that this 
 woman is a proffesional struting her stuff for the camera you really think ur flinging on a cliff 
 hanger. THE GAME IS WAYY TO SHORRTTT though. It only took me 9 hrs 1 min 11 secs to clear and the 
 game has a few diffrent elements of gameplay like pop, god of war, sheume and a few others 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesydagger
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2006 2:28 am PT
Review:  Not played a Tomb Raider game for years now and it must have been on the PS1. I know many people 
 are complaining about the size of the levels but that time can be spent getting the achivements 
 for this game which I think are just about right. 
  
  I like the GTA idea about looking for rewards on each level and thats a sort of game in its self. 
 The bike sections are done very well and its fun to be zooming about the desert while shooting 
 at bad guys on even faster bikes!
  
  Worth a try as you will be as surprised as me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HamanZz
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Though it's still tough to believe, Eidos' changing of the guard was the right one to make. Over 
 the years Tomb Raider had become a regular industry joke, and TR: Angel of Darkness was the epitome 
 of Core's unfortunate demise. Tomb Raider: Legend, on the other hand, is an example of focused 
 design, priorities, and good mechanics winning out over fancy cutscenes (though Legend has its 
 share of those too) . 
  
  If you've been pining for a good adventure, Tomb Raider: Legend is waiting for you. The cliffhanger 
 story is well put together. The action is simple and effective. The controls not only work, they're 
 fun. And Crystal D has developed a bunch of great new locales filled with imaginative monsters, 
 beasts, and bad guys to slaughter. Best of all, the sense of discovery and adventure is captured 
 with a fresh sensibility. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 11, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  It has been too long for Lara to glide through the rooms. I guide her as a god, softly my fingers 
 speak to her as the controller takes control of her choices and i guide her to her salvation or 
 her doom. But fear not, I am a god, so if i fail i will reset time and the universe and it starts 
 again, and again until she (I meant I) get it right.
  
  On the 360 the views are beyond spectacular. The makers delivered in ways i cannot conceive. What 
 an amazing world it is she walks in. the objects, the interaction and the puzzles. yes, Lara is 
 back from where she came and it is glorious.
  
  OK, done with the prophetic text. Let's go to the cold facts:
  
  It is graphically marvellous 
 with great sounds. The first level is an introduction with plenty of cut screens so we can get 
 into the game. The interface is quick, to the point and intuitive. I played the game like I did 
 on my old PSX, and the game reacted almost flawlessly. So old gamers, you are in for a treat. The 
 game seems to be more towards TR2 then TR1, but that is ok with me. The storyline is captivating 
 and the views are phenomenal.
  
  I do not want to say too much as to give too much away (and finding out is just too much delight 
 in this game) , but the makers did make a wink to the first game. In TR1 there was a secret move 
 you could make, so she would lift herself up in a handstand (a very sexy move) . She does that now 
 regularly as a default move yay to the developers.
  So many other things to note and things to see. But trust me when I tell you that you should find 
 out yourself. For me buying this game is a little of a dilemma. It is a different game then Oblivion, 
 but in quality matches up to Oblivion. So what will I play tonight? I was up to two AM last night 
 satisfying my need for both games. Man am I lacking sleep now
  
  What a fantastic game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lambizkit
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  It's too bad when we've arrived at the point where we rate games based off of graphics and not 
 gameplay. I guess that HDTV should be considered in the overall rating system, according to some 
 people. I don't think so. More attention should be shown towards the gameplay and not whether it 
 has HDTV capability or not. Wanna know why Gamespot gave it the same rating on all three console 
 systems? They did that because they are focusing on the gameplay and not whether the "almighy" 
 360 has better graphics than the PS2. Geez people, cmon.
  
  Apart from this, the gameplay is very funy. It's your typical Tomb Raider game, and you shouldn't 
 expect more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kekejefferis
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  (No spoilers)
  
  Tomb raider legends attempts to go back to its roots of the series.
  It gets somethings right and somethings wrong and also introduces a few very welcome changes 
 too.
  
  First of is the controls as this was the main thing that the Tomb raider series was slated for. 
 They were known for very slow cumbersome controls where you had to line every leap with precise 
 accuracy of plummet to your death.
  The controls in legends are vastly improved, looking at it on paper and youd wonder if it was 
 a Tomb raider game at all.
  Lara is quick and fluid seamlessly moving between move after move.
  Lara is now just a joy to 
 control you can make large leaps and effortlessly jump into a swing then a shimmy. 
  Lara now has a few more gadgets to play with too; she now has a magnetic grapple device which you 
 can pull objects or enemies out of the way, although all the objects which this can be used on 
 are given away by a shine that goes across them.
  There is now also a new binocular device which has an rds mode which points out parts of puzzles 
 which you can move. 
  Combat is about the same as it has always been except now you have a target reticule and shifting 
 the right analog stick move the target to the next closest target. Saying this though its still 
 very random as Lara tends to target the farther away enemy rather than the closest one to you. 
 Fortunately the combat is not very frequent usually only once or twice on each level
  
  The graphics are stunning considering its not a true Xbox 360 game. Sure it wouldnt stand up 
 to Oblivion or Graw but Legends is just a very pretty game in itself with large environments and 
 bump mapping throughout the game, the lighting is very impressive also casting realistic shadows 
 over the levels and Lara herself. Although some shadows seem to be displayed in a very low res 
 so sometimes youre see random blocks just dancing over objects or Laras face.
  Lara also looks fantastic too with smooth textures and realistic facial movements and the way she 
 looks wet when shes come out of water is also very well done.
  HDTV is certainly the way to go to enjoy the game at its fullest as its very sharp and doesnt 
 suffer from jaggies like a few 360 games do in HD.
  
  Sound is very well done, the game has the typical tomb raider music but now its remixed into techno 
 music, if youre familiar with the Tomb raider movies you will certainly know where the idea came 
 from.
  It suits the game well and doesnt sound out of place and gives you that extra rush in intense 
 sections.
  Voice work is also top quality, Laras voice is worthy of note as she does sound just the way you 
 would expect her toowith that posh British accent.
  
  Overall the game is excellent and fans of the series will be pleasantly surprised with the new 
 features. Some may also be disappointed by the fact there are only 2 animals in the game a leopard 
 and a snow leopard. So dont go expecting to be running from T rexs and wolves this time around
 
  Also the length of the game is just shocking if youre after a game thats going to last you a 
 long long time like previous Tomb raiders will be very disappointed.
  On my first play through I managed to complete the game within 6 hours which is a far cry from 
 previous tomb raiders.
  Although short the game is very entertaining and will probably be one of the best 6 hours youve 
 spent with a game.
  For non fans id recommend a rental as the shortness and combat bugs might be less forgivable for 
 a non fan.
  The ending though leaves a perfect setting for a sequel though so hopefully crystal dynamics will 
 make the next one at least 3 times longer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: enter_death
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Lara is back with a new adventure and new action style made it one of the best Eidos releases... 
 the graphics is perfect .. they put all the movement details in the game... also Lara's suit is 
 so great but the bad thing is that the game is too short plus we used to play a wonderful puzzle 
 in all past parts but now the puzlle are too easy that made the game to be played by evreyone ESRB 
 should put EVERYONE instead of TEENS and thats really really disappointed me.. any one buying this 
 game will add a new part to his collection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: channel0
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 11, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  Let me prequel this short review by saying that Ive played this game a very high end system, and 
 in saying that Ive been able to see the level of detail that has gone into this game. If you are 
 some of the lucky few to have HDTV setup with the 360, or even be able to run it via a VGA cable, 
 you will really enjoy the levels the textures and the lighting, that coupled with great surround 
 sound, make this game a real visceral and audible treat. 
  
  Lauras Character animation has bee paid a lot of attention and we all know that one of the main 
 sellings points to this game are her *ahem* assets. The water effects are also superb and worthy 
 of a mention, the jungles lavish, and the colors vibrant.. I think to be fair the game deserves 
 more than an 8, although there is nothing new here in terms of game play (we all know its a tomb 
 raider game) the content really deservers a mention, you can tell that a lot of care has gone into 
 the look and feel of this game, that alone warrants a purchase.
  
  Cheers
  
  Ch0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-tronicum
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 11, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  
  I think its impossible to give the same Score to a 360, Playstation and XBOX Version!!!
  The Graphics are much better then the Play Station 2!!! So normally its a Score of 6 for the Play 
 Station Graphics!!
  When you Play the Game the first Time you can feel that theres something new!!!
  The Controls 
 are Pretty good!!! The Sound is Incredible!! And the Story is much better then the ANGEL OF DARKNESS!!!
 
  So i think the minimum Score for this Game have to be an 8.5!!!
  The only real Problem of this Game is, and thats the ONLY PROBLEM, there you are right Gamespot, ITS 
 TOO SHORT for an Tomb Raider Adventure!!!
  But its O. K, Because in this 10 Hours you going to have a lot of Fun, and Amazing Graphics!!!
  
 
  Sorry for the Grammar! Im not English.
  Thanxx
  T-troniC
  Spain 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrMatta
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 11, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  It's been a few years since Angel of Darkness, which i actually enjoyed a
  bit. In my opinion Tomb Raider 1 and 2 are the best ones, and 3,4 and 5
  more re-hash (more of 
 a fact actually) .
  Though the locations were varied in the last few ones, one wondered 
  why the hell it was called TOMB Raider.
  Not to mention that the same controls were used over 
 those 10 years.
  But that's all in the past now, since Legend is upon us.
  
  After putting the disc in my 360, i started with great anticipation.
  The new Lara model (which 
 looks much better) isn't the best improvement,
  it's the controls! Never did Tomb Raider controls feel so good!
  This time she can actually walk 
 360 degrees without problems!
  Fluent movements and lots of acrobatics in this game;
  Think Prince of Persia.
  
  The sound is good too, though all the guns sound the same;
  Lara 
 sounds over-British sometimes.
  But.. who cares really.
  
  Real downfall of this game is it's length.
  With only seven levels of approx. 45 minutes, you 
 can only guess how
  quickly this game is completed.
  You will unlock Time Trail modes as you progress, but nothing to
  keep you coming back a lot 
 after completion.
  
  They tweaked alot with the formula, and with success;
  this game is recommendable for any Tomb Raider fan.
  And those who aren't one of course. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monkish
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  Gamespot have listed the following bad points:
  
  1. The game is short
  2. The game is not very challenging
  3. Unstable frame rate
  4. The camera is occasionally 
 frustrating
  5. Weak gunplay
  
  1. There is no excuse for a short game
  2. Careful, or the next version will be like TR3 : (
  3. I'll forgive this, in exchange for the 
 new engine
  4. This has been a complaint since 1996. Get in line
  5. See 4 above. TR is an action/adventure game  not an FPS.
  
  We should have had this game 
 in 2000, not 2006. However, I take my hate off to Crystal Dynamics for doing a good job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BWSTSW2K
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 3, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Yes, you heard correct, Lara Croft is back and better than ever  and its about time too. In fact, 
 I dont think there has been a Tomb Raider game this good since the originals sequel way back 
 on the original Playstation. But amongst all the celebrations that will no doubt erupt in the wake 
 of all the good reviews and fan word of mouth, there are still some issues with this game that 
 need addressing. 
  
  First of all, as good at resurrecting the franchise as Crystal Dynamics Tomb Raider: Legend has 
 done, the game is far from being labelled a classic. In a nutshell, Tomb Raider: Legend is just 
 a good, solid, all-around action/adventure puzzler. Aside from injecting new blood into a dying 
 series and effectively getting it back on its feet, the game is nothing too special or fancy. 
 
  
  What Crystal Dynamics has done, in essence, is build the franchise back up slowly, delivering a 
 game that would draw the millions of fans back with a game that would satisfy them and ultimately, 
 to whet their appetite for more Lara. And that is what this game is: a clean slate, and a new foundation 
 from which to build on. 
  
  So where will the franchise go from here? Well, it can go anywhere now that it is firmly back on 
 its feet. From here, Crystal Dynamics and Eidos Interactive can continue to build the on foundations 
 Tomb Raider: Legend has laid down. And I think that when the next inevitable instalment arrives, 
 Lara is only going to bigger and better still. 
  
  Graphically, Tomb Raider: Legend is a decent looking game. On the Xbox 360 and PC you will find 
 that the game is notably better looking than the PS2 and Xbox version, but the general theme is 
 the same: the game looks good on all systems, much like Peter Jacksons King Kong in fact. Though 
 one thing must be said about the Xbox 360 version, and something that stands out more on that console 
 than any other. On the Xbox 360, the visuals look vaguely previous generation, despite their high 
 resolution dexterity. 
  
  I suppose the sheer fact that Tomb Raider: Legend was designed as a multi-platform release on both 
 previous and current next generation systems was to blame for this, but it would have still been 
 nice for Crystal Dynamics to enhance it a little more for the Xbox 360 version. Still, the visuals 
 are very pretty to look at, and the newly improved Lara is a treat for the eyes. 
  
  Another thing that was radically (yes, radically) improved for this re-imagining of the Tomb Raider 
 franchise is the games controls. Finally we have a set of controls that will not end in the hurling 
 of the controller across the room in sheer frustration. Crystal Dynamics have completely reworked 
 the controls, making the whole game more fun and a lot easier to navigate. So after years of frustration, 
 you can now finally be at peace with the motions of Lara, and believe me when I say that this is 
 a true godsend. 
  
  As good as the new control system is however, the camera system leaves something to be desired. 
 It is often a little too fragile for my liking and seems a touch sensitive at times. Dont get 
 me wrong, the camera isnt bad, it just isnt brilliant, and may take a little while for you to 
 get a suitable grip over it. 
  
  The gameplay here is fun and highly enjoyable. About three-quarters of the game are solely focused 
 on adventure and innovative puzzle-solving, with the last quarter interspersed with action. The 
 puzzles really are a blast, and some may have you stumped for minutes, maybe hours at a time, but 
 youll never lose interest or get bored. On the contrary in fact, you will be drawn in so deep 
 that youll have the willpower and determination to solves the many riddles the game throws at 
 you. 
  
  As for the action elements, they are fun too. Lara can do some pretty fine acrobatics, and her 
 combat system is slick for the most part. She can destroy environmental hazards to cause a cave-in 
 on her enemies, swing off vines, slide down hill-sides, drive a number of vehicles and interact 
 with the environment in new, unique ways. So no matter whether you are into action or adventure 
 games, Tomb Raider: Legend has both covered with plenty of variety and style. 
  
  Fans, Lara Croft, that buxom British adventurer, is almost well and truly back where she belongs 
  right at the top of the roost. So although she might have a little way to go before we can bow 
 before her like we once did, the important thing to note is that she is getting there, and real 
 fast thanks to the new developers. Tomb Raider: Legend is easily the best game in the franchise 
 for years, and an all-out adventure game thatll have you hooked for days, maybe weeks. Does it 
 come recommended? You better believe it. 
  
  Overall Score:
  
  8.4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maccer101
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  Back to the point, climbing up massive heights, jumping from ledge to ledge in a "Mission Impossible 
 2" like starting sequence and plugging bad guys while doing insane flips like there was no tomorrow, 
 throw away your copy of "Angel of Darkness" (If you have it, i doubt it though) this is all you 
 need for the perfect action adventure game.
  
  First of all I'll get the only pretty bad thing out of the way first then move on the good stuff, 
 it's not exactly one of the longest lasting games out there, the story will take you about 7 to 
 9 hours, probably under that if you cut out exploring for rewards. (but why would you want to do 
 that?)
  The graphics are great, light peers through cracks in the walls of tombs, smoke rises from the 
 end of your gun and Lara looks pretty sexy too, sad to admit but its true. 
  This game takes an element from Capcom's "Resident Evil 4" if you remember you had to interact 
 with the cut scenes buy pressing whatever button appeared on the screen, if you didn't, well... 
 then it's your funeral, so it's basically that put placed in this game and it makes the game play 
 feel fresh every time you have to do this.
  You also have the mansion to mess about in, where you can find a couple of secret passages and 
 retrieve some hidden items and find rewards too.
  
  So if haven't had a good adventure game for a while or your a fan of the previous TR games the 
 Tomb Raider: Legend id the right choice for you and a must have for your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightfend
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 11, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  I'm sorry, but while Tomb Raider is a pretty fun game, it is atrociously short. Any game I can 
 finish in one single day (It took about 8 hours) is too short.
  
  The graphics for the game are comparable to better quality PlayStation 2 and Xbox games, but with 
 nice shaders in place so you get the shine on rocks and other wall textures. Still, I have a feeling 
 that they focused too much on making this a cross platform game, and this ended up hurting the 
 graphics quality on the 360 as the models are not super hi-poly, and there's not extensive use 
 of normal maps.
  
  The puzzles are all simple, and while you have to re-play sections a few times before solving them, 
 they are all fairly obvious. Which is great, until you realize 7 or 8 hours in that the game is 
 about to end.
  
  The game is fun and all, but is definitely a rental because of it's length. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolgubbe
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 11, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  this game is awesome but especially on the xbox 360 then on pc ps2 and xbox is also awesome but 
 like i said especially on xbox 360. this game has great graphics on ps2 and xbox an awesome graphics 
 on pc and xbox 360 with the textures character models and animations and the lightning and the 
 shadows and the effects and the envoriments, just everything is in high-res. this game is also 
 got cool weapons and moves and stuff like that as well as awesome sound and yeaahh the graphics 
 especially on pc and xbox 360 i recommend this game for everyone and if you got an high-end pc 
 or an xbox 360 then you should get this game on pc or xbox 360 but it's also pretty great on ps2 
 and xbox so you won't be dissapointed if you get it on ps2 or xbox too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antono
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 11, 2006 3:56 am PT
Review:  First time i played tomb raider it was on my cell phone. I played Tomb Raider from n-gage and beat 
 it after many hours, you could use the joystick here so the control wasn't that horrible, and i 
 LOVED the game, i think it was better than Ocarina of time, no kidding. So when i read bout this 
 game and it goin back to what made the first games great i was so excited... 
  
  But even if TRL is a good game it really isnt like the first one at all.
  
  The game is waaay 
 too SHORT, LINEAR and EASY, it feels like they tried to copy Prince of persia and they took away 
 all the exploration and difficulty making it a walk in the park through pretty-looking hallways 
 where you just have to aim the joystick and press 'x' jumping from crevice to crevice and occasionally 
 shooting some repetitive and dumb enemies b/w variations of the same puzzle over and over and boring 
 and easy driving levels. 
  
  Okay maybe that sounded too bad, its all true, but the game has also a lot of good stuff that compensates 
 all of that makin it still a pretty fun game. 
  The graphics are really beautiful in most of the levels, specially in the temples and jungle, i 
 didnt like the urban or bike levels but they were still okay, and the animations are great, its 
 a lof of fun to see lara perform all those jumps and moves and it makes u forget you're just using 
 the same 2 buttons all the time and that its almost impossible to fail a jump. The controls are 
 really good too and you have a lot of actions to pull off. It's just they took away all the exploration 
 and i miss the enemies variety too... i'd rather have had a TR remake than this... but its still 
 a pretty fun game, i'm just dissapointed with it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pottyscott
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 11, 2006 3:52 am PT
Review:  I have given this game a nine for the pure and simple fact that this is the most fun to be had 
 on the 360 so far - even if it is TOO short!!!!! What makes it a cut above the rest , in my opinion, 
 is that around every corner there is always something new to do - the puzzles are always slightly 
 different - the grapple hook has 1 use but as the game progresses it is always used in a slightly 
 different manner. It's one of those games that once you've sat there for 20 minutes searching for 
 the next move and then it finally dawns on you what to do and you sit there and say to yourself 
 'clever....'. You'd be a fool not to give this a shot. And the reason for the mark of 9? Lots of 
 people look out for this magic number and if a game doesn't have this attached then some don't 
 try it which would be a shame. I think t's worth a 8.8 but for the sake of 0.2 ....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dasilva90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2006 3:18 am PT
Review:  
  ========
  Gameplay -Flawless and smooth gameplay, nice physics based puzzles.
  ========
  
  =======
  Graphics -Amazing enviroments that are bursting with life. Very detailed.
 
  =======
  
  =====
  Sound -Very cinematic, you'll want to listen to the music over and over again.
  =====
  
  
 =====
  Value - Loads of unlockables & secrets, lots of replay value.
  =====
  
  ===========
  FINAL WORD
  ===========
  
  Tomb Raider Legend is highly recommended for any 
 type of gamer, there is action, adventure, exploration, humour & puzzles. The dialog is very funny 
 in a good way, the interactive cutscenes are really fun and great too. There are 3 different dificulties, 
 and tons of unlockables in every level. The ending is very intense & is really good, no cliff hanger. 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayn03
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 11, 2006 3:08 am PT
Review:  I newer been a Tomb Raider fan. I always pass every Tomb Raider game from beginning. But this game 
 convise me to Lara Croft and her adventures. Hopefully the change of Devoloper do so much good 
 and newesty to game that I played it all night long.
  
  Graphics on PC are no souch Hi-Tech, but its clean and verry butifull.
  Lara moves great, the 
 jumps, shots and ducks are verry good animated and give a nice smile on your face.
  
  For no Tomb Raider fan its game that you should start Lara's adventures.
  
  Im verry pleased 
 what guys from Crystal Dynamics do to Tomb Raider game.
  Nice work Crystal Dynamics! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smbius
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 3:09 am PT
Review:  This game really loves physics... especially when it comes to puzzles and making things fall on 
 enemies. In some cases you will like it. In other cases, you will not. In some experiences, it 
 is so off the wall and obvious that it'll just make you laugh. For instance, there are parts of 
 the game where the system points at something obvious and you're given big hints to take it down 
 (i. e. shoot stone column with icon blinks... shoot it and watch it fall on baddies) .
  
  Some of the puzzles are standard fare. You will come across smashing walls and when you do... a 
 conveniently placed metal cube will be located right next to your leg. Hmm. Or, you see a floor 
 button that needs some lovin' but there are no objects around. You see a box on the next platform 
 down but can't pick it up from your position. However, you just happen to see a stone teeter-totter 
 conveniently placed on the other side. Gee. What should I do?! Hmmm! 
  
  Tomb Raider borrows alot of elements from Prince of Persia and Half Life 2. The only problem is 
 that the puzzles seem unnecessary or less plausible and doesn't seem related to whatever it is 
 that you're doing. The puzzles are not as creative as what I've seen in other games and that, to 
 me, just makes it too predictable. The other problem is the motorcycle sequences. They seem more 
 or less like a novelty than something that should've been removed all together or at least it should've 
 been treated like a rail-type action sequence. 
  
  Aside from these things, there are a couple of great points that should be noted. One of these 
 great points is the control. Whoever designed the controls/interface for this game should be commended. 
 I have played earlier versions of Tomb Raider and could not get used to the controls. It was basically 
 sloppy and prevented me from really enjoying the game. This time around, the controls have been 
 changed for the good of mankind. No more pre-positioning Lara for far jumps and no more stupid 
 falling deaths. Well... at least almost. There are a tons of moves you can do in this game that 
 really show off the physique... I mean physics of the character. It cracks me up sometimes when 
 I'm climbing up the edge of a 500 foot cliff and Lara may flip upwards using showy yet unnessary 
 acrobatics making sure she is modeling her legs. Very Hollywood. The really nice thing about this 
 game is how it integrates in-game cinematic sequences a la Metal Gear. Although the game needs 
 work with its directing, the sequences are done well and are fun to watch. Even the lip sequences 
 are neat but there are just too many games out there that do it well... and, in some cases, better.
 
  
  Anyway, I'm going to stop nitpicking this game because there will be alot of Lara Croft gamers 
 out there that will play it purely because of Lara. No doubt, the game does a really good job of 
 modeling and controlling Lara well. Tomb Raider also does pretty well with the graphics and the 
 lighting. The environments are cool to look at but are nothing special. If you've been exposed 
 to more graphically impressive games, probably be nothing to you (i. e. HL2, G. R. A. W., etc.) . To 
 me, Tomb Raider's lasting merits were its puzzles, story, and of course the fact that it is the 
 cult-drivenTomb Raider franchise after all. Even then, the game is very short. If you've played 
 many different kinds of games similar to Tomb Raider, don't expect too much and just try to enjoy 
 it for what it is. If you're a casual gamer, you may like this game alot. And to all you Lara fans, 
 this is a must have for you all... especially for those who want to add this to their Lara collection 
 right next to their Lara movie DVDs and Lara boots.
  
  Overall, I would rent it or borrow it. I would never buy it.... unless you really HAVE to complete 
 that collection
  
  radcastro. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CosmicD
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 2:46 am PT
Review:  This game really does it as representation for the Tomb Raider franchise to me. I've never really 
 been satisfied with some of the earlier games I've played, maybe the first one up untill a point 
 but the tomb raiding was like dull plxel hunting at some point. 
  
  But in legend, all is living up to the way it should be. 
  
  In the main review: there's this 
 complaint about the game being too short and not so challenging. Well I like that. Yeah maybe it 
 could be a bit longer but the fact that it's not so challenging VS a good interactive adventure 
 that you get from it well that just does it for me.
  
  I don't like my games to be that challenging that you spend days to hunt for that one pixel or 
 that one trick
  
  The variation in plot really keeps you going. You climb , you drive, you have these short "breaks" 
 from the gameplay where story elements unfold, then you go back to a tomb and the tombs are relatively 
 small but are packed with entertaining puzzle twists and the consequences of you "raiding the tomb" 
 are really cool to witness and give you this instant satisfaction for your "work".
  
  Sometimes I even notice that there's really "legend of zelda" quality of gameplay puzzles. 
  
 
  For example, theres a tomb that you run into that will have a puzzle that resemples much some stuff 
 in some temple (I won't tell wich one) zelda: wind waker. 
  And thehere's an endboss that you are going to have to beat without even touching it yourself...
 
  
  The music is very nice. The only critic I might have about it is that it' should sometimes be a 
 bit more emotionally expressive. I absolutely love hollywood-new-age style music and the title 
 tune is absolutely brilliant.. It's very technical and complex and in the Ghana tomb the music 
 will sound as if you would never wish that you entered that tomb!. 
  
  Sound effects are also good, and I love that you are always interacting with your collegues back 
 at Lara's home. But I think Lara has 2 sets of vocal cords. She seems to be able to make grunting 
 noises while she talks :) 
  
  This is really antfux0ring but okey. 
  
  The game is very well done and I'm glad I bought it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
