-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tomb Raider: Underworld
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/tombraider8/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Excellent mix of outdoor, underground, and underwater locations.
 Lara's new moves add to her existing abilities.
 Some excellent level and puzzle design.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Existing clipping and camera issues remain.
 Forgettable story and cliched dialogue.
 Lack of refinement to the core gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.5, 44 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 925 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Crystal Dynamics
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Nov 18, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tomb Raider Underworld will satisfy fans of Lara's previous adventures, but it does little to address 
 previous games' problems. 

  When Eidos handed development of the Tomb Raider franchise to Crystal Dynamics, it was a risky 
 but ultimately wise decision. The team managed to reinvent the series while staying true to its 
 roots with Tomb Raider: Legend, while Tomb Raider: Anniversary built on solid foundations to reimagine 
 Lara Croft's original adventure. Tomb Raider Underworld is Crystal Dynamics' third game in as many 
 years, and the high work rate is starting to show. Lara may have plenty of new moves at her disposal, 
 but little has been done to address the many camera and clipping issues still present. Tomb Raider 
 Underworld offers an enticing new adventure, but if you're a fan of the series you'll find that 
 Lara is starting to show her age.  

           Lara brings new tricks to the Underworld, including wall-climbing, beam-vaulting, and 
 abseiling.      

  As the "Underworld" suffix suggests, this Tomb Raider covers darker territory than its predecessors. 
 It follows the same adventure template that we've come to expect, but it also deals with death, 
 resurrection, and even Norse mythology in its story. Things start out badly for Lara; a prologue 
 of her racing to escape her lofty mansion as it burns to the ground. Cut back two weeks, and we 
 find Lara trying to take care of some of her father's unfinished business, something that leads 
 her on to discovering more about her mother, characters from previous games, and the mythical Hammer 
 of Thor. It's badly written, poorly voiced, and instantly forgettable for anyone but hardcore fans 
 of the series, but thankfully the cutscenes are mercifully short, leaving you to get down to the 
 serious business of raiding tombs.  

  Tomb Raider Underworld is constructed in an almost identical fashion to its predecessors, with 
 exploration in exotic locations punctuated by occasional combat and vehicle sections. The interaction 
 between Lara and the environments has long been the draw of the series, and performing daring jumps 
 to scale seemingly impossible heights is as satisfying as ever. Lara's even learned a few new moves 
 in the year since Anniversary, and she can now free-climb, balance along thin beams, and abseil 
 using her rappel line. Crucially, none of these moves complicates Lara's basic movement, and while 
 you have to adjust your eyes to the many new visual cues showing you where to go, they all add 
 new levels to the simple pleasure of adventuring.  

  While these new abilities expand Lara's already-impressive acrobatic skills, there are a lot of 
 gameplay issues that continue to annoy. The world is incredibly rigid, with strict rules on which 
 platforms, objects, and edges can be interacted with and which can't. The places where Lara can 
 go are well marked out -- they feature nice right-angled edges and are usually lighter than the surrounding 
 material to signify your route through. This makes it easier to figure out the correct way to go, 
 but at the same time it means there's little room for improvisation, and the genre has moved beyond 
 such linear progression. Even worse, Lara will frequently clip into a piece of the scenery and 
 then refuse to come out until you stop, turn around, and run out of it again. Add all this to an 
 incredibly unruly camera, and Tomb Raider Underworld is still just as frustrating as its predecessors. 

           The adventure begins with a prologue set halfway through the game, with Croft Mansion 
 burning to the ground and Lara seemingly to blame.      

  There's an impressive mix of locales in Underworld, and the environments boast greater scale than 
 ever before. The underwater diving is incredibly atmospheric, and while there's often no indication 
 of where you need to go, you won't mind swimming around the beautiful-looking abyss. There are 
 also some great outdoor locations, and you'll race through vast temples, snowy mountains, and jungle 
 environments. While Lara's bike looks and feels more like Batman's Tumbler than anything from the 
 real world, it's much easier to use than the vehicles in previous games, and there are multiple 
 routes that you can take. As the name suggests, though, this game features plenty of underground 
 adventuring, and the sense of claustrophobia as you descend into these lost worlds is wonderfully 
 conveyed.  

  You won't come across an abundance of enemies in the game, but the ones that you do encounter are 
 incredibly stupid. Human enemies will stand in front of you as you pummel them with gunfire, while 
 the real-world and mythical beasts wait to emerge from the same spot every time. There's still 
 no cover system in Tomb Raider, so you're left to go behind objects, run out to fire, and then 
 repeat until you've dealt with the threat. It's incredibly fiddly when held up to the combat in 
 Uncharted: Drake's Fortune, but thankfully there's an ultra-powerful weapon toward the end of the 
 game that eradicates the need to take cover completely. The whole weapon system is poorly balanced 
 from the start -- you choose one firearm at the beginning of each level, but if you check your inventory 
 you'll find Lara has everything from pistols to an assault rifle into her tiny backpack. Thankfully, 
 the tedious quick-time events have now disappeared completely, while Lara can kick enemies that 
 get too close for comfort.  

           The environments offer an impressive sense of scale, although this can make for some time-consuming 
 puzzles.      

  Where Tomb Raider really challenges is in its puzzles, and while they may be formulaic, the sheer 
 size of the environments means that they can take some time to figure out. They usually revolve 
 around collecting keys or other items to activate mechanics in another part of the level, and while 
 you will have to cover a lot of ground to solve them, they're all logically put together. It helps 
 that Lara can now access a tips system from her PDA, with two levels of assistance available to 
 clarify any befuddlement. Press the A button and Lara will give you a hint on what you need to 
 do next; press Y and she'll be more explicit about your goal. The new map is less successful -- Lara's 
 expensive (and curiously waterproof) PDA provides a wireframe model of the current area you're 
 in, but this is useless when trying to backtrack through numerous underground caves.  

  Tomb Raider Underworld is an enjoyable adventure, but it's one that's just too familiar for anyone 
 who's played the previous games. The basic problems with clipping and the unruly camera are still 
 annoying, and while Lara's new abilities add to her impressive athleticism, the route through most 
 levels is still rigidly linear. The AI and combat are also weak, and while fighting is a relatively 
 small part of the game, Underworld would arguably be better without it. That said, the environments 
 are stunning, and working your way through the many different challenges is still as enjoyable 
 as ever. Ultimately there's still life in the Tomb Raider series, but as the title suggests, it 
 may be in need of another resurrection.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (56 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: devilgonnatempt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 1:43 pm PT
Review:  A very worthy title in the Tomb Raider series with some excellent points. 
  This outing sees Lara travelling through a variety of gorgeous and exotc locales including Thailand, 
 the Meditteranean Sea etc. These locations are held up with the pristine visuals that give the 
 environment an invisible beautiful glow that you can only feel when playing the game. In Thailand 
 for instance, the leaves on plants sway in the breeze. Water looks so real, you feel like taking 
 a drink! 
  The gameplay in Underworld is top notch and strongly resembles the classic Tomb Raider games we 
 all love, but with some extras that give Lara a combat edge like the ability to shoot from whatever 
 she is hanging from. The sprint also makes a welcome return and does come in handy. There's loads 
 to throughout Underworld and the story should take you through a good few hours. The puzzles aren't 
 too tricky when you put your mind to them and does give you a sense of satisfaction when finishing 
 them. If you have completed the story, there are around 200 gems and relics hidden all over Underworld. 
 These, sadly don't provide you with any relevant upgrades (apart from finding the very rare relics, 
 but I'm not telling) . Some artwork is the best you're going to get which is a bit of a letdown 
 but with the game being so big on its own, it isn't so much a problem. 
  Lara herself is probably at her best in this outing too. She seems so human, it's unreal. Her actions 
 are varied, fluid and very responsive. The way she actively jumps from one cliffhanging drop to 
 the next gives one a sense of danger and feels exilarating when the player is assessing whether 
 or not Lara will plummit to her death. This part does become confusing at times because sometimes 
 certain parts of the game are 'not allowed' even though the drop isn't that high so is another 
 letdown. 
  Of all the great parts of this game, I have to say it's biggest downfall is the combat. The battles 
 against animals isn't too bad at all and is an improvement on previous titles, the problem lies 
 with the terrible human fights. The enemies just seem to provide one function: point, shoot, die. 
 There isn't any form of intelligence! They also show no sign of damage as they are being shot, 
 resulting in the game being systematic. It would have been nice to see an enemy reacting to his 
 injuries instead of just standing in one spot firing his rifle. Another problem is the game's camera 
 system, which is terribly annoying and isn't useful in the slightest. Resulting in quite a few 
 slip ups due to the non-responsive and difficult camera. You will spend more time fighting with 
 the camera than with the soldiers!
  Overall the game is spot-on. It brings back fond memories of the old Tomb Raiders, but updating 
 the series with a new and original story, fresh ideas, new locations and actions. Just the camera 
 and A. I combat a problem. Well worth 20 though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwekane
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2009 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Underworld is a good game but I don't think it is better than legend or anniversary. 
 Well there is no argument that the game looks beautiful, these are the best looking graphics I 
 seen in any other game. The problem I had with it is I found it short and the puzzles weren't that 
 hard, that is why I gave it the score I did because this is the only adventure game that you have 
 to figure out puzzles and only one was challenging but it wasn't something I got stuck on. The 
 controls are easy, the story line is amusing, and the weapons are cool. For people that know the 
 series Natla is back and once again to come and try to kill you. The cool thing about the game 
 is it continues from Legend which is cool. I think its cool how you can choose your outfit for 
 each level but now I want to talk about the DLC. You get cool clothes and there are two extra levels 
 there called Lara's Shadow, and beneath the ashes. The levels were easy to me but it was a cool 
 add on, and you get cooler weapons but I don't want to give anything away for the people that hasn't 
 played it yet but what I do have to say is if you get the game get the DLC as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sensei_hEnRY
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 12:14 am PT
Review:  welcome to the world of Lara Croft. A world where there are still so many mysterious and magical 
 thing on the world (well, if there isn't i don't know what Lara will do for living)
  
  Underworld is a good action-puzzle-adventure but too bad, it can't keep the pace of the last two 
 great games before (anniversary an legend) The most significant thing is, it become easier...
 
  
  The story continuing Anniversary and Legend's story. Lara continue her journey to meet his mother 
 who lost in a place call Avalon. Two major enemies on the last game are back on underworld, Amanda 
 and Natla. The story is the same with Anniversary, but, this time Lara doesn't seek for a sword 
 (a sword that open the door of Avalon) , but now she seek the belt, gloves, and hammer of Thor (as 
 recommended by Natla) . The story is classic, but it still fun to follow. The ending is quite good 
 too.
  
  The gameplay, there are some changes in Underworld. Lara comes with new movement, she become more 
 human. I love the way she runs cause there are four types of running she can perform, slow, normal, 
 run, and sprint. If you notice, when Lara is running there are two types of hand movement, low 
 and high, it's great. Crystal Dynamic really did a good mocap! Another good improvement are rock 
 climbing (yes, Lara can do that now) , pick and throw item (isn't that good? now you don't need 
 to find big square rock or huge cages to put it on the floor button) and rappel (yes, she can do 
 that too!) there are some improvement on Lara's tool too. On her PDA, you can find sonar map, it 
 can help you too look the environment around you (good idea) , there are also field assistance, 
 it's a notes about what you should focus on and what is your task. It's a very good improvement 
 but the problem is, the puzzle become easier. It doesn't require your logic too solve the puzzle, 
 it only need your patience too search all the items that you need to open this door or that door. 
 i think the puzzle team is running low of ideas... it's a shame. Not just that, Lara can't pick 
 up weapon or ammo from her dead enemy too, she can only equip herself with two types of weapon 
 on mission briefing (a pair of her legendary-unlimited ammo handgun and one limited ammo weapon 
 like assault rifle, smg, shotgun, speargun, and tranquilizer gun) she can choose her outfits on 
 this menu too.
  
  The graphics are beautiful, from the jungle of Thailand to the deep of Arctic sea, everything looks 
 cool. The dead guy or animal won't vanished until you dead and reload the level. There are some 
 blood animation too, good.
  
  The sound, as usual, Keeney did a great job as Lara Croft (i really love her British!) the scores 
 is epic too. awesome.
  
  so, Tomb Raider: Underworld is a good game, but, it will only satisfied a new player. For Tomb 
 Raider's player, i think it's not enough...
  
  notes: i really hate the menu mechanism, holding the left analog button is annoying. I prefer the 
 old menu. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Algaeisgreat
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 19, 2009 12:37 am PT
Review:  I decided to get this game on the basis of playing one of the demo levels - I haven't played a 
 Tomb Raider game in years but always quite enjoyed them.
  
  This is a good-looking game - the graphics and scenery are impressive and the music adds to the 
 atmosphere, particularly when spending time in the various caves and underground crypts (Which 
 is a lot, granted) . Having said that, the routes for climbing are very obvious and do nothing to 
 make you feel that you are 'discovering' how to get somewhere - traversing levels is very linear 
 and on occasions a little too obvious.
  
  Lara handles as usual, with a few extra acrobatic maneuvres for effect. I found this comforting 
 as it was easy to get straight back into tomb raiding without having to mess about with figuring 
 out controls.
  
  The story itself is a bit weak, and you actually start in the middle of the game. (at this point, 
 the game makes no sense)
  2 levels are also repeated, which I thought was a bit of a cheap shot, and made the game a lot 
 shorter than it should be. some of the levels are huge, however, and will keep you entertained 
 for some time.
  
  Puzzling always has been and on this occasion the best bit. Puzzles are well thought out and provide 
 a good level of thinking to figure out without making you want to hit your head off a brick wall!
 
  
  Combat is basic, and the usual collection of baddies are available - pesky spiders (just a nuisance) 
 tigers, and incredibly dumb henchmen. You are hiding high above, and a dude is wandering about 
 below through a sea of his very dead buddies that you have already polished off as if he's gone 
 for a stroll in the park. The adrenaline headshots come in handy, and look pretty cool, but you 
 use them just for the sake of it, not because you need them to get you out of a tight spot.
  
  Ok, here comes my rant.....
  
  I died more times than I can ever count playing this the 
 first time through. Not because I'm a moron or even a bad gamer, but the fact that the camera has 
 never been fixed from previous adventures. The angles are ridiculous, and you will find you spend 
 most of the game rotating it manually to line up jumps. Not so good for impatient gamers or when 
 you are trying the various timed runs that crop up, not to mention spoiling any sense of urgency 
 or excitement. You make a perfectly logical jump, but overshoot the mark, or worse, land it but 
 the camera now shows a big lump of brown stone as opposed to the more attractive Ms. Croft. You 
 try to turn round, and SPLAT. You're dead. Again.
  
  The second reason for this is dodgy scenery - I've died falling into toxic water even though I 
 land on solid ground, I've died trying to get out of stone walls I'm half trapped in, resuling 
 in me flinging myself accidentally off high ledges, and been beaten to a pulp by baddies for being 
 jammmed in a corner. Advice? stay away from walls you are not meant to climb, particularly on rough 
 ground. Not much fun in a puzzle adventure eh?
  
  All in all, a good title which is relatively enjoyable but if you have all the patience of a small 
 child on Christmas Eve, skip it.
  
  
  ****Good****
  
  -Very pretty game
  -Good puzzling
  -Some big levels
  
  ***Bad***
  
  -Outrageous Camera
  -Glitchy scenery
 
  -Repeated levels
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmassarani
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Underworld is not a bad game for 15-20 bucks... but definetly not worth a full 50-60 
 dollar price-tag. Underworld harkens back to the previous game story lines (and blows up the Croft 
 Mansion again) and luckily provides a background video to catch you up. With that being said the 
 story is OK, not terribly amazing, but at the same time pretty cut-and-dry.
  
  The graphics for Underworld are really good and Laura moves fluidly. However the game suffers from 
 a bad case of the camera jitters, and glitches will make you get stuck in certain spots. It's seems 
 like Crystal Dynamics made Laura move faster but didnt make it easier for her to interact with 
 her surroundings. The pathways for the levels are also pretty straight forward, any ledge you can 
 grab is flat, making it easy to see where to go.
  
  The one thing that is absolutely horrible in the game is the combat. The ability to choose weapons 
 at the beginning of a level isnt a bad idea, but none of the weapons are satisfying to use. Laura's 
 signature pistols are slow and monotonous. Laura will also aim at two enemies at once and there 
 is no way to change that. Most of the time you will be shooting at an enemy off the screen and 
 it makes killing enemies take even longer.
  
  All-in-all Tomb Raider Underworld is good for the Target clearance price of 15 bucks... the suffering 
 caused by the camera isnt worth full price.
  
  The Good - Graphics
  
  The Bad - Combat, Camera, Weak Story
  
  The Ugly - Pathways are straight forward 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gormo4
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2009 10:22 am PT
Review:  Positives
  + Some beautifully detailed enviroments
  + Rewarding achievments
  + Interesting story
  
  Negatives
  - Puzzles can be extremely difficult
  - Very hard to 
 complete without a walkthrough!
  
  Welcome to my review for tomb raider underworld for the xbox 360, being the third tomb raider game 
 to come to 360 there were high expectations, so what did I think of it? well read on..
  
  First of all you'll notice the gameplay graphics are stunning, there's a total of 8 levels to adventure 
 your way through, these include thailand, mexico, croft manor and the Artic.
  Take my faviroute level, Thailand, the water is a beautiful blue colour, there's sharks in the 
 water which try and eat you, as you progress you discover ancient tombs buried in lush amounts 
 of greenery, you also fight mythical creatures such as undead and huge lizards.
  As for cut scenes the graphics are still good along with the superb voice acting but aren't as 
 noticable as the enviorments.
  
  Gameplay isn't bad but as gamespot says it fails to fix previous flaws in tomb raider games, the 
 camera angle is still a bit dodgy altough it can be moved by using the right stick, also some of 
 the jumps are a bit awkward and you'll find yourself getting fustrated very easily.
  I found a moment of fustration in the first level in which you have to use your grappel to pull 
 down the door and I spent 30 minutes trying to do it, I then looked up a walkthrough which told 
 me I had to stand in a certain place altough realistically it could have been done in any place... 
 it's hard to explain but everything has to be precise.
  
  You follow the story on from the previous 2 games on the 360, so if you havent played them I reccomend 
 starting there as they also are rated higher than underworld, don't worry about it though, it dosen't 
 matter to much.
  Bassically it's based on norse mythology and obtaining Thors hammer that can only be touched when 
 wearing his gauntlets etc.. so it contains some interesting mythology as well.
  
  You have a choice of several weapons in the game, shotgun, pistols, sub machine gun, tranquilizer 
 gun and harpoons, each have their own strengths and weaknesses. 
  Your pistols have unlimited ammo but other weapons have a limited amount (altough the ammo is restored 
 at the end of every level)
  
  You also get a choice of difficulty, there are 3 settings, casual explorer, tomb raider of master 
 explorer, the only thing which changes is how hard the enemies and bosses are to fight.
  
  In combat you target with left trigger and shoot with the right trigger, you can also do some stylish 
 jumps while pressing A when locked onto the target, you'll fight poachers, panthers, tigers, lions, 
 sharks and undead throughout the game.
  There's also grenades, you get given a certain amount of them every level and they stick to enemies 
 then explode causing damage in the area of effect.
  
  By 'rewarding acheivments' I mean altough there's a lot of time consuming extremely hard puzzles 
 you get a lot of achiement points (about 600 on your first play) and you get to experience lots 
 of different eniviroments, they really are that good, I was sad when I had to leave Thailand.
 
  
  Overall tomb raider underworld should please all that have access to a good walkthrough and want 
 to reap the rewards.
  Thanks for reading.
  
  ~Gormo
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FabulousGamer90
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 12:16 am PT
Review:  Crystal Dynamics realised the errors of their ways. While Tomb Raider: Legend was good fun, it 
 certainly felt very arcade-like, too action-focused and not really anything like the older Tomb 
 Raider games. Tomb Raider: Anniversary fixed these issues by providing huge environments, slower 
 pace, great puzzles, better controls and less enemies. Now we have Underworld, and although Anniversary's 
 success has been duly noted, and taken on board with the new game; it still feels very simplistic, 
 and the puzzles rarely offer much challenge. However, the main thing that drags the game down are 
 bugs, glitches, and imprecise controls. Sadly, Underworld feels like a step back.
  
  The story in the game follows on from Legend, and while it starts off seemingly much stronger than 
 Legend's story, it quickly deteriorates into something pretty uninteresting, and by the end of 
 the game it becomes nothing short of silly and cliche. You wont really care much about whats going 
 on, paying attention only for the pretty cutscenes and mostly top-notch voice acting. Not that 
 I really think Tomb Raider has to be a great example of storytelling, but I do think that after 
 9 (?) games we could have at least established a solid and interesting story. There is an attempt 
 made to make the story fulfilling for fans, but they take it so far past the bar of 'reasonableness' 
 to keep it fresh that it just ends up feeling ridiculous. The annoying characters Alistair and 
 Zip make a reappearance, but thankfully this time they dont banter into your headset through the 
 whole game.
  
  One thing I really like in Underworld are the environments, they are designed well and portray 
 a great sense of scale. Traversing across walls and platforms, swimming, jumping, and shooting 
 in these areas is still very fun. The graphics are nice, lush and colourful; and Lara has a handful 
 of new moves she can perform around the game world. So your first impressions of the game will 
 likely be very good.
  
  Its only as you play more that the faults of the game become apparent. The controls this time around 
 seem to be very imprecise; Lara doesn't handle very well, in fact controlling her was much easier 
 in the last two games, so i'm not sure whats happened there. Often you will end up plummeting to 
 your death; and sometimes rather than feeling like its your fault for messing up, it feels more 
 like the games fault for not responding properly to what you're asking. The game is also plagued 
 with some major clipping issues. Lara clips through the environment so often you would think its 
 a feature of the game rather than a fault. She can also litterally get stuck in walls or in the 
 ground. The camera is still as awful as it ever was, never looking where you want it to, causing 
 even more occasions when you fall to your death by misjudging a jump.
  
  There are certainly less enemies in Underworld. Aside from some big fight scenes with lots of bad 
 guys, and some animals that attack you, your biggest enemy is the environment and trying to work 
 out how to get from one point of the map to another. The combat is definately not the star of the 
 show when it is happening; though Lara can pull off some cool dodging moves, all the fights feel 
 quite simplistic and generic, and theres no way to take cover. The slow motion quick-kill thing 
 from Anniversary makes a return appearance, but its not as easy or fun to pull off anymore, and 
 the bar in your HUD accompanying the move takes way too long to fill. I have also never liked how 
 much health enemies have in Tomb Raider games - even animals sometimes take 10 or more direct shots 
 to kill. Rather than making combat more difficult in this artificial way, they could simply throw 
 more enemies at us all having a realistic ammount of health. While neither sound very appealing, 
 at least the latter option would make Lara feel more powerful.
  
  Underworld unfortunately fails to capture the essence of what made Anniversary so good. They have 
 tried to mix aspects of Legend with aspects of Anniversary, while they should have simply realized 
 the success of Anniversary's design and stuck with that. This is coupled with being the most gliched 
 of all the current-gen Tomb Raider games, and being more frustrating and more difficult to control. 
 The end result is an unsatisfactory staple in the Tomb Raider saga, better to be left on the shelf. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BewareOfTrees88
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 15, 2009 1:35 am PT
Review:  I will start by saying that I do appreciate being able to choose just how much skin I can see on 
 my heroine, however, when this is the first thing that comes to mind when thinking of positives, 
 it's a given that this game came up lacking. Yes, the levels were designed well (and beautifully) , 
 I had major fun anytime I was driving around on the motorcycle (though I will admit to overdoing 
 it with my e-brake and road kill moments) , and the puzzles were never impossible to solve, but 
 I was still hoping for more.
  
  The thing that I found most frustrating was how Lara would react to her environment. Sure, the 
 first time she climbed a stone path on a cliff I thought it was pretty amazing, but by about the 
 10th time of jumping to my death I was starting to scream at the screen, telling Lara that not 
 only was she a disappointment to me and all of the numerous 6 year olds scaling the trees in their 
 yard, but an embarrassment to the Prince of Persia as well. Then again, Nathan Drake is a far better 
 comparison. After all, the Prince had Elika to pull him out of his more pathetic moments. He never 
 had to unleash Lara's scream in terror as she tumbled to her death like a rag doll.
  
  But unfortunately for Lara this is not where the comparisons to Uncharted: Drake's Fortune end. 
 Not only are Lara's controls in Tomb Raider far weaker, but also there are major issues with camera 
 angles, the story is far weaker, and the gunplay is pretty bad. Because of the lack of a cover 
 system, my attack strategy involved running head first at people hoping that I could knock them 
 from their feet with my flying kicks before my health status moved past the point of no return. 
 Eventually Lara does retrieve Thor's Hammer, making battle satisfactory for once, and instead of 
 riddling bodies with a barrage of bullets, it was finally time to unleash your best "swing away" 
 moment, maniacally laughing as the baddies go flying through the air. 
  
  In the end this is a satisfactory game, but unfortunately it will be overshadowed by the other 
 games of its genre.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FvaFshX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 11:13 pm PT
Review:  In 1996, gamers everywhere became infatuated with Tomb Raider. The mix of puzzle solving, gunplay, 
 and its sexy female protagonist, Lara Croft, pushed the game (and especially Lara herself) into 
 an iconic status. Twelve years later, Lara is still kicking (and jumping) with her latest entry 
 in the series, Tomb Raider Underworld, for the Playstation 3 and Xbox 360. While the core gameplay 
 mechanics haven't aged gracefully over the years, Tomb Raider Underworld is still a satisfying 
 adventure for fans of the series.
  
  Tomb Raider Underworld takes place shortly after the 2006 series reboot by Crystal Dynamics, Tomb 
 Raider Legend. Following Legend, Crystal Dynamics produced an excellent remake of the original 
 game called Tomb Raider Anniversary. Underworld is the 3rd offering from this development team 
 which allows for a greater sense of continuity in the overall story. Certain references to those 
 previous games will be lost to newcomers, but the story is still simple enough for all to enjoy. 
 
  
  Tomb Raider's overall story involves Lara's quest to solve the mysterious circumstances that led 
 to her mother's teleportation into another dimension. Underworld begins in a very dramatic fashion 
 with Lara fleeing the flames of her destroyed mansion, as well as the bullets of her supposed comrades. 
 From there, the game flashes back to the previous week and its up to you to retrace Lara's steps. 
 Throughout your travels, Lara will gradually discover various artifacts relating to Norse Mythology. 
 All the plot points fit together quite well towards the end of the game to produce a satisfying, 
 albeit bittersweet, conclusion to the story. 
  
  The gameplay in Underworld is true to its predecessors while introducing a few new elements. The 
 most apparent innovation is the sheer size of the environmental puzzles. During one of the first 
 temple excursions, Lara has to dive into the ocean to open an ancient door. In the past, you would 
 probably be led along a set path, but in Underworld you can literally swim wherever your heart 
 desires. The scale and open ended nature of the environments transitions to solid ground as well, 
 as you stand face to face with massive temples trying to decipher how exactly you would get from 
 point A to point B. While an impressive technical feat, the vistas might prove to be too overwhelming 
 for some players. For those who can withstand it, the game should take 7 to 8 hours to complete 
 for the average gamer (maybe a bit longer if you really get stuck in the puzzles) .
  
  Getting through the temples and dungeons involves turning cranks (that inexplicably never rust) , 
 climbing walls, swinging, jumping, and occasionally engaging in combat. The combat in Tomb Raider 
 games has always been rather lackluster, and unfortunately this installment only reinforces how 
 unpolished and archaic the gunplay is. Whether you're confronting a bat, a tiger, or a soldier 
 with a grenade launcher, you can eliminate any enemy by hopping from side to side like a hyperactive 
 monkey firing Lara's dual pistols. The game allows you to use other weapons as well, and you can 
 freely select those weapons before each level, but there's no real reason because the pistols are 
 equally effective no matter what the situation is. Additionally, the enemy artificial intelligence 
 is so poor you'll never think to even use the extra arms at your disposal. Enemy soldiers will 
 stand still, dumbfounded by your barrage of bullets, and every ferocious animal can be foiled by 
 repeatedly jumping backwards (and oddly enough, it takes the same amount of bullets to kill both 
 species: over 100) .
  
  By far, the most impressive part of the game are its visuals. During the course of the game, Lara 
 will visit a snowy mountaintop, lush jungles, dark caves, and even Valhallayes, the Valhalla. 
 Each location is meticulously detailed and feels incredibly organic, and Lara's acrobatic maneuvers 
 animate wonderfully as she makes her way through them. Unfortunately, the game camera hates it 
 when you admire the graphics for too long as it insists on fighting you in every tight corridor 
 or precarious ledge. Be prepared to make quite a few blind jumps, as the camera is often more focused 
 on showing you Lara's impressively seductive body instead of the two-foot pillar you need to jump 
 to. You will have to profusely use the right stick to adjust the view point, and even then the 
 game will occasionally fight your commands in a frustrating tug of war match.
  
  The sound design is equally impressive. Well-produced orchestral pieces swell in perfectly whenever 
 you solve one of the multi-layered puzzles or combat ramps up, which effectively enhances the sense 
 of player satisfaction. The sound is just as superb during quiet moments, as cicada chirps and 
 bird calls perfectly complement Lara's travels. Voice acting is a mixed bag overall. Keely Hawes 
 continues to perform wonderfully as Lara and veteran actress Kath Soucie is a great fit for Lara's 
 former friend, Amanda. However, minor voice roles fall flat, but its mostly due to lackluster writing 
 and insufficient exposition.
  
  Tomb Raider Underworld isn't a game that will completely change the gaming world or the series 
 for that matter. However, the game is a faithful evolution of the formula presented in the previous 
 games. If you haven't touched a Tomb Raider game since its inception, it may be a better idea to 
 start with Tomb Raider Legend, then gradually work your way up to this title as you adjust to the 
 core mechanics. On the other hand, if you've been with Lara every step of the way throughout her 
 long journey, this is a great game to pick up and, potentially, a great way to end an era.
  
  Cain
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ausutorarisu
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 6, 2009 10:30 pm PT
Review:  (The following review is based on the PC version which is identical with the X360 port, but looking 
 even better, perhaps. I can't post it on the PC review board so...)
  
  Typically, Tomb Raider games carry very poor replay values. Don't get me wrong because I do think 
 Tomb Raider games are exceptionally enjoyable. What makes up to the one-time-fun ledge jumping 
 and puzzle solving is the immersive story telling that features various historic references merged 
 with creativity.
  
  A) Presentation
  
  Tomb Raider games have never been intent on breaking the graphics Guinness record. Even so, Underworld 
 looks simply fine and leads Legend and Anniversary by a margin. In the cutscenes, characters show 
 lifelike facial expressions and fluent movements; in-game, you have my word that Alison Carroll's 
 stunts pay off. 
  
  Voice acting's great. I'm glad Lara's and Amanda's voice actors haven't been swapped. Music is 
 solid but works only in-game to raise one's adrenaline levels. The soundtrack isn't punchy enough 
 to differentiate itself. Believe me; you won't like listening it over and over again on your I-pod 
 as you might for "The Imperial March".
  
  The frame rates are consistently high while some scenes in the Mediterranean Sea level lag painfully. 
 Eidos has to do something about it.
  
  B) Gameplay
  
  My opinion is crystal clear: Tomb Raider Underworld, like the last two, is fun to play only once 
 or twice. As soon as you learnt where to climb/ jump and how to solve a puzzle, not even Lara's 
 dual pistols can save it. Nevertheless, every single thing in your first run should keep your head 
 wondering.
  
  Long time fans won't be surprised that shooting only takes the second place in the gameplay of 
 Tomb Raider Underworld. There are lots of enemies to take care of but you will find your marksman's 
 talent impotent here due to Underworld's auto-targeting system. On the other hand, all weapons 
 except the tranquillizer gun feel powerful and like Legend, you can't wait for some rampaging kills 
 with the power of ancient artifacts.
  
  Am I the only person who thinks that the headshot formula has back-stepped compared to Anniversary? 
 In Anniversary, you shoot enemies relentlessly. When they get enraged and within range, Lara can 
 perform a headshot killing them instantly. Unfortunately, Eidos altered the headshot formula.
 
  
  In Underworld, Lara can perform headshots based on her adrenaline levels rather than enemy rage 
 levels both built up by shooting enemies continuously. However, the adrenaline meter takes much 
 longer to fill. Besides, in Anniversary, a headshot opportunity is quite impossible to miss. When 
 the enemy is provoked, it soars while a glowing ring in orange surrounds its head. Within range, 
 Lara can trigger the headshot bullet time countering its rage attack. You can concentrate on the 
 enemy. Enemies are easily provoked so you can kill almost each of them with headshots granted you 
 are not a terrible gamer. But in Underworld, you must divert your attention from the action to 
 the HUD time to time to see if the adrenaline bar is full (mostly negative) . If it is finally full, 
 you have to come face to face with the enemy and press a button (default Q on PC) to trigger the 
 headshot bullet time. Every time you trigger the headshot bullet time, the adrenaline meter empties 
 itself regardless to your success or failure. Things get more complicated because the slowly accumulated 
 adrenaline meter always cools down itself out of combat unless you meet its maxima.
  
  Moreover, while performing a headshot in Anniversary, first wait for the two red reticules to lock 
 onto the enemy's head automatically. When they do, all you need to do is to click the FIRE button. 
 It is almost too easy. In contrast, in Underworld, you must first sheer the red reticule manually 
 onto the enemy's head and then click the FIRE button to perform a headshot. It looks like you have 
 more control! Yes. Meanwhile, you are promised more failures too. If you ask me, I would rather 
 abuse the auto-targeting system and fire away.
  
  C) Story
  
  Tomb Raider Underworld picks up where Legend left off. Lara is avidly looking for Avalon where 
 her mother seems to have teleported to thanks to Amanda's dirty trick.
  
  Unlike Anniversary (a tribute to the first Lara Croft game ten years ago) which emphasizes on isolation, 
 Lara is frequently in touch with his allies (Alester and Zip) or foes (Amanda and Natla) in Underworld. 
 I frankly can't stand prolonged loneness so it's a blessing in my opinion that you don't feel like 
 being the only person on Mars.
  
  I aren't going to spoil the story for you but I have already revealed that Natla, the evil Queen 
 of Atlantis from Tomb Raider Anniversary, makes her way back. To make it clear, Amanda rescued 
 and caged and used her. How these two villains manipulate each other and work against Lara together 
 goes a long way to helping the story reach its climax. In addition, you are bound to get some questions 
 from Legend and Anniversary answered.
  
  D) Conclusion
  
  Tomb Raider Underworld is marvelous. Be ready for some headstrong adventure it showcases. The story 
 draws you in so much that you won't forget it even if you forgot how the game played ten years 
 later. 
  
  Rent it! It is worthwhile to experience Lara's new epics once or twice. Then return it and wait 
 patiently for the next. Rather than climbing ledges all day again, why don't go blasting others 
 on Gears of War 2 multiplayer? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eze_sl89
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 10:01 am PT
Review:  Lara is back, and this time with next gen graphics on the ps3 and 360. The new stuff featuring 
 in this game are the huge enviroments and the not so hard puzzles.
  
  Graphics are pretty good; enviroments such as jungles, aztec like ruins, ancient caves, underwater 
 buildings and frosty dungeons look spectacular. Also the facial expresions of each character of 
 the game look pretty realistic. Daylight shaders look really cool too.
  
  Sound & Music: well, background music is truly a great peace of work here; sound effects may be 
 a little unreal sometimes, such as the pumas or tigers roars, sound a bit unrealistic.
  
  Story: i have to admit im not such a tomb raider fan, so i dont really know if the story is chained 
 with previous tomb raider releases. But, as far as i know for beating up this game, the story is 
 pretty weak.
  You, Lara Croft daughter of a crazy explorer and a creepy adventurer mother. (both dead) , have 
 to discover why the hell did your mother die while unleashing weid ancient powers from a god named 
 Thunder God or something. (and laras father has already discovered a couple of this mysteries but 
 couldnt make it) .
  
  whats the bad aspect about this game you may ask..? well, this game is very very glitchy... lots 
 of bugs here and there.. 
  for example; youll be riding your bike along a corridor through the jungle and suddenly you may 
 die ???? WTF?? believe me, it CAN happen. or maybe you were willing to jump from a column edge 
 to another... and you may jump in a weird way that youll find yourself falling and commiting suicide. 
 Or perhaps.. you may also activate a certain switch and all of a sudden the hole screen could turn 
 grey and youll be forced to restart your console.
  
  So.. as a sweet conclusion.. i have to say that this game needed a nice re-polishment. Lots of 
 unconfortable bugs will make you curse this game a couple of times. 
  
  Another negative flaw is the camera.. its a pretty good one though.. it manages to aim lara impressively 
 well almost all the time... ALMOST.. making the camera frustating here and there making it impossible 
 for you, the player, to see where the HELLL lara is .
  
  SO... good game.. great adventure.. lots and lots of long but easy puzzles ll make you want to 
 get this game.
  Although it could have a bad camera & a lot of glitches its worth the purchase. believe me, its 
 a nice game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomamagic
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 7:37 pm PT
Review:  I took me about a week to finish this game with an average play time of about 2 hrs. After just 
 recently finishing the game, I wanted to write this review while the game is still fresh in my 
 mind. 
  
  I played through this game on the "hardest" difficulty and it wasn't difficult at all! What an 
 easy 100 achievement points! The storyline picked up from Tomb Raider Legend . . .so those who 
 haven't played that game will surely be confused. If you've ever played any Tomb Raider game, it'll 
 feel very at home to you. Pretty much all the mechanics is there. 
  
  For me, I found Underworld to be much more frustrating than Legend. At times, Laura felt "stiff." 
 I would have appreciated a more fluid feeling Laura. The game had shipped out with bugs (one in 
 which I encountered, Southern Mexico, and didn't even know until I died 20+ times trying to figure 
 it out!) . Let me also state here that I am not a big fan of the motorcycle levels . . . what a 
 gimmick! 
  
  Reading professional reviews myself, I knew what to expect that is why I decided to rent this game. 
 With just having a single player campaign and weak story, it didn't justify a purchase for me. 
 I know DLC is coming for this game, but I don't think I'll be paying $20 for approximately 6 hrs 
 of gameplay that should've been in the original disc. Plus, I think it will feel quite tacked on 
 at the last minute. 
  
  I did enjoy the exotic levels, but to re-use a level twice? That's lame. The change of costumes 
 prior to starting a level was kinda cool. If you are still interested in playing this game, I highly 
 recommend renting it first. I hope the next Tomb Raider will be much better otherwise, I might 
 consider this my last! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atheistium
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2009 8:14 am PT
Review:  Let's face it; Crystal Dynamics are doing a great job reviving Lara Croft's previously dwindling 
 reputation. After disappointing fans with Angel of Darkness; Legend and Anniversary were just the 
 refresh the franchise needed. Both titles left me content and eager to see where Crystal would 
 take Lara next. With Underworld being Lara's true 'next gen' adventure and a tie up of unanswered 
 questions in previous titles, will fans be satisfied with a reinvented Lara or is it time we tuck 
 the old girl to bed?
  
  Underworld continues on from Legend, your main objective is to locate Avalon, an otherworld in 
 which Lara's mother disappeared to many years ago. The majority of Underworld also revolves around 
 the mythology of Thor, a Norse god whose hammer could smash mountains into valleys and even destroy 
 gods.
  
  
  After a quick refresher of Legend's story line, provided by a 'Previously' trailer, you start off 
 in a burning Croft Mansion which is some what of a tutorial level for new comers and a shocking 
 start for returning fans. Zip, Lara's technical assistant, fires your way and before you can make 
 any sense of the situation you are in the middle of the Mediterranean Sea discussing Norse mythology 
 and discovering the secrets of Avalon.
  
  The first thing you might have noticed is how absolutely stunning Tomb Raider Underworld looks. 
 Diving underneath the waves unveils a huge underwater world to explore. Just swimming around the 
 environment is an enjoyable experience. Swimming control has improved dramatically over previous 
 titles and the motion captured animation has really paid off, not only underwater but on land as 
 well. Lara is as beautiful as ever, boasting a more realistic body style (muscles!) and animation 
 sequences. You cannot fault with the look and style of Underworld, which is probably one of the 
 best looking titles currently available.
  
  Tomb Raider is still a familiar game for returning fans, the controls have not changed dramatically 
 and the formula is the same: adventure in large environments, discover secrets and solve puzzles. 
 Underworld keeps its roots in sight making sure the Tomb's are the main if not the only locations 
 you visit during your play through. The solitude of undiscovered grounds is back again after previous 
 complaints that Legend's constant chit chat took away from the whole experience, Underworld's impressive 
 soundtrack and realistic background noises accompany each area perfectly. You really feel like 
 Tomb Raider has evolved as you push past foliage, get covered in dirt and stumble after large jumps 
 while the jungle echo's around you.
  
  
  Game play wise lining up straight jumps are a thing of the past and now getting from A to B is 
 not quite as obvious as you would have previously imagined. The best bit about Underworld is learning 
 what Lara's new limitations are. While this can get frustrating at times, it's a real achievement 
 to get somewhere you originally thought impossible. Environments have finally got rid of that obvious 
 'climb these ledges' look which creates puzzles on route for those not familiar with the genre.
 
  
  Lara boasts thousands of move sets this time around that also includes some free running where 
 small walls and obstacles are automatically vaulted without doing anything more than pushing forward. 
 This can make some higher vaults frustrating where you are used to pushing forward and up which 
 results in Lara trying to monkey jump between walls instead of jumping up and grabbing the end 
 ledge. Monkey jumps are one of the more enjoyable moves Lara has at her disposal this time around, 
 adding to the huge learning curve of what Lara can do now and making some old laborious climbs 
 quick paced.
  
  Combat is still about pumping as much lead into anything that heads your way as you jump and roll 
 out of any attacks. Playing the game on the hardest settings adds a refreshing challenge as enemies 
 feel more relentless in their attack rather than just hitting harder. There were many occasions 
 where going against more than 3 enemies without climbing to safety was a huge problem and when 
 some of the creatures you encounter wall climb, your previous 'safe spot' becomes useless and panic 
 can set in. Jumping side to side is no longer the best strategy as your opponents are not as slow 
 as they used to be, and seeing Tigers jump from side to side as you try to roundhouse kick them 
 down and get the last few shots in is an enjoyment in itself.
  
  
  Two new features of combat include duel targeting and shooting while you are on a climbable surface. 
 The dual targeting however is automatic, so sometimes this can become a handicap when you're trying 
 to get rid of the large enemy in front of you and the other hand is annoyingly picking off smaller 
 ones that you'd rather deal with later. The 'adrenaline' system has been revived again where this 
 time you must drag your shot into the targeted area while time has slowed down, this generally 
 feels more enjoyable to pull off.
  
  Puzzles have become more about the environment as a whole rather than a key to a door or a switch 
 to pull down. The Kraken room for example, while simple, was about breaking down a number of supports 
 before taking out the Kraken and having access to a new area. There doesn't seem to be any particular 
 order for any of the puzzles in game which mean when it comes to replaying the title you can enjoy 
 a different experience.
  
  While the puzzles feel larger compared to previous titles, they certainly don't get any harder, 
 which is something of a disappointment. Previous Tomb Raider's have had me sat for hours thinking 
 of what to do and sometimes heading online or to a friends to find the answer. Underworld hardly 
 had me using the newly included hints system and the few times I did use it was purely to see how 
 it worked for this review. While this problem would not affect newcomers, fans of the series will 
 breeze through and the promised 12-14 hours worth of game play turn out to be around 10 if not 
 rushed. The majority of your time will be working out how to climb from where you are to where 
 you need to be, which to this day is still enjoyable.
  
  
  Another new feature like the hints system is the sonar map. Helpful for that completionist in you, 
 the sonar map highlights moveable objects such as small rocks but also shows any bumps on the map. 
 So if you see a very small triangle shape on a somewhat smooth surface you have probably just found 
 the location of a secret. The sonar map is very basic, it could have had a better look and control 
 system when moving around the map, but it doesn't give too much away so your exploration and experience 
 is not ruined. It is pretty much vital in finding the last few of the secrets and relics you might 
 have missed along the way.
  
  After completing the story, you unlock "Treasure Hunter" mode, which is basically a free pass to 
 all area's you have accessed without having to solve the puzzles to get through to them. This mode 
 is designed specifically for you to go back and collect up the 6 hard to find relics and all 179 
 treasures sprawled across the world. Enemies you have killed in the story mode will no longer appear 
 in Treasure Hunter mode leaving only ones you had previously let live. The lack of time trails 
 could be a little bit of a shock for returning fans, but the 'new game' option is something that 
 was due after being missing in the older Tomb Raider's, requiring you to start each chapter individually.
 
  
  Overall Underworld is an extremely enjoyable experience and now a personal favourite of the series. 
 While the camera is still iffy at times and puzzles not as challenging as I would have expected, 
 the fascinating storyline provides enough twists and turns to keep you engaged. Lara's new moves 
 and environments make up for any slight disappointments along the way too. With upcoming download 
 content to extent the story line already in place, Tomb Raider Underworld is a worthwhile purchase 
 and a fresh look at what seems to be a franchise still not ready to be put down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boj0001
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 19, 2009 9:40 pm PT
Review:  In my experience with this game, it follows a solid path, with a better story than Legend. Although, 
 why does Natla have to appear in this title, when Lara got over her back in 1996. The graphics 
 are awesome, with grand detail. In terms of movement, Lara just doesn't belong in such brilliantly 
 detailed environments. Sound and voiceacting is solid, nothing extraordinary. And the length of 
 this game is greater than Legend, which is major positive. If you want a title to last longer, 
 an increased amount of challenging puzzles would go astray. I just suppose people don't have patience 
 and balls like they did in the 80's and 90's. I was only five years old back in 1996, and the experience 
 of the original was life changing. Gradually, games have become easier, and the thrills are more 
 reliant on interactive cutscenes. It's as easy as watching a movie. I like this game, only for 
 it's adventuring and graphics, not for it's piss easy gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ayoung01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 11:13 pm PT
Review:  While many reviews I have read complain about the vastness of the levels, I welcome that. In Tomb 
 Raider Underworld, the latest release in the Tomb Raider series, players find themselves picking 
 up the story where Legend left off. The game's engine has had many small improvements cosmetically, 
 but one of the best changes is how Crystal Dynamics has integrated the "platforms" that players 
 use to traverse the levels into the environments. Gone are the days of blatantly obvious routes. 
 Doing away with the obvious markers allows players to discover their paths themselves. Granted 
 you may find yourself dying more from a miscalculated fall, but it sure makes for a better gaming 
 experience when you're not forced to jump through the flaming hoops.
  
  In an effort to appease some more action oriented audiences, CD tweaked the gun play and did the 
 game as a whole a small disservice. Tomb Raider is at it's core an exploration game and the added 
 shooting sequences seem forced.
  
  Many are comparing TR: U to Uncharted and having played both, I see the similarities, but the comparison 
 is still apples to oranges. They are both great games in their own right, but I will say that TR: U 
 really nails the exploration aspect of the adventure more than Uncharted in my opinion.
  
  I look forward to the downloadable content and hopefully to a future release of another TR adventure. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: player_mac
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 22, 2009 1:43 am PT
Review:  I'm not a huge Tomb Raider gamer, who knows Lara from way back since her first appearance on the 
 screen. But I have followed her since Angel of Darkness on her adventurous escapades throughout 
 the world. In Tomb Raider Legend she cuts the chains that dragged her down in the previous game, 
 and was finally able to move again. Here in the latest version she continues her search for clues 
 about her parents destinies, and it is a pleasant experience.
  
  It all starts in her own mansion, where something has gone terribly wrong. The player has a chance 
 to get acquainted with the controls here and soon we find ourselves in different environments solving 
 puzzles in a true tomb raider spirit. Cause that's where they have put the focus this time. Its 
 not so much about the shooting. Lara has infinite ammo when it comes to her standard pistols, and 
 a variety of weapons to choose from on top of that. She also aims automatically just by holding 
 down a button. That makes the firefights pretty easy most of the time, and rather dull in a way, 
 but as I said - it's not about that. The game focuses on exploration and puzzle solving instead. 
 And in my opinion - that is what I want in a game like this.
  
  The puzzles are great and so are the graphics. Grand statues and ancient ruins where you have to 
 put one and one together in order to advance throughout the story. The visuals are as good as they 
 can be and leaves you with nothing to complain about, except for one thing: the camera. Lara is 
 in the way of most of things, since its a third person perspective, and when you should look for 
 the next ledge to jump to you sometimes have to take a chance since you just cant see it. 
  
  Altogether - if you like slow paced exploration and mystical environments - get it. Its worth 
 the drawbacks that the camera brings. If I can make a wish for the next coming game in the series 
 I would wish for a manual aim, like Saints row. That would spice it up even more. And, please fix 
 the camera.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakckl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 4:40 am PT
Review:  The thing I most looked forward to in Tomb Raider: Underworld was to find some explanations for 
 questions left after Tomb Raider: Legend and later Tomb Raider: Anniversary. 
  
  The game starts as Lara stands in a corridor, before either ends of this corridor burst alight 
 with flame as she stares horrified. As you make your way out, it becomes obvious that this is Croft 
 Manor, and from there the adventure begins.
  
  Lara's motive for this adventure is to learn of the fate of her mother. This carries on from Legend 
 / Anniversary. Lara knows her mother was transported to Avalon, the mystical resting place of King 
 Arthur. This takes her to destinations all over the world from an underwater world in the Mediterranean 
 Sea, to a graphically - gorgeous Coastal Thailand, Southern Mexico, unknown islands and the Arctic, 
 as well as a burning Croft Manor. As she explores these destinations, she becomes aware of myth 
 involving Thor, the Norse God of Thunder and how his iron gauntlets and Thor's Hammer intertwine 
 with her mother's fate. Along the way, she will also come across a few foes from previous games.
 
  
  Lara's interaction with her environments has been once again worked upon to add a few new moves 
 and improve upon a few others. The lateral jumps and traversing ledges have returned, but she can 
 now also rock climb, walk on balance beam - like structures and abseil using her grapple. Thanks 
 to Lara being motion - captured, her moves are now incredibly realistic and she performs them with 
 such agility. Lara know has an ATV motorbike to make her way through some levels - it's not perfect 
 but it does its job. Combat, although not properly utelisied, has returned with a new move called 
 the Adrenaline Headshot in which Lara can perform a headshot using the free aim to execute the 
 heashot once her adrenaline levels have reached their peak. As always, the dual pistols have returned 
 but you will also obtain other weapons. The weapons selection doesn't make much sense - before 
 the level you choose an additional weapon from a list, but when you get to the level, you have 
 all the weapons you could have chosen from the screen before.
  
  All environments look great, whether its a dark, damp cave section or the lushious green forests 
 in Thailand. The game is non - linear too, so they may not necessarily be one path to the finish. 
 Just mind the 'infamous Tomb Raider' camera doesn't kill you when you're trying to jump backwards 
 onto a ledge and it makes you jump toward the camera. Once again, a lot of time in these environments 
 will be spent on Tomb Raider style puzzles. Whether its defeating a Kraken with a chandelier or 
 opening a gate to an Underworld, they can be quite tedious but rewarding.
  
  I immensly enjoyed Underworld, even though nothing has changed dramatically from previous games 
 in the series. I am hoping that Eidos can improve upon this great game in time for the next one. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wedge598
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 9:03 am PT
Review:  As a long time fan of Lara and her adventures I found this game to be both satisfying and disappointing 
 at the same time. I was satisfied to see a much more fluid Lara with some of the sexiest environments 
 to date. But I was disappointed to find the camera to be even more flaky than I remeber the past 
 two games being.
  
  If you are fan of Tomb Raider you should be able to look past the flaky camera. As crazy as it 
 got sometimes I was still able to get where I wanted to go and it would correct itself once I did. 
 By the end of the game I was getting a little annoyed with it but by and large it's not a factor 
 in the large environments.
  
  Lara moves about very smoothly now and if you take the time to understand how the game works you 
 can make her glide along convincingly. However, there will be a number of times where you aren't 
 being patient enough or some minor glitch will cause you to leap off of tall structure and plummet 
 to your doom. Just be aware that if the animation of Lara is still moving the character will leap 
 in that direction regardless of if you are moving the joystick or not. Remembering that and beingf 
 patient enough to wait for her to stop moving on screen will save you some headaches. Fortunately 
 checkpoints are all over the place and you'll never find yourself repeating long sections after 
 an unexepected death. 
  
  The combat is similar to the previous games with the adrenaline head shot back in action and a 
 lot of fun to execute. Lara can also now engage in melee combat with the Y button to dish out a 
 combination of jumping gun action and karate kicks. Overall the combat plays a small part in the 
 game and you won't find a "boss" character anywhere to be seen. Even at the end the climactic "battle" 
 is nothing more than a huge platforming puzzle to solve. 
  
  The game is fairly short but the half dozen or so environments are huge and the platforming is 
 fun and right on par with what you'd expect. The puzzles aren't terribly difficult but some will 
 require a little thought and a lot studying the environment. The game delivers admirably some classic 
 Tomb Raiding action. MINOR SPOILER: The combat in the last two levels is virtually a non-sequitor 
 because you obtain a weapon that allows you mow everything down with ease. It's a little disappointing 
 at first but again, the game is really a platformer anyway.
  
  The acheivements are generous and most people should rack up 2/3 of them just playing through casually. 
 Once you are done you get to revisit any levels at will and roam around in the worlds as you left 
 them to search for the remaining treasurers you left behind. There are couple acheivements which 
 will require a second play through but you could rack up almost 900 points if you took your time 
 the first time through.
  
  If you are in the mood for some great platforming in gorgeous environments and can forgive a wonky 
 camera then this will give you a good 10 hours or so of enjoyment. If you live for combat and don't 
 have the patience for minor technical glitches that should have been fixed 3 games ago then you 
 may want to pass this up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SephirothTDL
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Although many loyal Tomb Raider fans that have followed the series since Lara's first launch might 
 be a little disappointed, Tomb Raider Underworld is just right for this generation of gamers. Not 
 everyone got to experience the wonders of the very first Tomb Raider, and many new comers to the 
 series don't realize that there is actually a story behind the series.
  The best thing about Tomb Raider Underworld is the fact that you don't really have to play the 
 other games in order to understand whats happening.
  I wont go into the story, but for hardcore Lara fans, it may prove to be little weak for them. 
 However the story in TR: Underworld is enough to carry the game through and finally put an end to 
 Lara's journey to finding out what happen to her mother long ago. With much relief to those fans 
 out there, at least we know Lara will have a brand new adventure with a new story in the following 
 games.
  The game play itself was excellent in many aspects, apart from a few camera issues the game handled 
 smoothly and the graphics were phenomenal.
  Overall, I recommend this to any gamer out there who loves Action/Adventure games. If you are just 
 looking for a game with some challenge and love to solve puzzles, Tomb Raider: Underworld certainly 
 delivers. The experience itself was great and I am looking forward to more Tomb Raider games.
 
  
  -Seph 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VezTheNoob
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 5:31 am PT
Review:  I must first admit, I'm a newcomer to the Tomb Raider series. I've played through about the first 
 five minutes of the original Tomb Raider on Playstation, but the first Tomb Raider game that I 
 actually finished was Legend. So although I may not properly be able to compare Underworld games 
 past, I can at least give an unbiased opinion and let the game stand alone on its own merit during 
 this review. The game sports great graphics, enourmous, semi-non-linear levels and fantastic fun 
 gameplay. It is held back by a few bugs, but the experience is so worth playing through, that the 
 technical issues seem like only a minor setback.
  
  The graphics in tomb raider underworld are very slick. This games seems to be built around a new 
 graphics engine and now, Lara truly looks "current-gen." Her skin and costumes are reflective and 
 look very sexy. Lara has been given some life-like animation thanks to the use of motion capture, 
 and all of these animations for the most part tie together very well. There are some spots where 
 the movements get a bit clunky but more often than not I would have to remind my self that its 
 a game and not a real live person on the screen. She still has her signature shake when running. 
 The environments are nothing short of breathtaking. The textures are uber-detailed and they really 
 make the dungeons look believable. Each brick has super-grainy, rocky detail and you might actually 
 beleive you looking at a 3-D photograph of actual ruins . I thought Crystal dynamics also did a 
 great job of joining the abandoned man-made structures with plant-life to make the enviroments 
 look as if they have been free from human existance for a long time and that plants have grown 
 up around them. For the most part, the lighting effects are phenomenal. If the sun peeks through 
 a crack in the wall and shines on Lara, you can almost see the shape of the crack it is coming 
 through on her skin. It if Lara is outdoors, it really seems as if she is outdooors. If Lara is 
 at the bottom of a cold, dark, dank dungeon, it feels as if that were so. The shadow effects are 
 a bit jerky, but thats is forgivable when you look at the graphical presentation as a whole.
  
  The levels in this game are some of the biggest I've seen in any video game. Each country is 
 broken down into four or five sub-levels. Each one looks fantastic and I enjoyed exploring, climbing, 
 fighting and puzzle-solveing my way through. Some areas are not neccesary to reach, but if you 
 take on the task, you can find treausures and relics that unlock concept ares and story boards. 
 While the reward for finding these things may not be that exciting, I found it to be great fun 
 trying to collect as many as possible. My only complaint about the levels is that there simply 
 weren't enough of them. I wanted to keep playing and exploring and treasure hunting but sadly, 
 the game ended. Thankfully, the Xbox 360 version will get some expansion packs to feed my need 
 for more Tomb Raiding.
  
  The way lara moves is really impressive. Lara can now not only swing from poles, but walk on them 
 and use them as virtual springboards as well. She can walk, run and cartwheels along beams and 
 balance on top of tiny pegs. She can scale along certain walls and shoot eniemes while clinging 
 on for dear life. She can shoot two opponents at once there is a new head shot system that is fun 
 to pull off. Lara's grapple can now rappel her down walls and help her climb up walls to areas 
 that she normally could not reach. I think the grapple adds a great dimension to the puzzle-solving 
 aspect of the game. You won't use it it to the point where it feels redundant, but you will use 
 it a lot. Overall, Lara really feels like an agile, acrobatic badass and she can do so many things 
 that it really makes you feel as if you were controlling a real person.
  
  This game is not without it's flaws. Number one is its just too short. A couple more gigantic levels 
 and this game would have gotten an even higher score from me. Don't get me wrong, what's here is 
 fantastic, but I felt like once I really got a grasp on controlling her and felt like I had mastered 
 her move sets, the game was nearly over. Huge bummer, because it really is a lot of fun to play. 
 The camera is uncooperative at times but with a little bit of practice, you can master the right 
 analog stick and usually avoid too much headache camera-wise. I also think the game could have 
 benefitted from having more enemies to fight, but that is a topic that can be debated until the 
 end of time. Who knows, maybe one day Lara will unearth the skeletal remains of two people arguing 
 about how much combat should or shouldn't be in the game.
  
  Overall Tomb Raider Underworld is an impressive, immersive experience that I think pretty much 
 any fan of the adventure genre can enjoy. Lara finally looks next-gen and with her improved move 
 set, feels more life-like than ever. If you think she can do something, she probably can (within 
 reason) . The levels are rendered with great texture detail and feel very epic. Each segment is 
 full of suprises that will alwyas leave you wondering whats coming next. The camera is a bit frustrating 
 but managable. There is a slight lack of combat that might leave you wishing for just a few more 
 things to shoot, but its forgivable seeing as how this game's main focus is on exploration and 
 navagating through the environments. This is a great game that I really enjoyed, and although it 
 could have been longer, it is still a fun, memorable, and wild ride from start to finish! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 4:25 am PT
Review:  The Good: Stunning graphics, sweeping soundtrack, great story, bigger and better puzzles, more 
 animations makes things more real, Lara is still super hot
  
  The Bad: Camera is annoying, collision detection problems, story doesn't pick up until the end, 
 a bit on the short side, the sheer size can overwhelm most players, lame extras
  
  Everybody knows and loves Lara Croft from way way back in 1996 when she starred on the PlayStation 
 as the busty, sexy, British female adventurer that everyone has grown to love over the past decade. 
 Tomb Raider: Underworld really expands off the recent TR games with better environments, more brain 
 bending puzzles, less linearity, and more moves than you can count. Tomb Raider has always been 
 about exploration and finding the best route using the environment and this is still the core game 
 play element used. The story of Underworld picks off where Legend (read my review for that) ends 
 with Amanda on the loose and Lara trying to find her way into Atlantis to find her dead mother. 
 While most of the story doesn't pick up until the very end there is enough incentive to keep you 
 playing and motivated to press on.
  
  A main element I need to talk about is just how much more detailed this game is. While most of 
 the problems still exist they can easily be overlooked with all the new features and elements added 
 to the game. The first thing you'll notice is how much more real Lara looks, feels, and moves around 
 in the game. It's just amazing to see Lara push brush out of her way, move to and fro in 360 degree 
 motion with her stopping and starting really quick, the way she climbs, the way she places her 
 hands and feet while climbing it all just looks so damn good and real. The best thing about this 
 is that the controls are still responsive and (most of the time) will do what you want. When you 
 are swinging around poles, climbing walls, or hanging from ledges you can pretty much get where 
 you need with minute problems from the camera and some iffy collision detection issues. A lot of 
 times Lara will jump in a wrong direction because of the finicky camera, she'll fall off an edge 
 you know you didn't slip from, but all these are easily overlooked.
  
  Now since all the climbing action is still the same and hasn't changed much the new animations, 
 better controls, and the sheer freedom you have really make it feel fresh again. Still staying 
 on the action the combat is exactly the same as before and this is disappointing. The developers 
 seemed to have taken the slo-mo head shot element from Anniversary and mixed it with Legend's combat 
 and you get what you get: Simple lock on combat with dodges and flips that don't really do much. 
 While the camera keeps up with the action there's nothing much to do but shoot your heart out. 
 You can however throw grenades and this really helps in tight situations. With all of that out 
 of the way let's talk cosmetics.
  
  Yes, the game looks absolutely stunning and is one of the better next-gen games as of yet. Everything 
 is just HUGE and DETAILED. The sheer scope of the levels will make your jaw drop and think "How 
 the hell am I going to get up there?" This doesn't just include land this is also underwater. You 
 will partake in two levels where you are hundreds of feet under the ocean and it will take a good 
 4-5 minutes just to swim everywhere. The game really leads away from linearity with massive scope 
 in the levels and this usually leads to treasure hunting. Throughout the levels you'll find silver 
 vases, or just objects lying around as treasures for you to pick up. These will unlock extra content 
 when you beat the game so you must keep your eye out for these. Thankfully they are easier to get 
 to and are easier to spot than in previous TR games so you can relax. There's just something great 
 about this game that makes it different than other TR games and the only thing I can think of is 
 pure epicness. Running around (yes they added a run button!) in a sinking boat with a beautiful 
 sweeping orchestral soundtrack playing in the background just wows you every single time.
  
  The game really does a good job mixing up exploration with action and it also helps build up 
 on Lara's character. She is wiser, knows more, and is a lot older with bitterness in her heart 
 and is holding onto all she can to keep from becoming corrupted like the enemies of her past. You 
 really see this and how calloused her personality has become since she is no longer cheerful and 
 happy, but bitter and angry with powerful rage flowing through her veins. The game just becomes 
 so epic and amazing in the end you wind up forgetting about all the game play flaws and you feel 
 very satisfied in the end. The main reason for this are the puzzles that really bend your mind 
 in just the right way to make you smile every time you solve a puzzle that expands an entire level.
 
  
  Underworld requires you to take everything in and divide it into chunks instead of just looking 
 and solving. Most levels will have you going from room to room finding pieces of a bigger puzzle 
 and this is actually better in the end. A small feature added is the ability to choose your weapons 
 at the beginning of each level and your outfit. This is really useful and lets you mix things up 
 for multiple playthroughs. There are other elements added to the game such as your Gauntlets which 
 let you move certain heavier objects around rooms, Thor's hammer (which you get toward the end) 
 that is a one hit kill scenario, and not to mention all the cool gadgets such as better binoculars 
 (its actually a DV camera) your grapple hook, etc. You also do get your bike back, but this time 
 you get to control where you want to go. In Legend you just drove straight avoiding thing along 
 a linear path, but this time you drive it around and even use it to solve a few puzzles.
  
  Underworld really is for hardcore Tomb Raider fans and newbies really won't like this much unless 
 they get hooked with previous games. With gorgeous graphics, a great ending to a great story, our 
 favorite female protagonist, and a few game play flaws you will have a blast with Underworld.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  So far Legend and Anniversary have been the best TR games. This game was really good too but JUST 
 falls short of matching those.
  
  Graphically as always the game is stunning. Although there is only around 5-6 massive levels they 
 are very amazing to see. Laras animations as always are stunning to and never feels like someone 
 didn't bother working her.
  
  Story wise while other didn't care for it I found it to be very interesting. It carrys over from 
 the last games and it was nice to see it all wrap up. 
  
  The controls are somewhat of a pain. If you try to run and jump (which is needed) you either 1. 
 Jump wrong because of the annoying camera (at times) or 2. Fall off and grab the ledge instead. 
 
  
  Sound wise they always do a good job making it sound perfect.
  
  I really enjoyed the new underwater levels. They felt so big and you never really wanted to leave. 
 On that same note of big is the puzzles. At times you almost want to give up until you realize 
 how obvious something was... maybe because the levels were almost TO big. Although there is the 
 option to listen to hints from lara like "I think I should put the jewel into that pillar to activate 
 the door".
  
  I got to say though there isn't many enemies this time around. And what enemies I did see where 
 kinda lame. Giant spiders? BATS??? AGAIN??? Well ok bats I guess are in all caves. But aside from 
 them something makes sense but giant spiders seem silly. And I am never crazy about vehicle sections 
 in the TR games. They are fun but I like more footwork stuff then vehicles.
  
  I would like to see you have to use that Sonar Radar thing more next time though. The thing is 
 practically useless in this game. Which is ashame because it seems so cool.
  
  Overall this is a good game to rent because there isn't much to do after you beat it. You can go 
 back and look for treasure and relics simply for achievement purposes (and to unlock art) but theres 
 really not much to do besides that. So rent this at the least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nikki-S
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  Right so here we have the first true next gen TR game! (Yeah yeah I know Legend was too as it was 
 on the 360, but lets be honest, the graphics could have been better... her lips looked weird!) Anyway 
 moving on...
  
  As someone who has played all of the previous playstation TR games, this one raises the bar. I've 
 never felt more like I was actually shooting a tiger ( I'm now awaiting a knock on the door from 
 animal rights activists) , swan diving off a cliff or... raiding a tomb! 
  
  But as I said in the summary, its just too short! I want moooooooooore! But lets get down to business 
 shall we.
  
  Graphics/Enviroments:
  One of the first things you'll notice. Major improvements all around really, temples and puzzles 
 all look so real, the textures are gorgeous, everything from the weather effects to the moss on 
 the statues looks brilliant. Speaking of statues, WOW, they are BEAUTIFUL!!! I actually spent time 
 to zoom and look at them all properly with Lara's binoculars, they are deffinately worth stopping 
 to take a drool at for those of you who might have missed them if you have played through already. 
 
  Vegitation is lush and exotic, all very pretty too, I love how Lara now brushes them aside as she 
 runs by too, nice touch and adds to the realism. Water effects are too very nice. 
  One thing I really loved though was the lighting, espcially in dark temples and tombs, really made 
 the game atmospheric. Now it could possibly be because I had my brightness settings on my TV too 
 low, but I adorded how dark and creepy the temples were, made Lara's little utility light very 
 useful. Fire also helps in some of these, and the flickers of the flames are perfect.
  Now for Lara herself, personally I think she's never looked better. She looks more real than ever. 
 I've heard so many people complain about her looks, 'she looks asian now' 'her ass is too flat' 
 'why does she have muscles now' etc etc. First off, she doesn't look asian, second, her body is 
 more real now thats all. To do the things she does you would need muscle, I dunno about you but 
 I doubt she could hold her body weight (and sometimes more with obsticles that need moving) for 
 as long as she can without any toned muscles. The skinny Lara from the PS1 and PS2 games was fake, 
 she had a porn star figure not an athelete's one.
  
  Gameplay:
  Extremely enjoyable. Of course one of the main things you'll get from this is a sense of discovery. 
 I won't go into the story too much in case anyone likes to read reviews to help them decide wether 
 to buy, but when you come across the artifacts you are searching for, heck even when you come across 
 the places they are hidden in, you just think HOLY C***! As for puzzles, we have more of the real 
 puzzle solving that Legend introduced us too rather than the old  
 thing. Lara has to use herself to solve some puzzles, as in swing from things, put her weight on 
 things etc. She also comes with a few new and some old moves to traverse across all the different 
 enviroments, these include: swinging; climbing; chimney jumping (think Mario jumping off walls) ; 
 balance walking; balancing on poles; grabbing poles and so on. She can also climb up onto things 
 she couldn't before such as the tip of poles or on top of horizonal poles. All in all, you'll have 
 a blast mastering the enviroments with her many moves. 
  The size of the puzzles is also immense, they can involve having to travel all over the level to 
 gain various trinkets you need to progress that puzzle further, sometimes you might find yourself 
 taking a wrong turn or backtracking, so basically, as they should, the puzzles can actually make 
 you think. HUZZAH!
  
  Combat:
  One thing I've always wished Lara could do after watching the intro to TR1 on my PS1 was shoot 
 two enemies at once, and now... she can! YAY! It works automatically, if there are multiple enemies 
 in range of Lara she'll shoot both, one with each pistol. Not only that but she can also shoot 
 with one pistol while hanging from a ledge or balancing on a pole, very handy for those super annoying 
 bats that always flap around various tombs. One of my favorite new combat moves has to be the adrenaline 
 headshot though. Looks great and deals with an enemy in one shot, which can be a life saver if 
 Lara is low on health with few or no health packs but a hole group of baddies. The way it works 
 is simple, next to Lara's health bar is an adrenaline bar, when it is full just get close to the 
 enemy, press X and she will do a flip off their head, everything will go slow-mo, then you have 
 to move the crosshair with the right stick to the enemies head before Lara hits the ground and 
 bang. Job done. 
  The interactive cut-scene thing has been scrapped too, and traded in for adrenaline moments. During 
 a critical moment, say, where your running and suddenly the ground crumbles beneath your feet, 
 things will go slow-mo and you will have spilt seconds to save Lara from sudden doom. I LOVE these 
 moments. There are a fair few of them too, requiring you to grapple before falling to death, roll 
 out of the way of falling debries, jump, shimmy and more. 
  Theres also the melee combat feature, but to be honest, its rarely needed as if the enemy is close 
 enough for you to use it then it means your not dodging enough or your about to perform an adrenaline 
 headshot. :]
  
  Story:
  Nice, makes you in all feel sorry for Lara. For such an iconic character that people say 'women 
 want to be, men want to be with', it makes you wonder how many people would actually take her role 
 if given the chance. She goes through so much pain, so much loneliness. Still she always comes 
 out stronger I spose. To sum up, it continues from Legend and wraps up that chapter of her life. 
 
  
  The bad:
  I'm almost sorry to have to write this part, wish it wasn't there. The main issue here is the camera. 
 Which it seems the TR series has never been able to master. Its fine while running around or while 
 in combat most of the time, it normally starts to get tricky while climbing, the camera will pan 
 around to arkward views where you can't see Lara or where you are sending her. Which means annoyingly 
 sometimes you will make her leap off a cliff instead of onto that nice firm bit of ground to the 
 right. Shame. 
  Another bad thing is the bugs. I think they needed a bit longer to iron them out, not sure if this 
 is true for all versions but on the 360 I've found so many that have drove me nuts as they have 
 made me have to reset my machine. I've had all sorts from Lara climbing or grabbing thin air and 
 not being able to climb off or up it, Lara disappearing completely, Lara getting stuck on rocks 
 on the ground or doing a crazy break dance while balance walking. Just a shame really.
  Finally, the length, I wish there were more. There were only about 8 levels, I completed the game 
 in under 2 days, probably could have made one if I didn't take breaks to do work and stuff. On 
 the plus side the 360 version has extra levels and outfits on the way, so that has made me glad 
 that my brother bought me the wrong one for xmas. (I asked him for the PS3 one but he got the 360) 
 :D
  
  Finally, the unlockables, would have been nice to have some outfits in there rather than just concept 
 art, but oh well. Doesn't effect the score I gave at all. Overall I hope to see Underworld's formula 
 repeated in future TR games, just without the annoying camera and a longer playtime. :]
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jagcivtec
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 10:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is a mixed bag and the title ''underworld'' fits large on this entry. I was very excited 
 when I heard of a new entry to the series and even more so with the title. Being an old fan of 
 the series, Ive played every single TR game. Personally, from such a title I expected ''underwold'' 
 to be a dark, scary, evil atmosphere, that would bring flashbacks from ''the last revelation'' 
 , the 4th enty for TR which to me was the best in the series. Last rev. was a scary, dark game 
 that would put you up against rotten mummies, sword wielding skeletons, glowing eyes evil dogs, 
 flesh eating scarabs and more immortal beings ( they couldnt be killed ) in dark, really dark ( 
 not just low light ) egyptian tombs filled with horrible boobytraps around every corner, haunted 
 by spirits, blood flowing through canals, and every kind of scary goul imaginable that would keep 
 you immersed in a thick, fearfull atmosphere. Unfortunatly this game s settings are bright locales 
 or well lit hallways that inspire no fear. This game adds some nice new moves to the series character 
 and is graphically immpresive, well designed, has some ingenious puzzles and great platforming 
 action, but the camera will give some terrible angles during some of the stunts that will make 
 you missjudge, misscalculate or misstime your jumps and die way more than neccesary. This will 
 be a problem also during combat, be it with man or beast, the camera will often have staring at 
 a wall while tigers or other beasts chews you up. Apart from the camera, the overall combat is 
 simply bad. Your guns will only be effective at absurdly short distance so seeing a foe and pointing 
 at him doesnt mean you can shoot him, enemies can take exagerated amounts of lead before they go 
 down, a man will take +5 shots near point blank with a shotgun or +25 bullets from a gun and only 
 maybe he will die. This said, the lack of atmospheric horror, the combat, and camera get close 
 to screwing the whole thing up. TR needs to go back to the dark, scary atmosphere it acomplished 
 with ''last revelation'' , totally redo its bad shooting mechanic, fix the unforgibable camera, 
 then add the new, impproved moves and graphics and then it will be a game to behold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rob690532
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  When you first saw this game you might have thought "WTF!!!!" but delve deeper into it and there 
 is a gem in the rough waiting to be cut. The gameplay seems basic at first but it soon grows on 
 you and shows that not all good games have to have a fancy control system with bullet time etc. 
 Sure it may have the odd crack here and there (namely not really knowing what you are meant to 
 be doing) but thats what tomb raider is all about, figuring it out for yourself.
  The boss fights this time around are better disuised aswell. There is no HP bar in the corner telling 
 you how much damage you must inflict to win, no repeating the same move over and over again until 
 the bosses HP reaches 0. It is just plain and simple creativity which wins you the fight. If you 
 take the kraken fight for example, there is no HP bar over its head, no marker telling you what 
 to do, you just have to try things out until you get there.
  This game brings with it all the thought and creativity of the tomb raider games of old and a few 
 new ideas to. Give it a go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nawras
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  YAYS
  - amazing graphics and sound
  - jumpy, acrobatic Lara is wonderful as ever
  - huge, HUGE puzzles and environments
  
  NAYS
  - head-splitting camera and clipping
  - 
 combat tailored for the mentally handicapped
  - a good story told poorly
  - brief adventure
  
  Lara's back yet again. With Legends raising the bar for what a TR game 
 would be, it might have been considered difficult to do a decent follow-up. Rest assured that Underworld 
 is enjoyable and defines the "tomb" in the title, but it is still far from what a TR game really 
 ought to be.
  
  I have to give the developers lots of credit for creating wonderful environments to immerse you 
 in. TR has always been about environment - since there's little else to do - and Underworld is 
 anything but dull.
  
  In fact, Underworld boasts truly organic and breathtaking locales. Underwater environments are 
 simply breathtaking and atmospheric, and the eeriness of being in an underwater tomb (a tomb in 
 a tomb) is pretty chilling. Outdoor places include your typical forest and snowy areas but they're 
 simply wonderful, and the foliage around the temples in the forests truly add a sense of how old 
 the tomb you're about to enter is. Inside the tombs, you'd be faced with amazing indoor architecture, 
 lots of traps, puzzles, and of course the local residents of said tomb.
  
  What's great about the environments though is not only how they look, but also their scale. Puzzles 
 this time around are not confined within a location. Getting from point A to B to open flip a switch 
 is still there, but rooms don't usually have self contained puzzles.
  
  The rooms that do, however, are simply enormous and could take you a while to traverse. Puzzles 
 usually span the whole level, and while the overall approach is linear (you cannot open main gate 
 unless everything is in place) , the order of how you go about solving the puzzles is up to you.
 
  
  In fact the game doesn't give you a visual clue on what you need to do. It often drops you in the 
 middle of a forest, temple, or ocean and let's you attempt figuring out everything for yourself. 
 Rest assured though that whatever direction you go would end up being a piece of the larger puzzle, 
 and sooner or later you'd be knowing what to do. If you get stuck, you can ask for assistance from 
 Lara through her PDA (something like "I need to get the stones from the tower to move the machinery) 
 as well as a sonar to give you a 3D wireframe map of the area you're in.
  
  While the game is organic in the sense of environment and puzzles, some rules are still too rigid. 
 You can still only scale specific ledges, walls, and pillars. So while you may know where to go, 
 you have to find THE pre-prescribed path to go there. It's not really a bad thing, but it stands 
 out as rather odd when you can clearly see there are many alternate routes. In previous TR games 
 when the levels were smaller and linear, it was understandable. But it sounds offish when you have 
 to climb specific ledges and pillars in a jungle when you can climb others to reach your destination.
 
  
  Though rigid on the path she has to take, Lara moves more fluidly and gracefully than before. It's 
 flabbergasting at how smooth her animation is and life-like. She brushes the leaves off of her 
 face and shields herself from fire if present. Visual cues like water drops or dust on her skin 
 and clothes from climbing is a nice touch too. Jumping about, grappling, climbing, running, and 
 swimming is always a joy.
  
  These major updates aside, the rest of the good - and bad - are still present. First off is the 
 camera problem, which is weird to still have it behaving this way after so many TR games developed. 
 Whoever has been programming the camera all these years must be replaced. When it behaves, it is 
 great. Most of the time though, it would decide to give you a "better" view of things which throws 
 your controls off and you jump to death. Worse is when you're climbing and you cannot rotate the 
 camera into a good enough view to show anything but Lara's bum. As amusing as that sounds, you 
 have to use trial and error to jump in the right direction when that happens.
  
  Some odd animation takes place too. If your jump is a bit off, you can almost feel an invisible 
 hand holding Lara, moving her closer, then releasing her so she can land safely. It was present 
 in Legends but is more pronounced here. Clipping is also another issue, and often you'd run inside 
 a pillar or into a rock and would have to stop, move around slowly, and try to wiggle yourself 
 out. Invisible objects are also present around and you would frequently bump into something and 
 wonder why Lara stopped. Then you'd have to "reposition" her a little bit to go around said object. 
 When that happens on ledges, dropping down or jumping seems to resolve the issue. Another minor 
 problem happened to me in the Mexico level when the run disappeared completely, and I had to reload 
 to make it come out again.
  
  Two other rather sad implementations are the story and the combat. The story picks up directly 
 from TR Legend, and while it is ambitious and has potential, it is narrated and revealed in a ridiculous 
 manner, and anti-climaxes in the end with no end boss (a gigantic and evil puzzle serves instead) . 
 TR Legend had a charming story, too bad it got resolved in such a manner. 
  
  Combat is a sad affair because of both the mechanics and the enemies. The mechanics have been "dumbed 
 down" from Legend. The slow-motion moves are now standard and make combat easier than it is. Enemies 
 set the bar of below zero IQ. Human enemies stand there and do nothing while you shoot at them. 
 Non human enemies are usually dead by the time they reach you, and those that do can be avoided 
 by jumping or rolling about or shooting. They just keep charging at you. Some enemies even charge 
 in the wrong direction and often clip into a wall making them even easier to kill. By the end of 
 the game, you get a super powerful weapon which instantly kills anything, making combat look like 
 baseball (as enemies fly off into infinity when you hit them) .
  
  All in all, Underworld is both fun and frustrating adventure that is a bit too brief. If you enjoy 
 exploration or the previous TR games, this is a game for you. However if you're expecting more 
 fluidity you'd expect of next-gen game, you need to place your bet on some other platformer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blizzardoblivio
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  Having been a fan of Tomb Raider games since the first game released in 1996, it is great to see 
 the series going strong 12 years later. The game has made several improvements since its most recent 
 predecessors ( Legend, Anniversary ) . However some small problems series wide have come along for 
 the ride as well. 
  
  First off, the new engine is incredible. It takes graphics to a new level, showing off Lara herself, 
 and the environments in ways never seen in previouse Raider games. The flush, and the softness 
 of the textures allow for the world to have a sense of realism that perhaps was not fully appreciated 
 in previouse games. Water, fog and other particle effects have been improved 10 fold from since 
 Legend and run smoothly and flawlessly within the new engine. 
  
  With a new engine came some great new moves and animations. Lara seems to feel much more real when 
 traversing the cliffs and spider infested jungles this time around. When I first jumped to scale 
 a rock wall, I was amazed at the realsim in the movements, and the way her body seemed to hang 
 of the cliff side. The sprint button is back from previouse games, and has been tweked to feel 
 realistic and fast enough to speed up the pace of the game. 
  
  In terms of the story, we have returning characters that fans of the series will be happy to see, 
 Alasteir, our famous Croft Manor Butler etc. Also our antagonist from Legend is back in black, 
 Ms. Amanda. Amanda's companion "Demon" from Atlantis is also back, and has taken on a new from 
 that will surprise all gamers to play the game. 
  
  The basic premise for the game is this... Lara seems to have a rekindled theory about her mothers 
 dissappearance. The theory suggests that Laras mother is in Avalon, and her father research before 
 hers has lead many clues on how to get there. Lara's fathers clues lead her to many beautiful and 
 remote environments all over the world, which leads me to my next point about the game. . .
  
  The game's design and puzzle solving is phanominal! Some of the puzzles are so clever yet challenging, 
 they make me thinkWow this is the new "Ru bix Cube"". Many of the puzzles require the gamer 
 to think outside the box, and really immerse yourself in the game, and act as if you are in the 
 world. This stops gamers from assuming what wouldn't be the solution to the problem becauseThat 
 wouldnt be in a game". 
  
  All of these great elements to the game glue you to your couch for hours of enjoyable gaming, but 
 that doesn't mean that the game doesn't have many short comning that should be left unmentioned. 
 Some of the not so great elements of the game are as follows : the game has a terrible camera system. 
 When you are following Lara in a large open area there isn't problems in terms of the camera, but 
 much of the game takes you to small enclosed rooms and corridors and the camera seems to get stuck 
 in positions that make your next move terrtibly difficult. Although there is an abundance of enemies 
 in the game, and your never left alot for longer than you want, you will find that the battles 
 grow slightly stale as you realize the lack of enemie character models. Rest assured Radier fans, 
 we will like always be endangering many more endangered species. 
  
  
  A more thorough review will soon be available upon completeion of the game. I look forward to having 
 you read the complete review soon. 
  
  buh bye fellow gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yeldarb1
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Review
  
  Tomb Raider: Underworld (360)
  
  
  Underworld picks up where Legend leaves off, Lara's search for her missing mother. Avalon is where 
 Lara needs to go, but in order to get there she must retrieve the mighty Thor's legendary war hammer 
 known as Mjolnir. Legend's nemesis Amanda is back, seeking entrance into Avalon as well. Also returning 
 from Anniversary is Natla, the queen of Atlantis who wanted to end the world as we know it and 
 bring in a new age. Well, Natla's objective hasn't changed. But, before Lara can retrieve Mjolnir, 
 she must first find Thor's gauntlets and belt. This leads her on an epic adventure visiting locales 
 in the Mediterranean Sea, Thailand, Back to the Croft Manor, Mexico, Jan Mayen Island, and the 
 Arctic Sea. The locales look fantastic and Lara of course doesn't diminish the landscape one iota. 
 The puzzles are grand in size and most are very well designed and thought out. Acrobats are better 
 than ever with the addition of a couple of new moves such as wall scaling with/without grapple, 
 balancing on beams and poles, and firing weapons while holding on to ledges. Lara is more fluid 
 than ever. A slow mo adrenaline head shot has been added to combat. Boss fights have been eliminated 
 all together. Lara still has to fight her way through humans, tigers, sharks, spiders, and thralls. 
 The giant yeti thrall are tough, but Lara only has to defeat one before she retrieves the hammer. 
 Wielding Thor's hammer allows Lara to mow through her enemies. But this game is primarily about 
 solving the contraptions and figuring out how to get there to do it.
  Like its predecessors, at times Underworld suffers from fussy camera angles. This is always frustrating 
 because it will lead to several missed jumps and dying screams. One would think for the third installment 
 this problem would be solved.
  The bottom line though, Underworld is a fun adventure with lots of acrobatics, beautiful settings, 
 clever puzzles, good voice overs (Keeley Hawes returns as Lara) , and at times great cinematic animations 
 (I only wish you could replay them at any time like you could in Legend) . If you have played Legend 
 and Anniversary and enjoyed them, well this game is for you. If you are new to the series, play 
 Legend first. It's still the best of the lot. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdobeArtist
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  It's been 13 years since the most controversially provocative female protagonist entered the game 
 scene on the PS1, capturing the hearts of many a wide eyed gamer. And now she makes her 1st true 
 next gen debut in Underworld. Although Legend had already come out on Xbox 360 (but in the systems 
 first year, and also Xbox and PS2) , this is the game that really takes advantage of this current 
 generation of hardware (both in 360 and PS3) .
  
  And let me say right here and now, speaking as someone who's played the first series from the first 
 back in 1995 (although I missed Angel of Darkness on PS2) to Legend, this latest installment is 
 without contest, THE best game ever made of the adventures of Lara Croft. I mean it. No game before 
 compares to this.
  
  ---
  
  Visuals
  
  This of course is the most obvious upgrade to the game. The outdoor landscapes are just gorgeous 
 vistas, with lush foliage that bends and folds as Lara pushes her way through it. The temples and 
 ruins seen from the outside are picturesque, conveying a hint of mystery of what lies beneath their 
 serene surface, with the interiors being richly detailed, and all of this being greatly enhanced 
 by the new lighting engine CD has incorporated. Much of the scenery will give you cause for breathless 
 admiration and wonder, a testament to beautifully executed art direction. The wildlife that is 
 also a staple of the franchise is also more vivid and truly a beauty of nature. The tigers have 
 really come to life with fluid animation giving them beautiful ferocity.
  
  Naturally, mention has to be given to the graphical upgrade Lara herself has received with this 
 next gen overhaul. She has never looked better. And I'm not just talking about her hotness, which 
 there is no denying is as present as ever, in her athletic physique, piercing eyes, long toned 
 legs, her confident swagger, and those full round errr ahhh sorry, got side tracked :grins sheepishly: 
 So ahem ahem as I was saying. This is the best looking Lara Croft, not just in the "babe" sense 
 of the word, but also in that this is the most realistic rendition of the iconic character. This 
 is a more naturalistic human looking person. Yes, she's still well endowed but much more realistically 
 well endowed, with the accurate proportions of what real women with large breasts actually look 
 like. In fact when you compare this model to the original from 1995 (even going by the CGI render) , 
 that one takes on a more caricature appearance of "the hot babe" ideal where all the features are 
 exaggerated.
  
  More than ever, the art direction gives the illusion (and hope) that Lara Croft could be a real 
 person. And it's this more natural and human approach to her appearance that really enhances the 
 beauty and appeal of the leading lady. The look of Lara is further augmented by the motion capture 
 incorporated into the animations (a first for the series) that really breath's life into the character, 
 especially in the cut scenes.
  
  ---
  
  Gameplay
  
  It goes without saying that the platforming is as enjoyable as ever. Carrying the tradition of 
 environmental puzzle solving that Tomb Raider began, you'll experience the challenge of figuring 
 out which of Lara's many acrobatic skills (swinging, climbing, chimney jumping, balance walking, 
 pole vaulting, shimmying, etc) to use in what areas of the environment, where your goal is to 
 decipher your route to get from point A to point B of the intricate structures. Then of course 
 there's solving the riddles of ancient mechanisms and how to activate them so you can proceed.
 
  
  The environments and puzzles are on a massive scale, made majestic by the detail and beautiful 
 rendering of the art. Southern Mexico in particular covers a vast expanse of territory as you'll 
 race through the jungle on your cycle to not one, but a few temples, exploring them to recover 
 the pieces you'll need to solve the even greater puzzle leading into the next grand secret chamber 
  with even more puzzles to solve. There's a reason that mission gains you a 100 point achievement 
 for completing.
  
  The challenge in some areas will be quite high; stemming from the size of the environments that 
 leaves much guess work as to the correct path and order you need to take multiple routes in, which 
 adds to the complexity of the puzzles. While some puzzles will be easy to navigate and solve, be 
 prepared to do some wandering as you stumble along looking for the solution to some others. Thinking 
 will be required here. :)
  
  What I always found to be the charm of the Tomb Raider series is the sense of wonder and discovery. 
 These were games where I felt I wasn't just having an adventure in some fantasy world, but really 
 delving deep into the mysteries of our own world. Uncovering remnants of long perished civilizations 
 that still seemed connected to our own modern world fostered a fascination I rarely found in other 
 games. These are the roots of what made the series so great in the old days, which Crystal Dynamics 
 has so successfully resurrected and enhanced in modern gaming form. This is also where the brilliant 
 visuals augment the experience lending authenticity to the cultural exoticness of the ruins, where 
 you'll really feel like you're in a genuine recreation. This is a game of exploration, and not 
 just of old structures, but also of ancient legends and mythologies. Where Legend took it's rendition 
 of the "reality" behind the myths of Excalibur, Underworld does the same, with a unique approach 
 to Norse mythology, uncovering the secrets of Thor's hammer, the World Serpent, and the prophesy 
 of Ragnarok.
  
  ---
  
  Feature Upgrades
  
  When Crystal Dynamics took the reigns of this beloved franchise, they didn't stop at taking the 
 game back to its roots of what made it great. They also looked to see where tweaks could be made 
 to the game mechanics, by eliminating limitations Lara had in past games that she really shouldn't 
 have today. Being able to target two enemies simultaneously as well as being able to shoot (just 
 one pistol) while hanging from a ledge is a very welcome addition, and about time too. But there's 
 two new enhancements in particular that are the real stars of the show;
  
  First is the addition of the Adrenaline Head Shot. This fantastic combat maneuver is both cinematic 
 and remains interactive, where you still control the aiming during the slow motion action. It gives 
 you the feeling of controlling a powerful character, more skilled in marksmanship than the average 
 mercenary she encounters, albeit in more of a hollywood action movie enhanced by special effects, 
 than in the traditional FPS player based skill manner. And when it comes right down to it, it just 
 looks frakkin COOL. This is one of those play mechanics that I can say never gets old.
  
  Second is the new and improved method of special action sequences. Gone is the tired old Quick 
 Time mechanic. This has become an all too common feature and having button icons pop on screen, 
 really breaks the immersion quality of a game, and pulls you away from the fluid game play, where 
 it becomes a segment where you're riding the rails. Basically it smacks of hand holding where the 
 game is telling you what to do and you have to follow on queue. Instead, during critical moments, 
 the action simply slows down, allowing you to execute the appropriate maneuvers from Lara's repertoire, 
 whether that's a jump, grab, roll, or shooting of the grapple line. Without the icons appearing 
 on screen, and the fact that your actions are still fully in your hands, relying on your knowledge 
 of the built in control scheme (basically you're controlling the same way you normally are throughout 
 the game) , the immersion is never broken and it blends much more seamlessly with the standard game 
 play.
  
  It is now my firm held position that this, THIS is how special action sequences would be done in 
 all games, to completely replace on screen icon pop-ups. The era of Quick Time must be brought 
 to an end.
  
  ---
  
  The Downside
  
  Yeah, need to get to this part. And how unfortunate it is that after all these years, Tomb Raider 
 is still struggling with the camera. While most of the time the game control is solid in executing 
 Lara's acrobatic maneuvers, it can get hampered in those cases the camera refuses to give you the 
 proper viewing angle of your environment, leading analog stick direction confusion, that in turn 
 cause you to jump in the wrong direction - like towards a chasm instead of the opposing ledge which 
 is where you (in your mind at least) was aiming towards. Considering it's been 13 years, you'd 
 think this would be resolved by now. Even if Crystal Dynamics has only had tenancy of the series 
 recently, still this is an issue that has been dealt with by games since the 3D era 1st began. 
 To Crystal Dynamics I sentence them to mandatory lessons from Ubisoft :P
  
  It's this persistent shortcoming that prevents me from giving Tomb Raider Underworld a higher score, 
 and believe me I would like to, as I rank this is the best of all the Tomb Raider games. Another 
 smaller complaint I have of this game is far fewer costume options than Legend. It seems silly, 
 but did add replay value, and was just fun to give you the player the choice to see Lara how you 
 wanted.
  
  So my final score for Underworld is 8.5
  
  ---
  
  On a Final Note
  
  OK, so this doesn't really have any bearing on the game itself. But I'm going to include it anyway, 
 because hell, it's MY review :P I just have to say... Alison Carroll is THE best Lara Croft there 
 has ever been (Angelina Jolie included) . She really looks the part, with a face both friendly and 
 determined, has the stance, the confidence, the cIass and best of all, genuine British poise. In 
 all respects that matter most, she comes across as the embodiment of the polygons come right out 
 of the screen and taken flesh. Alison is undeniably beautiful, confident, and exemplifies unwavering 
 perseverance  all the qualities that we have come to love about Lara herself. Oh yeah... and she's 
 an actual GYMNAST!!! How much more perfect could any lady be to carry the mantle? Alison, you're 
 doing a fantastic job so far and I hope you'll be the face of Tomb Raider for a long time to come 
 :) :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wrathesoul
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  First off the reason I rate this game a 9 is due to it is just plain fun with very good graphics 
 and a enjoyable story (even if it wasnt a long story) the controls are easy to use respond well 
 there are a few and I mean few camera places that can cause ya to die easy if you dont know where 
 you need to go/jump to but saying that if you take the time to look around before you go there 
 you will see what is needed and can do it easy. This tomb raider isnt hard to finish it is a lot 
 easier on the player then the ones before it on the ps2/pc but easier isnt a bad thing just less 
 annoying IMO. Another thing I was happy with was the story did tie up some lose ends from the ealier 
 games story lines so by the end I felt satisfied with the ending but also felt enough of a opening 
 for the next tomb raider to continue on from. Over all I believe anyone who likes action platform 
 games would enjoy this game a lot and would easily give it a second play through if not more. I 
 truly have nothing bad to say about this game the makers sould be pleased with themselves they 
 did good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duffcub
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  I bought Tomb Raider: Underworld as something to swap in and out of while trying not to complete 
 'Fallout 3' too quickly. I'd played the demo, and was awed by the loveliness of the graphics, but 
 was hoping the slightly glitchy controls would not make it to the full version.
  
  Ho hum... I'd not played a Tomb Raider game on the 360 before, having come back to the series rather 
 late via Legend and Anniversary. Both of these I enjoyed immensely, although found the keyboard/mouse 
 combination somewhat awkward, and was looking forward to playing a 21st century platformer on a 
 21st century console. For the most part, it was fine, but just a slight twist of the stick at the 
 wrong moment, would send Miss Croft plummeting to her death once more, and I'd have to get her 
 climbing that rock face once more. Not that the game is hard - far from it. 
  
  And that's my next gripe. How. Short. Is. This. Game? Luckily, I didn't pay full retail price for 
 it, otherwise I'd be well hacked off. OK, so yes, there's the replay value in going back round 
 and collecting all the treasures... but truthfully, where's the fun in that? I play Tomb Raider 
 games for the story. More fool me, I suppose, because yes, the stories are lame, but you need Lara 
 to have a purpose in these games, and mostly while they are nonsense, there is a plot of sorts. 
 No plot in scrabbling around trying to find that last relic just so I can see an early sketch of 
 Lara's wetsuit concept.
  
  I remember in the early days of the polygon-challenged Lara, that the puzzles could take hours 
 of wandering about to solve. I completed Underworld in about 10-15 hours playing time. Seeing as 
 I bought this as a companion to Fallout 3, it's worth noting that I've been playing that for upwards 
 of 30 hours, and I've got nowhere in it yet - an equally beautiful game, with puzzles, combat, 
 and moral dilemmas, but mile upon mile of virtual landscape to explore. Tomb Raider: Underworld 
 has one or two clever puzzles, but nothing that can't be solved by someone who is familiar with 
 the series or any similar game, and it's just so small. There are just no surprises in Tomb Raider 
 games any more.
  
  I think it's now time to shake up the Tomb Raider series - either call it a day, or take it to 
 a new level. Don't keep reinventing the wheel, and take it somewhere else, like Bethesda did with 
 the Fallout games. 
  
  After all this negativity, don't get me wrong. I did enjoy playing Underworld, but I wanted to 
 enjoy it for a lot longer. I want to continue to enjoy playing Tomb Raider games, but if they just 
 keep rehashing the same old premise but with slicker graphics (which I assume take up all the space 
 on the disk so there's not enough room for more levels/countries/missions) , then it's all going 
 to end badly, and it's Angel of Darkness all over again.
  
  For fans of the genre and series, it's well worth a play. If you've not played a Lara game before, 
 then it's a good intro, and again, worth playing. I just feel slightly cheated about the game length, 
 and the lack of difficulty or challenge in the puzzles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic5678
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Underworld is just like Legend.
  
  After Tomb Raider Anniversary, it was going to be hard for CD to 
  achieve a similar level of 
 quality. With its length, difficulty, nostalgia-factor, great story, and a satisfactory conclusion 
 (all things that prevented some reviewers from giving Legend above a 7, and I myself said that 
 Legend was too short) , TR: U feels somewhat...... lacking.
  
  Technical problems occured (for me at least) right off the bat, with one of the axles needed to 
 open the first door glitching out of existence, causing me to have to restart the whole level. 
 Thankfully, nothing of that caliber happened again throughout the game, but still swimming around 
 for hours looking for an axle that isn't there after booting up the game for the first time can 
 still be a drag.
  
  Really, most problems come from the fact that the story is too big, too large and too epic for 
 the amount of cut scenes that are here. It's usually "Lara goes here, gets artifact, gets told 
 where to go next, repeat", while the content of the story, being so chock-full of characters and 
 events that players need to know all about (it is the conclusion to a trilogy after all) requires 
 it to be explained and elaborated on in more detail. However, it all kinda comes together in the 
 final few hours, where the story picks up and fans of Legend will enjoy the attention to detail 
 in the continuity.
  
  After Anniversary, I (and I think most others) thought for a long time that Underworld was going 
 to be longer than that game, especially seeing as how Legend was so short, and that was the biggest 
 complaint made about it. Sadly however, this is another three-sitting game; just one of the many 
 factors that makes the whole game feel as though it's a step down to the same level as Legend, 
 rather than a step up beyond Anniversary.
  
  All the supporting characters, including Alister, Zip, Amanda, Natla and Winston are woefully underused, 
 with too-quick and cliched banter between Lara and her nemesis which, after Anniversary, again 
 feels..... stripped. ( I was surprised that the V/O director was Kris Zimmerman, the same one from 
 the MGS series) .
  
  But it's about the gameplay, right? Yes, I guess so, and it's here where the best parts of the 
 game lie. The puzzles in the game are HUGE, surpassing even the hugeness and the "OMG how the...." 
 factor of the Soul Reaver series (and that's saying a lot) puzzle-wise, which is the best thing 
 about this game. This is without doubt one of the most cerebral adventures this year, requiring 
 you to stop, pause, think logically, think laterally, think physically, think, think, THINK. (Something 
 missing from today's action-gaming climate, i feel) . The field assistance, while tempting, can 
 give either a hint or the solution to most situations, but by the time your stuck enough to use 
 it, it's because you've already figured out what to do and the thing that's frustrating you is 
 the process of actually doing it. Tomb Raider fans, myself included, will feel right at home with 
 the exploration and sense of discovery and wonder that only this series can give, but if you don't 
 like Tomb Raider, you still won't.
  
  Gunplay: the camera can be a pain sometimes, but the combat is not what this game is about. This 
 game, this whole series, is about exploration, problem-solving, and discovery. If you wanna fix 
 the gunplay, CD, then just include an optional over-the-shoulder manual aim like in MGS4, don't 
 go the Uncharted route and opt for a cover system, as that the was thing I (and others not fond 
 of aiming games) hated most about that game.
  
  Quite simply, TRU is graphically great, not once are there any frame rate dips, and the water and 
 other liquid graphics are stunning. The shadowing can be iffy, but shadows mean little to nothing 
 to me, so meh. Lara's model seems to be a bit more caricatured and nigh-cartoony than Anniversary 
 (that comparison again) , and the enemies can sometimes ragdoll-ify woth no warning, but overall 
 this is a nice game to look at.
  
  In conclusion, it seems as though Underworld is a step back down to Legend quality, which in 2006 
 was well worth my 8.8 score, but after the far-better Anniversary, Tomb Raider Underworld is a 
 tiny bit disappointing, and just another fans-only entry in this 12-year old series. There's nothing 
 wrong with the gameplay, but next time, CD, make it last longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wayo_93
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 5, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  So I am a little biased as you might have been able to guess. Tomb Raider games have never done 
 it for me and the way this one performed will likely never do it for me. Firstly the controls are 
 terrible and awkward. Combined with an inconsistent camera it is hard to tell if you actually have 
 control over Lara Croft. The backgrounds and textures are actually pretty good; they are unfortunately 
 what makes up my entire 3.0 score. The Lara Craft sprite has become increasingly more barbie (with 
 bigger ta-tas It is hard to think why the character model is so far fetched. The story is about 
 as good an anything with the name Tomb Raider attached to it... any die hard fans can take that 
 as they will, to me that is an insult. I am actually dumbfounded to think of how many ways I disliked 
 this game. Nothing feels right, moves right, shoots right, or dies properly. I know it isn't expected 
 to be realistic but I am tired of shooting tigers five times in a head to kill it. Straight up, 
 this game was bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryu_San
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  The road was long and arduous, filled with unexpected traps and murky terrains, but today, Lara 
 is finally back. Most of you won't recognize her, for the long road has left many scars and broken 
 ribs, and her face is not as it once was. You'll probably even dismiss her for being old or unappealing 
 for the XXIst century, but she was the first love of an entire generation that hasn't forgotten 
 her, and that generation can now finally rejoice. Welcome home, dear Lara. Time has flown by, as 
 she went from explorer to action seductress, constantly misinterpreted by her fans and authors, 
 desperately seeking to keep up with her unexpected pop-icon status. She became hollow and shallow, 
 her figure reduced to that of her own hyper-sexual body, her mind a female replica of a noble Indiana 
 Jones. Her curse lasted several years, and with each passing incarnation robbing her of one more 
 relic, each interpretation became another stab at the core of her inner sanctuary. But all that 
 changed when she went back to her origins, returning to that same place which made her Lara, the 
 tombs.
  
  There was a sprout of hope in the future of "Legend", a welcome sense of nostalgia over the forgotten 
 path in "Anniversary" and in "Underworld", future meets past, and Lara is once again a real "Tomb 
 Raider". No more action movie stunts, spy movie thrills or sightseeing in Venice, London, or Tokyo; 
 Lara is back at doing what she does best: exploring tombs in the far reaches of the world. Venturing 
 into the cavernous depths of the past is once again the treasure which drives the player, as Lara 
 delves into large ruins of ancient civilizations in search of ancient secrets. Gently paced by 
 the somber and melancholic ambiance, you'll delve into the monuments of yore, sinking in the idyllic 
 landscape that serves as background for these gorgeous tombs, gazing at the sumptuous architectonic 
 details, crafted with such artistic and historic merit that they could belong to a real museum. 
 Exploring them is like entering a misty realm of fiction and fantasy; your eyes transformed into 
 a dim flashlight uncovering the darkness which laid such wondrous secrets unfettered by men. A 
 sense of exploration overwhelms you, trumped only by the amazement at the aesthetic beauty that 
 feasts your senses. Silence encompasses everything, arresting your thoughts in a reflexive state 
 of mind, punctuated only by the glorious moments of archeological discovery, the tingling sound 
 of discovery transformed into delectable orchestral compositions by Troels Brun Folmann and Colin 
 O'Malley ("Legend" and "Anniversary") .
  
  "Underworld" is darker, moodier, and in almost everything similar to the first "Tomb Raider" and 
 its remake. And yet, it isn't quite like its original, minimalist outing, as it tries, without 
 compromising its conceptual nature, to incorporate the history of that which has passed in the 
 12 years that have gone by. There's a little bit of the action tempos of "Legend", the gunfights 
 of "Uncharted" and the cartoony animations of "Sands of Time" in "Underworld". Lara is easier to 
 control, slicker, more agile and realistic, and it helps the game feel more fluid and entertaining. 
 The level design, as always, makes exploration a true delight. By leading and rewarding the player 
 in subtle ways, mostly through the smart layout of tombs' architecture, the player is engaged to 
 feel like an amazing explorer, without any obtuse thought process. Simply sinking in the environment, 
 through careful observation and reflection, leads to the solution of all puzzles and contraptions. 
 The awe-inspiring scale and complexity of each environment guarantees the notion of a great deed 
 when you get to crack a puzzle, while the stunning level design thoroughly hints at the solutions, 
 unconsciously leading you into the fulfillment of an apparently glorious achievement.
  
  Also in keeping with times, Lara's more often provoked into using her guns, and though none of 
 this actually helps the game, because it betrays its true focus, it does keep things more dynamic 
 for less patient players. But in all honesty, this particular Lara will never win their hearts, 
 for the more cerebral, introspective component of the experience will shun them, and Lara never 
 was, and never will be, a Nathan Drake. Gunplay is obnoxiously flashy and too straightforward, 
 action sequences are dull and seem like an afterthought of the exploration scenes, and when it 
 comes to narrative, Lara's story is still a worn-out cliche filled with pseudo archaeological babble, 
 written by an imaginative teenager at heart (Toby Gard) . Of all the elements that serve to build 
 up tension, only the substitute for QTE's is worthy of note. Instead of flashing buttons on screen 
 for you to press as a mindless drone, delivering some stylish cutscene in the process, the game 
 opts to let you discover what Lara should do in moments of crisis. Let's say a giant blade approaches 
 Lara, should she jump or duck? The game poses these options by slowing down time, and giving you 
 chance for one single action, selected by a press of the same button that corresponds to the action 
 during normal play. It's simple, more dynamic and much more rewarding than QTE's, and it accomplishes 
 the same goal: a thrilling, cinematic experience, that heightens your reflexes and gives a proper 
 climax to action sequences.
  
  But this is not an action epic, and despite the odd attempts at capturing modern audiences, more 
 favorable to mindless action games, Lara is still the old, intelligent and charming woman that 
 captured our hearts so many years ago. But as in all great personalities, it comes with a price. 
 She definitely won't garner any new fans, mostly because of the old-school nature of the game, 
 with all its inherent design quirks (let's just say you'll see Lara die a couple of times) . The 
 technical implementation could also need some more work, coming from such a high production such 
 as this, expect glitchy animations (the transitions are still a mess) and some awkward bugs. But 
 those are small details, and Lara is finally back, so who cares? She's aged, but she's also matured 
 and is all the more sexy for it. If you remember the wondrous times spent exploring the mysterious 
 realms of the original "Tomb Raider" (or it's stunning remake) , then "Underworld" will be a captivating 
 experience down some truly wonderful vistas. Welcome back, Lara. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitewarriar75
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 3, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunately she brought the bad cameras angles and some bugs :- ( Good game but I would advise 
 a rental only, because if you buy it you wasted your $$$$$$$$$.
  Very bad camera angles. (as probably expected) Bugs a plenty. You think with like 7 or 8 games 
 and on 7 or so different game systems and a couple of publishers/developers they should've had 
 this version right. So If you just wanna see the new LARA, save your money buy a playboy instead. 
 Well the graphics are pretty good but it's too frustrating too notice them when your trying too 
 move in some places. Yeah and forget about the climbing or jumping because her ability too due 
 those things are not welcomed. Sorry I was too harsh on LARA she can climb but not jump. And why 
 does it take LARA like two and a half clips of ammo too kill a guy, when she can get killed in 
 like four or five ?? Oh one more thing before I go , watch out for the walls sucking you in, it 
 happens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frosty789
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 5:58 am PT
Review:  What ever happened to the good old games? When Tomb Raider was released on the Playstation it was 
 amazing, a true puzzle and action platformer.
  
  Now its gone Pete-Tong and the next thing I know, Lara has got jugs bigger than the tigers im fighting, 
 and the annoying camera issues are back.
  
  Ok sure, there are some new additions like the ability to wall climb, rappel off things etc, but 
 what we need is to get back to the good old days of raiding tombs, and none of this phoney action 
 rubbish ive seen thus far.
  
  Keep the jug  works.
  
  Come on people, bring back the original game we all loved so much, and put and end to this 'Underworld....... strange 
 lady with wings on her back........ bad camera" crap.
  
  But make up your own mind about this rubbish. 
  
  Also the achievements are crap, I dont want 
 to spend 50 hours of my time looking for things to collect, why the hell should I? 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonicmole
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 27, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Underworld does little to change what Crystal Dynamics started with Legend. The graphics 
 are a little better and they have added a few moves ,but all in all it is merely a merging of the 
 ideas in TR Anniversary and TR Legend. Though this seems a little under whelming it's still an 
 enjoyable play through, and then it is 100% over. The problem with Underworld is that they set 
 plans for two DLC expansion packs in December and January. So, they cut major amounts of content 
 out of the $60 game freeing up time for the DLC, and the game suffers dramatically from this. The 
 graphics are better, but not amazing in any way. The animations can get pretty wonky and the combat 
 is the worst in the series. Lara looks okay ,but is far behind about every other game released 
 this year. The story ties up some loose ends ,but is painfully predictable and merely gets the 
 job done. All these short cuts, yet the only unlockables are CONCEPT ART, and one alternate costume. 
 This is one of the first times I've truly seen a game sacrifice content for the sake of selling 
 as DLC later. It's sad. Tomb Raider had a chance at a come back, unfortunately Eidos and Crystal 
 Dynamics thought they all ready had made it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigfatlardygit
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Brilliant puzzle and level design and some of the best sounds and music I've heard in a game. GS 
 is right though - could be heaps better if they got the combat system up to date... Combat is stupidly 
 easy and I'm not sure I died in combat once I figured out the controls, though you can tailor combat 
 difficulty so I only have myself to blame for that I suppose.
  
  I haven't played a Tombraider game for years (since 2 I think) and it still gets frustrating when 
 you can't find that one ledge you need to jump onto. Getting the camera to angle just right can 
 also be quite annoying but the environments look very nice indeed with Thailand being the highlight. 
 The game has a good pace to it though felt decidedly short and the end level is pretty disappointing 
 as it goes to a long cutscene as soon as you get to the final battle and then the game just ends! 
 Weak! Actually, many of the cutscenes should have had interactive elements to them or be dealt 
 with in-game so that was another missed opportunity.
  
  That all said, it was an entertaining game which I thought had an interesting storyline and I liked 
 the way it pulled together the myths from around the world as well as drawing on storylines from 
 previous games - nicely recapped for people like me in a 'Previously on Tombraider...' video. Oh, 
 and Lara is lovely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukekey
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 1, 2009 1:22 am PT
Review:  One thing that really annoyed me was the fact that the game can be quite confusing. What I mean 
 is that you dont always now where to go and sometimes it can make the game abit boring and unplayable. 
 With limited help of what to do its all abit confusing that said Lara does give you tips but still 
 sometime they are not much help. Other than that I really like the game one thing you will notice 
 is Lara has a good move set more realistic and better. The combat is well kind of dim but its more 
 about the adventure than that. the graphics are very nice Lara looks much older and the environments 
 look a treat. The voice acting isn't as good as before but still ok. There isn't much cut scenes 
 which is kind of annoying to because I like them. There is loads of puzzles sometimes to much for 
 example you will do a puzzle and get past a door and the there another its lie errrrr not again 
 sometime the puzzle can become boring and annoying. 
  
  Overall 
  I like this game but it not all there yet alot of things that need to be looked at and its almost 
 there but not yet.
  
  Good 
  fun to play, good graphics, nice environments.
  
  Bad 
  to much puzzles. Voice acting, not knowing where to go sometimes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InspiringTouch
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  Since the dawn of the next gen consoles the Xbox 360 has seen 2 Tomb Raider games to which both 
 have been praised and well recieved. Tomb Raider Underworld takes Lara Croft on another adventure 
 hoping to keep up with the high standard Legend had left it with.
  
  The Tomb Raider games are one of gamings few success storys having survived years and years of 
 games, movies, comic books and action figures the game still stays strong with its 8th installment, 
 Underworld. The game is much darker than any of the other TR, having a feel to it that the game 
 has embraced the next gen power. The games controls are very similar to Tomb Raider Legend, which 
 is a good thing by far as the new revamped game was a relief in the controls department due to 
 the horrible movement of the preivous games.
  
  The first thing you'll notice when you start Underworld is that there is no usual 'Laras Home' 
 and although you'll play a level in the Home's underground tombs as well as a short part in the 
 House itself, it was always nice to have the freedom of getting to know the game in Laras Home, 
 so it was a big disappoint to see it removed. The second thing you'll notice is the graphics. The 
 game looks utterly beautiful, from Laras model herself to the pure scenery and backgrounds, the 
 nice wet look everything has, as well as each well designed temple and ruin. There are a few issues 
 on the graphics side however, with clipping to be worst, every now and again you'll see Lara move 
 in and out of walls or step into the ground in impossible fashion. However these problems don't 
 occure enough for it to effect any judgement on the game really and graphically the game is a complete 
 success.
  
  The controls are almost the same as Legend however the camera seems to have gotten worse. By far 
 the worst aspect and part of Underworld is the horrible camera, the worst types are when trying 
 to make a jump dealing with it moving around with a life of its own or sometimes not even allowing 
 you to see where it is your trying to jump too. This is a issue the game needs to address in the 
 next installment its something that can be very off putting and because of the balance in the camera 
 being right to where you aim your jumps, it can send you jumping in completely the wrong place 
 and its enough to wind anyone up.
  
  The games story isn't Tomb Raiders best efforts with the game carrying on from Legend story wise 
 (it even gives you a small movie to remind of Legends story in the Extras menu) . Some parts will 
 be confusing whereas some parts will just be crying out for a certain thing to happen, like the 
 end of the game for example, building up to what you think will be a major boss fight to find the 
 game suddenly ends... without a boss fight... in the whole game. Which to date is the first Tomb 
 Raider game without any bosses in it, a major step back in terms of a Tomb Raider game.
  
  The game offers fun parts here and there, the motorbike riding is somewhat fun as you have much 
 more freedom with turning the bike around or even getting off it at times and the games levels 
 and puzzels are well designed and sometimes needs thought rather than being out right obviouse. 
 The difficulty of this game is alittle laughable if I dare say so. I completed the game twice on 
 both easy and then hard and notice no difference at all. Its a breeze and you'll run through it 
 in no time, which is another problem, the lengh of the game isn't very good at all, I clocked 6 
 hours on my first run and only 4 hours on my second, which for a 40 game isn't good in any way. 
 Still it does offer the fans of the series something that there use too in terms of gameplay, levels 
 and puzzels.
  
  The game is slightly better on the Xbox 360 due to the downloadable content and the nice achievement 
 list of well balenced achievements, but performance and graphically both consoles are the same. 
 The game does however support a fantastic soundtrack, with the sound effects as well as the voice 
 acting and music all top notch. This was one of the most impressive things about this game.
  
  Tomb Raider Underworld isn't really a step forward in the Tomb Raider world, but it isn't a 
 step backwards either. Something the fans will enjoy but I doubt its going to impress them too 
 much. Worth a rent due to its lengh but theres not enough replay value or new life in the game 
 for it to be a classic in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buffywan
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Read the headline as that is all that is necessary to say!!!!! This-Game-Rocks!!!!! And... it is 
 very fun. But seriously, I think this is best next gen tomb raider we've seen yet, although as 
 every other review has doubtless said already, all the old bugs are still there. The camera is 
 your biggest enemy in this game. Also, I found that certain angled surfaces would get Lara stuck 
 if you walked too close. That said, this game is fun! So far this year I've bought every big game 
 of importance and this one is the one I've clocked the most time on... even over Gears 2 and L4D. 
 Anyway someone had to give this a good score so I thought I'd oblige.
  
  -Sorry, hadto re post every thing due to word count thingy-
  
  Read the headline as that is 
 all that is necessary to say!!!!! This-Game-Rocks!!!!! And... it is very fun. But seriously, I think 
 this is best next gen tomb raider we've seen yet, although as every other review has doubtless 
 said already, all the old bugs are still there. The camera is your biggest enemy in this game. 
 Also, I found that certain angled surfaces would get Lara stuck if you walked too close. That said, 
 this game is fun! So far this year I've bought every big game of importance and this one is the 
 one I've clocked the most time on... even over Gears 2 and L4D. Anyway someone had to give this 
 a good score so I thought I'd oblige. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrico11
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't nearly as good as the last two Tomb Raiders were. The camera angles are just bad. 
 At times they can hinder your view of were to go. This forces you to take a leap of faith. Several 
 times I have jumped blindly. Sometimes the screen phases in and out. I have gone through walls 
 and gotten stuck in corners and had to wait several seconds until I could move again. The story 
 is very weak. Gamepots review is off on the voice talent being bad. It's not bad there just isn't 
 much of it which I think hurts the game. In Legend the talking with Allister and Zip was a nice 
 break and lighten things up. That's gone and aside from Lara talking to herself its kinda lonely 
 in the tombs. There's not really any reward for finding the treasures like outfits or anything. 
 So there's not much replay value at all and considering how short it is? It's like a watered down 
 beer. Lara does look good and has some new great moves she can use. It's unfortunate they did as 
 much bad as good with this game. Id advise you rent this one as it can be beaten and forgotten 
 in a weekend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: childofrock11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  Hidden among a cascade of flashy action titles is a game that many will not know how to take. Tomb 
 Raider Underworld, the third installment of Lara Croft's adventures from Crystal Dynamics, is a 
 game that stands on its own. No matter how many people try and compare it with Drake's Fortune, 
 or try and stack its so called "boring" action against those like Gears of War 2; it is still what 
 it is and will continue to always be; a Tomb Raider game.
  
  Anyone who has ever played a TR title can tell you the game is about exploration, or at best one 
 can call it a platformer. The sheer amazement of entering a ruin or tomb that has not been set 
 foot in for centuries or longer is made of sheer enjoyment. No, TRU's sprinkling of shooting action 
 is not on par with the above mentioned titles, but why expect it to when you know what you are 
 getting before you even pick it up at your local game store? If you are one who needs a cover system 
 or an arsenal of varied and powerful weapons, then you would be better off sticking to games that 
 do that best: action games. Tomb Raider Underworld is NOT AN ACTION GAME. Personally, however, 
 i enjoy the action in this TR installment. But in order to do this one needs to wipe the chalkboard 
 of their mind clean and just flow with the ease and simplicity that is presented within. 
  
  There are a few additions that have been added that add a bit a spice. One being adrenaline; 
 build up enough and you have the ability to bounce off of a foe's head. On your way down you are 
 given the opportunity to line your sights up with the enemies head for a lethal one shot kill, 
 all in slow mo. But let me say it once again, TOMB RAIDER UNDERWORLD IS NOT AN ACTION GAME! If 
 you pick this title up knowing this then i'm sure that your experience will be that much better.
 
  
  The story for TR fans is fantastic! It picks up right from where things left off in Legend and 
 Anniversary. So fans are in for a treat. For newcomers i recommend watching the "Previously..." 
 video within the options on the title screen so you can be caught up on what is going on. Over 
 all the story is something to enjoy and get lost in. It is immersive and helps set the backdrop 
 for this amazing and epic adventure.
  
  Graphics are simply stunning. The locations are beautiful and the environments are believable. 
 To date, this is the greatest looking TR there is. No, not as good as some other titles but awe 
 inspiring none the less.
  
  Sound is probably one the most outstanding aspects of Tomb Raider Underworld. The score is beautifully 
 epic and the ambiance sets the mood for each and every Tomb you will be getting dirty in. It is 
 all done so well that TR fans everywhere will be wanting to own the soundtrack.
  
  As for the so called clipping issues and camera issues? I haven't found a single instance of this 
 happening. The camera is simple; line it up to see your jump and then jump. How hard can it be? 
 I have yet to find a clipping issue with Lara and her environment. Do critics simply run around 
 in the game and run into walls in order to find glitches or something? I have found nothing that 
 compares to GOW2's problem with jumping over cover and then being suddenly cast back over to where 
 you started without pressing a single button to do so...
  
  Overall Tomb Raider is a game that is lost within a hailstorm of high profile action titles. In 
 today's gaming world the emphasis is put on multiplayer and online play, something that TRU doesn't 
 have. It isn't for everyone, but for those who enjoy a game of exploration and adventure, this 
 is as good as it gets.
  
  Within the grand scheme of games: 8.5
  For Fans: 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antpower
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  Why score it 9/10? Well I don't normally write reviews but after the panning this game is getting 
 from the reviews here I felt compelled to set the record straight!
  First of all, let's address the difficulty. In the options you have various choices in tailoring 
 the difficulty to suit how hard you want to play the game. I'm playing it on the hardest setting 
 there is with my health lower and bad guys maxed out and I can honestly say that I haven't had 
 any problems! Sure I've died a few times but that's normal. I certainly haven't been killed excessively 
 or been tearing out my hair with frustration! The game awards you with plenty of health packs, 
 assuming you can be bothered to explore, but hey, you are Tomb Raider and you are an explorer are 
 you not?! To make it easier, you have an "adrenaline" feature that rewards you for successful hits 
 on baddies. Just activate it and time slows down to make life easier. Continue shooting and it 
 tops up all the time which makes combat significantly easier!
  If you are finding the combat too hard you can tailor it to suit how "easy" you want it - can't 
 say fairer than that eh?!
  The puzzles are a challenge but that's half the fun - exploring and figuring it all out so when 
 you do you have a real sense of, "yes-I did it!" Again, explore, look round, use the binoculars. 
 If you really get stuck, you can get help from lara herself and if your tearing your hair out, 
 it will tell you what to do! Tombraider is known for exploration and puzzle solving - that's what 
 we all know and love the series for. If you want a game where it says go here, go there in big 
 letters, or guides you on a linear path then maybe tombraider is not for you. 
  Tomb Raider is all about making YOU lara and making YOU explore and work it all out. With Tomb 
 Raider games the action has always come second so it should come as no suprise that exploration 
 and puzzle solving come first!
  The game is stunning to look at, not to mention the leading lady herself! By far this is the most 
 realistic TombRaider to date. Lara gets dirty, swats bushes out of the way, ect. The gameplay environments 
 are stunning to look at and superbly complimented by a very pleasing ambient score with suitable 
 background sound effects.
  The story ties in with anniversay and legend and is sufficiently intriging enougth to keep you 
 playing to see how it all pans out. 
  As for the camera, apart from the odd few times where it's been abit dodgy I haven't found it difficult 
 at all!!! Certainly it's not the pain people are making out!
  It's obvious that Tomb Raider is in the hands of people who love the franchise and don't want to 
 change an original formula. All you have to do is look at anniversary - this is a remake of how 
 it all started remember and that involved lots of puzzles and exploring. If it's not broken - don't 
 fix it!
  The day Tomb Raider changes into an action fest and restricts exploration and turns away from the 
 puzzles is the day Tomb Raider as we know it dies. I for one will be very sad to see the game go 
 in that direction. 
  To conclude this epic review, I would say, if you want an intense shooter, then look at call of 
 duty, ect!
  If you want a game that's gorgeous to look at, works the little grey cells, makes you explore every 
 nook and cranny and throws in the odd combat, then Tomb Raider is an essential purchase!!!
  Thank you for reading this review and I hope this helps you make a better informed decision on 
 whether or not to purchase. If you still have doubts - my advice - download the demo!!! 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  I'll admit that I wasn't a real big Tomb Raider fan prior to the first incarnation on the 360. 
 Anniversary was a good re-tooling of the classic first game, much like what Capcom did for it's 
 original Resident Evil. So you would start to be used to the quality rather then quanity titles 
 that is Tom Raider. This game feels more like a step back then a step forward. 
  
  First off the plot is paper thin, it's made up of terrible one liners, poor voice acting, and a 
 predictable plot. There is a lot of Norse God referances, missing relatives, and dark dank temples 
 to explore. Much like the prior Lara Croft games. But then again that's what you have come to expect 
 and appreciate about the series. Still, in the face of great stories like Dead Space and Gears 
 of War, this game just feels like it falls short. 
  
  The graphics are pretty good at time. The light and shadow is dynamic, and the animation are crisp 
 and clean. Laura of course looks rather saltary in her current console game. However the camera 
 is very cranky and fights with you more then helps you, especially in the plateform aspects of 
 the game. Further more Laura seems to get caught in foliage and so forth and then gets spit out, 
 which can unfortunatly send you plummeting to you demise or make you start an annoying climbing 
 puzzle again. 
  
  The music and sounds are mostly forgetable. The AI is pretty lame as most adversaries stand out 
 in the open to get tagged. The level of equipment differences is nice, but you can only carry very 
 little. The controls can be clunky at times, with poor response times and too many buttons to push 
 at once, making me think about the early games. This can be annoying in combat but mostly in the 
 plateforming portions. 
  
  All in all Underworld seems like a game just cashing in on the name and not really offering anything 
 more. It's a fair game, and really can only be recommended for the hardcore fans. Newbees to the 
 series, I would suggest picking up one of the two prior games rather then this. Thanks for reading. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jainist
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 6:04 am PT
Review:  I am no Tomb Raider groupie although I have played a couple of the previous games and enjoyed them 
 enough, despite their flaws. So I had high hopes when this was due to come out on the 360 with 
 all the power of the consoles now surely the bugs that have been reported have been ironed.
  Unfortunately not. Being a franchise this game seems to try and get between all genres in order 
 to gain maximum coverage and profit - it could be so much more.
  The lack of control on the camera stops you from seeing where you can jump to half the time, relying 
 on blind faith for leaps across caverns and wall to wall, guess this adds to the suspense mentioned. 
 
  The actions gameplay involved is tedious at best with no real skill seemed to be required. By bouncing 
 around trying to dodge (unsuccessfully most of the time) anything you fight it seems to take an 
 age for the bullets from your guns to kill anything. The best way to get through the fight sections 
 is to ensure you have a lorry load of health packs. I will give the game a big thumbs up for the 
 graphics and character looks etc - the scenery I must admit is awesome.
  I think I will still try and complete it but for now it will have to take a back seat for some 
 other games that have been released in the last few weeks.
  Left me disappointed and little frustrated.......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimmygee123
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 23, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Avoid this game at all costs!! 
  
  I understand that is a pretty bold statement to make, but after trying this game out for several 
 hours I decided to give this one a miss. For me they went downhill when they remade anniversary. 
 Bad move. Secondly they decided to bring out this heap of pooh, one minute laras mother is dead 
 the next she may not be, I mean that smacks of someone who has run out of ideas and churns yet 
 more crap out for the ever paying public.
  
  The cameras are clunky flitting around just when you need them to stay still. So when your about 
 to attempt a jump the camera wanders off to see whats happening next door, sending you screaming 
 into the pits below.
  
  I've noticed you take a lot more damage from falls than in previous games. Which really there isnt 
 a need for.
  
  The puzzles are ridiculously hard. I mean I like a challenge but this takes the buscuit. There 
 is stuff you couldnt possibly have figured out unless you had cheated. There are puzzles in the 
 game that if you make a mistake you are forced to reload and if you havent saved..... whoops, well 
 enough is enough for me. Eidos goodbye you should have left it at Legend untill you thought of 
 a better idea. I loved that game from start to finish, simple puzzles and a story that kept you 
 entertained and level design that was nothing short of genius. 
  
  Yet again you got greedy and saw the dollar signs instead of the customers smiling faces. When 
 oh when will you heed the warning that you the customer have the power to make changes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaararulz4192
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  This is without a doubt the best Tomb Raider game yet! The story was done so magnificently, once 
 you start into the plot of the story you are left only wondering what happens next. The gameplay 
 is just as impressive. After all these years since the original Tomb Raider released in 1996, where 
 she would almost fly when she jumps to an epic storyline and acrobatic mastery. Eidos incorporations 
 was smart giving up the development task away from Core Design to Crystal Dynamics, who has shown 
 themselves worthy to make these game of epic proportions. If you are a devout Tomb Raider fan this 
 game is made for you, if you are just getting into the game but enjoyed Anniversary and Legend 
 this is perfect, and if you're looking for something new and like game such as Assassin's Creed 
 (Ubisoft) , The Legend of Zelda (Nintendo) , etc. you should try this game by renting it or downloading 
 the demo.
  
  But in all this is an exciting breathtaking game that captures you as soon as you play and stuns 
 you at the end. I would recommend this game to anybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onyx79
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 23, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  At first glance, Tomb Raider Underworld is stunning. Yes, this is a proper next gen Tomb Raider 
 at long last. Sadly, the makers of the game have done very little to improve on the graphical glitches 
 from previous installements. 
  If there is one thing that really makes me want to throw my controller across the room, it has 
 to be the dodgy camera. For some weird reasons, it never points where you want it to. When you're 
 right in the middle of the action, you tend to lose your temper because of this imperfection.
 
  Another trademark glitch back in this new episode of Tomb Raider is the clipping. When you think 
 that this type of problem has occured in nearly all the previous Tomb Raiders, you would have thought 
 that the makers of the game would have sorted it by now. It is a great shame.
  The gameplay is what you would expect of a Tomb Raider game, assuming that you played, at least, 
 one episode of Lara Croft's adventure.
  If you're new to the series, you play the role of a adventurous lady, miss Lara Croft. You are 
 taken across the globe in a search for various artifacts, solving puzzles along the way and encountering 
 various enemies, fictional and non fictional. The games are very engrossing but unfortunately, 
 after a few installements, it now feels like more of the same again and again.
  My say to you would be if you love the Tomb Raider series, do not miss out on this new episode, 
 however, if you are new to the series, I suggest that you rent it first and see if the technical 
 glitches do not spoil your enjoyment of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdullegend
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2008 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Rainder Underworld is a great game, 2nd after Legend having innovative puzzles and extreme 
 weather lightning environment, with Lara gain momentum over the New Arts with over 2000 animations 
 just like amazing also cutscenes are too awsome and are HD. Previously story is defined in a single 
 trailor. Lara Croft backs in Underworld and Unleashed hell. A mix of Action, adventure and strategy. Glitches 
 are so much controlled. Bike Riding Returned. Shooting improved. So many new enemies entry including 
 Sharks, spiders and Octopus and Lara mastering the art of surroundings.
  Natla and Amanda returned.
  It's worth playing and see How Lara overcomes Doppelganger.
  The 
 best of 2008.
  Solid 10/10:)
  
  Congrats Eidos and Crystal for Tomb raider underworld BUT also hope that next Episode will be a 
 Dream HiT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bruthabong1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Amid the digital jungle of testosterone-laced games of high speed and maximum impact comes a different 
 kind of game. Within all the news-catching titles of anticipated games being unleashed this holiday 
 season comes and old friend. Tomb Raider has been a part of my gaming experience since its first 
 release on PS1. I remember when I first saw the game - it teased me with ancient ruins, wonders 
 of exploration, and an ensemble of polygons that created an image that made me constantly search 
 different view angles of her throughout the game (praying for the miraculous money shot) . Ah yes, 
 that Laura Croft is at it again...
  
  I've done the Warcraft and guzzled down energy drinks to make sure my character was leveling like 
 a madman in the wee morning hours. I've done the Call of Duty and Gears of War and got into heated 
 battles with high intensity firepower and quick precision action button tapping to ensure my kill 
 ratio is one to brag about. With all the high intensity titles that have come out to wreak my nerves, 
 I'm already due for a break from it all... and the holiday season just got started.
  
  When I first picked up the original Tomb Raider, I didn't know what to expect. I was a bit apprehensive 
 of the purchase at first. Then I put in the disk and a new world emerged. A world I was eager to 
 get lost in. This game changed my view of what a video game can be. 
  
  So the reason why I bring all this up in a review is to bring light to why so many magazine/blog 
 reviews have been luke-warm. In today's gaming world (stark difference from the original PS1 TR 
 release) , people have swayed away from "better graphics" focus (since it's just about at peak for 
 2D viewing) , and more focus has been making games more complex and high speed action. It seems 
 game developers need to make games more convoluted to sell the notion that serious thought was 
 put into the game. They also think that if you're not sitting at the edge of your seat in wild 
 MMO action or FPS headshots, it's a product the gaming community won't welcome. 
  
  To an extent they're right. With advertisements hitting us from everywhere about games that fans 
 have been waiting on for years for online-frothing, TR does seem to get drowned out with the numbers 
 titles creating holiday buzz. I wonder to what extent game reviewers are caught up in that culture 
 of adrenaline. 
  
  That's why, for me, Tomb Raider Underworld comes to me with great timing. A way to escape the blurring 
 fury of action games. For a good couple of days I know that after work I can come back home and 
 warm up my bones wrapped up in a blanket and get lost in another ancient ruin... with Laura Croft 
 (only if that were so... sorry daydreaming again...)
  
  The game starts off great. Underwater exploration that begins the deep dive into the unknown. The 
 controls are simple and user friendly. Ah yes, an "unconvoluted" game. Yes, I did make up a word 
 there. I don't have 5 buttons that launch five different kinds of weapons. I don't have to tap 
 A and B together then tap X three times to enable a special ability. I don't have to memorize and 
 learn a whole new controller scheme. It's a simple straight forward set-up. Two words on that: 
 Refreshing and welcome. 
  
  The graphics are great. Nothing really to get into. Most game have good graphics now. This game 
 though does possess a certain beauty that is unique and only adds to the "wonderment in exploration" 
 factor. 
  
  The puzzles are fun and the reward is big as solving a puzzle still reins in the "whoaaa" factor 
 - just like the original. Solving puzzles means you have unlocked gateways created by wise shaman 
 of the past to give Laura something to do when she's not hanging around the mansion (you thought 
 they did it to keep ancient secrets and horrible evils buried?) . Underworld isn't just visually 
 epic, but it feels epic. 
  
  Laura looks a lot better this time, which means she has become an even bigger distraction - but 
 a good one, aye?
  
  The combat is... well, simple combat. A couple of surprises in the game to give you a little jolt 
 to react to. This is were I feel reviewers get confused. They keep referring this game as something 
 that was supposed to take TR into the next generation. I don't know what all that means. I don't 
 know how they come to such a perspective. Reading the reviews, it seems very apparent they are 
 seeking more button options. More complex combat. It just seems that these reviewers just want 
 TR to be more convoluted. I'm happy it's not. I think video game reviewers need to go back to basics 
 and stop getting all caught up in this adrenaline gaming mayhem. They need to understand that not 
 all games are just trying to reach the plateau of Warcraft and Halo. Some games just want to do 
 their own thing at their own pace. In this case, TR: U is an enjoyable game that lets YOU set the 
 pace. 
  
  Some complaints are valid. Camera angle is one. Lots of games have this problem. I remember God 
 of War made strides in camera angle but that works for only linear games which, thankfully, TR: U 
 is not. So, no video game to this date has made this an exact science. I think we overlook something 
 that practically all games suffer. I heard some complaints about getting stuck on puzzles or what 
 not, I feel that is party to blame on gamers that don't quite understand a game that doesn't have 
 a time limit or doesn't require you to level up as fast as possible to reach and end game boss. 
 
  
  Tomb Raider: Underworld is a game, much like the original, that is misunderstood and hard to categorize, 
 even as games that mimic are starting to come out. Great game. Scooping up a copy of the latest 
 Tomb Raider is something I'll never have to be apprehensive about again... Oh, you had to mention 
 Angel of Darkness... 
  
  Summary:
  
  The game is fun, fun, fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sakurayuri
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  I have played many Tomb Raiders in the past (1, 2, Anniversary, Angel of Darkness) and thought 
 there was nothing left that this series could really offer but Underworld really takes Tomb Raider 
 to a new level! 
  
  Underworld picks up the story from where Legend leaves off. This Tomb Raider really gets back to 
 the root of what made Tomb Raider such a hit; all the great ruins to explore and constructive puzzles 
 to solve.
  
  The level designs are terrific and are a fresh. The puzzles are complex and well thought out and 
 the Levels vary wonderfully from destination to destination. Great voice acting and great cinematography 
 also help this game pull you into it.
  
  And the Graphics are definitely a huge bonus over Legend! Everything pops and comes to life in 
 this version.
  
  Definitely worth the purchase! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waterbearer26
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Tomb Raider: Underworld
  
  i can remember when i first started playing the tomb raider games with my brother we were so hooked 
 on them. And, now look at what they have become an entirely different way of playing, the levels 
 are more puzzling, the bosses are more challenging, the animals are more realistic looking. I can 
 remember when Tomb Raider was first introduced to the Sony Playstation , everyone thought the graphics 
 were awesome and everything else, please the graphics were blocky and stiff, the camera view was 
 smooth but to much. But now the franchise has become a great one. Here's the real review.
  
  
  Tomb Raider: Underworld
  
  I have been playing this game with my friend at her house, 
 and when we first started playing we were discussing if it was even worth playing.. but once the 
 game kicked in it was hard to put down the remote once we started. Even while we played the demo 
 on Xbox 360 it was still awesome i was floored by the detail, graphics, and just everything it 
 looks absolutely stunning. Now, if you want to you can compare the graphics of previous Tomb Raiders 
 and form your own opinions.. five words to sum it up Crystal Dynamics Game Graphic Company, their 
 the reason that Tomb Raider looks the way it does. Like i said in the beginning of this review 
 the games were very blocky and hardly any graphic detail in them.. everything seemed unfinished 
 and untouched. But now it has just been upgraded to a better layed out game and way better graphics 
 and detail by far, the playing environment is more smooth and natural, like as if you become her 
 and control her from a distance. I just feel that Crystal Dynamics have done it again, and this 
 time they weren't playing around. Looks like other game developers have their work cut out for 
 them for future games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyform
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 5:42 am PT
Review:  I have to say it's pretty good but there are some very annoying things about it which prevent the 
 game from being really good actually exellent.
  
  As soon as i was done with the training level and started with the first underwater level i was 
 very impresed. The atmosphere is great and the music fits perfectly, i was also suprised how big 
 was the location, there is pletny to explore.
  
  Lara swims normal not as ultra fast and strange as in one of the trailers and the animations are 
 pretty nice aswell.
  
  The game focus mainly on solving puzzles and platforming annd they are both great, really fun to 
 play and challenging.
  
  There is not much of shoting and it's good so because thats the weakest part of the game. Fights 
 against animals as tigers pumas and some big lizards are actually fine, but against people its 
 damn boring. Eidos really have to get ride of the auto aim-lock on, i guess it's there because 
 they want Lara to make awesome jumps and flips while shooting but it could also work without the 
 auto lock, they could use a blind fire like in Uncharted or Gears while making this acrobatic moves 
 to make it a bit more interesting and harder, the auto lock on feels to old school, boring and 
 not challenging.
  
  The story is actually not bad and cutscens are pretty good this time with nice voice acting and 
 very nice facial expression especially on Lara. The in game animations are pretty nice aswell, 
 still a little behind Uncharted but close.
  
  The controls are pretty good but the biggest problem is again the camera, i really don't know how 
 cant Eidos get it right after so many TR games and ND gets it right with their first game similar 
 to TR. When platforming it's the exact opposide to Uncharted. In Uncharted the camera turns to 
 the point where you have to jump which is very nice but in TR it turnes in the other direction 
 and shows Lara from infront. Actually you get used to it after a while because you know that you 
 have to jump in the direction that Lara looks but it's still strange to jump blind.
  
  Someties there is a little problem when controling her especially near walls, she suddenly stops 
 and you cant do nothing and she starts making strange moves with her hands, it's the same underwater 
 or on the surface, then you have to stop pressing anything and her epileptic attack ends
  
  As i already said the locations are pretty big and there is alot of treasures (179) and 6 relics 
 1 in each of the environments/location, so you have to put alot of time in exploring if you want 
 to. I was a bit dissapointed that there are not many environemts, especially for a game which is 
 not small at all, would be nicer to have more variated environments as Uncharted, ok it's to repetive 
 or similar but it would still nicer to have more variation.
  
  This are the environments, Mediterranean Sea, Coastal Thailand (the one from the demo) , Southern 
 Mexico, Jan Mayen Island, Arctic Sea and very small levels Andaman Sea (it' on a ship) and Croft 
 Manor but most of them have two very different looking parts, for example Mediterranean Sea, at 
 first you are in the underwater location and then in a dry location looking similar to one of the 
 first locations in Uncharted where you had to use your light battery.
  
  One of the things i really dislike and actually ruined a bit the game was that some of the later 
 locations are strange and annoying, especially the last part in Arctic Sea, the first part is fantastic 
 but the latest is so annyoing and strange looking, imo not good design, maybe some will like it 
 but well i dint like it. I just say the levels where you will see somekind of blue lawa, i dislked 
 all of them, but thank god it's not much of them just later in the game, they are a bit frustrating 
 and annoying.
  
  The ship level i mentioned before, well this is also a pretty bad part of the game, it's and short 
 action part without which the game would be better, the shoting against humans is really boring 
 and thats about it on the ship, only the part when you are leaving is pretty nice, you will see 
 why.
  
  The length of the game is pretty nice, i playd it about 16-17h and was exploring quite a bit and 
 found 144 treasures and only 1 relic. Relic are hard to find as there is only 1 in each location 
 except the ship level. If you are going to explore even more then i did and if you want to find 
 all tresures and relics then im sure you will need at least 20h. You really can put alot of time 
 in exploring, for example i was searching for treasures only in the first underwater part of Mediterranean 
 Sea for more then 1h because it's a pretty big place, you can search for hours if you want but 
 if you are going to rush the game then you will need i think 12h, cant say exactly, but i see no 
 point for rushing because this game is not about rushing as for example Mirrors Edge, it's about 
 exploring searching for treasures and solving puzzles. It depends on the player how good they are 
 some will solve puzzles fast and some will need alot of time.
  
  After you finish the game and if you havent found all the tresures and relics then you can go for 
 Treasure Hunt and select different parts of the game where you want to search.
  
  I give this game 8.5/10 but i would easily give it 9/10 if it would have the camera, action/shoting 
 mechanic of Uhcnarted, and i would give it even more if cutscenes would be more epic with better 
 voice acting like Uncharted or HS, don't understand me wrong, the voice acting is actually surprising 
 good for a TR game, dare is say almost as good as Gears 2 but games as Uncharted, Heavenly Sword 
 and R&C TOD really stood out this gen, they are fantastic in this area.
  
  Graphics could also be a bit better because it would improve the already great atmosphere even 
 more. After first pic and videos where shown people where making a big talk that it looks better 
 then Uncharted, but seriously it's po match for Uncharted, the picture is way less sharp and textures 
 look way more blured because of this, colours are not as nice and vivid, animations are worse and 
 so is the environment detail and art but it looks ok for a TR game which was never about graphics, 
 but if the picture would only had the sharpness of Uncharted or Gears it could already look much 
 better.
  
  Music is not as melodic as in some other games but it does the job, it's a very atmosphric soundtrack 
 which really adds a great atmosphere and feel when you are solving puzzles or platforming, there 
 are some more melodic sogs at times and also some chaseing styled songs in action parts.
  
  I compared it alot with Uncharted because i think Uncharted is very similar in many ways even if 
 it's more action packed so please don't get angry because of this.
  
  Anyway i think that's i hope this will make you easier to decide if to or not to buy the game and 
 sorry for my English. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B4L4N4R
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider : Underworld is quite entertaining in its series. ive played most of tomb raider series 
 but nothing deliver the adventurous feel from the first game...
  
  the pros... graphic wise, Underworld is very stunning... character models are very well design... Lara 
 will get wet if dive into water, get dirty doing her tomb raiding routine... cool.... Underworld's 
 scenery is really breathtaking.. the lush tropical jungle, the Hindu and Aztec ruins, Norse underwater 
 ruins... everything is well design... it makes me want to stay there and ignore the main story.. 
 but that would not be happen, because the puzzle in underworld is quite engaging and fun to solve... 
 :D rarely you'll face the same puzzle over and over again because each puzzle is uniquely implemented..
 
  
  the cons of Underworld is mainly on the combat... with poor AI and bland combat mechanism, action 
 in underworld is nothing to remember... plus with weird, close up camera view, it'll probably make 
 u dizzy.... it would be better if they improve the close combat mechanism instead of just the same 
 move....
  
  i would recommended Underworld to all adventure fans out there,,, it bring the series to a new 
 level but the feel of the first Tomb Raider still stay there... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jadlr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is like supose to be, like old Tomb Raiders that suprise the world. The Graphics are 
 quite good, the jungle, water, ruins, everything are very detailed and vivid even Lara (that looks 
 very hot to keep us playing the game) interact nicely with the enviroment.
  The level design is superb because are longest and very chalenging, Lara moves are very awesome 
 and realistic. The controls have some flaws in terms of jumping edges, camera position and other 
 odd bugs with walking on surfaces but the rest works like a charm on the acrobatic moves to keep 
 foward the levels, and the helping system make the game less frustrating if you dont know what 
 to do.
  
  The combat is not the greatest thing here, have some tweaks and good aditions, is more engaging 
 the fight with animals than the human enemy but is ok because is like the old tomb Raiders created 
 by Core.
  The Story of the Game is interesting, believe me, with this game and TR Aniversary, this Franchise 
 have another time too emerge once again. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
