-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tom Clancy's EndWar
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/strategy/tomclancysendwar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Innovative voice command mechanic makes you feel powerful.
 Fantastic audio and visuals put you in the thick of the action.
 Persistent online campaign makes matches feel meaningful.
 Different match types make good use of uplink capture mechanic.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Single-player campaign has no story to speak of.
 All three factions play the same way.
 Limited unit types make for simple rock-paper-scissors skirmishes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  5, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.8, 57 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 836 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Shanghai
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date: Nov 4, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
At its core, EndWar is a bit too simple, but it does offer a unique voice command system and terrific 
 production values. 

  Many games put you in the role of a commander; few do it with the kind of immediacy that Tom Clancy's 
 EndWar delivers. In this innovative real-time strategy game, you don a headset and issue commands 
 to your units by speaking your wishes to your squads. Sound like a gimmick? Perhaps -- but when combined 
 with an explosive cinematic presentation that tosses you into the thick of the action, it imparts 
 a unique feeling of hi-tech sovereignty that's anything but a gimmick. Were this mechanic not implemented, 
 EndWar's core simplicity would be more obvious. Its three near-future factions all play the same 
 way, the rock-paper-scissors relationships between units are incredibly straightforward, and the 
 single-player campaign doesn't tell any story to speak of, which is a blatant missed opportunity. 
 Nevertheless, a novel multiplayer mode and persistent units that carry from one mission to the 
 next keep things interesting, and on the whole, EndWar is a fun RTS that will hopefully start a 
 refreshing new trend: console strategy games that feel tailor-made for their platforms.  

           Using the headset to issue commands is a breeze.      

  Your headset has an enormous 
 impact on the experience. To order your units about, you issue a series of preset commands by holding 
 a trigger and speaking your directive into the microphone. This runs the gamut from attacking enemy 
 squads ("Unit two, attack hostile four") and bringing in reinforcements when they are available 
 ("Deploy gunships") to centering your view on a particular group ("Unit three, camera") and ordering 
 special attacks ("Air strike, hostile six") . There are limited possibilities, so don't expect to 
 plan out multiple waypoints or set up tank patrols. Nor can you rely completely on the microphone -- at 
 least, not if you intend to be competitive. Actions like garrisoning infantry into a building or 
 ordering your units to unleash special attacks require some button presses, so there is a bit of 
 light micromanagement in this regard. Additionally, if you don't have a microphone or just don't 
 want to use one, you can use just the controller, though given the uniqueness of the voice commands, 
 that isn't ideal. Using the headset is cool, and it works well: While there were some exceptions 
 (the game misinterpreting "alpha" for "delta," for example) , EndWar easily recognized the huge 
 majority of our voice commands. This included a standard Xbox Live headset, as well as USB and 
 Bluetooth headsets on the PlayStation 3.  

  The units themselves are products of EndWar's World War III setting. In the game's version of near-future 
 events, The United States, Russia, and a unified Europe have each become superpowers, and the US 
 plans the launch of a military space station to tip the worldwide balance of power in its favor. 
 Unfortunately, terrorists destroy the station upon lift-off, thereby igniting global conflict. 
 Yet as interesting and far-fetched as the setting is, it's mostly backdrop. The campaign is just 
 a series of battles versus the AI that emulates EndWar's main multiplayer mode, so don't expect 
 much exposition, larger-than-life personalities, or political intricacies. You can play as any 
 of the three factions, but while your own commander (and his or her blatant accent) will change, 
 there's no story to involve you, aside from mission updates and news blurbs. Thus, there's no reason 
 to play the campaign with another faction if you've finished it once already. This lack of narrative 
 is a big disappointment, given Tom Clancy's pedigree of political potboilers.  

  Nevertheless, EndWar has a way of drawing you in, not just because of the unique control mechanism, 
 but because it lets you closely follow your squads into battle. Regardless of your faction, the 
 basic units are the same: Infantry comprises riflemen and engineers; tanks and artillery have the 
 armored advantage; gunships take to the skies; and transports not only whisk your infantry about 
 the battlefield, but offer necessary antiair support. Most of the time, you'll be switching your 
 view from squad to squad, and the camera's close-up vantage point has quite an impact when you're 
 engaged in combat. Bullets fly, gunships fall from the sky, and artillery fire rains from above, 
 and some visual glitches aside, it's all quite exciting and cinematic in a way that most other 
 strategy games just can't accomplish. If you prefer a more traditional overhead view, you can enter 
 "sitrep" view, assuming that your command vehicle hasn't been blown to smithereens. Here, you can 
 get a quick overview of the battlefield, which is useful but not particularly dramatic. The rapid 
 zoom of the camera when you move in and out of this mode and from one unit to the next, however, 
 is incredibly slick.  

           Sitrep view gives you some perspective.      

  While having so few unit types and no striking difference between factions may be authentic -- and 
 relatively simple to balance -- given the setting, it doesn't make any side worth playing more than 
 another. The relationship between units is always the same: tanks beat transports, gunships beat 
 tanks, and so on, so there's little subtlety. Instead, strategy is delivered on a broader level, 
 starting with the mission objectives. There are four main mission types: assault, conquest, siege, 
 and raid. Assault is the simplest (kill your enemy) , while in Raid, you must either destroy or 
 defend certain buildings on the map to achieve victory. Conquest, however, is the most interesting 
 mode, taking its cues from the Battlefield titles in addition to EndWar's closest RTS cousin, World 
 in Conflict. Here, you must use infantry to capture control points called uplinks scattered across 
 the map while fending off the enemy and sabotaging their attempts to do the same. Siege battles 
 are much less common than the others, and involve an assaulting player attempting to capture a 
 critical uplink while the defending player struggles to maintain control of it.  

  Tactics are generally obvious in all of these situations, but they can still generate a tense tug 
 of war between players as each jockeys for position. Uplinks are present in all modes, and they 
 are a critical part of the gameplay. Most importantly, they help you earn command points, which 
 you need to call in reinforcements and perform other actions. However, uplinks can only be taken 
 by infantry, so even if you aren't playing a conquest map, you'll still want some riflemen or engineers 
 in the field. Uplinks also hold a second key to victory: upgrades that allow you to engage support 
 powers like air strikes and electronic attacks. These powers are invaluable in a sticky situation 
 but also cost command points, so you'll need to weigh the advantage of bringing in another transport 
 to defeat your gunship-heavy opponent against a quick strike that could do immediate damage. There 
 are even short-range nukes to deploy in certain circumstances that can immediately turn the tide 
 of battle, and produce a properly spectacular explosion.     

   

  All of these battles are given context within a larger turn-based map called the Theater of War. 
 The offline theater is good for practice, but it's the online theater that provides the meat of 
 the experience. This semiglobal map is persistent, so as opposing players engage one another, the 
 results of an entire day's matches represent a single turn within the theater. Once the day's turn 
 is complete, new battles open up as each faction spreads its dominion. This is a great idea that 
 may remind you of a similar mode in the mech action game Chromehounds. But while the sameness of 
 each faction makes it hard to feel particularly loyal, it's involving to watch your faction's color 
 spread across the map, whether that means establishing your presence in Florida or burning Paris 
 to the ground.  

           Varied mission types help make up for some missing complexity.      

  So your battle 
 prowess has global consequences, but success brings more than a victory for your faction. You'll 
 also earn a supply of credits after each battle that you can then spend on upgrades for your units. 
 Surviving units gain levels, which gives them access to purchased enhancements, which could mean 
 faster movement speed, new support powers (being able to designate a new drop point for reinforcements 
 is ever so helpful) , or additional attacks that can be triggered with a button when you are following 
 the unit that can perform them. Like the Theater of War, this feature seems like its supposed 
 to make you feel more emotionally attached to your faction's success, and it works to an extent, 
 giving you an incentive that works on a more personal level. While new attacks open up some minor 
 micromanagement options, they don't bring drastic changes, because most battles are still won or 
 lost with quick uplink securing and basic understanding of rock-beats-scissors dynamics.  

  But while EndWar's tactics were designed on a broader scale, its presentation throws you into the 
 midst of battle. When firefights get heavy, the screen fills with units and explosions, and nothing 
 beats watching the destruction on the ground from the vantage point of a gunship squad firing at 
 tanks or engineers from above. Even the smaller touches make an impact, such as the authentic-looking 
 behavior of engineer squads as they enter a building or a transport. Upon closer inspection, you 
 can see that explosions don't look all that grand, and you'll find plenty of clipping issues and 
 other minor quibbles. Yet on the whole, EndWar offers a terrific visual impression, thanks to fantastic 
 unit animations and a smooth frame rate. If you're intent on purchasing the best-looking version, 
 better color saturation gives the PlayStation 3 the slight upper hand, though both versions look 
 and perform great.  

           The standard view lets you get up close and personal with your units.      

  The sound 
 design does an even better job of immersing you in battle. This is partially due to the din of 
 combat, which is loud and violent, perfectly appropriate for World War III. However, it's the constant 
 radio chatter and responses of your units that have the greatest impact, making you feel as though 
 you really are in the role of a military commander. It isn't just for show, either: EndWar's constant 
 feedback is an important tactical tool, letting you make split-second decisions that could mean 
 life or death for your squad. Unfortunately, there are too many times when crucial feedback ("Check 
 unit nine") comes far too late for it to do any good.  

  EndWar's unique voice command mechanic makes it wholly unique among strategy games, and it's this 
 innovation that stands out above all of its other features. Strip it away, and you'll find a RTS 
 game that can be fun and satisfying, but is ultimately just a bit too simplistic. But even if strategy 
 veterans won't find all the complexities they'd expect, there's something to be said for EndWar's 
 smart match types and cinematic presentation, which will hopefully keep the game's servers populated 
 for some time to come.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (43 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 12:22 pm PT
Review:  the voice command system works really well with this game and makes u feel that you are in charge 
 of an army... the divisions of europe, usa, and russia has a good feel to the combat and the rock 
 paper scissors type gameplay of tanks, helicopters, transports, and units to spice up the game... 
 the game online is fun, offline it feels like a tutorial without a real story, but is still fun 
 by getting territories in the game... the game has excellent sound from radio chatter to bullets 
 whizing past u... the game is fun and i think anyone could play this game and it has to be on the 
 top of the tom clancy games due to its innovative substance, gameplay, cutscenes, and fun factor.. 
 I had a blast with this game so go out and buy it its only 40 dollars anyway......... It's a game 
 worth playing with all of your friends and to show off due to the voice chatter and is semi-realistic... 
 I just wish it had a better story instead of go here blow up these dudes and stuff like that... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 4:46 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Endwar is a new idea which has helped bring strategy games to the console. The use 
 of voice command to manoeuvre your troops is a really new and clever idea, making you feel like 
 a real general yelling commands down the microphone at your units in the heat of battle. Although 
 the voice command is a great idea the units all handle the same essentially and once you play as 
 one faction you have essentially played as them all. The campaign is really fun, allowing you to 
 play some very fun mini-missions allowing you to capture or defend certain points in the real world. 
 It's quite fun for a while, but the real fun is playing in skirmish where you can command armies 
 and have artillery pound on the enemy as quite a few strategic manoeuvres are required in order 
 for you to claim victory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IAMTHEJOKER88
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2009 4:25 am PT
Review:  The game invokes the use of voice-interaction which is brilliantly implement into the game. With 
 frequent references to the other Tom Clancy games, a solid story is provided with good vocal-acting 
 and few flaws. Although the main reason for so few flaws is that this is a very simple game at 
 heart. The game introduces the idea of a Rock-Paper-Scissors scheme whereby Rocks are their tanks, 
 Paper are the transports, and Scissors are the Gun-ships. Each has a weakness and a strong point. 
 Although simple it does work to great effect as the player must quickly organize his troops into 
 fighting with most effectiveness. The Online mode has a persistent statistical Map where players 
 can choose to join 1 of 3 factions and the map is updated daily, averaging the wins and losses 
 of each individual game and thereby changing the territorial status.
  
  The single player is fun, with a customizable army and formidable opponents to face it provides 
 a strong back-bone to the game. The Online mode is fairly hard but works very well, and would require 
 the player to play frequently in order to unlock and obtain the best perks etc for his army. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VK001thunder
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2009 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Areally good game i mean u can custom all your tanks, helicopters, and troops. just a MASTERPIECE. 
 i may buy debending on what my parents say.......... very additive. you can go in bulidings no 
 3rd person POV can do that!!!!!!!!!!!! but make fun all the time, like you know what i mean get 
 more atteion by adding new weapons, and more units, and more bulidings with stuff like that with 
 the comments on the video you may edit it more. plz sometimes it gets boring so you should rent 
 it first see if you like it then diecide if you want to buy it all tough its very addicting. youi 
 never know what it is when you try it.... SO TRY IT!!!!!!!! plz i reccommend it....... well anyways 
 it looks not just very fun it looks like a lot of FUN!!! lol just super FUN!!!! well what are you 
 waiting for get out there and do something about: join the crew/staff, make a book (i dont know if 
 you may want to do that) , make more games with them. its better to do something and get famous than 
 just playing it!! found out behind the secrets or something like that just dont stay and play to 
 long............... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Night_Frost
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 12:49 am PT
Review:  EndWar is a fictional take on WWIII with a chilling backstory that describes a nuclear in the middle 
 east, a military arms race between Russia, America an the new formed European Federation that eventually 
 escalates into full scale war using weapons that only Tom Clancy can dream of.
  
  The game is pretty easy to get the hang of and there are no resource management, like World in 
 Conflict, all you need is to select the units required for battle and let them loose. You get around 
 12 command points and can call in reinforcements at any time, plus you can get the help from additional 
 support like electronic warfare, which disables a unit for a set period of time, Force Recon lets 
 you call in regular infantry units to guard a given target and air strikes, which helps you soften 
 up strong targets or just out right destroy them.
  
  When you start out, you select one of three factions to play as, the Joint Strike Force, the US 
 faction, the Enforcers Corps, the Europe faction and the Spetznaz Guard Brigade, the Russian faction. 
 Each with their own vehicle and infantry designs, all based off concept, prototypes or existing 
 weapons used by todays militaries, they can be upgraded in the barracks and as you progress and 
 each unit ranks up, they can recieve more upgrades, like giving rifleman snipers, tanks with additional 
 firepower and long range for artillery, plus you can upgrade your mission supports and even give 
 your battalion a different camouflage design.
  
  The graphics are great, nice environment details and unit details, each environment a real world 
 location, all the more for you to destroy. Each map ranges from Moscow to Paris to Washington to 
 mountain ranges and marshes as you fight to control uplinks. Each unit is broken into different 
 classes, Riflemen, Engineers, Tanks, Transports, Artillery, Gunships and Command Vehicles, each 
 play out like rock-paper-scissors, like Tanks beats Transport beats Gunship and so on, although 
 this may see a little too simple, but allows for some split second decisions when you have engineers 
 not in cover going up against tanks.
  
  Audio is amazing, especially when the action gets heated and guns are blazing, bombs are dropping 
 and soldiers are making battle cries, plus the voice work is good, but not perfect, mostly cause 
 you'll usually hear the units name and not really hear the units themselve talking with so much 
 action. It's cool that each unit and faction has their own theme for their units, like the Russians 
 call their vehicles 'Beasts' while Americans 'Rollers', plus they have their own unique faction, 
 plus each of their units have their own callsigns, like 'Warwitch' or 'Rapier' or 'Yakuza'. Background 
 music can probably be ignored due to the action going on.
  
  The best thing about the game is the WMDs, each faction has their own little weapon of mass destruction 
 like the Euros have a massive energy laser weapon while the Russians rely on mini-nukes, while 
 the Americans have the cool sounding Rods from God or Kinetic Strike. Voice command is so simple 
 to operate, you can actually play the whole game just using your voice, thouh you'll have to be 
 careful of what you say, if you speak too fast the units won't respond or if you speak too low, 
 you'll probably be sending your rifleman to attack those tanks head-on... but those are usually 
 operator errors and not the system.
  
  The only down side is the story lacks that Tom Clancy feel and seeing as this is a war, there's 
 no 'You've got to stop this country from destroying your capital' kind of feel, plus the battles 
 aren't as large scale as World in Conflict as I hoped they would.
  
  In the end, EndWar introduces the innovated voice command system and breaths new life in the console 
 RTS genre, but you may want to rent it before you decide to own, but if your a RTS fan and a Tom 
 Clancy fan, this'll make a great addition to your library 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adortado
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's End War: for me i really and dissapointed on this game because i thought it was gonna 
 be a shooting game like ghost recon or rainbow six but i was wrong. this game is a command game 
 and u cant shoot like and other of those Tom Clancy's game so yea ima trade with my friend for 
 COD4! but if u like those type of game i prefer u 2 get this game. i think its da best stratigy 
 game out ritght now so yea u cant beat that for 34.99 at gamestop used. and u dont need it new dats 
 just a waist on my oppinon. xboxlive gamertag: DNiCE27406 ADD ME! xboxlive gamertag: DNiCE27406 
 ADD ME! xboxlive gamertag: DNiCE27406 ADD ME! xboxlive gamertag: DNiCE27406 ADD ME! xboxlive gamertag: 
 DNiCE27406 ADD ME! xboxlive gamertag: DNiCE27406 ADD ME! xboxlive gamertag: DNxboxlive gamertag: 
 DNiCE27406 ADD ME! iCE27406 ADD ME! xboxlive gamertag: DNiCE27406 ADD ME! xboxlive gamertag: DNiCE27406 
 ADD ME! xboxlive gamertag: DNiCE27406 ADD ME! xboxlive gamertag: DNiCxboxlive gamertag: DNiCE27406 
 ADD ME! E27406 ADD ME! xboxlive gamertag: DNiCE27406 ADD ME! xboxlive gamertag: DNiCE27406 ADD ME! xboxlive 
 gamertag: DNiCE27406 ADD ME! xboxlive gamertag: DNxboxlive gamertag: DNiCE27406 ADD ME! iCE27406 
 ADD ME! xboxlive gamxboxlive gamertag: DNiCE27406 ADD ME! ertag: DNiCE27406 ADD ME! xboxlive gamertag: 
 DNiCE27406 ADD ME! xboxlive gamertag: DNiCE27406 ADD ME! xboxlive gamertag: DNiCE27406 ADD ME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soviet1232
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2009 2:11 pm PT
Review:  EndWar gives you a streamlined rts that is great gameply and voice command makes a great title. 
 But it's overall simplicity may not go well with many hardcore players. It takes place in 2020 
 when the US, and united europe, and guess who.... the Russians, are the worlds three superpowers. 
 When the US tries to place a military space station above earth, which by the way can't happen 
 according to international law, terroists funded by Russia blow it up. and World War 3, hopefully 
 the war to end all wars, begins. You can play as Europe, the US, and Russia, but all play about 
 the same. It's voice command system gives it a great feeling of power and very addictive when you 
 first pick it up. But some hardcore players might not like it's way of not providing much challenge. 
 It features a reinforcment nick nack like world in conflict, where the appear onto the field. You 
 have sort of "currency" in a thing called commad points, which are spent on reinforcments and support 
 powers. Great game but you might want to rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhuehl
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 1:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. I'm a Hardcore PC RTS guy. I'm not much of a XBOX 360 player, but this game 
 has me on the edge of my seat. I love the ability to switch from may tactical map to the battlefield 
 with a simple voice command. Another thing I like is the ability to do several things at once. 
 For example, I was defending Delta while attacking Foxtrot while calling in air support at Alpha, 
 try that with a mouse and see your plan fall apart. This game is very ambitious and there are several 
 things I wish I could do, but can't. One of those things is fight a battle with infantry and artillery 
 only. In other words I would love to set or build battles and battlefields with my own objectives. 
 Although I love the super weapons, there are times I just want to duke it out with out them. I 
 think the desire to create my own missions spawns from playing PC RTS. The one thing I've learned 
 about RTS's is there is never a perfect game. Anyhow, I love this game, it is fast really not much 
 on base building, and it is very exciting. The Voice command allows me to build and execute my 
 strategies with amazing precision. Although this is a fairly user friendly game It does take a 
 little practice and patience, but that is with all RTS's. Do the tutorial for the voice command. 
 There is one more thing that I didn't like but can be easily fixed, that is the normal setting 
 was way too easy. I marched through the campaign with not a single battle lost. Anyhow, that is 
 an easy fix. OVER ALL a awesome ambitious, but not perfect a game. Keep that in mind and HAVE FUN 
 that is what it is about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jake9123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  This game is a must buy for the 360 if youer an RTS fan, its very easy to play and understand, 
 think of it like the battlefiled games, over all there is only maybe 7 unit types or so. there 
 is tanks whoch are good aganst p [retty much and other ground unit, there is tranzports which are 
 Anti air, and then there are gunships whiuchare anti tank, sao its this simple circle betoween 
 theze three units and then there is the riflemen, engineers, artilerley, and the command vehicle 
 which are kind of the side line units, while the tanks ,tranzports, and choppers duke it out. there 
 other units simply provide support by useing drones, capuring points, or useing long range attacks.
 
  2 cool features that were in this game were the voice command (my secret weapon) , and the ability 
 to customize your battalion, think of it as your own army that you can dpo what ever you want with 
 it. 
  so overall...
  
  gameplay 9/10 - its very interactive with the voice commandas and the unit customaztion, bgit its 
 too simple, just use tanks, tranzports, and gunships and your gananteed to win...
  
  grafix 8/10 - ok for early 360 ghrafix but comeon a little destruction or pysics would be nice! 
 this game has awsome light8ing and textures but the expltionons look like orange clowds and there 
 is no destuction except for buildings, (hint hint!! World in comnflict destruction and physics 
 would be nice!!!!!)
  
  sound 8/10 - ok sound, nothing special thogh
  
  TOTAL 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkness225
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2008 10:27 pm PT
Review:  the voice command is cool sometimes it will not understand what your saying but other the voice 
 command is good, very good graphics to me, and easy command on the Xbox 360 i had a fun time with 
 it the, the online play is also cool it is like the main campaign but you are online you pick a 
 nations then go fight other people in different kind of matchs like assault in which you kill all 
 the units on the opposing team in conquest you have to capture at least half of the uplinks i think 
 then seige in which someone is attacking your capital the defenders have no renforcement until 
 i timer is done and the attacker must kill the defenders a long campaign if you are ready for that 
 it ends when you conquer the capitals or you conquer the world or all their bases the games factions 
 are russia, USA, Europe and they are all fighting for fuel and supplies but that is not really what 
 starts WW3 to find out you must get the game you might not be suprise but still i will not tell 
 you so all in all give this game a 9.0 very good try it but i think it is very worth playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K1LL3R-SH0T
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 25, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  I used to play Command & Conquer 3 in my spare time, I found it really addicting. Once I heard 
 of ENDWAR I couldn't wait for its release, and you won't be disappointed with the game-play.
  
  The dynamic camera for the game is a first of its kind, usually you look down on the battlefield 
 and their isn't much action going on, but ENDWAR changed it. The camera follows your units like 
 a third-person camera however the camera is completely maneuverable and can be adjusted too how 
 you see fit.
  
  Tom Clancy is a hero, his game may have changed how strategy game are played. The option of using 
 a mic is great, however does has some minor sound issues, however it is fully playable and is a 
 great addition too the game. If your a fan of strategy games, then this is a game that you don't 
 want to miss. Hopefully this review will give you an insight to the game. Hope you enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklesrocks
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 15, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Endwar has had quite a long time in development bearing the tom clancy name and from the mind of 
 such a great writer comes endwar a realistic vision of world war 3 and boy is it a good one making 
 strategic war fun even if you are fighting in a huge battle.
  
  Gameplay: here is where endwar stands out from the crowd, instead of just using a controller you 
 can plug in your headset and issue command with your voice, im serious and it works extremely well 
 making battle much simpler and fun as you actually get involved on how your units are doing as 
 you shout commands down your headsets mic, its very very fun.
  
  Audio: Nothing bad here, endwar had great voice acting and your units call for help when needed 
 but dont seem very distressed though.
  
  Graphics: This is where endwar falls quite short, the graphics are not as good as they should have 
 been but they're still good though.
  
  Flaws: there are a few here like only 3 game modes and a boring offline mode.
  
  Overall: endwar 
 is a great strategy with good graphics and great control, if you can play online.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbenyaminovich
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 10, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  This game turned out to be a big disappointment after much hype. On the bright side there are a 
 few nice features. The graphics are great and the game is a pleasure to look at. All the unit models 
 seem believable even though they are based on fictional prototypes. Another nice aspect is the 
 voice command system. For what it can do, it's actually a pretty useful in game tool to control 
 your forces.
  
  Now for the bad stuff. Although the voice command system is pretty cool at first glance, it provides 
 you with a very simplistic control system. For example, I can tell a unit to go directly to some 
 point on the map, but I can't tell it to take a specific route in order to get there. Forget about 
 flanking maneuvers unless you are willing to use the control pad. And we all know how frustrating 
 and inaccurate using the control pad can be when playing real-time strategy games. Too bad they 
 don't add a wireless mouse as a peripheral to the Xbox 360 (how hard is it to do that) . In a game 
 where precise maneuvering is key, you are left with control mechanism that frustrates and disappoints. 
 
  
  The number of unit types in the game is small and makes the game feel shallow. To compound this 
 problem, the game units that are present are very weak. Tanks can keep shooting at their targets 
 for minutes without killing them. I am sorry, but it just not very realistic when a tank has to 
 shoot an artillery unit ten times in order to destroy it. What you are left with is units shooting 
 at each other until their health drains, which for some reason doesn't feel very rewarding.
  
  Now, if they could take the voice command system from End War and incorporate it in a game 
 like Company of Heroes with the ability to use a mouse, you'd have a perfect 10.
  
  Maybe real-time strategy should be left on the PC.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: big-joe-cool
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 4:34 am PT
Review:  EndWar is a highly ambitious title that has managed to pull it off surprisingly well.
  
  I enjoy EndWar and while it may take some getting used to, where screaming at the screen can actually 
 help you win rather than just alleviate the stress of sucking at a game. While I agree it doesn't 
 deliver too much on the depth, it is definitely all there on the scale and fun side of things. 
 This game rewards strategy and the DEFCON system allows some come-from-behind victories that, while 
 perhaps a little unfair to the computer, are spectacular and feel very rewarding, especially as 
 you can purchase upgrades for units.
  
  One of my favourite things about EndWar is that it puts you straight in the action. I love Command 
 and Conquer, but I can't imagine picking up the controller and be kicking butt within 5 minutes. 
 You don't have to build anything, just deploy units and in no time at all you can have artillery 
 hammering a group of tanks across the map, or have riflemen sniping enemies across the street.
 
  
  The voice command works fairly well and adds to the fluid gameplay. It has, however failed me on 
 a few occasions, when I first started playing it couldn't understand "two" which was very frustrating, 
 and on one occasion it mistook "WMD Zulu" for "WMD Bravo" and subsequently nuked my own outpost 
 (why this is even a performable command I have no idea) , causing me to fail the mission and my 
 temper. I'm now a little more careful, leaving the potentially disastrous orders to my thumbs, 
 but I'm glad I stuck through, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankienickel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Just a solid, well executed RTS game with a very innovative voice command system. It really does 
 make you feel like your commanding the troops rather than just pointing and clicking. I bought 
 the combo pack that includes the game plus the wireless headset and considering the game sells 
 for $59 and the wireless headset was $69.99 at my Rodgers Plus store, the $84.99 combo pack was 
 a pleasant surprise.
  
  The game mechanics are a bit simplistic, so I would look forward to an expansion pack that includes 
 more units, upgrades and voice commands. But for the money I paid, I'm really enjoying my time 
 with this game.
  
  Sound scape is fantastic and so is the voice acting. I like hearing the real time feedback from 
 the units and the sounds of being right in the action. 
  
  I would have appreciated the ability to float around the map rather than being hitched to a unit 
 directly. The sitrep map sort of gives you that ability, but it's not the same as being able to 
 zoom in and out as you please. 
  
  Graphics are great - I have no complaints. I did install to my HD and I don't think it made much 
 of a difference in terms of load times, but it did make the 360 run quieter, which was nice for 
 a change. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelover117
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's EndWar surprisingly pulls off being a good console RTS, a feat not so easily achieved. 
 Its voice command system is undoubtedly the most exciting aspect of the game. This system works 
 very well, but not always to 100% accuracy. Sometimes you will find yourself having to enunciate 
 two, or even three times before the game can recognize a command.
  
  EndWar looks stunning in all of its environments. It has some visual flaws in animation, but this 
 will most likely be overlooked. The audio is also really good. The variety of voice actors make 
 for some very entertaining gameplay.
  
  There isn't really a huge amount of strategy to EndWar, just a simple rock-paper-scissors type 
 combat system. If you know what beats what, odds are you will easily achieve victory. The way the 
 game is set up in the menus can be somewhat confusing at first, but eventually it becomes easier 
 to understand.
  
  Although EndWar doesn't deliver a lot for the game it is set up to be, it does deliver a great 
 playing experience and a very fun command system that will have you entertained for a good length 
 of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakatak25
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  This game will probably re-define alot of strategy games, it was come up with a great piece of 
 voice recognition software. The voice recognition is easy to use and once you've played for a bit 
 you know most if not all the commands.
  
  I will admit to properly appreciate this game you should be familier with the RTS genre but you'll 
 soon like it after getting used to it. One thing i do miss is having your own character being able 
 to shoot throw grenades ( like in GRAW) this, in my opinion would give the game a great new dimention 
 to play it in if you prefer to do it that way.
  
  End War lives up t it's hype and more. I'd recommend it strongly for a fan of RTS but if your not 
 you'll soon like it.
  
  :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chnky12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 1:03 am PT
Review:  and a multiplayer that will keep you coming back for more. End War is the first of its kind. A 
 RTS made for consoles that finally solves that whole, "I need a mouse" issue. It combines great 
 balance of units, forcing players to react to oppositions tactics, with a stand out multiplayer. 
 Giving users the ability to spend countless hours upgrading massive amounts of variable unit types 
 and supports. The campaign might be flat, but not to worry. A little Xbox live time with the multiplayer's 
 MMO style and RTS dimensions will keep you coming back for more. For those into strategy games, 
 this is the one you've been waiting for. All those who may be skeptical of the strategy world and 
 RTS "replays", have no fear End War is here! This game will have you playing for months to come. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  I have to say that I haven't been the biggest fan of most of the T. C. based games. I'm even less 
 of a fan of sim games. I do have to say that there are a lot of ideas in this game that alone make 
 it deserve the rating it's getting. 
  
  First off the story is really interesting. I like how it's mapped out in the cut scenes. If you 
 are a Sci-Fi apocolyptic end of war fan (much like Terminator) then this is a great game for you 
 to pick up. 
  
  The graphics are about what you would expect from a game like this. They aren't going to win any 
 awards at any gaming shows, but they get the job done. 
  
  I do like the controls are mapped out. There is a great balance of the controller with voice commands 
 that you prompt with your headset, which is rare but cool way to command you troops. I think they 
 should impliment this kind of control work with other games like this, and maybe with all games. 
 
  
  The music is good, epic in ways. The sounds are traditional war like sounds. The voice overs are 
 ok, with some good and some bad. All sound like they are over a radio though, which makes them 
 all sound simular. 
  
  All in all EndWar was an interesting expierence worth at least one play through for people looking 
 for a sim game that works a little differently. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XPHOBOS666X
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Endwar is the best RTS I have ever played. Just after playing the demo, I couldn't 
 go back to C&C 3. C&C is too far outta the action, and if you zoom in your missing whats going 
 on, but with Endwar your right in the thick of the action. Your close enough to the action to feel 
 what your soldiers are going through but far enough away to see almost the whole battlefield. Hotswaping 
 between units is fairly easy, either a press of the X button or with the game's awesome voice command, 
 "unit 3 camera."Another feature only found in this RTS, (that I know of) , is that when viewing units 
 your stuck to that unit, which adds more thought to a battle when you have limited vision, but 
 don't worry for those who love C&C, the game can be played with the Eye in the Sky camera too. 
 As i said before the best action RTS ever made.
  
  Endwar community ID: Wells2010 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unit54321
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Features: No annoying resource-harvesting, only fast-paced actions. That's the Endwar, with the 
 innovative voice command control system. Sit on a couch, trigger RT, speak out your command based 
 on a "Who-What-Where" structure and game is in your hands (voice) . RTS games have never been so 
 smoothy on a console. Despite the fast actions it presents, it doesn't mean there's no strategy. 
 You still need to plan well to win every battle. Voice Control: Voice control works actually pretty 
 well so far as I have experienced since more than 90% of the time my command is taken into action 
 correctly using the original Xbox 360 headset. Also, button-based control is available, which means 
 you can treat this game like a traditional console RTS game if you like, but it's hard to defeat 
 a human opponent while you are not using voice control, because you need longer time to give your 
 orders. About the game itself: The background of the game is set in the near future when the WWIII 
 is set on fire. In the Solo Campaign mode, You will first get yourself familiar with the game by 
 walking into the Prelude part telling you how the WWIII breaks out. You will be assigned as a commander 
 of one of the three factions, which are Euro, USA, and Russia and play a series of easy battles. 
 That's telling you the basic rules of this game. After these tutorial-like battles, the WWIII begins 
 and you have to choose your faction to continue your fight. You earn money after each battle for 
 upgrades for your units. Theater of War is one of its multiplay modes and is much like the WWIII 
 solo campaign but with human opponents not AI players. Other multiplayer modes include quick match 
 in which you fight a random players, and private match where you can play with your friends. Win 
 the battles: Endwar includes several types of maps. In some you need to defend the enemy's siege, 
 while in others you try to secure the uplink buildings to gain more advantage to crush the enemy. 
 Several types of units are available, including riflemen, engineers (using rocket launchers) , tanks, 
 transporters, gunships, artilleries and some others. The basic rule is like a triangle that gunships 
 are effective at beating tanks, which are the killer of transporters, which are in turn gunship-hunters. 
 In solo WWIII or Theater of War, the units survived will be promoted and become much more powerful. 
 If they are defeated but evacuated (retreat) , they can still be dispatched in the next battle and 
 their ranks are maintained. However, they will disappear from your dispatch list when they are 
 defeated and killed. So, use your high-ranked units wisely and don't let them attack without proper 
 covers. Unit promotion will not be saved for quick match or private match.
  
  Endwar community name: SPBRAXTON 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbarrio07
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  When the demo came out.. all I kept hearing was that it s too simple and the graphics were plain... 
 that RTS games are meant for PC.. For all those critics.. This is the beginning of RTS on consoles... 
 The graphics are not up to par with games like call of duty or gears of war, but still great considering 
 how big the battlefields are.. 
  The voice commands work great and once you get used to them, the commands will be like second nature. 
 The story isn't the greatest thing ever, but you'll be too busy trying to take control of different 
 parts of the world that you'll appreciate that the story is short and sweet.
  The whole rock.. paper.. scissor concept is a bit simple and is great for beginners that dont know 
 alot about strategy or tactics. the great thing about the units is that you could link units with 
 other units to make a task group, which makes your units stronger and more efficient to command.. and 
 make each ecounter different.. If you play in the harder difficulties, the game is alot harder 
 and you'll be so busy trying to organize your attacks and defenses that you'll quickly forget what 
 beats what. This is an amazing game and is a hell of alot better online..
  Games are meant to be challenging.. to keep you entertained for long periods of time.. not just a 
 weekend. This is our generations version of the Risk board game and this game will certainly keep 
 you busy for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingfuzzball01
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  i personally loved it, VOICE CONTROL MASSIVE ONLINE GAME AND ALSO MASSIVE BATTLES U WILL HAVE SO 
 MANY OMGWTFDIDYOUSEETHAT moments. aside from that the game incorporates an amazing system which 
 allows the user to cusomize his or her army, personally i love the spetsnaz. The use of infantry 
 is far greater then you would expect, they can call air strikes get dropped behind enemy lines 
 and take out tank crew with the sniper. YOU WILL LOVE IT AND ENJOY
  
  NO MORE TO SAY JUST TRYING TO MAKE THE 100 WORD MINIMUM (EWRWE       DF F FGD D FD DF GDF DF HG 
 H RTE ER ER ERT ER UFD GIDFDHODOHO DO SDFHSOH SGHOIHGI DSFISDIOFHOSHF DF IFS S DIFS FS FSDIFOI 
 F SDFSO DU FIOS FSDUFIOS FS DS F SF DSF S DF SIDSIOFSD DSFISY SIDFO SIDU FIOSUDIOU IOUSD IU IOSDO 
 FU SIODU FIOSDUOIFUISU IS SDI UFIOSUOIUIS SD SDIUF ISUDIFU SDIUF OIDSUIFU DSF UIDOSU F USOUTOEU 
 W R REY TOIOER TOIE R RE IERWU IOT QWEQ EWIO RY OYO YDUYDFUYPQRPIEWQRIEY RIYWOEQYE WE IQY I IWOQ 
 EOI RQY RIOEW IQO WEQO WIO EY ODFS) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damnstraight003
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Ever wished there was a game that was tactical, but easy to understand? Challenging, but accessible? 
 Awesome-looking, but realistic?
  
  Say hello to Tom Clancy's EndWar.
  
  First, I want to clarify something. Every playable faction in EndWar is not the army of its respective 
 nation, but rather the elites of it. Regular Army troops can be deployed by the player to assist 
 them by way of a support ability, but unlike the elite units that the player controls, they have 
 no shields or special abilities and are controlled by an AI.
  
  Let me address the negatives brought up by Gamespot's reviewer. The story campaign is, admittedly, 
 somewhat lacking in story content; however, I would argue that a demerit was not warranted for 
 this. The story is really not a big part of the game. The whole purpose of the Prelude to War Campaign 
 is to teach you how to play. The World War III Campaign that follows is all about getting you ready 
 for the online multiplayer.
  
  All three factions DO NOT play the same way. The breakdown is basically this: The Joint Strike 
 Force (United States) is essentially a balanced force. They have no notable strengths, but no notable 
 weaknesses either. The European Federation Enforcer Corps has the fastest units in the game (movement, 
 capture speed, and rate of fire) , but does slightly less damage and has lower health overall. The 
 Spetsnaz Guard Brigade (Russia) deals noticeably higher damage, but has the slowest units (movement 
 and rate of fire, maybe capture speed I don't know for sure) .
  
  For example. The JSF has control of the middle of the map. They have a decent-sized force deployed 
 there. Europe, even with a force of about the same size, could inflict losses, but not uproot the 
 Americans. They would have to dance around them, perhaps use supports such as EMPs, Air Strikes, 
 or Force Recon (a deployment of regular army units) . The Russians, on the other hand, could happily 
 blow the living daylights out of the US garrison with their superior firepower.
  
  While it is true that the unit types are limited, the substantial amount of purchasable upgrades 
 makes every army unique. Combat can sometimes feel like a rock-paper-scissors game, but this is 
 a good thing and a bad thing. Because of the simple combat system, the game is totally accessible, 
 but because of the layout of the maps and the innovative voice command system, it can also be very 
 tactical.
  
  To explain the game's "Combat Chain": Gunships beat Tanks, Tanks beat Transports, and Transports 
 beat Gunships. Engineers in cover can use heavy weaponry to defeat all three main vehicle types, 
 but out of cover they are vulnerable to everything. The one thing that can remove Engineers when 
 they are in cover is Riflemen. Riflemen are also an effective counter to other Riflemen, however 
 they, too are vulnerable out of cover. In cover they can usually take on Gunships. The two other 
 units are the Command Vehicle (which comes with a group of combat drones that are effective against 
 Gunships) and the Artillery. Artillery destroys everything from far away, but is quickly destroyed 
 up close. The Command Vehicle allows use of the SITREP map, a top-down perspective of the battlefield, 
 and can be upgraded to launch a UAV which (when upgraded again) can attack weaker targets such 
 as out-of-cover engineers or artillery.
  
  Of course, I must talk about the voice commands. The system is practically perfect, and works fabulously 
 with the combat system. Aside from the occasional (we're talking once every couple games) misheard 
 command (I usually get "Alpha" mixed up with "Delta") it makes tactical mistakes very rare. And, 
 when you do mess up, the simplicity of the combat system makes it easy to recover and continue 
 with your game.
  
  Another innovative feature of End War is the camera perspective. Except for when you use the game's 
 top-down SITREP map (which you won't be doing often) , you take a third-person angle behind one 
 of your units. This makes every large object in the game a block to your line of sight, removing 
 the need for the familiar RTS fog of war. It also makes gunships valuable not only for their ability 
 to counter tanks, but for their altitude and subsequently increased line of sight.
  
  Finally, it is obvious that EndWar is based on its multiplayer mode, the Theater of War. If you've 
 ever played the game Chromehounds, it is a lot like that game's War map, however the ToW in EndWar 
 uses real places in western Russia, all of Europe, and the Eastern United States (here's hoping 
 for a DLC that adds the rest of the world) . Of course, if you want to play offline, the World War 
 III Campaign plays exactly like the Theater of War, except you play against AI opponents.
  
  In the Theater of War, you command a brigade of your faction. Each faction has several brigades, 
 each with their own special bonuses and unit numbers. When I say unit numbers, I mean this: an 
 Assault brigade has 4 of every unit type except the command vehicle (every brigade type only gets 
 one command vehicle) . A mechanized brigade, on the other hand, will have lots of infantry, transports, 
 and tanks, but will be lacking in artillery and gunships.
  
  As you win battles in the ToW, you can credits which can then be used to upgrade your units. These 
 upgrades are things like attack (sometimes unlocks a special attack or weapon for a squad, or just 
 increases damage, range, area of effect, or accuracy) , defense (which adds HP or Shield strength, 
 and sometimes special defensive measures like anti-missile flares) , mobility (movement speed for 
 vehicles, uplink capture and upgrade speed for infantry) , or abilities (such as the command vehicles 
 UAV, Engineer minefields, and the like) . 
  
  If a unit is defeated in combat, it goes into a 'downed' state, in which it awaits evacuation. 
 If it successfully leaves the battlefield, it retains its rank. However, it can be killed while 
 in this 'downed' state, which causes it to lose its rank. This is significant for two reasons: 
 one, the units' rank grants them a bonus to attack and defense, and two, certain upgrades can only 
 be used by units of a certain rank (or higher) .
  
  All in all, I could not ask for a better RTS than EndWar. It is the most accessible and simply 
 fun strategy game I've played in a long time, and I strongly recommend that Tactical FPS diehards 
 give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhillupM
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 15, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  I would never play it again, not my cup of tea. Reqires no skill. You command others to carry out 
 various objectives, many of which are out of your line of vision. To sum it up it is like watching 
 sombody else play a game for you while yoyu tell them what to do. I don't know why Ubisoft even 
 bothered making this game, I can't even imagine who the target demographic was. I don't know any 
 adult that would find this game the least bit entertaining, the kids I know will not even play 
 it. Even if you found it used for $ 20 I still would not buy it. I cannot understand the 8 rating 
 because everybody I know agrees this game is pointless. There was one question we all had, "why 
 would anybody even want to play ths game". I am a big fan of Ubisoft games but the whole "voice 
 command" concept leaves you feeling like there is no hands on for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redstorm72
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Endwar is a game I have been anticipating for a long time and for the most part, this 
 game lives up to my expectations. The major innovation of this game is the voice command system 
 and it really delivers. Voice commands make commanding your army a breeze and allows Endwar to 
 avoid the pit that console RTS games control schemes usually fall into. The system is not perfect 
 though, sometimes the game will still mistake what you say if you don't say it clearly (like mistaking 
 tanks for transports) . Overall though the voice command system adds a lot to the game and sets 
 this game away from the pack. Another strong point of this game is the production values. The graphics 
 are top notch, every unit looks amazing (each infantry unit casts its own shadow) , the maps look 
 very good with lots of different environments and settings and even the menu system looks cool 
 in the futuristic type of way. The sound design is also very solid giving a nice range of sounds 
 from explosions to helicopter rotors that all sound good. The theater of war mode is a very cool 
 and innovative addition to the game. Making the player pick sides and fight for global control 
 adds a nice layer to the game especially when you add in upgradeable battalions. 
  
  Endwar is not a perfect game however and the main problem of this game is the lack of depth. For 
 one, there are only 7 units and they are the same for all the factions. I realize that it would 
 have been difficult and confusing to have too many units to order with the voice command system 
 but a couple more units and a little more variation between factions (besides upgrades) would have 
 been nice. I was also quite disappointed in the lack of a solid campaign mode. The single player 
 mode is just a watered down version of theater of war and besides the prelude to war missions there 
 is almost no story what so ever. This is too bad because Clancy games are known for their intense 
 (if somewhat outlandish) stories, and having a solid story could have added some much needed depth 
 to this great game.
  
  Over all Endwar is a very good game with some awesome innovation but lacks the depth to make it 
 amazing. If you are a fan of RTS games, thinking about getting in to them or just looking for something 
 innovative you should buy this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krockalock
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  I don't care what he gives it, granted he has review some games and give them appropriate reviews. 
 I've only played the demo but I can see an average story. Voice command is the best part. I've 
 played demos of other RTS games on a console and they were a little sluggish going for side to 
 side and front to back but not End War, side to side and front to back were just the right speed. 
 Not every RTS needs to use a mouse. The different appearances of the different armies is awesome. 
 The rock, paper, scissor system does make sense I mean is the Joint Strike Force ghosts were strong 
 against gunship it would not make seance.  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paintballa
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  This game has been getting a lot of negative feedback. I read the Electronic Games Monthly review 
 on it and they just didn't give it justice. It's like they expected something more of the ordinary. 
 
  One of their quotes was that "the camera is limited to your units". That is the point isn't it? 
 To give you a sense of realism, to not be able to see everything on the map and have an unrealistic 
 advantage. Give me a break. Another quote was that "the units are unbalanced, that they can steam 
 roll opponents with a fleet of tanks". I call BS on that. I have spent a lot of time with this 
 game online and I have not been steam rolled by a fleet of tanks. The units are balanced that if 
 a Gunship or a Engineer in cover will shred them to pieces. I don't know what their problem is. 
 This game is different I guess from the standard RTS genre. 
  To me being different and implementing a style that changes the way you look and play the game 
 is inviting. The way you can upgrade and keep your units through the online world is awesome. Just 
 don't get them killed and they will stay with you. The camera is cool, letting you get right down 
 on the field of battle or an over the top view in the SiteRep where u can see the whole battlefield 
 in real time. To me the units are balanced just right. Not giving one unit more of an advantage 
 than another. I mean how can u get it wrong. There are only 8 unit types in the game. A developer 
 like UbiSoft usually doesn't get that wrong. 
  This game is a must by for fans looking for a new outlet on the console for RTS. It is totally 
 immersive and satisfying. 
  Getcha One! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gippal56
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 7:15 am PT
Review:  Great game if I may say so myself. With the November rush of great video game title releases, this 
 one has fell short to meet the mark of many potential buyers. This is unfortunate in my opinion. 
 This game offers so much more than what meets the eye. I myself am strict on the titles that I 
 choose to buy due to the fact that new releases are 60$. I probably buy one game every 6 months, 
 and I am so happy with this purchase. The ability to use our voice to lead multiple units into 
 battle has been a dream of my for some time. Finally, this game has mastered the technology to 
 do so. It works well, though it isn't without fault. There are a few times when you are in an intense 
 battle that a command won't be heard correctly, making it minorly frustrating. But this happens 
 rarely, so I'll get over it. But still an amazing addition to a great game. When I originally played 
 the demo, I was much to my own surprise, a little disappointed. I had been watching this game for 
 awhile, and the demo let me down on so many different levels. I wanted to do more than just secure 
 an uplink, and upgrade it to allow me to use air support. It was simplistic, and there wasn't much 
 strategy involved as I had hoped. I wasn't happy with the basic conquest system of many past games 
 that involved "capturing" uplinks to defeat your opponent. I pre-ordered the game anyways, realizing 
 that it was only a demo, and that there would be more challenges to meet in the actual game. Im 
 happy that I did, because the Theatre of War changed my opinion of this game dramatically. Purchasing 
 upgrades was fun, and there are so many different ways to customize your batallion to your own 
 liking. This added so much more to the actual battles. For once, a conquest gametype actually brought 
 a respect to strategy. The single player can get difficult since your facing a computer that can 
 multitask at the speed of light. Multiplayer is fun, and offers enjoyment with friends in the 2v2 
 section. This game does need some updates, and does fall short in multiplayer for me. Although 
 i expected 4v4, this was not the case. You can only do 2v2's, which is fun, but they could do so 
 much more if they allowed for up to 3v3, or even 4v4 play. I find myself usually playing 2v2, because 
 1v1's can become extremely agitating. You really have to know the ins and outs of playing this 
 game, or you will get rocked online doing a 1v1. I have played the single player campaign enough 
 to adapt to this hard mutiplayer, but people expecting to jump right in will be dissapointed. Start 
 with single, and you will find yourself more likely to succeed in the multiplayer. There is no 
 strong matchmaking system to guarantee that newbies will fight newbies. But don't get me wrong, 
 a newb can indeed beat a veteran of upgrades with better strategy. Upgrades mean nothing if you 
 don't have strategy. Overall, this game is amazing. I would suggest this over most of the recent 
 titles, because of replay value, and the flat out intensely fun battles. Can't go wrong here. Go 
 End War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leprechaun2011
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Very simple game with the unit match ups similar to rock, paper, scissors as already pointed out 
 but the voice commands make it awesome! Everyone says there is no story or hardly one but i thought 
 it was a very good detailed story, good enough for me. Also when you get close up to things, they 
 should have worked on the small textures a bit more. I give it a ten because it can help the overall 
 score of users up a little more, really I would give it more of a 8.5 Why 100 words, isn't this 
 good enough? Why 100 words, isn't this good enough? Why 100 words, isn't this good enough? Why 
 100 words, isn't this good enough? Why 100 words, isn't this good enough? Why 100 words, isn't 
 this good enough? Why 100 words, isn't this good enough? Why 100 words, isn't this good enough? 
 Why 100 words, isn't this good enough? Why 100 words, isn't this good enough? Why 100 words, isn't 
 this good enough? Why 100 words, isn't this good enough? Why 100 words, isn't this good enough? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaner73
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  when you think about it, video games have come along way from Tetris and Pong. How many games allow 
 a voice command interface and can make the likely seem extremely possible, also the multiplayer=EPIC. 
 End War is all of this (despite some flaws) . Its voice command is really neat and honestly I can't 
 play without it (you probably shouldn't get this game if you don't have a mic) . It's also really 
 interesting how likely the possibility of End War is. Think about it what if a Nuclear war happens 
 in the Mid East and oil prices goes through the roof. Russia would probably be the leading supplier 
 in oil if that happened (basically because they found mega amounts of oil in Siberia not to long 
 ago) . Some of its flaws though are the explosions. there always a big part in any game and End 
 War just kind of let this down. They look really silly, but its overall Graphics are nice. Another 
 flaw is its simple structure, There is only 6 unit types and they are all the same for each faction 
 each unit is only good against the same units kinda like rock-paper-scissors. Multiplayer is really 
 fun and innovative. to sum up the game innovative, good overall graphics, Historically accurate 
 and some flaws considering minor gameplay infrastructure. 
  Recommend renting it first!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannymac_1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  The first thing im going to say is ignore the voice command system, im not saying its a gimick, 
 its a nice touch and is almost flawless. If thats how you want to play then crack on. I prefer 
 to use the controller i can move 3 or 4 units to different locations much quicker without it.
 
  
  
  This game is very polished, the upgrade system works very well to keep things fresh, it is even 
 possible to break the rock-paper-scissors mechanic if you are clever and are co-ordinated. 
  
  special attacks from units and off map support feel very powerfull and and extremly gratifying 
 to use, however dont feel overpowered and unfair when used against you. Some people claim its all 
 to simple, but deep stratagy can be employed, a few games i got my ass handed to me by people who 
 knew a few sneaky tricks.
  
  In all its a fresh break with conventional RTS and also an amazing feat for it to be done on a 
 console. 
  
  If this could have all been achived whilst maintaining what should have been a promising and inovative 
 story line this would be an even more fantastic game. Dont expect much from the campaign in terms 
 of story, but expect both the on and offline elements to be addictive, fun and competitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CY4N1D3_625
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  First off, the impression you get right after you finish the campaign is: "Wow, that was quick.." 
 The story in this game has an emphasis on WWIII and 3 major factions fighting for world dominance, 
 but the story that makes this an attractive game, is almost non-existent in the campaign. 
  The idea of fine-tuning your battalion is a nice touch, letting the individual player command their 
 battalion to his or her liking. Each unit has its little upgrades such as better engines for better 
 movement, large shells for aggressive destruction and my personal favorite, artillery grid smashers. 
 However, this game's expansiveness is cut short for being all too simple. The only thing one has 
 to take into account when walking into this game is this: transports and engineers beat gunships, 
 gunships beat riflemen and tanks and tanks beat transports and riflemen. This rock-paper-scissors 
 element undermines the entire RTS community by making life in this game too easy. Sure some tanks 
 can be equipped to better handle a gunship or letting engineers have better automatic fire, but 
 it's not enough. If there were more options to play with making the player and individual units 
 more unpredictable, this game would have been even better. But still, being a commander for once 
 is a wonderful touch. This game is an 8/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leonardabella
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  A new kind of military RTS just right for X360 & PS3
  
  - good graphics
  - inmersive multiplayer action
  - great XBOX Live Experience
  - easy to control (control is 
 always better on PC, definitely)
  - cool voice command (Voice recognition isn't perfect, but works)
  - 3D engine ok
  
  MILITARY
 
  
  *Russian Spetsnaz Guards Brigade 
  *European Federation Enforcers Corps
  *United States' Joint Strike Force* 
  infantery, artillery, air units, earth vehicles & engineers
 
  
  Each side takes command of up to 12 squads that can be split between seven unit types. Though there 
 are small differences in looks and strength between each faction, they largely play the same.
 
  
  Tanks will beat transports, which will beat helicopters, which in turn will beat tanks. Add in 
 two types of infantry, command vehicles, and artillery that all play special roles and you have 
 yourself a full set of units to command.
  
  Each game will typically last about 15 minutes, maxing out at roughly 30
  
  You won't waist 
 your money.
  
  100% Guarantee 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cantante80
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 8:30 am PT
Review:  This is not the strongest real time strategy game in terms of pure gameplay. I've also never been 
 interested in playing a console RTS. However, this game brings a new dimension to the genre in 
 the voice control. I enjoy this style so much that despite the simple gameplay, this game is definitely 
 recommended as worth your time. As the gamespot review said, the production values are great, and 
 watching a wmd take out a large group of troops is very satisfying. The AI is also effective as 
 you have to carefully monitor your units preventing them from being exposed to units that will 
 tear them up. Another aspect that I particularly enjoy is the fact that you retain troops from 
 one battle to another. This gives the game staying power. I haven't tried the online theater of 
 war, but I look forward to it. This is a strong game worth your time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedMage1967
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  I've played Civ II on PC and Civ Revolution on my 360. This game kicks butt!! Like the voice command 
 system, but it does get annoying sometimes when it doesn't recognize my voice (probably because 
 I'm getting hyper and talking to fast) . Graphics are great, Getting used to the camera with this. 
 Bottom line for me on this game is great graphics, good voice command, if you can keep your voice 
 firm and level while you're units are being attacked. Like using the voice command system, makes 
 managing my units easier that it is in the CIV games. No menus to remember, just learn the voice 
 commands and you can easily command your units around. Also remember which unit types to use when 
 attacking enemy units. Use the wrong unit, and you will get slaughtered. Still learning the game, 
 will write more here as I play it some more. HAVE FUN!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NotoriouzWun
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2008 3:13 am PT
Review:  EndWar brings something special to the table. The immersive nature of the game you get with being 
 part of the unit you control, mixed with on the fly commands through voice prompting makes for 
 exciting combat.
  
  The "paper-rock-scissors" combat system is a little more then chance sometimes. Mix up your units 
 well and defeating a unit of tanks with gunships can pose a problem, if those tanks are set up 
 with transport. The maps are interesting and the different multi-player game types give way to 
 using different strategies. I find the 2vs2 is much more fun than 1vs1 battles because of the unique 
 relationship you have to have with your teammate to accomplish the task at hand.
  
  As for the single player, the story is a little more there then i think people let on to. Yes it 
 not a huge drawn out typical Clancy story, but I don't feel it's any less of a story than other 
 RTS's. Its a little less of a story than Command and Conquer but more than a Chromehounds - Yes 
 I know Chromehounds was not a RTS but its probably the worst story in a single player possible.
 
  
  Overall I gave the game a 9.0 because i think it brings a new way to play RTS's to the table. The 
 multi-player is solid and the single player isn't half bad. For what its worth i think this is 
 one of those games that it is what you make of it and ends up being a classic.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer3450
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  In the game can choose 3 factions in EndWar:
  
  The Russian Spetsnaz Guards Brigade, which is composed of veterans of Russia's many regional conflicts, 
 specializing in heavy weapons and heavy armor. Their WMD (weapon of mass destruction) is the Vacuum 
 Missile. 
  
  The European Federation Enforcers Corps, which is made up of veteran elite counter-terrorist and 
 peacekeeping forces from throughout Europe, especially skilled in urban warfare. While their weaponry 
 may not be as precise as those of the JSF and their units are slightly less armored, their strength 
 lies in electronic warfare, as well as non-lethal weapons technology and advanced directed energy 
 weapons. Their ranks notably contain many previous members of the elite counter-terrorist unit 
 Rainbow. Their WMD is a Tactical High Energy Laser. 
  
  The United States' Joint Strike Force, led by Ghost Recon main character Scott Mitchell [9] , is 
 modeled after today's Marine Expeditionary Units. The JSF is built around small, fast, units packing 
 a precise punch, and is made up of elite soldiers from all branches of the U. S. Military [10] . They 
 also specialize in access to state-of-the-art stealth technology and battlefield robotics, such 
 as Unmanned Aerial Vehicles and Automated Sentry Drones. Their WMD is a Kinetic Strike. 
  
  The best part of the game will take place in the same universe as Ghost Recon, H. A. W. X., Rainbow 
 Six and Splinter Cell.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSicknessX
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Just rent this game if anything. The training mode is extremely boring when it starts. The actual 
 game isn't too great itself. The units are pretty retarded in what they do. The camera is god-awful... I 
 believe if they had done a traditional rts style camera.. ala Age of Empires. etc this game would 
 have been so much better.
  
  The other main problem with this camera is that you really can't pan out at all. I understand that 
 you can play some tricks with the UAV (according to a friend) but normally just to be able to pan 
 out far enough to be able to see several units at once is quite literally impossible. You can zoom 
 in on a far away unit but that really is about it.
  
  In terms of actual gameplay the controls are a little iffy.. I like the idea of voice recognition 
 but even that has its flaws... I used the wireless headset and whenever I would tell a unit to move 
 to Foxtrot they would stand still as if given an order to do so.. So then I would have to manually 
 get them to move. I like the idea of the theatre of war and the Forza-esque garage for upgrading 
 veterans, that is probably the only thing besides the graphics that I generally liked alot.
  
  One upside I will give to this game is that the graphics are amazing... You can easily tell 
 which units and which factions are which.
  
  
  
  Graphics- A
  
  Control- C... With or without microphone
  
  Game Overall- C-
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  Endwar is the newest RTT (Real-Time-Tactics) from famed author Tom Clancy, but does this RTS hold 
 its place in the Console world? Absolutely, it really does fit in the console world, which is a 
 rare thing to say about a console RTT, but there are some annoying camera issues and visual issues 
 that I have experienced that really keep this game from achieving a 9 in my books.
  
  Lets get this out of the way, the singleplayer is pretty bad in regards to gameplay, the singleplayer 
 really keeps this game from showcasing its true potential, its a really boring campaign, especially 
 in the demo level, the kennedy space center where your fighting off a "Hellish attack" which consisted 
 of 3 apc squads, and 1 tank squad, wow... that was one hell of a battle. 
  
  The gameplay is fantastic on a console, your held at a third person perspective, but this is where 
 I found some problems of my own, while its great for a console RTT, if you are a pc RTT fan, your 
 going to have some trouble with the camera, since you do have limited vision of the battle field, 
 I personally think it would be better if they did a world in conflict camera style gameplay, but 
 its fine once you get the hang of it.
  
  You do control a persistent battallion, you control many types of units, gunships, tanks, apc's, 
 riflemen, engineers, artillery, and command vehicles, you carrying them through one mission, and 
 you get experiece for each specific unit, now if you keep that unit in one piece during all the 
 campaign missions, you do get experiece levels for that one unit (goes right up to level 6 I heard, 
 still not there : () making that one specific unit very effective in battle, loose that unit, he 
 won't come back. One thing I would like to point out is that this game is alot like Ground Control, 
 with persistant units that keep garnering experience that make them far more effective in battle.
 
  
  In each mission, you earn command points, these can be used to buy upgrades for each unit in your 
 battallion, buying railguns for your apc's, or aa guns for the tanks, its a useful feature, and 
 for the riflemen, they can be turned into a sniper team if you upgrade them to which they are equiped 
 with snipers.
  
  Lets talk about the factions you can be, your in WWIII so there are 3 superpowers going at it, 
 the Russian's, the Americans, and the Europeans (where's Japan? Canada? or South America?) the 
 Russians are the heavy armored and armed units in the battle field, relying heavily on there Superior 
 firepower to see through to victory, pretty well running into the thick of it and destroying as 
 much as possible, the Americans are pretty well Hit-Run units, with less armor than there Russian 
 Counter-Parts, and Less of a technological advantage over there European counter parts, they compensate 
 for there precise punch attacks, the European rely on there electronic warfare, and advantages 
 in Urban Warfare.
  
  The Skirmish is really the best part about Endwar, the gameplay is really standout here, its alot 
 like World in Conflict, where you have to capture points on a map, but the twist is that when you 
 link all the nodes up, defcon one initiates, meaning one side can retaliate with a WMD on the winning 
 team, but the winning team may do the exact same thing to you, Assault is deathmatch pretty well, 
 go in, eliminate everything, get out, Raid is the standard attack defend variant, and Siege, which 
 is played on capital city levels, is another variant of attack and defend, but the twist is that 
 the defending team must defend a key strategic point for 10 minutes without reinforcements, WMD's, 
 or off map support, forcing them to fight to the last man.
  
  The Multiplayer itself is broken down to a MMORTT, where all sides are pitted against each other 
 to take over the world, I never really got into this because I was stuck mainly playing skirmish, 
 or private matches, but its definately an interesting idea since this sort of thing hasn't been 
 done before on a console, or at least not yet.
  
  The Graphics do very well, using the Unreal 3 Engine, the draw distance is the star of the show 
 really though, you do get to see a good deal of the battlefield, and as you could see, it looks 
 beautiful, but when you get to the thick of battle, thats when the engine starts to really take 
 shift, the particle effects, the battle, it all looks fantastic, the only problem, there was some 
 noticable slow-down and some points in time, and there was some texture pop-in, but either way, 
 great looking game. 
  
  The sound is great to, maybe not the voice acting, but its still great to see Tank guns rumble 
 after firing, or your marines chatting in the thick of battle, Rockets have a nice woosh to them, 
 tanks rumble with a commanding attitude, it just sounds great, and every unit in your battalion 
 sounds completely different, so you don't get that idea of recycled dialogue in the game.
  
  Bottom line, if you haven't gotten into RTT's on a console already, you should definately try 
 EndWar, it is the best console game out at the moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stryder1212
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  BFME 2, Universe at War, and C&C 3 all really failed more or less to make the transition of RTS 
 to consoles.
  
  But, looks like Clancy's got it right.
  
  First and foremost, the gameplay is great. Endwar's got a really streamlined feel to it, the speed 
 is balanced and the units are simple enough to use. Whether you enjoy just using the controller 
 or the voice option, or both (recommended) , for gamers familiar with RTS's understanding the controls 
 are simple enough. The voice system functions beautifully by the way, it recognizes words with 
 accuracy and speed. Even if you have an accent (southern, new england, canadian) it doesn't have 
 any problems. Plus it leaves your hands free to multi-task with the controller. The campaign and 
 multi-player revolve around a global meta-map of regions to be fought over, each one fairly unique 
 and fun.
  
  The graphics of course, are jaw-dropping. Despite hundreds of units being onscreen at once, every 
 model and texture remains detailed. The game's sound is also well done, units have many, many different 
 lines and explosion and gunfire are spot-on.
  
  I suppose the only problem with this game I've dealt with so far is the so-so story. There's little 
 to make you care much about it.
  
  In short all I can tell you, reader is that if you are an RTS fan stop reading this, stop eating, 
 watching TV, or whatever you're doing, and go buy this game. Now.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielterrell8
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  i say this the best game out because the is NO game out like this if u have XboxLive GET THIS GAME!! 
 or download the demo and then go get it. i mean come on it's a MMO / FPS / RTS, its all about the 
 upgrades. im from the U. S. but im playing as EP :) , its all about the speed. come on they finely 
 made a game that's all about the strategy and not muse clicks 
  look out for Stopme8k He's mounter!! 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  When writing 
 your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage 
 you to try to get your review right the first time-you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing 
 so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your 
 review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into 
 the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmd54
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  Ok so I just bought this game an hour ago, and I hate. The graphics are really good, but the gameplay 
 and story sucks. The weapons are maybe the only good thing about this game, but it's not like Call 
 of Duty 4 or Halo 3. This weapons are weak and the enemies are strong as anything. But I have to 
 admit, the graphics are kik-a$$. Maybe the only reason to buy this game. So over all this game 
 is a waste of money. I could have saved it to get the new Call of Duty game or Halo Wars. But if 
 you want to buy it, go on ahead. But you'll probably regret buying it. Or rent it first. And if 
 you don't believe me... ask a friend to buy it first, and then see their reaction on their face 
 when you ask them if the game is good or not. Or you can always take a chance and buy the game, 
 and if you like it, good for, and if not, then that sucks. Cause I know I don't like it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
