-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Double Agent
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/splintercell4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Features an overhauled version of Splinter Cell's innovative multiplayer mode.
 the campaign's trust system presents a few interesting moral dilemmas.
 tried-and-true stealth action gameplay still offers complexity and variety.
 high amount of replay value overall.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Campaign recycles a lot of the same graphics, sound, and gameplay from before.
 some frame rate problems bog down the visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 18, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.5, 66 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 7,214 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Shanghai
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Oct 17, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Agent Sam Fisher's latest assignment turns out to be a fairly routine stealth action operation, 
 but improvements to its multiplayer mode more than make up for this. 

  It was back in 2002 when we first met Sam Fisher, a jaded but extremely talented secret agent who 
 was sent all around the world to take care of the most sensitive, covert operations conducted by 
 the United States. Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell became one of the defining franchises of the original 
 Xbox, thanks to its incredibly lifelike graphics and sophisticated stealth action gameplay. So 
 it seems reasonable to approach this latest installment with high expectations: With all that Splinter 
 Cell has done on the Xbox, surely it can do much more on the Xbox 360. Yet despite a compelling 
 new premise that forces Fisher to make some tough moral choices to infiltrate a terrorist group, 
 Splinter Cell Double Agent's campaign may best be described as Splinter Cell with a fresh coat 
 of paint. The single-player portion of the game possesses all of the strengths and weaknesses that 
 fans of the series have come to expect. On the other hand, the game's refreshingly original multiplayer 
 component, which is like a whole separate game, has seen a variety of interesting changes since 
 the last game, making it the better half of a great package.  

          Sam Fisher's got an unusual assignment in Splinter Cell Double Agent, and there's an impressive 
 multiplayer mode waiting for you as well.     

  Even though the Splinter Cell games bear the name of a famous author, they have never been particularly 
 good at telling stories, despite the fact that Sam Fisher has always stood out as a great character. 
 Double Agent gives the impression that it might buck this trend. Early on in the game, Fisher loses 
 his cool and winds up in prison after he's given some very bad news. Unfortunately there's no real 
 follow-through on this plot point because Fisher's incarceration turns out to be a setup for him 
 to get in good with an upstart terrorist group oddly called John Brown's Army (JBA) . The JBA tentatively 
 accepts Fisher as one of its own... but he's still working for the National Security Agency (NSA) , 
 which orders him to play nice and learn what makes these terrorists tick. The terrorist leaders 
 have some personality, but they've got a pretty conventional blow-stuff-up plan. The game's whole 
 premise wears thin as Fisher keeps getting crucial assignments from the bad guys, who inexplicably 
 supply him with the experimental government-issue assault rifle he's always used. Eventually you'll 
 wonder why Sam can't just kill them all and be done with it. But your patience will be rewarded, 
 as there's an action-packed finale and multiple endings to look forward to based on the choices 
 you make along the way.  

  From a gameplay standpoint, ultimately there's not much new or different about the single-player 
 campaign of Double Agent versus that of the previous game, Chaos Theory. If you've played that 
 game, then expect to use all the same moves and abilities to get through Double Agent's dangerous 
 levels, all crawling with enemy patrols. Most of all, you'll be quietly sneaking through these 
 levels while keeping a low profile, sometimes creeping up from behind foes either to put them in 
 a vice grip for an interrogation session, or just put them out of their misery with a quick, lethal 
 knife attack. The controls are complicated to learn if you don't already know them, as even the 
 simple act of opening a door presents you with multiple options: slam it open, use an optical cable 
 to see what's on the other side, and more. But a couple of slick training missions make the learning 
 curve more tolerable. Once on a real mission, enemy forces will respond to you by using the same 
 tactics and behavior you'll probably recognize from the previous games, which still can't be considered 
 a remarkable display of artificial intelligence. If you move too quickly, nearby guards will wander 
 around searching for you. And if they spot you, they'll run behind cover and open fire. That's 
 really about it. While the game's environments are all new, and some are very impressive, seeing 
 all of the recycled moves, animations, and sound effects makes Double Agent's campaign feel like 
 an update rather than a full-on sequel.  

  However, there's a new trust system that gives the missions a different, often more free-form tone 
 than missions from previous Splinter Cell games. There are also moments during the campaign when 
 Fisher must make some sort of tough moral choice to stay in the JBA's good graces, though you could 
 count these moments on one hand. The trust system mostly forces you to be more careful. Getting 
 spotted by enemies will cause you to lose some of either the NSA's or the JBA's trust, and if either 
 of your two trust meters runs out, it's game over. The trust meters carry over from mission to 
 mission, but by completing optional mission objectives for both the JBA and the NSA, you can remain 
 in the good graces of both organizations. In practice, on the default difficulty setting, it isn't 
 difficult to maintain your trust with both sides. Even so, the game takes a step back from Chaos 
 Theory by including a number of potentially frustrating instant-fail situations, such as if JBA 
 terrorists catch you trying to pick a lock inside their base. The penalty isn't always this severe, 
 as if a JBA agent catches you skulking about in a restricted area, he'll chase you out as your 
 trust meter dwindles. Still, this is usually a good enough reason to load a saved game. The trust 
 system makes for an interesting twist, but Double Agent still mostly boils down to a linear series 
 of stealth missions, each with some major objectives and some optional secondary tasks.  

          You'll have to spend some time buddying up with the lieutenants of the John Brown's Army 
 terrorist group.     

  The JBA base missions are a new concept for Splinter Cell, and they're hit or miss. You get about 
 30 minutes to snoop around and try to accomplish as many different objectives as possible. Sam 
 can't attack his foes during these sequences, and if he's caught sneaking by his JBA brothers, 
 their reactions just aren't believable. On the other hand, the way Sam switches from a casual walk 
 into his low stealthy crouch when he enters into a restricted area is a great, immediate indication 
 that you're about to conduct some risky business. Getting through undetected is tense and feels 
 rewarding, though these open-ended, pure-stealth missions will have you frequently reloading saved 
 games until you can find the right way to slip through the JBA's security. The first couple of 
 visits to the JBA base are entertaining, but because you'll return here between almost every major 
 mission, it's less exciting after a while. And during one such mission, you're forced to decrypt 
 an e-mail by completing a 3D sudoku puzzle, which seems oddly out of place.  

  Fisher's main assignments in Double Agent take him everywhere from a massive tanker caught in a 
 freezing-cold Russian winter to a sweltering-hot African town that's wracked by war. Interestingly, 
 most of these missions take place in broad daylight, so Fisher will need to hide behind cover much 
 more often than he'll need to slink through the shadows. In fact, you could go through pretty much 
 the whole campaign without ever using his signature night vision goggles, and he won't even have 
 them half the time anyway. The game's main missions are quite lengthy and challenging, and it's 
 generally up to you to decide whether to try to sneak past your foes or fight them.     

  The shooting in Double Agent feels exactly the same as before, so it's not particularly satisfying 
 and is mostly a means to an end. You must aim while standing perfectly still in order to shoot 
 with any accuracy, and Fisher moves slowly when his gun is equipped anyway, which prevents you 
 from playing this or any Splinter Cell game in a run-and-gun fashion. And besides, the silenced 
 pistol and rifle Fisher uses just don't pack much of a visceral punch. Fisher also has the same 
 quick lethal and nonlethal close-combat attacks he had in Chaos Theory and remains powerful enough 
 to take down one or two guards head on.  

          The multiplayer portion of Double Agent provides more in the way of differences and improvements 
 when compared with the single-player portion.     

  One noteworthy change to the gameplay is that, in a nod to Halo 2, there are no health packs -- Fisher's 
 life recovers automatically if he avoids damage for a few seconds. This doesn't add to the game's 
 realism any more than health packs do, but it gives you one less thing to worry about and probably 
 makes the game a little easier overall. Of course, you can still be killed very quickly if unexpectedly 
 caught by a rifle-toting opponent. Although a violent approach is often the easiest way out, it's 
 not always an option at the hard difficulty setting, which starts you off without any ammo and 
 makes you lose a lot more of the NSA's or JBA's trust whenever you slip up. Fortunately, Fisher 
 now has access to an onscreen map that points out enemies in the vicinity. The only catch is that 
 the map will only refresh when he stops moving, so you need to tread carefully. You can also access 
 a more-detailed 3D map, which can be confusing to read in some of the bigger levels, but it still 
 is essential for locating some of your objectives.  

  Double Agent's single-player campaign is roughly the same length as that of the previous games, 
 so you should be able to get through it the first time in 10 hours or less. There's some replay 
 value there: the higher difficulty setting, numerous unlockable gadgets you get from completing 
 optional missions, multiple endings, and a few unlockable achievements that are tough to earn the 
 first time through. However, most of this game's lasting value comes from its multiplayer mode. 
 It's still based on the innovative concept from Splinter Cell Pandora Tomorrow, which pitted small 
 teams of quick and nimble spies against heavily armed mercenaries; but the pace is quicker, you 
 can have six players in a match (up from four) , and the whole experience is more streamlined and 
 somewhat less complicated than previous versions. Interestingly, the game also prohibits you from 
 playing on all of the available maps until you've earned some experience, which is a good thing 
 because each of the approximately 10 maps is intricately designed and you need to learn their ins 
 and outs before you can play on them effectively.  

  The last two Splinter Cell games offered multiple game variants for each map, but they were all 
 pretty similar. In Double Agent, the point of each map is quite clear: The spies must download 
 files from one of several different terminals and return those files to their insertion point, 
 while the mercenaries must stop them. Even though it's been true of the last two Splinter Cell 
 games, the fact that the spies and the mercenaries play so differently still makes this multiplayer 
 mode feel unique. The spies are controlled from a third-person perspective, like Sam Fisher, while 
 mercenaries are controlled strictly from a first-person viewpoint. The mercenaries make up for 
 having less maneuverability and situational awareness by packing a big gun with unlimited ammo, 
 among other things.  

  The spies are even less like Sam Fisher than they used to be, which is great. They move about twice 
 as fast as Fisher and have a number of their own unique moves and animations. What they don't have 
 anymore is any kind of conventional weapon, though they can still use smoke grenades and other 
 gadgets, as well as their high-tech wristband for neutralizing mercenaries' weapon systems. This 
 same device is used for taking out lights, breaking glass, and downloading those precious files -- a 
 process that takes dangerous number of seconds. As soon as a spy starts downloading files from 
 a terminal, the mercenaries are alerted to it and may follow an onscreen minimap to quickly get 
 to the action. However, tracking down those pesky spies can still be difficult because most multiplayer 
 maps in Double Agent are very, very dark, unlike the single-player missions.  

  Spies can't withstand much damage from mercenary machine guns, but they can still take out mercenaries 
 by dropping on their heads or sneaking up behind them and snapping their necks. Mercenaries, in 
 turn, can slam spies to the ground with a swing of their rifles and finish them off with a powerful 
 head butt. It's great fun to pull off these types of moves in a multiplayer match, though there's 
 a lot more sneaking and stalking in a typical match than full-on combat. Even so, the pace is quicker 
 and better overall than in previous versions of this multiplayer mode. Spies don't have to worry 
 so much about getting caught by laser trip wires and other defenses, but they have more to fear 
 from mercenaries who quickly discover them as soon as they begin downloading from a terminal. And 
 it's worth noting that having six players in these matches also greatly affects both the pace and 
 the strategy. Spies seemingly have to work a little harder than mercenaries to accomplish their 
 objectives, but by spreading out and attacking different terminals at the same time, they can divide 
 and conquer. Mercenaries can meanwhile use a special vision mode to detect spies who are trying 
 to download files, which lets them get pretty sneaky themselves.  

  As you play and win successive matches, you can unlock a variety of achievements and other bonuses 
 (like a few alternate outfits for the spies and mercenaries) to help reward your continued effort. 
 You can play both ranked and unranked matches online, and because coordination is the key to success 
 in this game, you may also form a squad with some of your friends and compete against other squads. 
 Interestingly, Double Agent optionally lets you play with or against computer-controlled bots on 
 the mercenary side, but not the spy side, presumably because the spies have too complicated of 
 a job for the artificial intelligence to handle. The mercenary artificial intelligence is available 
 in three difficulties and provides a respectable challenge. Double Agent also features a series 
 of cooperative missions, which cast you and up to two other players as the spies and put you up 
 against computer-controlled mercenaries. Some of these missions even have a competitive twist to 
 them. They're essentially similar to the core multiplayer game, but they don't have human players 
 controlling the mercenaries. So these aren't the stand-alone, story-driven co-op missions as seen 
 in Chaos Theory, but there are a lot more of them than in the last game, and the underlying gameplay 
 is faster and more exciting.  

          Although Double Agent looks very impressive in spots, it still looks a lot like what you've 
 seen in the past from Splinter Cell.     

  What immediately stood out about the original Splinter Cell game was its presentation, but the 
 series' presentation has come to feel like a given. In terms of the visuals, Double Agent lives 
 up to the series' high standards but makes no clear effort to exceed them. Certainly, this new 
 game looks much cleaner and more detailed running in HD on the Xbox 360 than the old games did 
 on the Xbox, but apart from a lot of added detail to Fisher's character model and the fantastic-looking 
 Africa level, the presentation's improvements aren't significant. Some unsightly frame rate issues 
 even crop up from time to time, and the sound effects, while still fitting, seem to have been recycled 
 from the very first Splinter Cell. Some fairly long loading times and an awkward menu system also 
 mar the overall experience a bit. It takes a while to switch from single-player to multiplayer 
 modes, and during multiplayer loading screens before each match, you'll get the same basic tutorial 
 info that's only useful the first few times. Thankfully, gravelly-voiced Michael Ironside still 
 puts in a good performance as Fisher, but there's less banter and dry humor in the script compared 
 with Chaos Theory. The rest of the voice acting is solid, and there are only good things to be 
 said about the game's new soundtrack, which is perfectly fitting superspy-sounding stuff that gets 
 louder and tenser when Fisher gets up close to an enemy. Music also picks up at key moments during 
 multiplayer -- when it's time for a spy to get those files back to extraction or to die trying.  
 

  Sam Fisher is the star of the Splinter Cell series, so it's odd that the multiplayer portions of 
 these games, which he's in no way a part of, seem to be evolving much more rapidly than the solo 
 campaigns. Double Agent's few keen twists on Splinter Cell's single-player gameplay don't result 
 in a remarkably different experience from the previous games, though that doesn't mean it still 
 isn't some of the best stealth action out there. The multiplayer portion, meanwhile, introduces 
 some inventive changes that seem to be for the better and that help make this unique mode easier 
 to get into and often more exciting to play than before. And these two parts add up to an excellent 
 game.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (486 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: englentine
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2009 8:43 am PT
Review:  It took me awhile before I got into the new game play involved. In this chapter of Splinter cell 
 you are a double agent in a terrorist organization. In order to maintain their trust you will have 
 to do things that are not exactly what a good guy would do. The catch here is, if you do some of 
 these things, the organization who really employs you will begin to think you are turning. So the 
 whole game you have to figure out ways to keep the trust of both organizations.
  The contrstory makes for one of the better games I have played on the 360. Granted the graphics 
 are above par excellent, but also have a look of the first group of the new generation of games, 
 so I am sure it will end up looking kind of quaint soon.
  Either way, this is a game very much worth your money. ols are very similar to the other games so 
 playing this will be as easy to slip into as an old pair of comfortable shoes. That coupled with 
 a very compelling 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerTron0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 9:14 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  The graphics look good. Some levels feel like more of a third person shooter. Stealth parts are 
 fun. The choices you make add replay value. Story and voice acting is great.
  
  THE BAD:
  Some glitches. Can be annoying that the AI knows right where u are when u are right behind something. 
 Too short. Multiplayer is not that fun.
  
  MAIN OVERVIEW:
  The game starts like a regular splinter cell game but the next level u must escape a prison. After 
 u complete missions you will be in the JBA HQ to sneak and hack into computers or retreve files. 
 U have a trust meter and u do objectives to gain or lose trust from either the NSA or JBA.
  
  OVERALL:
  You got 2 like stealth games in order to like this game. Has some bugs and problems 
 but a very enjoyable game thats worth the money.
  
  Rating: 8.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FabulousGamer90
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 7:57 pm PT
Review:  (A singleplayer only review)
  
  Sam Fisher is back again in the newest instalment of the Splinter Cell series, this time working 
 undercover in a criminal organisation and with the NSA as a double agent, as the title of the game 
 infers. Double Agent is a very different game to its predecessors, though stealth is still the 
 order of the day here, many of the missions are based in very bright areas, unlike the previous 
 games which all took place in very dark areas giving you plenty of opportunities to creep around 
 in the shadows. Along with this rather perplexing shift in the style of the game, there is also 
 a new trust and moral choice system. Though certainly interesting alterations to the series, I 
 feel like the formula has been tampered with a little too much, and the result is a game that doesn't 
 really feel like Splinter Cell anymore.
  
  The new trust system works for both sides of the fence, the criminal organisation you're working 
 in (the JBA) and the NSA. Doing a task to please one side may not be acceptable to the other side, 
 meaning you have to balance your options to keeping both trust bars high. If you lose all your 
 trust for one of the organisations then its mission failed. While I understand the reason for this 
 addition to the game, I feel like they didn't do enough with it. Losing all trust being a Game 
 Over defeats the whole point of having it there in the first place, and it just leaves it being 
 an annoying bar that you have to keep filling up. Why can't I continue playing as a bad guy if 
 I keep following the JBA's orders and lose all the NSA's trust? Why don't my moral choices have 
 any real effect on the game other than the trust bars dropping a bit? While I can accept that all 
 this stuff takes a lot of work to implement effectively, if they can't go the whole way with it 
 then I would rather it simply not be there, because at its current state it feels rather half-baked. 
 
  
  The missions in Double Agent are pretty varied. But while the locations you visit are all very 
 pretty and memorable, they are also very bright. As stated in my opening paragraph, Double Agent 
 lacks the series trademark darkness. Being stealthy in an older Splinter Cell game would involve 
 hiding in the shadows, then slowly creeping up behind an enemy to incapacitate, or sneak around 
 him. In this game, you're more likely to hide behind an object of some kind, and then distract 
 an enemy somehow to be able to run past without being noticed. I can't help but feel that they're 
 missed the point slightly with this game. Hiding in shadows is what Splinter Cell has always been 
 about, in fact the last game in the series was the darkest yet, and to suddenly shift from that 
 into these blindingly bright levels is just really confusing to me. Though dark corners aren't 
 completely non-existent, there are quite rare. It's not just the brightness either. I often felt 
 like it was almost expected of me to run and gun. One example is in a later level where you have 
 to track down someone in the middle of a warzone in the Congo. You have to go fast because there 
 are bullets flying everywhere, and you keep getting hurried around by the person speaking to you 
 in your earpiece. Due to the nature of that particular level it is actually easier to get detected 
 and then hide, and shoot some of the brain-dead AI characters in the head as they walk slowly to 
 your location, and then run out and deal with the rest. This does NOT make a good stealth game. 
 It's not just this either, the final level after that is very much the same, and various levels 
 before these have areas where it's simply easier to run as fast as possible to your objective than 
 to take it slowly and be stealthy.
  
  After a major mission in Double Agent you're taken back to the base of the JBA, and asked to do 
 various remedial tasks around the place, while also being asked to snoop around by the NSA; and 
 you're given a certain time to do it all in, like 30 minutes. It's really not much fun at all, 
 they completely break the flow of the game, and you'll just get bored and want to skip it all to 
 get to the next real mission. You'll find yourself reluctantly doing the primary tasks, and then 
 once you realise your secondary tasks won't lose you much trust and aren't particularly fun; you'll 
 be left with 5  10 minutes of time left to either force yourself to do the tasks, or just leave 
 the game running while you go off and do something else. I found that it's better to do the latter. 
 Making me leave the game to play itself while I wait for it to finish p*ssing about doesn't win 
 it any points in my book.
  
  Graphically, Double Agent is good. There are some really pretty effects, and lighting and shading 
 look very nice. Despite being uncharacteristically bright, I can't deny that those bright areas 
 are often nice to look at. However, it doesn't run at a stable frame rate on the Xbox 360, which 
 puzzled me a bit, as there are plenty of better looking games out there. It can only be put down 
 to sloppy programming unfortunately.
  
  As a fan of the Splinter Cell series, I'm sadly disappointed in the newest instalment. Double Agent 
 is certainly not a bad game, but it's completely different than any other Splinter Cell game. It's 
 still a stealth game, and the same solid stealth mechanics the series is famous for are still there 
 as much as they ever were. What drags it down is that the levels just don't seem to be made with 
 these mechanics in mind. It's like they were made for another game and then ported to Splinter 
 Cell, making them feel really feel out of place, and Sam doesn't seem suited to them at all. The 
 trust and moral choice additions to the game haven't been implemented too well and feel a little 
 bit sloppy. If you want a solid and worthy addition to the series, this is not it. However, on 
 its own merits it's not a bad game, and if you like stealth games it's definitely worth a try at 
 least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LosDaddie
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 7:48 am PT
Review:  LOVED
  
  Gameplay: Sorry, Kojima-san, but Splinter Cell is still king when it comes to stealth gameplay. 
 Double Agent (like all its predecessors) encourages you to sneak around the maps, snatching unsuspecting 
 fools from behind and knocking them out. If you try to "Run-n-Gun" your way through this game, 
 you'll have a very difficult time.
  
  Save System: You can save anywhere at anytime. And Double Agent is the kind of game that needs 
 this feature.
  
  Moral Choices / Alt. Endings: The game throws some sorta tough moral choices at you throughout 
 the game. There are 2 different endings depending on your decisions, which gives you the perfect 
 excuse to re-play the game.
  
  Audio Design: Eh.... I'll be honest and admit this is probably only listed here because DA is the 
 first Splinter Cell game I've played on a surround sound system. But anyway, it's much easier to 
 sneak around a map when you can hear everything around you.
  
  HATED
  
  Last Gen Engine: One of my biggest gripes early into the Xbox360's life was all the last gen ports 
 developers released on the console. It's easy to tell that Ubi Soft did just that for DA. Basically, 
 the game is an Xbox1 game with a fresh coat of paint.
  
  Weak Guns: The assualt rifle Sam Fisher is equiped with is supposedly a top secret prototype weapon, 
 yet it is incredibly weak. If you don't get a headshot, then you'll be pumping at least 5 shots 
 into an enemy. Same goes for the pistal.
  
  Useless Unlockables: Maybe it's just how I play Splinter Cell, but I never used any of the unlockable 
 equipment (grenades, wall mines, etc)
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  Sam Fisher, my old bud, you have not aged well. Nearly 3yrsafter your last mission, you're practically 
 indistinguishable from your Xbox1 days, which is a bad thing. In 2009, you are an OK rental for 
 Splinter Cell fans (and gamers looks for a quick 500+ GamerPoints) , but not anyone else. 
  
  Bring the thunder next time, Fisher
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2009 11:20 pm PT
Review:  "Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory" was arguably the best game on XBOX. It certainly did have the best 
 visuals and the gameplay was truly awesome on many fronts. Not only did the single player evolved 
 (and was the best spy game since MGS 3) , but the online modes were perfection. Spy Vs. Merc was 
 expanded and the coop games were wonderful. It was a hard game to follow-up. 
  
  However, the guys from Ubi Soft Shanghai (Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow) were given the task 
 and succeded, if not surpassed "Chaos Theory" with the first XBOX 360 "Splinter Cell". Like Treyarch 
 is to the "Call of Duty" franchise, Shanghai is the "b" team for SC series. Ubi Soft Montreal is 
 the studio that offered the innovative original game and "Chaos Theory". However, "Double Agent" 
 gives players two different endings based on how they play the game. Choices are given during crucial 
 moments in the game and you are forced into making a decision that will be either black or white. 
 But that is the main difference in gameplay. Visually, the game is the opposite of "Chaos Theory". 
 Mainly, it takes place during the daylight and the story is more "24" than Tom Clancy. However, 
 the online modes return and are still fun. Competitive modes are 3 vs 3 and faster paced. The cooperative 
 games also return and are great. Overall, it's not as good as "Chaos Theory", but still a great 
 sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peaches1347
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2009 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell Double Agent is the fourth in the Splinter Cell series. Its story takes Sam Fisher 
 on a mission where he must become one of his enemies to bring down a terrorist group named the 
 JDA (John Browns Army) a very lacking name. If you are making a terrorist group at least make it 
 cool or catchy. Throughout Sam's adventure he has to make a number of moral choices.
  
  -The Game play-
  
  The game play in this splinter cell is what you should expect by this time 
 in the series stealth action that will have you hitting the reload button more times than the action 
 button. You must move around the shadows through most of your missions. If you take this like a 
 shooter game then you'll get turned into piece of Swiss cheese before you can accomplish your first 
 T-bag. You have a number of gadgets at your disposal my personal favorite was the sticky camera. 
 Most of them are pointless and useless and the chances you'll use anything but your pistol, knife, 
 and night vision goggles are slim to none. The gadgets are there mainly for show like that sick 
 slowly dying mule at the petting zoo. It's there but why would you want to use it?
  
  Other than using your gadgets and gun Sam can dispose of his usually foreign terrorist enemies 
 by performing stealth kills with a knife. These are the most fun you'll have killing an enemy. 
 The sheer awesomeness of the moves will have you relying on your knife more than anything. No matter 
 how many times I played through a level the knife kills kept me happy
  
  The game also uses this trust system for your "moral choices" and it's pretty affective it makes 
 you want to keep as many people as possible happy (see story for more) 
  
  In between missions you go back to the JDA's headquarters where you do stuff for the NSA the company 
 you work for. These missions are boring and useless they could of explained what happened through 
 a cut scene and it would save everyone a bunch of time. In these missions you have to go to restricted 
 areas and not get detected. It seems that no matter how many times you get caught they don't care. 
 They send you on your way back to the non-restricted area. But what i want to know is how the hell 
 did Joe the plumber get to go in there and me the person doing all the dirty work for the JDA not?! 
 In short they would have been better if you could kill someone with your knife.
  
  -AI-
  
  The computer intelligence can go from the intelligence of a child with ADD to a below average 
 adult who probably dropped out of high school, to an insane super human freak that can spot you 
 in a dark corner in the next room behind a wall with a box over you. They have x-ray vision and 
 hearing and it you even think about blinking within 10 feet of then they will have found you and 
 shot.... dead. But that is if you play on veteran. All in all I think they are pretty good for an 
 early 360 game.
  
  -The Story-
  
  Most games now-a-days have these "moral choices" you have to make. Most of them are there and 
 you choose and nothing really happens like in GTAIV half of those choices are just there they don't 
 do anything. This game actually pulls it off and it's damn good at it to. Every time time they 
 make you choose something happens in effect to it. Someone dies or maybe they don't, and the ending 
 changes accordingly. I for one have never seen the most bastard ending where you side completely 
 with the bad guys ending but i am sure it's a good one.
  
  The voice acting for everyone but lambart, and fisher are laughable ESPECIALLY the leader of the 
 JDA he has this HORRIBLE new jersey accent that makes he sound like he missed the day in kindergarten 
 where they learned how to pronounce letters it's hard to take him seriously as a character when 
 he keeps saying "good woik feesha" most of the other cast sounds like they pulled people off the 
 street and said "hey you want to be in a video game?" The main story progresses at a snail's pace 
 then at the last few missions they threw the snail towards the end to hurry it up.
  
  -The Multi player- 
  (In short..... it's a joke)
  
  You can either be a Spy or a Mercenary 
 The spy has speed and hacking technology and one gadget that is it and you have to hack these terminals 
 and get it back to your base before your run out of lives or time runs out. It seems that the whole 
 game is against spies because it is a lose/lose situation for them.
  
  The mercenaries have guns, grenades, a tackle move, and mobile bomb a rigged as it seems for them 
 you might think it would be best for them right? NO! You have sneaky bastards running all over 
 the place stealing Sh*t and you can't catch them. The mercenaries get there pretty quick so the 
 spy's won't have the file so it's an endless game of running around!
  
  Along with the atrocious one type game mode you have this beeping system instead of radar which 
 will piss you off when you hear a beeping noise and you know that they are but you can't see them!
 
  
  -The Final Thoughts-
  
  Splinter Cell Double agent is a good single-player that you have come to expect. The story although 
 slowed pace will have you interested till the end. The game play is good in some areas. The multi 
 player is not worth your time even if you want every last achievement.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: x8VXU6
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 6:21 pm PT
Review:  I tried to play the first SC and I really didnt like it. But I heard some good things about this 
 game and its only $10 now so I said I just should go and get it. to my surprise I fell in love 
 with it. The graphic still look good today and I like the story line as well. It does have some 
 bugs in it but they aren't that bad and u dont get them alot. this one is alot hard than the other 
 ones cuz u have to keep everyones trust or u will fail the mission, but it works for the game and 
 it gives u that feel of a real spy. If u like getting achievement then get this game, u will get 
 30 points each mision u complete, rite now I think I got something like 250 achievement pionts 
 so far. Overall its only $10 so there is no need to rent just go ahead and buy it, if u a SC fan 
 then this is a must have for u. I cant wait until the next one to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: not_guilty_84
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  If your like me then usually splinter cell isn't the first game you think about getting. Tom Clancy 
 games are very technical and well thought out to keep you going for a very long time! this game 
 is hard but not hard enough to make you quit. It keeps you going by just letting you slip by the 
 levels and continuing throughout the game. The graphics are 100% amazing and look really good even 
 on standard definition small televisions. There is a few parts (glitches) in the game that kinda 
 through you off but nothing to make you sigh and turn it off forever.
  
  The game play alone is very unique and easy to adjust to. You get to pretty much climb anything 
 in sight just to get out of the way of being spotted and easy to recover your agent status of not 
 being seen. The way your able to use the environment and a lot of the surrounding is very nice 
 to get attention from you.
  
  The multiplayer option (xbox live, system link) is very fun with all the different games on different 
 levels you can play. It takes a little while sometimes in the waiting room for others to be ready 
 or to find other players but if you have enough patience its very worth the wait!
  
  The only partial bad thing i found is the easiness to get lost in missions with no guidance and 
 difficult to be as sneaky as your portrayed to be in the game. other then that this game is really 
 amazing and a fun way to start playing Tom Clancy games if you don't already! 
  
  100% recommended to buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celtic1962
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  I've only had a small amount of experience when it comes to playing stealth games. I played all 
 of the MGS games up to MGS3 but one of the things I enjoyed about those games was that it wasn't 
 imperative that you had perfect stealth. It might be preferable, but if you were seen you could 
 still get through the levels. Splinter Cell goes for a more realistic approach to a stealth game, 
 where it can truly be "game over" if you're caught. This always scared me off because of the possible 
 frustration involved in this type a game but about two years ago I did play the original Splinter 
 Cell on the PS2 and found it to be a fun game that fortunately had enough checkpoints to keep the 
 frustration level low. I never did try out any of the other SC games for the PS2, and when Double 
 Agent came out for the 360 I saw the great reviews it was getting but it seemed there was always 
 another game out there I was more interested in. About a month ago I finally decided to pick up 
 a copy, which was only $15 and was the deluxe edition that included a second DVD full of extras 
 as well. Gotta say, once I put it in the 360 just to check it out I found that I couldn't stop 
 playing it!
  
  GAMEPLAY (9) - DA goes for a new approach that gives you a nice change of pace. Sam is working 
 undercover with a terrorist organization so the missions change back and forth between going to 
 exotic locations such as Hong Kong, Iceland, Africa and even a cruise ship where you'll be doing 
 typical Splinter Cell assignments, to being back at the terrorist HQ where you'll look for opportunities 
 to slip off on your own and attempt to uncover secret info that you can send back to your buddies 
 in the NSA. The missions at the HQ can be the most nerve racking, as you can't get away with attacking 
 anyone or ever being seen in a restricted area. However, with a little patience these missions 
 can be accomplished with minimal frustration. You'll have all of the great gadgets you'd expect 
 from a SC game, from simple lockpicks to more elaborate equipment such as an ultrasonic emitter 
 that will draw away guard's attention. There are so many different devices that I actually didn't 
 get to try out all of them, and this is one of the reasons I'm looking forward to trying the game 
 out again. The controls are very smooth and responsive, and a symbol will appear if you're in a 
 position to do an elaborate action such as rappelling down the side of a skyscraper or grabbing 
 an enemy from behind and interrogating him or knocking him out. A big plus for this game is the 
 ability to save at any time. Hardcore fans may think this cheapens the game but all I know is that 
 it save a lot of potential frustration for me, and allowed me to experiment with different approaches 
 since i knew i wouldn't have to start over an entire level if I failed. It should also be pointed 
 out that this does not involve just missions in dark office buildings. As I mentioned before there 
 are many different locations to go to, and most of them will be in broad daylight, which made it 
 much more interesting IMO.
  
  GRAPHICS (9) - This series has always been known for great visuals, and as you'd expect the step 
 up to the 360 was taken advantage of. Character's details and animations, as well as beautiful 
 environments and lighting are top notch and add a lot to the experience. Being in the middle of 
 a blizzard or climbing on the outside of a skyscraper in the middle of a fireworks display, all 
 of the ares are fantastic and need to be seen in action in order to be fully appreciated.
  
  AUDIO (9) - The background music is typical Tom Clancy themes, which means you're getting a 
 superb soundtrack with tunes that fit right along with all of the tense moments you'll be experiencing. 
 Sound effects, obviously important for a stealth game, are excellent and are a great help as you 
 make your way through dangerous areas. Once again Michael Ironside does the voice for Sam Fisher, 
 and what can I say, no one does it better!
  
  VALUE (8) - On the one hand you can get through your first playthrough in probably about 10 hours 
 or so. However, this game does have great replayability. As I mentioned earlier the game gives 
 you many different gadgets to use, and I wasn't able to take advantage of all of them in the first 
 playthrough. Plus, there are also different approaches to reach your goals plus every mission has 
 a few sidequests that will give you bonus gadgets and weapons if you can accomplish them in addition 
 to the main mission. In my first playthrough I was mainly concerned with just getting the main 
 mission done and then getting out alive. now that I'm a bit more confident I'm looking forward 
 to going bak and trying to get some of those sidequests completed. The SC games have built a good 
 reputation as far as the multiplayer, and even though this game is two years old I see by the forums 
 that there are still plenty of people that enjoy the MP portion as well.
  
  SUMMARY (9) - As I mentioned earlier, this game takes a different direction with the Double Agent 
 approach, and it makes for an immersive experience. Story wise Double Agent goes much deeper than 
 previous SC games, and throughout the game you'll be making decisions that will affect how much 
 trust the terrorist and the NSA have in you, which adds another dimension to the experience. All 
 in all this game was very well done, and while this is obviously recommended to stealth fans, I 
 would recommend this to almost all gamers as it is definitely not as daunting to players that are 
 new to the genre. Do yourself a favor and try it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer3450
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  In Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Double Agent, Sam Fisher, distraught over the death of his daughter, 
 takes up one of the most dangerous missions of his life. Undercover in a prison in Kansas, Sam 
 covertly helps a man, Jamie Washington, escape. The typical game play will be picked up immediatley 
 by Splinter Cell fans and offers great level design and visuals. But being a double agent calls 
 for some new responsibilties. really like the idea of playing for both sides you get to do some 
 missions that you would never get to do in the games where you help just the NSA. You get to jump 
 out of planes and control the parachute which is pretty cool. really liked this game because it 
 made me feel like an actual secret agent, my favorite mission has to be the Prison level, but thats 
 just me. The game has a good story except with greatness there has to be a downfall, the games 
 shooting system is really not that great, thats what this game is lacking, and you are either supposed 
 to knock people out or knife them, but when it comes to a hard situation you have to take out your 
 gun.
  the multiplayer is very good
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pelm
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Splinter cell double agent has fullfilled alll it need to to to get the job done. But it did something 
 stupid it didn't follow or live up to it's predecessers familiar formula, which made this one hit 
 abumpy road but a also a satisfying and comfortable road at the same time. The splinter cell franchise 
 takes double agent and stirs and mixes it up a bit giving it more ommph while still providing some 
 of that good old fashion stealth action forumla.
  
  Double Agent dud something very groundbreaking that turned the heads of aliot of new fans and long 
 time fans, it put in an idea where sam fisher now has two sides to him now both spy and terriost. 
 Trhis unique idea rweally got gamers hooked immensekly because they had never seen this innovation 
 take life in games before. This was the start of a new reinvention of stealth action and even though 
 its new it very well made an impact not only stealth actioon but on the game industry itself.
 
  
  Although things worked out well for double agent kt fell on numerous things. It fell on using the 
 new innovation of combining terriost and soy together to use fully in stealth. It fell on improving 
 the way sam fisher moves in stealth mode and it failed on pushing the way the gadgets are used. 
 it almost failed on balancing the duel terrorist/spy innovation but prevailed in that because it 
 was a new take on the splinter cell franchise and gamers took notice in it.
  
  All in all Ubisoft did it again with the splinter cell franchise adding new ideas and trying to 
 push the splinter cell franchise even further by going down uncharted territory while still using 
 the tried and true stealth action formula, but if they had spent just a bit more time on all of 
 this double agent would have done just as good as its predecessors before, and maybe would have 
 even shined above them all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SplitxXxSkulls
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 4:25 am PT
Review:  Ok, I just got this game 4 days ago, along with BF: BC and Mercs 2. I can't put it down. The graphics 
 still look top notch for being an older 360 game. By the way, alot of my friends keep saying, HOW 
 DO THEY NOT SEE ME! Well That's because your brightness setting is up to high, turn it down. The 
 only problem I have is that the camera gets an annoying angle when in tight situations. I personally 
 think the story is awesome. Not the best, but the direction Ubisoft took the storyline was defenately 
 a turn for the better. The detail in the environments is crazy. The multiplayer is great too. Being 
 a spy is amazing. You're untouchable, and there's always an escape route nearby if you are seen. 
 The main thing is patience. Little bits at a time. The mercs have great gadgets though, such as 
 Explosive drones. The really put alot of time into the game for sure. I just picked it up at my 
 nearest Blockbuster for $16.99. It's a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell is back and this time it's Splinter Cell Double Agent. And it's better than ever 
 just like the rest it's got a great story always bringing you a new and fresh exciting story. This 
 new addition to me if the best so far that is in the series.
  
  In 2007 Sam Fisher and a friend infiltrate a building then it goes to 2008 you are now in jail. 
 That's all I am going to say I don't want to spoil to much for you. So if you want to know more 
 your just going to have to go out and rent the game are something. The story is great and that's 
 what I have always liked the Splinter Cell games for.
  
  Just like all the other games the graphics look real good they are always amazing. Once again this 
 game is rated Mature and not Teen like the first to were. One of the best things about Double Agent 
 is that you get to make a lot of decisions in the game. Which or what ever you decide to do it 
 will effect the out come of the game. So having that makes the game have replay value because you 
 want the different ending.
  
  It's been 5 long years and I have had fun playing all the Splinter Cell games. So I can't wait 
 until the next one's. Double Agent is defiantly in my opinion the best in the series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaz1894
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 4:54 am PT
Review:  Well before I bought this game for the Xbox 360 I already owned it on Xbox & I thought I might 
 as well buy it for 360 as the graphics would be better & even better gameplay. It was better! From 
 the second I started playing it I knew this game would actually be a challenge, it was very strange 
 how different it was to the Xbox version even though they were by name the same game. The game 
 had a great story to it & very good gameplay. The trust meter was a very good little touch to the 
 game & made you actually think about what you were doing & choosing decisions that ultimately changed 
 what was going to happen & how your experiece during the game would change. As in every other Splinter 
 Cell game the voice acting was brilliant & really got you gripped & immersed on what was going 
 on. Thats just the single player. The Multiplayer is great fun no matter what side you are on & 
 is highly addictive even if you lose. The only thing I would say is some large LAG problems can 
 occur & maybe the spies could have a gun? Overall this game is superb & a must buy for any Splinter 
 Cell fan or a fan of the stealth action genre & is a game you will find yourself playing over & 
 over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oblivionfan10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  The Splinter Cell series has always given gamers fresh stories and gameplay for the past 5 years. 
 Sam Fisher has always been an interesting character and the different situations that he has been 
 in have all been interesting. Double Agent is no exception bringing a fresh storyline.
  
  The story begins in September of 2007, with Sam and his partner, infiltrating a geothermal plant 
 in Iceland. After that, the story shifts to February 2008. Sam is in jail. But he is there for 
 a reason, he needs to infiltrate a terrorist cell and one of the members is in the same block as 
 Sam. And the story goes from there. Missions will take you to a tanker stranded in the Sea of Okhotsk 
 to a cruise ship in Cozumel. Each one has a unique feel to it and have different challenges. There 
 are even day light missions without night vision goggles. The best stroyline in a Splinter Cell 
 game.
  
  Of course when Sam infiltrates a terrorist cell and still is working for the NSA, there needs to 
 be trust. That is where the trust system comes into play. In each mission, there will be a set 
 of objectives, each one helps out either the NSA or the JBA (John Brown's Army) . It is up to the 
 player to choose which ones they want to complete. But, if the trust gets to zero for either side, 
 the game will be over, because that organization does not trust you anymore. This system works 
 well, but the choices don't take that much of an impact on the meter, that you just can't complete 
 the lowest side's objectives. All in all, this a great system, just not as much of an impact as 
 advertised.
  
  Sam has the same moves from Chaos Theory. There are however, a few improvements. It now feels more 
 comfortable crouching behind an enemy and grabbing them from behind. There is however a new move 
 includedin this version. It is now possible to press your back against the edge of a wall next 
 to the door. When an enemy comes through the doorway, Sam can grab them and push them to the ground 
 and grab their neck. Next they can either snap their neck or just choke them unconscious.
  
  Ubi Soft Shanghai cleaned up the HUD now. There is now just a little bar on the bottom right 
 corner listing your objectives and stealth circle. If the circle is green, you are hidden, yellow, 
 visible, red, in trouble. This makes the view clearer and makes for a better experiance.
  
  The graphics in this game are great, they show a certain attention to detail. Sam now sweats in 
 his environments and there are individual beads of sweat on his face and arms. There is also more 
 blood in this game. On special characters, blood will appear on their clothes. That is an improvement 
 over the last versions. The facial animations are also pretty good too.
  
  As with all the Splinter Cells, the camera can be a little shaky at times. If you are in a corner, 
 the camera will awkwardly shift to looking at Sam's feet or back. This can get in the way at times, 
 especially when you are sneaking. This is however, just a small nuisance.
  
  After finishing the game, why not hop into multiplayer. Though I have not really touched it. It 
 is an improvement over last years. It plays a whole lot smoother and plays better too. The spies 
 and mercenaries are back again. The object of mercenary games are to protect four computer terminals 
 while the spies try to hack the files. A challenging objective, but fun nontheless.
  
  As with all Xbox 360 games, there are acheivements. These range from each mission completion to 
 collecting all the upgrades for weapons and tools in the single player game. There are also multiplayer 
 acheivements.
  
  This is the best Splinter Cell to date. The branching storylines open up a new path to the next 
 entries. But leaves me no wonder how they can make a game in which vital characters can die.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drgrady
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 14, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  In case you have not played any of the Splinter Cell games, they are one of the best stealth game 
 franchises to date if not the best. The Splinter Cell games have always presented a thoughtful 
 and believable storyline, and Double Agent is no different.
  
  The pace of the game is generally very slow, and it takes an incredible amount of patience, but 
 that is to be expected in a pure stealth game. Not only does the game task players with sneaking 
 through the levels, but also challenges players to not even leave evidence of being there. The 
 goal is to complete each objective without alerting anyone to your presence (meaning no noise when 
 someone is near and staying in dark areas) or leaving any traces behind (so no dead bodies laying 
 in the open and no broken glass from breaking light bulbs to put them out) . It is completely possible 
 to beat each level without getting a 100% stealth score, but the less anyone knows of your presence, 
 the easier it is to get past them.
  
  The thing that sets Double Agent apart from other Splinter Cell games is that the story follows 
 the main character as he infiltrates a terrorist cell and works within the cell to stop their plans. 
 This means that you'll get to explore the terrorist base and interact with several of the characters 
 there while spying on them. It is a small aspect of the game, but it makes a big difference in 
 the way the game feels and how immersed the player can be in the story. The player is also given 
 optional objectives, some of which are mutually exclusive, so that the player has choices to make. 
 Those choices affect the trust levels of the terrorists and the NSA. Once again, this is a minor 
 change to the gameplay, but it really improves the feel of the game. As for the more specific game 
 mechanics, you get more gear and gadgets than you'll probably use in the game, but that just gives 
 you more options. And more gadgets are added to your equipment for successfully completing more 
 optional objectives.
  
  There are a few annoying spots in the game, though. Primarily, Double Agent has one of the shortest, 
 and yet most annoying, escort missions of any game I've played. Thankfully, that escort mission 
 is only a very brief segment of a much longer mission, and it is not necessary to complete the 
 mission. For that escort mission, be prepared to either let the guy die or spend a lot of time 
 reloading your save game. The total escort is only about 50 yards, and if timed right, is 50 yards 
 of no guards and no threat. Unfortunately, the NPC that you have to escort has a bad habit of turning 
 around and running the opposite direction or running through the heavily guarded building where 
 he was being held so that he can escape from the front door. Once, he even made it through all 
 of the guards and out the front door just to stop halfway to safety where I was already waiting 
 for him, and he turned around and ran back into the front door where he got gunned down. This little 
 escort mission is only a small flaw that can become extremely humorous so long as you know that 
 it could take several tries to complete. The only other area where I got annoyed with the game 
 were the last two segments where there is a fairly tight time limit, but that is very doable, and 
 the challenge should be expected since it is the last level in the game.
  
  I have not played the multiplayer enough to really comment on it, but it is a very interesting 
 idea because the opposing teams not only have different objectives, but also have different abilities. 
 So the online portion of the game has a lot of potential, but may have flaws that I've not yet 
 noticed.
  
  The sound and graphics are both very good, and I especially like the different effects created 
 for the various gadgets (night vision, thermal vision, and whatever the energy sensing vision was) . 
 This is a solid game that I recommend to anyone who likes or wants to try a stealth game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supaza
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell: DA is the 4th instalment in the Sam Fisher series and takes the stealth game in 
 new directions. This time around, Sam Fisher is going off the rails slightly. At the start of the 
 game, Fisher's daughter (who, for those of you who've played the previous titles, may recognise) 
 dies in a car crash. Subsequently, Fisher is distraught and chooses to vent is grief and sadness 
 by signing up to be a double agent. In previous games Fisher always worked for 3rd Echelon, taking 
 out terrorists and such like. By becoming a double agent, Fisher has to infiltrate the terrorist 
 head-quarters by getting inside, by being a terrorist and doing what the terrorists ask him to 
 do. All of this is done of course, under cover. The story for this game unfolds as Fisher slowly 
 by surely gains more and more trust in the terrorist organisation you infiltrate and during missions 
 you will be striving to achieve both CIA objectives and Terrorist ones. Obviously conflictions 
 occasionally arise meaning you are forced to choose sides on a regular basis and your reputation 
 within the two organisations changes according to how good, or bad you are. This means the game 
 changes accordingly as well, meaning its different the second time around. IN the story, Fisher 
 is attempting to catch the main terrorist cell leader virtually in the act of committing a crime. 
 I won't ruin the ending, but it basically involves lots of sneaking around. 
  I mentioned the game takes the series in a new direction and it does. Working for two organisations 
 simultaneously during the missions means that you are forced to make crucial decisions. In one 
 mission the terrorist leader may require you to assassinate someone as proof of your allegiance 
 to him whereas this character may be important to 3rd Echelon. A decision has to be made and the 
 results will change accordingly. The most blatant change is a small "trust" bar at the top of the 
 screen that shows how much trust the two organisations have in you. Do one thing bad, and the CIA 
 bar will decrease as the terrorist bar increases. You basically have to do each mission making 
 sure the terrorists don't find out you're undercover while also letting your actions tell the CIA 
 that you've not "gone to the dark side". So the choice element of the game is an addition to the 
 series. 
  Another change the game made, was taking Sam out of the shadows. Previous titles were almost always 
 at night and dawn was feared more than the enemies. Sam would be clambering buildings, infiltrating 
 power stations, all at night. The new Splinter Cell is more diverse. The series has always added 
 and taken away elements of game play with each new game and this is new different. You can no longer 
 jump up a hallway wall with your legs either side and draw your weapon. You can however swim in 
 the icy waters of Iceland. The game also takes you out of Fisher's normal habitat. In this you'll 
 be doing missions outside in broad daylight while a war is under way. You'll be sneaking around 
 cruise ships planting bombs. All of this is very unlike Sam Fisher and to be honest. I didn't like 
 it. 
  Being a fan of the series, i found the new game disappointing. While the game is essentially good, 
 and would be great for new players, it offers very little to the fans. Splinter Cell Double Agent 
 has lost the stealth element somewhat, and with that the difficulty. It used to be a real achievement 
 to complete the Splinter Cell games as they were renowned for being hard. This new one however 
 is simply very easy and with that, not that much fun. As you play missions outside in broad daylight, 
 not really sneaking like you used to, the tension is taken away. The thrill of the game has been 
 lost somehow as they tried to make what appeared to be a "bigger and better" experience. It is 
 by far not the best Splinter Cell game despite being the first one on the new consoles. 
  That said, the game does look very good. The game engine for these games has always being incredible 
 with great looking environments. This is no different, only the attention to detail is much higher. 
 In this game you will see sweat on Sam's head as he negotiates the African town, or sneaks through 
 a prison complex unarmed. The graphics are awesome. Unfortunately the same cannot be said for the 
 sound. The gun noises sound like cap guns and not very realistic. This doesn't help when you are 
 sneaking through a war zone. The guns just don't sound real. The voice acting is as good as ever 
 however with Fisher's same old rusty voice and Lambert on the end of the phone to help you. 
  At the end of the day, i think fans might be disappointed. New players will find the game entertaining, 
 certainly multiplayer and replay ability are good. It doesn't feel like a splinter cell game, but 
 as an easy stealth sneaking game, it passes with flying colours 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fishbrain8
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2008 3:18 am PT
Review:  This is definately a great addition to the Splinter cell series and possibly the best one yet. 
 
  
  The graphics are amazing and the storyline of the game is great. The main thing that makes this 
 better than the other Splinter Cell games is the choices you get throughout the game, sure they 
 can be annoying and they determine the ending of the game but i still like it, it makes you want 
 to replay the game just so you can get every ending. 
  
  Something that i love in this game is that you don't have to be stealthy and sneak up on people, 
 instead you can charge in with your gun and kill them, or if your nice you can use a sticky shocker 
 and knock them out.
  
  I have played both versions of the game and I would say that this version is the best because of 
 the missions, especially the ones at the JBA headquarters.
  
  Overall, this is a great game with a good story, graphics and sound and the best game in the series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariadarabi
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  This game was surprisingly fun. Lots of action and stealth. In fact they balance out quite wonderfully. 
 If you need a good stealth game like metal gear solid 4 but don't have a PS3 but a 360 instead, 
 I think you should get this. Of course it doesn't quite match to the standards of metal gear solid 
 4 but you understand that its ALMOST near to metal gear solid 4.
  
  So enjoy.
  
  Please.
  
  With all due respect.
  I hope you would spend a little of your life playing this 
 because you can learn a lot of practical skills such as human psychology from this!
  
  Another well thing is you can distract, react, and respond. You can evade, invade, and devade. 
 Its a beautiful thing, it almost matches life, but we all know life is better so everyone get outside 
 and get active. In the future many people will be obese, and if you were to have muslces you would 
 be envied by many! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360progamer
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  I loved the game, I've been playing Splinter Cell since the first game came out, and everytime 
 they create a new one, they make it even better, it's not like some other games that are exactly 
 the same thing over and over. If you are new to this game I subjest you play the one before double 
 agent first so you won't feel this one is too hard.
  
  I loved the Double Agent idea, you get to play on both sides (Good and Bad) and according to your 
 decision of playing against any side, the game changes, I mean the missions change according to 
 your decision, that's great. It's definitely worth playing the game twice, one as a good agent, 
 and another as a bad agent, it even has 3 alternative finals, the best and the hardest is when 
 you have 100% trust on both sides.
  
  The graphics are just next generation graphics, in other words, just great graphics.
  
  Online 
 play is great, of course you will get some problems loading the maps if you have a slow connection, 
 I've read people saying that the online play is slow, I didn't have any problems at all, but my 
 connection is very fast, so if you have a slow connection don't even try playing online because 
 it'll get you frustrated.
  
  Another thing is that when you're at the JBA Headquarter, I subjest you accomplish all the alternative 
 subjects from the JBA in order to get the entire game done because at the end of the game if you 
 don't know how to disable the bomb you're screwed, if you've played the entire game you will understand 
 what I'm talking about. Plus you have a limite 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  A game that I had left on my hardrive and had not yet reviewed to the world. But, here it is.
 
  
  It must be pretty hard for the team at Ubisoft Shanghai. Reason is that they have to follow up 
 to Ubisoft Montreal's Chaos Theory. That must be tough, almost as if U2 was your opening act. Its 
 pretty hard to follow.
  
  So lets see what we have here. In their first game, Pandora Tomorrow, it was safe and didn't take 
 many chances, but got away with a decent single player mode. Double Agent however, takes almost 
 everything you know about Splinter Cell and throws it out in to the daylight (literally) . It succeeded, 
 however it leaves some unfilled potential on the table.
  
  The first risk is with Sam Fisher. He is supposed to be a straight-laced good guy. But now SPOILER!!!! 
 with the death of his daughter, he turns rouge and get thrown into prison SPOILERS END! sorry....
 
  
  So basically, the single player mode does take a lot of chances like Sam gone bad and the creation 
 of the trust meter. However, they don't seem to make the most of these risks. And to top it all 
 off, awsome multiplayer. Don't want to forget that.
  
  The franchise now has to fix their mistakes and possibly make a game even more risk taking than 
 this one.
  
  ADDED 7/15: I've been dying to see some new info on the new Conviction game, but their is nothing. 
 What the hell? Maybe well get something at E3 this year... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nster81
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 6:06 am PT
Review:  In Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Double Agent, Sam Fisher, distraught over the death of his daughter, 
 takes up one of the most dangerous missions of his life. Undercover in a prison in Kansas, Sam 
 covertly helps a man, Jamie Washington, escape. Washington shows Sam the secret organization he's 
 in, the JBA, John Browns Army. This is when you have to work fully undercover for the NSA to root 
 out the problem of the JBA. You can also choose to go with the JBA and you'll come across a new 
 storyline. The solo campaign is fun, but the multiplayer is awesome. Versus mode is dynamic and 
 has never been this good in a Splinter Cell game. All in all, though not the best, a good Splinter 
 Cell experience!
  
  Gameplay: 9.8/10
  Graphics, Game, and Character Designs: 10/10
  Story: 9.9/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Voice Acting: 10/10
  Replay Value: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -SPECTER-MIKE
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Double Agent has all one would expect from a Splinter Cell game, as well as a few new features 
 that will keep things interesting. You play as Sam Fisher, NSA star agent. Following a heartbreaking 
 sequence, Sam falls apart. And decides to take on his most dangerous assingment. Infiltrate a terrorist 
 organization and become a double agent. The typical game play will be picked up immediatley by 
 Splinter Cell fans and offers great level design and visuals. But being a double agent calls for 
 some new responsibilties. The player will have to make moral decisions that will affect the trust 
 and standing of either the NSA or the terrorists. Which begs the question, who are you? Hero for 
 the people, or a man who will do anything to uncover the truth. Splinter Cell Double Agent also 
 feautres online play, coupled with the great single player, Double Agent will be rememered and 
 adored by fans of the series for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wull1977
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 4:46 am PT
Review:  I don't know why, but I am a huge fan of the Tom Clancy games on console  not so much on the PC 
 - but the Ghost Recons, Rainbow Sixes and Splinter Cells really do it for me, no matter how hard 
 or frustrating or contrived they are. Love them. But right now, we're focussing on the stealth 
 baby. Unusual in that it is the only non-squad based game and actually has characters with personalities, 
 due mostly to the superb voice work of all involved, but especially Michael Ironside (Sam Fisher) 
 and Don Jordan (Irving Lambert) who from the first game have provided what felt like a properly 
 believable long standing relationship that has stood up through all the games and becomes very 
 important especially in the closing level of this game. While I'm pretty sure they've probably 
 never met and do all their work in a separate booths on different days, the two actors have fantastic 
 chemistry that really adds the winning edge to the series.
  
  The main difference here is that this time around, Sam Fisher has decided to take on the most dangerous 
 mission he can following the death of his daughter. This mission is presumably so dangerous because 
 Sam's history appears to be military in nature with the emphasis on wetwork and action, rather 
 than undercover infiltration. We'll ignore that tiny logic jump. So he gets planted in prison (with 
 his OPSAT on his wrist and concealment indicator strapped to his back (Ignore the logic jump!) ) 
 in order to meet up with a domestic terrorist leader whom he befriends to infiltrate the group. 
 Following this, he performs missions for the terrorist group JBA (John Brown's Army) and the NSA 
 (armed with his specially modified secret service SC2K rifle (ignore!) and his FN 5.7mm pistol 
 (not an entirely common weapon, by the way) . 
  
  Ignoring what amounts to a massive leap in logic (I said I loved them no matter how contrived!) , 
 the game boils down to the same mission structure as before with "interval" levels where you have 
 30 minutes in the JBA base to perform a set amount of tasks - for example, you will be told by 
 the JBA guy to complete an obstacle course and practice on the firing range, while Lambert will 
 tell you to bug their antennae. This adds some superb tension as Sam won't run in the base. No 
 doubt some people will hate these levels as they break up the action, but when viewed as an espionage 
 thriller with the levels acting as the action set-pieces, I feel that the pace is tremendous. 
 
  
  The mechanic that doesn't really work too well is the "trust" system whereby certain acts will 
 raise or lower your trust level with either the JBA or NSA. As I am a bit of a completist, I will 
 do every side mission offered by a game, so this mechanic made no difference to me. I imagine that 
 if you don't maintain trust with both parties, you will be railroaded into certain decisions in 
 order to keep playing as there are points where you are given two conflicting objectives  for 
 example, the NSA say don't kill a hostage, while the JBA put the gun in your hand and tell you 
 to do it. While this particular act doesn't have far reaching consequences, later in the game they 
 become more important. My problem with this is that if your trust drops, you simply get a scrolling 
 message that says "We don't trust you any more. Game over." or something similar. It doesn't seem 
 like enough of a consequence, is all.
  
  Another minor annoyance for me is how I could imagine the developers saying "How can we shake up 
 the game? People buy it for the sneaking around the dark, so we need to shake it up a bit". No, 
 no you don't. Most people like the night time sneakiness, so the day-time snow level (the weakest 
 in my eyes, especially as Sam is bizarrely wearing his super hi-tech suit  and also the only mission 
 in any of the games that I haven't got 100% stealth in!) and the glary African war zone (where 
 your vision enhancer is actually a pair of sunglasses) seem a little out of place. And I'm afraid 
 that it doesn't bode well for the next game which is starting to look like Assassin's Creed
  
  Other than this, though the game is mostly identical to the previous game in the series, Chaos 
 Theory (which had only moved on a little from Pandora Tomorrow) , and seems to use an awful lot 
 of that game's animation, but with nice crisp textures layer over them. No complaints there. The 
 graphics are superb  I especially like the unevenly shaved heads of the characters that do look 
 realistically buzz-cut. Even a couple of years on, the graphics still really stand up to scrutiny. 
 Although it has been there since Chaos Theory, I still love the way that Sam moves his body weight 
 away from an enemy when he's sneaking, it really make the game more believable and tense. To optimise 
 the movie style of the game, the HUD has been mostly scrapped and you need to rely on the previously 
 mentioned concealment indicator strapped to Sam's back. It seems a bit too simplistic with green 
 for "safe", yellow for "not safe" and red for "you're getting shot". I still don't know if I'm 
 entirely happy with the removal of the HUD, and would have liked the option to view it like previous 
 games. But, I suppose it adds a little more tension.
  
  Speaking of tension, the music is better than ever. There way that the "proximity" music build 
 to a crescendo as you sneak up to an enemy is fantastic, if a little stressful. The way it cut's 
 off suddenly when you grab or hit them is quite a relief as well as being stylish. You could possible 
 play the game without any visual clues as to how concealed you are as there are fantastic audio 
 stings as you leave and enter darkness. One irritating sound feature is the lady on the menu screen. 
 When you move to a menu item, she helpfully explains what each one means. Without her I would never 
 have known that Play Single Player Game meant that I could "Play Sam Fisher's New Adventure!" I 
 thought that maybe it would bake me a pie and eject it out the disk slot. Disappointment was avoided 
 by menu lady.
  
  Best look at the negatives a little bit, I suppose There are times when it seems impossible for 
 enemies to see you, yet magically, they do. Worst for this is the aforementioned snow level (while 
 it is not a slippy slidey snow level, I somehow STILL hate snow levels in games) , when you can't 
 see the enemies through the snowstorm, but they can see you. It is something that has been there 
 since the first game, so you should be used to it. There is the odd occasion that hitting someone 
 triggers an alarm as well, even though they make no sound and no one is around to see you. On occasion, 
 Sam has a relaxed attitude to picking up and dropping bodies, as the animation is so long that 
 for both that you often left completely at an enemy's mercy while Sam gently lays down his dead 
 foe. It is quite endearing in a way.
  
  For the most part, the weapons and gadgets in the game are superb. I love the fact that Sam is 
 equipped with the only weapons he needs in his rifle and pistol and doesn't need to worry about 
 finding one better than what he has. The kineticism that can sometimes be lost when using silenced 
 weapons in games isn't a problem here due to the excellent feedback both in Sam's animation and 
 in the vibration. If you're playing the game properly, however, you shouldn't ever need to fire 
 a shot. The pistol even comes with a secondary fire mode that disables lights without breaking 
 them. The sticky shockers are as non-lethal but essential as ever. But some of the new unlockable 
 gadgets make it all a bit too easy, like the automatic lockpick and hacking tool, or even the colour 
 night vision goggles.
  
  Now, the major problem. Anyone who loves Splinter Cell will already have bought and played the 
 game (about 2 years ago, actually) , but it still bears mentioning that the control system is HIDEOUS. 
 I spent the first three games playing with the horizontal controls inverted, apparently. I didn't 
 know this, because it was the default control method. The new default control is what I would call 
 inverted in that the right stick moves the camera left and right from Sam's point of view, rather 
 than around him like a detached camera in the previous games. Easy enough to fix, yes? Change it 
 in the options. Of course. In the previous games, the aiming mode wasn't affected by the inversion 
 of the camera, but this one is, so the controls are always inverted mean that when you go into 
 aiming mode, left moves right and vice versa. This boils down to having to learn how to play the 
 game from scratch. To me, that was a MAJOR problem, but to be fair it was one that I overcame in 
 about a week.
  
  I also have to say that the story slightly comes apart at the end, but that might be in order to 
 allow the multiple endings... But nonetheless, the single player is a superb experience with a 
 cracking story.
  
  The multiplayer is excellent as well, but I can't really base my review on it as it is so different 
 from the Single Player as to be a completely different game! The dynamic of the FPS Upsilon guards 
 and the free running third person spies is superb and fairly well balanced, although any team that 
 effectively communicates will destroy the competition. As it stands, the multiplayer for me is 
 a welcome distraction, rather than a necessary component, so won't really affect the final score 
 negatively.
  
  In summary this is an excellent continuation - and something of a subtle evolution - of a franchise, 
 that leaves the way open for great things in the future. Almost the perfect balance of change and 
 familiarity.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jirf
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 25, 2008 10:36 pm PT
Review:  The splinter cell saga has both been successful and enjoyable; the newest instalment is one of 
 the best stealth/shooters out there. Any fan of the previous splinter cells will find this a very 
 enjoyable game, with more twists and story to back it up, the game has included the opportunity 
 to change the games ending, depending on how you play the game. It also features more gadgets and 
 weapons to go about your stealthy antics. 
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is pretty much the same as before, but has included a new trust system which incorporates 
 some believable twists into the story, depending on how much the two factions trust you. The shooting 
 is still the same, if you get into a gunfight, run and hide! The stealth system is also the same, 
 but less precise on the how well people can see or hear you. The level design and the new ways 
 to be sneaky are greatly improved, the levels now look brilliant, with more ways to get the job 
 done.
  
  Sound/graphics:
  I always liked the graphics from the splinter cell saga and they are yet to disappoint. Not much 
 else can be said about the graphics except they are very lifelike. The sound is average, it doesn't 
 feature anything special but offers some fair quality.
  
  Overall/value:
  The value is great, only if you play online, and only if you have patience, the campaign mode won't 
 last you long but if you have a live connection go ahead and buy it. Overall the game is not for 
 everyone, its concept might be boring to some and its patience factor can also be fairly boring. 
 Overall a great game, especially for stealth fans, however if you are not a stealth fan, and don't 
 want to go too deep into gameplay, this is not the game for you. I myself am a stealth fan, if 
 I was not I would give this game a 6/10. A heavy game, that goes deep into gameplay.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cozmono
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 21, 2008 1:59 am PT
Review:  Over the years we have come to love a secret agent known as Sam Fisher, and it seems, as he get 
 on in age, so do the Splinter Cell games. Once again Sams been asked to go in for the NSA and do 
 a job for them, but this time, it will see Sam finding his way to a maximum security prison, as 
 he is required to attach himself to an underground terrorist group, known as the JBA. From there, 
 Sam will be working under cover, as a splinter cell confined inside the JBA quarters, completing 
 missions asked of him by the JBA, but also asked to either not complete a task or finding a way 
 to avoid a particular job by the NSA. This will require you to use your smarts, as you will be 
 shown a trust monitor, that will show you who is currently trusting you and who is not. The tricky 
 part is to find a happy medium for both the JBA and NSA. Inside the missions, are what you would 
 call mini games. One requires you to build detonators, with a kind of Tetris feel, while another 
 will have you pulling your hair out trying to complete a Sudoku type game. Over all, the game has 
 some nice ideas going for it, and the plan to have Sam infiltrate the JBA, works okay, but never 
 really moves the series forward. The graphics are not a giant leap forward from the original xbox, 
 but its the moves that Sam can pull off that does it for me, so as far as im concerned, the graphics 
 are just as good as they have always been. Just heres hoping they improve with the release of SC5. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ash10692
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 8, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  It's a shame I have to give this game such a low score, as when I played the first level, I realised 
 that the classic Splinter Cell game engine was more fluid than in any previous installment. The 
 level was nothing dazzling, but it felt like a real environment with great AI and slick ease in 
 controlling Fisher. I can't help but feel that if they stuck to this formula throughout the entire 
 game then it would have been the best Splinter Cell EVER. However, once you have completed the 
 introductory mission, the flavour of the game changes completely, and Fisher has to escape from 
 prison (with an escape route shamelessly stolen from the Shawshank Redemption) . It's safe to say 
 that along with LAX in Pandora Tomorrow and the warzone mission in Chaos Theory, it is one of the 
 best Splinter Cell missions to date. But here's where it starts to go horribly wrong. Interlude 
 missions in the JBA headquarters are anything BUT fun, and even though the trust meter is a nice 
 touch, there simply arent enough moral decisions to make. And just when you're beginning to really 
 to get into it... it ends. Finito. A game that only takes 3-4 hours just doesn't cut it with me. 
 Although I've been quick to criticise, towards the end of the game the stealth does get very tense, 
 but it can't hold a candle to Pandora Tomorrow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destructabom
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 28, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  Hi i recently bought the splinter cell double agent xbox game after hearing good reviews (like 
 most of my other games) and i realised that it was in some ways the same as all of the other games 
 in the series.
  
  I noticed the new selecting system that i think is not as good as the other one on chaos theory. 
 It lets you select more things but it is a bit more difficult to select them in a hurry
  
  I really like the idea of playing for both sides you get to do some missions that you would never 
 get to do in the games where you help just the NSA. You get to jump out of planes and control the 
 parachute which is pretty cool .
  
  The developers have not made much improvement on the graphics but they will do.
  
  Pros:
 
  Good levels 
  Good idea of playing for both sides
  Many new weapons and upgrades 
  
  Cons 
  Not much improvement on graphics 
  
  
  Overall this game is brilliant but needs 
 improving 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HaloHitman-
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  I really haven't played the first couple of Splinter Cell Games, but I can tell you that you can 
 start off in this game, because I really didn't want to play the first couple of games to get to 
 this one. The story is good and simple, an agent named Sam Fisher, who we already know works for 
 the NSA, which is a organization, he gets transfered to prison only then does he get caught in 
 another organization JSA, he plays to parts in the game, thats why the games called double agent.
 
  I really liked this game because it made me feel like an actual secret agent, my favorite mission 
 has to be the Prison level, but thats just me. The game has a good story except with greatness 
 there has to be a downfall, the games shooting system is really not that great, thats what this 
 game is lacking, and you are either supposed to knock people out or knife them, but when it comes 
 to a hard situation you have to take out your gun.
  This game is a must buy for any Splinter Cell fan, let me just tell you that when I played this 
 game I kept on sayingThat's Sexybecause you could do so many cool things a secret agent can 
 do.
  A must buy, and by the way convictions is also coming out soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sausageroll_78
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  The game's amazing if all of the games were on xbox360 they'd be voted the best game's made since, 
 I think all of them are online No sorry Splinter cell One (Isn't) ..
  But still if you like cool fun game's you should totally buy this even if you don't have live.
 
  The gameplays flipping hard but so fun trying to complete mission the mental way :p.
  Like i got stuck on the last mission i couldn't be boverd doing the cube but i did :p.
  Oh and 
 The online is so blumming fun, You can break the Merc's neck's and they can shoot or nut you one 
 haha.. the nut kills.
  
  I have to copy sorry.
  
  
  The game's amazing if all of the games were on xbox360 they'd be voted the best game's made since, 
 I think all of them are online No sorry Splinter cell One (Isn't) ..
  But still if you like cool fun game's you should totally buy this even if you don't have live.
 
  The gameplays flipping hard but so fun trying to complete mission the mental way :p.
  Like i got stuck on the last mission i couldn't be boverd doing the cube but i did :p.
  Oh and 
 The online is so blumming fun, You can break the Merc's neck's and they can shoot or nut you one 
 haha.. the nut kills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallenAngelXBL
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 11:48 pm PT
Review:  hey GS
  
  Id like to put down how I Score games (this is important if you want to understand why my score 
 is so 'low':
  1 - Utter rubbish
  2 - Utter rubbish
  3 - rubbish
  4 - average
  5 - Good
  6 - Pretty good
  7 - Great
  8 - Greater than 7
  9 - Awesome
  10 - so great 
 ill never review a game that's this good... period.
  
  Splinter Cell double agent puts you in the shoes of Sam fisher, a veteran of many games which have 
 dominated stealth games for years. The newest addition however tries something new...
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Splinter Cell games have always had good visuals, and this game is no exception. 
 There is dynamic lighting and real time shadows with large environments that are full of detail. 
 If you have played GRAW1 or GRAW2 the graphics are noticeably similar because its by the same people 
 amazingly enough. One flaw is that animation is often rather jerky which can detract from the overall 
 experience.
  
  SOUND
  
  As generic as it is, the voice acting is pretty good. You know how everyone is feeling from there 
 voice because its got that level of emotion, however, this is not backed up by great music or sound 
 effects, which are lack luster to say the least.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Like sams other endeavors, your goal is to follow a linear objective based storyline in a very 
 stealthy fashion using gadgets and weaponry to sneak past and eliminate your target. However, in 
 the newest incarnation you play a double agent. Your working for the bad guys for the greater good 
 and you get 2 choices when you are on missions, blow your cover slightly with the enemy or lose 
 trust with your employers. This in theory should be good, but you basically start to think, as 
 long as i don't lose all trust on someone i don't care resulting in you just picking the route 
 you take almost at random. The levels however, are excellently designed and is worth two play through 
 s on different difficulties Easy and Hard. On easy you have near unlimited ammo and the cost of 
 failure is low, however on hard, you have NO Ammo, and have to plan your objectives carefully not 
 to fail the game. This gives you 2 almost unique experiences and with 4 endings, has a reason to 
 play through multiple times. 1 play through is about 15 hours so there a lot of single player fun 
 to be had. Online is ok, you play as either a spy or a merc and you have to either steal or defend 
 info for a game on a variety of maps. Not a lot of people play this and isn't really that good 
 anyway. 
  
  OVERALL
  
  Fun, if a slight mediocre. Id recommend if you like SC games, but otherwise i would stay away. 
 
  
  5.5/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff917
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Warning: The opinions expressed in the following review are NOT endorsed by anyone at Gamespot 
 or any professional reviewer. I'm not paid for my reviews and I do them for fun. They may contain: 
 Foul Language, Violence, references to farts, A lot of references to the word "Poo" totally bodily 
 function loss, or possibly the total collapse of civilization as we know. Oh also reading these 
 reviews you may feel the need to toss a Midget or start a Midget fight. There is a longer list 
 of things that could happen but I don't feel like posting them here. You have been Warned.
  
  Name: Splinter Cell Double Agent
  
  Difficulty: Hard
  
  Learning Curve: 30 Minutes
 
  
  Score: 10 out of 10
  
  
  Mom always said the road to hell is paved with good intentions nothing shows nothing proves that 
 more than this game. The game starts off tragically where Sam Fishers daughter is killed in a hit 
 and run, Sam doesn't know at first he finds out after a mission. He tries to save his country but 
 in the end he loses the one thing that he loves more than anything in the world. The meat of the 
 game starts with Sam being dumped in prison he asked for the hardest mission to try and help bury 
 the pain of the loss of his daughter his mission is to infiltrate a terrorist group known as the 
 John Browns Army (JBA) for the majority of the game your on your own as a double agent you don't 
 have the steady flow of info from the National Security Agency (NSA) so that throws in a new view 
 to the game Morality do you kill a person because the JBA orders you to or do you do what you were 
 trained by the NSA which is to protect life's at all cost whatever you do the game will adjust 
 accordingly so be careful. Sam will travel all over the world everywhere from a huge tanker in 
 Russia to a town in war torn africa, In my opinion this is the best Splinter cell game to come 
 out so far. 
  
  *Spoiler Alert: Do not read below this if you don't want to read what happens at the end!*
  
 
  The end of the game is huge, the JBA kidnap your best friend Irving Lambert the JBA order you 
 to Kill him, if you do they will continue on but be careful there is a camera in that room watching 
 you, either kill him or don't but the camera sees all. I did both and the ending is the same you 
 end up killing all the members of the JBA but end the end Lambert ends up dying even if you safe 
 him, right after you kill the leader of the JBA the NSA storm the base and Sam gets arrested for 
 the murder of Lambert, but how can this happen? you saved him how did he die? In the credits of 
 the game you possibly hear the preview for the next Splinter cell game. In which Sam is in court 
 he pleads not guilty if I remember right, and if I heard it right he gets sent to prison for life. 
 As my mom said the road to hell is paved with good intentions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TommyisCoo
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  this is the best splinter cell game made yet. but why the hell do you have a option to kill lambert 
 what about the next game im so confused. And the review about the game is confusing too. becouse 
 it says that the whole game is hiding from anna. and the bonus mission. if you beat it than you 
 get a achievement that says hero. and in conviction you are a wanted man. larn more at splintercell. com. 
 thank you From tommyiscoo and subsribe to my videos at youtube. com/tommyiscoo thank you. this game 
 is preety old and it has amazing graphics. just luike the other best game called gears of war and 
 please frend requst me my gamer tag is ANTONEG. manaic 970 is one of my best friends and he loves 
 geats of war and this game so you can battle my and him so just send friend requst Now i really 
 hope they make a demo for splintercell convition thank you for your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: setonj18
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  I really liked this game. It was an awesome addition to the Splinter Cell series. It's got part 
 of the older splinter cells where you have to be really stealthy and it's got a new twist to it 
 where you actually have to shoot. Levels take place in nighttime or daylight. I prefer the old 
 Splinter Cells where you can really only still be stealthy but this one is still really good. The 
 graphics are amazing and the story is good too. The only downsides are the missions where you're 
 in the JBA HQ because you have to dig up dirt on the people you are spying on and also, the multiplayer 
 just sucks. But the single player makes up for this and anybody who likes the splinter cell series 
 or other stealth and shooter games should definitely check this game out. It can be a little frustrating 
 at first if you're new to the game so I gave this a just-right rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: efoxneo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  After how amazing the third Sam Fisher adventure Chaos Theory played I was sure that Double Agent 
 was going to blow away anything that has come from the Metal Gear Solid series in the way of stealth 
 action. However, Double Agent was a disappointment for me because I felt it dumbed down everything 
 that was great in Chaos Theory, and removed being able to use any of the cool equipment available 
 without penalizing you. Why give a super spy all the cool kit if he can't use it without loosing 
 points?. The level's in Double Agent are also a big problem in that they seem to all repeat themselves. 
 It was great to see Sam Fisher finally in a winter environment, but he didn't need three levels 
 like that, and he also doesn't need three levels in the same African slums in the middle of some 
 guerrilla war. The game screams lazy development and seemed rushed to release. The added elements 
 of the good vs. bad decisions, and the hideout levels where pretty cool, but could have been done 
 better with more variety to hideout objectives and making the decisions you have to make be more 
 significant to the game. In the end Double Agent is still an Ubisoft game and added to the Sam 
 Fisher story but not to the gameplay. I hope for the next Splinter Cell installment: Conviction 
 that the new style of play will be more refreshing then just Assassin's Creed with a new face. 
 Double Agent provided a decent experience that can be filled through one playthrough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell: Double Agent tells another story of Sam Fisher. Only this time, he's working for 
 the JBA (John Brown's Army) He's still with the NSA (National Security Agency) and Col. Lambert 
 is still there. Basically, Fisher joined undercover because Emile is planning a nuclear attack. 
 In the missions, you are going to have to either break the rules or obey them to complete it. Sometimes 
 even killing someone when not ordered to. You'll go to different places like Africa, and Shanghai 
 and other places like that. This game has a pretty dark story and some of the JBA members aren't 
 the friendliest people around. They're a terrorist organization. Fisher has a new haircut too but 
 he had to have his head shaved since he was in jail. (NSA needed him there to get Jamie Washington 
 out) Interrogation is still cool since Fisher will have a knife to someone's throat or a gun on 
 someone's head and force the answer out of them. Voice acting is still the same since the voice 
 of Fisher is still Michael Ironside, and I don't know who did Lambert but he's still there and 
 the voice acting is still well-done. Where it gets ugly is when Emile releases his anger by killing 
 someone, He's not afraid to kill. Example: Fisher disarmed a bomb on a cruise ship. At the JBA 
 Headquarters, the bomb didn't go off. Enrica was responsible for this and Emile shot her. Definitely 
 a dark game but well-done to say the least. Sam Fisher was and probably still is one of my game 
 heroes because he is not a man for people to mess with. He can be on a short fuse if he wanted 
 to, he can be the nicest of people if he wanted to. Good game and good story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Itsleaking
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 21, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  I was anticipating this game as soon as I finished Chaos Theory. When I got the game ... and then 
 finished it I relised how lucky I was to borrow this game off a friend rather then buy the game 
 myself. 
  
  I'm not going to rant but to say that it had less atmosphere, worse music score, worse shadow/sneak 
 system then in the previouse game. 
  In the games preceeding this one I would sneak up on Enemy "A" all the time just to snap his neck 
 or knock him out. In fact I would go out of my way to do so. 
  
  In this game I used my gun since sneaking up was an impossiblity during the 50 odd thousand day 
 missions you were put on. Yes 1 may have been ok but when yuo think "spy tresspasing and snooping 
 around" you think night time.... possibly raining. 
  
  The terrorist missions which makes you walk around their "lair" can be summed up in one word: Tedium. 
 
  
  In all I hate this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmy_jojohn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell: Double Agent for the XBOX 360 is a good game, and better than the same title game 
 for the original XBOX. The graphics are awesome, as well as the gameplay. Unfortunately, Ubisoft 
 is straying away from the original stealth play that we have gotten used to in the previous Splinter 
 Cell games. Particularly the first one. SC DA still has great value. Just not as much as I was 
 hoping for. The levels are well designed and it also has a good story line. Unlike DA for the original 
 XBOX, you can actually swim in the 360 version. There is still enough stealth in this one to keep 
 you entertained. Although there are a few levels which basically reduce stealth to just running 
 without getting shot. As in version for the original XBOX, there is a trust meter which changes 
 depending on your actions. And depending on your actions, you might even have to kill Lambert. 
 With so many choices to make, however, I wish the ending ( who you actually have to take down ) 
 would also change depending on your actions. Splinter Cell: Double Agent might not be as good as 
 the original games, but it is still a game worth owning. It has great graphics, a good story, and 
 enough stealth sequences. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIMANICUS
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  After Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory, the Splinter Cell series had pretty much reached it's peak. 
 Chaos Theory was the near perfect stealth action game, featuring amazing graphics (on the Xbox 
 version at least) , a true-to-life dependence on light, darkness and noise and heart pounding gameplay. 
 Double Agent maintains all of these elements [WII] while sacraficing the graphical alure of the 
 previous game [360] while changing some of the mechanics yet maintaining the same gameplay of Chaos 
 Theory.
  
  Sam Fisher's mission is his most dangerous yet in Double Agent, he has to infiltrate a terrorist 
 organization in search of Red Mercury, but this is a review, not a plot outline, so I shall keep 
 the plot details minimal, but basically Sam must go undercover and perform certain acts that will 
 please one side of the law, whilst aggrovating the other. This is the new trust system. While doing 
 certain acts like not killing any innocents may raise your trust with the NSA, will not affect 
 your trust with the JBA, some tasks will require intricate balancing between the two organizations.
 
  
  [WII] The Wii version of Double Agent looks a little rough. Textures are muddy and rough around 
 the edges, most characters don't move there mouths when they talk and some other graphical blemishes 
 diminish the environment.
  [360] The 360 version looks almost identical to the Xbox version of Chaos Theory, with some next 
 gen improvements. The animations are all the same, but Double Agents locations are alot more stunning, 
 for example, when your falling through the sky and must activate the parachute at the right moment, 
 the motion blur etc. really looks fantastic.
  
  The sound in both versions is mostly the same, though the voice acting seems a little more enthusiastic 
 on the 360 version.
  
  There are two versions of Double Agent, version one and two, they feature different missions and 
 a partly different story. Version one is the 360, PS3 and PC version. It features the very basic 
 Double Agent plot, with some next gen enhancements and mini-games here or there. Version two is 
 for last gen consoles and the Wii. This features a slightly different story, but with more detail 
 than version two, yet it misses some of version one's features.
  
  [360] The 360 version features the strongest online multiplayer of the whole bunch. Spies versus 
 Upsilon delivers heart stopping excitement and brilliant thrills. 
  [WII] While some versions of Double Agent feature either Spies versus Spies multiplayer, or no 
 online multiplayer, just offline, the Wii version goes one step further and features no mulitplayer 
 whatsoever. This really hinders the replay value.
  
  Of the two versions, the obvious choice is the 360 version, but if you only own a Wii, then there 
 is nothing wrong with settling for a watered down version of the game. You just get a little less 
 for your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asyland
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 11, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  Not a lengthy review, just my opinion, but then that's all reviews are, opinions. This is only 
 on the single player game You may think it unfair that I'm just reviewing just the single player 
 game, but it's my review, its not an official review, and this is what I wanted to focus on.
  The graphics beautiful. The sound and music, immersive and well orchestrated. The gameplay, very 
 inconsistent. At times it was pathetically easy, getting past enemies. Other times nearly impossible.
 
  One example is in the JBA base, when Sam is going through his first test. I was in a server room 
 rifling through someone's desk, and they walked right up behind me, in full light. I thought "that's 
 it, I'm busted". But no, they continued right past me, only inches away. Again, in full light, 
 I'd suddenly become invisible. On the other hand, there were moments, as on the super tanker, that 
 enemies could see me perfectly, even though I was fifty yards away, crouched down, and in the middle 
 of a snowstorm. I couldn't see them, not without night or thermal vision, but they, without the 
 benefit of any vision enhancement, could spot me easily. Just two examples of a problem that ran 
 throughout the game. Enemies could be near deaf and blind, or they could possess superhuman senses, 
 no gadgets required.
  Another letdown was the use of one button action. Pulling men through the ice and dispatching them 
 sounded like a great challenge. Unfortunately it was reduced to a effortless press of a button 
 ... whoopee. One of my favorite tasks was always lockpicking, especially if there was an enemy nearby. 
 You had to be accurate, and quick. With the electronic lockpick, another challenge was dumbed down 
 to the push of a button.
  The story itself, well written as always, but this time it felt hollow, and grim. One thing I loved 
 about Sam Fisher, was that no matter what a hard core S. O. B. he could be, you always felt you were 
 fighting for the right side, and for a good cause. This story just left me feeling empty.
  Double Agent had its moments, there were still times when I was on the edge of my seat as Sam was 
 trying to pull off the perfect headshot, or was inches away from the eyes and guns of the enemy, 
 with darkness as his only shield. In the end, however, it was more gimmicks and graphics then the 
 tight gameplay and compelling storylines I've come to expect from Splinter Cell. Tough to see your 
 heroes get the shaft from enemies, tougher still when they get it from their creators. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lamb0fFilth
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 1:40 am PT
Review:  Sam has returned once again to the shadows to viciously slice a terrorists neck open... well this 
 time he is the terrorist wich is a nice change for once. Splinter Cell 4 is one of the best in the 
 series i think, not to be rated higher than Pandora Tommorow but still good. As a double agent you'll 
 be trying to keep a neutral ballance between the good guys and the bad guys... your in between obviously, this 
 game keeps its Splinter Cell origins but brings something else aswell being bad and not sure wether 
 do to what the bad guys tell you to do is cool making you feel more of a badass. Graphics are average 
 for next-gen but the game is aging now so dont sweat on it too much, still looking good Sammy boy. Gameplay 
 is awesome shouldnt have to say anything about that for the die hard SPC fans, the bad is its fairly 
 short and its hard too get an ending you actually like. But its cheap now so you can pick it for 
 about 50 bucks or less pre-owned so definetly if you see it lying around and need a new game grab 
 it even if you arent a big fan of stealth pick it up or die!... sorry bout that just get the game. Your 
 missing out without it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HardcoregamerXX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell Double Agent gives the player freedom to sneak around in the day or night and become 
 a double agent. The day missions kind of take away from the classic splinter cell feeling, but 
 still fun.
  
  This game has great graphics, and great gameplay. Gives you a very sneaky feeling and gets the 
 adrenaline pumping. It's very entertaining being a double agent, sneaking around in the terrorist 
 headquarters.
  
  The online multiplayer is the usual agents verses mercenaries, which really isn't that fun. Personally, 
 I think they should have just added coop instead of putting the usual.
  
  Overall, I give it an 8.5 for great graphics, fun gameplay, and exciting storyline and plot. The 
 downsides are no coop and it's just not classic splinter cell.
  
  Thanks for reading my review.
  
  By the way, Conviction is gonna be sick!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanTnT
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Double Agent is a great game. Sam Fisher, the character you will play 
 as has a assignment unlike any other Splinter Cell yet, to become a Double Agent. It creates a 
 unique experience since you have to keep trust with the good NSA and the terrorist organization 
 of JBA. Each mission you have objectives for both sides, and completing each gains trust for each 
 faction. I love the choice objectives, where you have to choose which side to be loyal to. For 
 example, the JBA give you a gun and a civilian they want you to kill, while in your ear you hear 
 your NSA commander telling you not to, I think that provides a great sense of power over how events 
 turn out in the game, since everything you do has a impact on the overall ending. The gameplay 
 is similar to the other Splinter Cells, but looks amazing in High Definition. There are a variety 
 of missions and locations, such as the arctic, Caribbean cruise ship, middle east looking town, 
 and a prison break mission. The only problems I see in this game are some issues with controls, 
 and the checkpoint system. Sometimes when you direct you character, he leans on a wall or does 
 a different action, not often, but a few times where I needed him to do something and he did something 
 else. The main reason a 8.5 rather than a 9.0 or above, is the checkpoint system. They are spaced 
 far apart, and since it's so easy for you to die, it can get very tedious for you to replay the 
 same area a few times to get to the next checkpoint. The way around that is to keep saving after 
 every thing you do, worked, but I don't think something like that should be done, the checkpoints 
 should just be more frequent. Anyways, the story is good, the gameplay and graphics are very fun, 
 and the concept of being a Double Agent is presented very well in this solid stealth action game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  Story: Sam's daughter has been killed or something. He is now a double agent undercover.
  
  Missions: Ranging from bombing a cruise line to taking out important political figures.
  
  
 Controls: Fine. Nothing new here.
  
  Features: A trust system based on choices. There are primary objectives, secondary, and trust objectives 
 to gain trust if your enemies and employer begin to act suspiciously.
  
  A. I.: Super senses. They can hear everything!
  
  Loading Times: Lots and 10-20 seconds.
  
 
  Graphics: Nice for a launch game from 2006.
  
  Audio: Meh.
  
  Multiplayer: Better than Chaos Theory depending on your opinion. Better Co-Op features and customization.
 
  
  Requirements: A 360, internet connection.
  
  The Good: Better or on par with Chaos Theory. 
  
  The Bad: A. I. and some missions can be annoying 
 and frustrating. No one plays MP anymore.
  
  The Ugly: Life and death decisions. They will haunt you!
  
  Replay Ability: SP-Low to Medium 
 MP-Medium
  
  The Bottom Line: A good Splinter Cell game that wants makes you want more. I personally can't wait 
 for Conviction now. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmitDog109
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell  Double Agent:
  The good, the bad, and the reason I rated this game lower than each of its predecessors.
  Sam 
 is back with a cool new twist, he gets to play the role as a bad guy or does he? In this edition, 
 you discover right away that Sam is in a real bad mood, and for good reason, his daughter was killed. 
 If you read the Splinter Cell books as I do, you will know that Sam is extremely protective of 
 his daughter and tries his best to keep his identity and choice of profession a secret from her 
 as well as the fact that he has a daughter to the people who could use it against him. Now that 
 she is gone, what does he have to live for? His country? Who doesn't know or would not care to 
 know what he does had they the knowledge? Lambert, who uses Sam like a tool? How much does Lambert 
 really care about Sam outside of his ability to get things done for him? Do you really think they 
 would hang out and watch football games on the weekend if Sam was to retire? I guess all he has 
 left is himself; he has to lookout for himself at any cost. The question is, now that his daughter 
 is gone, what side is he on?
  These questions are answered as you play the game, in this edition like many RPG's out there you 
 are given choices which will have consequences on how the game is played out. In the end though, 
 it is evident that your mission is to stop a mad man from setting off nukes. Whether you think 
 Sam's intentions are to stop this from happening are for the common good of his country or for 
 his own well being is strictly up to you.
  THE GOOD:
  I really liked the fact that Ubisoft didn't change much at all regarding the control of the character. 
 If you have played the other Splinter Cell games, picking this one up and running with it should 
 be a piece of cake. The same general game play concept is the same, complete mission objectives, 
 you can use lethal force when allowed if you want or you can go about your business in total stealth 
 mode. All be it with this edition you will have a bit more freedom in the way you complete missions, 
 it's not quite as mechanical as it has been in the past, with that being said, there is way more 
 trial and error in this game and it will take you more time to figure out the best way to complete 
 each mission. There are only 12 missions, which is a bit disappointing, I'm always left wanting 
 more with Splinter Cell games but they are very fun. There are two different types of missions 
 with SCDA, ones that have you doing the usual creep, capture, and kill, as well as timed missions 
 with specific objectives and mini games. I personally like the standard missions over the timed 
 ones which is one of the reasons why I didn't like this game as much but they do offer you something 
 different in the game which I did appreciate. The graphics in this game are awesome, very clean 
 smooth lines with nice clear rich graphics on the characters. The sound effects and voice acting 
 are very good as well. Over all this game gives you the same great re-play capability regarding 
 the choices that you can make as well as the achievements that you are able to achieve. There are 
 also 3 different endings depending on those decisions which is really cool. 
  THE BAD:
  There isn't much that's bad but there are a few things that I'd like to point out. I mentioned 
 that the graphics were great and the voice acting was very good, the problem is that there isn't 
 enough of it. The cut scenes were really short and the ending was definitely way too short. I really 
 would have liked to see a longer more cinematic ending to this game; it would have made for a much 
 better experience. In the Splinter Cell games of the past you were given way more opportunity to 
 use special moves like the scissor jump and inverted knock outs and neck breaks. I didn't really 
 have to use any of those in this game. Also, in some of the previous games where you had to break 
 a window to get in a building or walk across ice it made a noise. They removed all of this; I was 
 disappointed that there were no instances where you really had to be careful where you stepped. 
 I guess that's pretty trivial but I do think that is something that was really cool about Pandora 
 Tomorrow. There weren't enough levels this game needs at least 15-20 levels, 12 is just too short, 
 I was able to complete this game in like 10-12 hours. Sure it has replay ability but for what, 
 another 8 or so hours per campaign, that's just not long enough in my humble opinion. All in all 
 though, I do really like this game, I hope that Ubisoft does develop another in the series; I just 
 hope that they put more into it. I'd like to see more creativity with the levels like they did 
 with Pandora Tomorrow, which I think was nearly perfect all be it for its lack of a longer more 
 cinematic ending. This is the reason for the 9.0 rating rather then the 9.5 or more as with the 
 games of the past.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: meconate
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  If you've never experienced the Splinter Cell genre, there's no better time to start than now, 
 Double Agent is just one of many Tom Clancy games that just get better and better and never let 
 you down. I myself have played and completed every Splinter Cell game available and all i can say 
 is, Double Agent has to be one of my favourites. Not only does it pack great Single Player, but 
 the Multiplayer is brilliant too.
  
  At first it may not impress you, the first level seems simple and somewhat plain. However, once 
 you end up in prison, thats when the fun really starts. You'll find yourself exploring wonderfully 
 detailed enviroments that seem too real, and for once, you get to play in the daytime! Brilliant! 
 Double Agent just keeps packing the fun and you'll find yourself playing this from sunrise to sunset. 
 Buy a 360 and buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChiefFreeman
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  The Splinter Cell series has always been a hit or miss series with many gamers. One one hand, it 
 was an intriguing stealth action game - with cool gadgets, great graphics and fairly interesting 
 storylines. On the other, it featured far too much trial and error - a thorn in the side of most 
 stealth games.
  
  This latest edition of Sam Fisher on the next gen consoles sadly hasn't changed much, except in 
 terms of upgraded visuals. The hook with Splinter Cell Double Agent is that Sam is now going undercover 
 to infiltrate a homegrown terrorist organization known as John Browns Army. Sam will have to balance 
 his actions in order to gain intel for the NSA, while at the same time follow enough orders from 
 JBA leader Emile Dufraisne to appear loyal to their cause. A "trust bar" appears on the game HUD, 
 which will increase or decrease, depending upon which action you take for a particular objective. 
 If Sam pushes it too far either way, the game will end, so you try to maintain an even balance 
 to appease both groups.
  
  The unfortunate thing about this new balancing scheme is that most of what Sam does doesn't greatly 
 effect the games outcome. Some characters will live or die, but in the end, the ending remains 
 the same. I would go into greater detail, but to do so would reveal spoilers.
  
  Double Agent plays exactly like past Splinter Cell games, with a few tweaks added for the controls. 
 Sam still sports his trademark SC-20k assault rifle, with almost all the same gizmos as the past 
 games - airfoil rounds, sticky shockers, sticky cameras, etc. The SC pistol returns too. Although 
 Splinter Cell has always been a stealth title, I always loved firing the guns. It's just unfortunate 
 that the sequences involving shooting are so limited.
  
  Visually, Double Agent is a great looking game. The character models are all extremely detailed, 
 and Sams face looks amazingly lifelike, even zoomed in close. The environments are all beautiful 
 also, and much more varied than past SC games. But the graphical detail comes at a price. On both 
 the 360 and ps3 the frame rate can chug in some spots where a lot of action is occurring, such 
 as the Congo battle level. It never drops to unplayable, but it's enough to be an annoyance. At 
 times, objects can appear a bit plasticy too, meaning everything has too much of a shine or reflection 
 to it. However, the game still looks very good, especially on an HDTV.
  The sounds are good too, with realistic explosions, gunfire and good voice acting. Michael Ironside 
 again returns to provide his amazing voice for Sam, and Dennis Haysbert returns to voice Irving 
 Lambert. The rest of the case sounds very generic, with the exception of JBA leader Emile, who 
 has a strong and somewhat overacted Cajun accent. A lot of the NPC's still repeat the same dialogue 
 thats been used in the last 3 games though. You still hear the same "Did i hear something?" or 
 "C'mon out here.. right now!" when enemies are searching for Sam. It's probably a cost cutting measure, 
 but it really makes the game appear sloppy.
  
  The unique multiplayer component of Splinter Cell always stood out, and this new enhanced version 
 is every bit as enjoyable (though different) than its predecessors. Instead of 2 on 2, it's now 
 3 on 3. The Argus mercenaries have been replaced by a group known as Epsilon force. The mercs have 
 remote controlled drones they can use to track and kill spies in tight corridors or rooftops where 
 they can't go. Their guns have unlimited bullet ammo also, and the flashlight beam is adjustable 
 to a narrow or wide range. The spies are more nimble and catlike than before, and have a cool new 
 remote hacking device. They can hack terminals from far away spots, as long as they have an unobstructed 
 view of the target. The maps are much larger than the past 2 games as well, and laid out nicely. 
 To be honest, the multiplayer game is good enough to be a standalone title. It's very fun.
  
  Although the formula remains for the most part the same, Double Agent is still a good game. 
 The single player is an enjoyable enough experience for SC veterans or newcomers alike, (albeit 
 one with lots of trial and error) and the multiplayer is very entertaining. We'll have to wait 
 for SC Conviction to see Sam move in a bold new direction, but Double Agent will tide you over 
 until then. -Chief
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hidesinshadows
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Let's just start off by saying that I have been a fan of sam fisher from the original splinter 
 cell and the games have only gotten better.
  
  Like all the other games in the series the graphics are great, the A. I. is good and the gameplay 
 is smooth and intuitive. One of the best things about this series is that it has always been more 
 believable than most stealth games, I love you Snake but come on a box? 
  
  One of my only complaints is that you only get to wear the black suit in one mission, but thats 
 a small price for a game of this caliber.
  
  The games storyline is easily the best in the series with the whole moral aspect behind the game 
 and the multiple ways that the story can unfold.
  
  I have spent counless hours sneaking up on unsupecting guards who have no idea that there fate 
 lies in my hands.
  
  to sum it up this game is stealth at it's finest.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: prettygoodatit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  The game starts out as any other splinter cell game. Hide in the shadows, use your night vision 
 to sneak around and use nonlethal equipment to take out the baddies (and sometimes civilians, etc) . 
 
  
  However once the story line gets moving, you can tell that this is not going to be your run of 
 the mill Splinter Cell game. I like what they've done here.
  
  Sam goes deep undercover into a terrorist organization in order to gather intel and take it down 
 from the inside. Right off the bat you are forced to make some pretty heavy moral choices. Do you 
 blow your cover and do what's right, or do you do what has to be done in order to maintain your 
 cover and accomplish your mission?
  
  Graphics are top notch, sound is ... pretty much the same as it always has been. The game play 
 is just as fun if not more fun than previous installments of the Splinter Cell series. If you like 
 one, you'll like 'em all.
  
  I never did dive into the multi player aspect of it, but the premise sounds good. 
  
  Great 
 game! I'll most likely be going back and playing it through again some time. Maybe I'll make some 
 different decisions and see how the storyline progresses differently. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  I love these games. Stealth/Tactical/Strategy games like Hitman, Thief... etc. SC is among my fav 
 series, next to Hitman then Thief.
  
  The gameplay was great as always. Online is what most people like about the series and that seemed 
 to be they really worked on but I play it for the single player. You do missions and try to be 
 silent, sneaky and all that since your a lone wolf taking on massive amounts of people or in some 
 cases mixed in with civilians and enemies. You have lots of toys at your disposal and besides your 
 gadgets the game lets you do things like get your enemies attention and what not by whistling or 
 using a camera for instance that makes noise then releases poison gas.
  
  In this game the claim its replayability is from the fact your suppose to play it over and over 
 to see everything since there is lots of choices to make and stuff to do, things like unlockables, 
 achievements and other stuff and of course multiple endings. But in the end the game gets old to 
 replay, more so because of the JBA missions. The guys who you are with in the game. They are long 
 boring missions/story sections that you can't skip and half the time are long yap section that 
 once you see once or twice you get sick of watching, especially if you mess up in them and have 
 to do it all again.
  
  The graphics are really good as always. The series never fails to make me hate it graphically. 
 From death animations to weapon detail. Everything is really done well. 
  
  The controls might seem a little weird at first but they are easy. Online I think its harder to 
 play. Especially since some people play it as a diffrent game then its meant to be played.
  
  The music and sound are better then most games but nothing amazing. Sound plays a big part 
 in game. And the music is good as always.
  
  Overall its a good rental. Buy it if you are into Splinter Cell, more so if you like SC online 
 play because they seemed to have improved it, although I don't care for it, to fast. Only thing 
 is alot if it just feels like the last game or two. So you may or may not like it since not to 
 much has changed in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dogdeifiedgod
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 12:52 am PT
Review:  The Splinter Cell series as always been a fun stealth series. A bit of trial and error style game 
 play for those looking to sneak through a mission with the least amount of times being spotted, 
 but for fans of the series this was rarely a problem. The entries on the original Xbox were fun, 
 albeit a bit rehashed, seeing as how nearly every mission followed the formula of sneak around, 
 shoot out light, wait in darkness for unsuspecting inept guard to turn his back, then either grab, 
 punch, knife, or shoot him without said guard ever knowing you were there.
  
  Double Agent on the other hand changes this formula significantly, at least on the 360 anyhow. 
 Instead of relying on total darkness to move unnoticed throughout the levels, it relies more on 
 a cover system. Moving from piece of scenery to object, trying to stay out of sight in a world 
 where darkness is certainly still your friend, but rarely an option. This is accentuated by the 
 fact that a majority of the levels are set in broad daylight, creating an atmosphere where you 
 can shoot all the lights you want, but you'll never shoot out the sun. This dynamic is refreshing 
 in a series that, although still tremendously fun, was repeating itself.
  
  The game is far from perfect however. Graphically, it is stellar. Sam Fischer's character model 
 is impeccably detailed, and the environments are all beautiful. However there are severe low points 
 in the game. Every few missions you get levels that are set in the enemy base. All the objectives 
 are optional, affecting only the two trust meters, yet a dedicated player will want to complete 
 all of them available. This becomes a bit of a hassle when the twenty-five minute time frame is 
 put into effect. By the time you figure out what you have to do, sneak around the complex, get 
 to where you have to be, one random guard, who can not be confronted in any way, can make you abort 
 your sneak stance and calmly walk out of the various restricted areas, and yes, by walk, I definitely 
 mean WALK. In an area that is so definitively timed, with such a plethora of objectives, it would 
 be nice to at least have the option of moving a bit faster than a casually determined walk when 
 getting from point A to point B. To the game's credit, it adds to the immersion of the mission 
 where you are trying to act as inconspicuous as possible, but, at the same time, it is frustrating 
 when half your time is spent walking to the various objectives or restricted areas. You can run 
 in restricted areas, though that is equal to sprinting up to a guard and making sure he spots you, 
 thus ending your freedom in the restricted zones.
  
  The actual missions on the other hand, are incredibly fun, with loads of upgradeable equipment 
 and incentives to take the stealthy approach as opposed to the combative approach, which, by the 
 way, is the one big thing that has remained unchanged throughout the iterations of the series. 
 Shooting is the same slow, methodical method of lining up that shot from a stationary position, 
 otherwise your accuracy drops to nil.
  
  All in all, with the exception of the base missions, the game is incredibly entertaining. Those 
 are just a snag that must be worked through to get to the fun stuff. Although the game is definitely 
 hard. It poses a challenge to Splinter Cell veterans even on the Easy difficulty setting.
  
  However, be warned: If you are not a fan of stealth games, or the Splinter Cell series specifically, 
 this may not be the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scanzo
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell: DA was the worst Splinter Cell game, Ubi Soft tried to make it a next gen game but 
 failed terribly. It would have been good if the creators of the damn game didn't make it from scratch, 
 the single player was just plain boring because it was more of a drama and the multi-player was 
 horrible because... you know, Ubi decided to make it from scratch and failed. Com'on now, Chaos 
 Theory was so much better than this piece of garbage known as Double Agent. Chaos Theory had a 
 better campaign and amazing online play because the spies could fight back, Double Agents MP was 
 just a boring game of hide & seek. The sad part is that Ubi could have fixed their mistake of ruining 
 a great game, but they didn't. They went off and made Splinter Cell: Conviction, now Sam Fisher 
 star in his very own game of GTA. I thought Splinter Cell was suppose to be a stealth based game, 
 not a bite off of GTA with a hint of Assassin's Creed fighting style. I can only pray that our 
 super spy gone convict will get his name clean and be rehired into the spy games or he could get 
 killed off and Ubi Soft will bring in a new spy to be the mascot of the Splinter Cell series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  I have already reviewed Xbox version of Splinter Cell: Double Agent so here I will concentrate 
 on what makes this Xbox360 version a different experience.
  
  Story is the same in both versions. You as Sam Fisher help a terrorist to escape from prison and 
 that way you get to be among them as a double agent, because at the same time you are also working 
 for the Third Echelon. On the course of the campaign you can choose between 2 or more options on 
 how to progress. The choices you make can have severe consequences.
  
  Graphics are of course better in Xbox360 and they are almost all daytime missions, when in Xbox 
 version all missions are regular nighttime affairs as in previous Splinter Cell games have been. 
 Graphics and environments are not quite as detailed as you might expect to see, but they still 
 look good. Sound includes more weather and other environmental effects and the bulk of the game 
 is to carefully listen what happens around you. Music fits the mood perfectly, but it is not particularly 
 memorable either.
  
  Gameplay is very different from Xbox version mainly because as I already mentioned they are mostly 
 daytime missions. Choices you need to make are often showed as a separate interactive cutscene 
 and not among the actual gameplay as it was in Xbox. Controls on the other hand are identical between 
 the 2 versions. The differences between mission structure induces a feeling that in order to experience 
 Splinter Cell: Double Agent as its fullest you need to play both Xbox and Xbox360 versions. This 
 feeling is correct.
  
  Multiplayer is a big disappointment especially in co-op missions. In Chaos Theory you played as 
 2 younger Splinter Cells in the same locations as Sam Fisher, but now co-op missions are just a 
 variation of the regular multiplayer modes. I expected that same great true co-op mission quality, 
 but it never happened.
  
  Normal multiplayer is 3 agents vs. 3 mercenaries and the agents are trying to download data from 
 computers when mercenaries are trying to stop their intentions. Mercenaries are controlled like 
 a regular first person shooter and agents are controlled like Sam Fisher in the single player campaign. 
 It can be fun, but in my opinion it requires a somewhat coordinated team to really enjoy it.
  
  I recommend Splinter Cell: Double Agent for Xbox360 to all Splinter Cell and stealth game fans 
 in general. Just do not expect to see that same quality in co-op missions as you might remember 
 from Chaos Theory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pure_Awesome
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 3:24 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell Double Agent Review
  
  This time Sam Fisher ventures into the Belly of the Beast.
  
  Splinter Cell Double Agent is 
 the fourth instalment of the series and this time Sam's adventure plays out quite differently than 
 the previous games.
  
  Sam Fishers story takes place where he discovers that his Daughter has been killed in a car accident. 
 Sam has nothing to live for anymore so he decides to take on the hardest mission he has done. Become 
 a double agent. For Sam to become a double agent he had to be in prison for 6 months to become 
 friends with one of the terrorists that you are trying to get them to take you on board, their 
 terrorist group is called The John Browns Army (JBA) . Sam helps him escape and from there on you 
 are in the group.
  
  
  Splinter Cells Double Agents story is not too deep and leaves a lot of questions to be answered 
 at the end of the game some disappointments in the story is that you don't get to really find out 
 the terrorists cause for what they plan to do, and you don't get to hear much about each characters 
 background. Apparently the current gen versions tell the story a bit better.
  
  
  Splinter Cells gameplay is not much different from the other games it is generally the same, sneak 
 slowly behind the person and grab and interrogate if necessary. The game does have some new things 
 that appeal to some and don't appeal to others. The stealth meter has been severely re worked and 
 it is definitely not as accurate. Instead of a bar telling you how easy you are to be seen. Now 
 the infamous light on his back is the meter. It's pretty simple. When the light is red you're being 
 attacked. When the light is yellow you visible (doesn't mean you'll be shot at from a mile away, 
 but if you close you'll be attacked) and green where green is your invisible unless an enemy is 
 2 feet in front of you. When you play you'll find your self saying "as if I'm invisible" because 
 at some stages your pretty much in broad daylight and it says you are invisible.
  
  
  The other major gameplay update is that for each objective you are given a choice, Kill the guy 
 or don't. Each one resulting in a bit of the story's change. Each decision you make you will lose 
 trust for the opposing Side. Losing trust is measured by a meter for the JBA and NSA, depending 
 on your choices if either one of these meters drops to the bottom the mission is over.
  
  
  The extra visibility that you get in this game is because of the levels are during the day 
 this time. To what I find making it a bit more unrealistic. Also the addition of timed levels. 
 During the game you'll find yourself being at the terrorists HQ a lot. Each one of these missions 
 is timed where you have to do tasks for JBA and NSA (nation security agency) In the JBA HQ Sam 
 is given minimal clearance where you find you will have to sneak around in the restricted areas 
 doing a task for the NSA.
  
  
  Single player lasts 6-8 hours, not long enough.
  
  
  The graphics in the game are superb, you will find that each person in the game looks very real 
 the design in peoples faces are very well done. And the overall graphics are great. Character models 
 are very smooth and real. In my opinion it is one of the best looking games I've seen on the 360. 
 The most noticeable problem in it is that whenever you grab a person that is wearing a helmet or 
 a hood, you arm will go straight through the clothes and hide his knife.
  
  
  For fans of Pandora tomorrow and Chaos Theory's multiplayer may be a little disappointed . Spies 
 have no weapons only a hacking arm device. Objectives are to hack into nodes and steal information 
 on Double agents, when 2 data lots have been collected and brought back to the insertion point 
 the game is over. Mercenaries only have the machine gun, and they still have their trusty flashlight 
 and have one type of vision that can see spies if they are using their hacking device or night 
 or thermal vision. Mercenary's goal for multiplayer is simply to eliminate the spies.
  
  
  Splinter Cell Double Agent is well worth the buy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueyeboy97
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:30 pm PT
Review:  overall it was a good game. I beat it a long time ago and was very satisfied. Was a completely 
 new step for the splinter cell series, and it wasn't a bad try. Very fun game. If u really liked 
 the stealth aspect of the series, you might be a little dissapointed, but it is still good. And 
 it does have some stealth. The multiplayer is kinds wierd. I guess i just suck at it, but they 
 could have done something bettere than that. I wish they had online co-op. RENT THE GAME. Personally, 
 i wish i hadn't bought it because once i beat it, i really didnt play it that much anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linkzelda
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  So Sam Fisher is back for another installment into the Splinter Cell franchise. Is it the best? 
 Personally I would say no, but that does not mean it is a bad game.
  
  The game play is the same as you would expect besides the new "double agent" feature. Basically 
 the double agent means that you are working undercover for the terrorists (JBA) . So you will be 
 doing tasks for them and for the NSA (the good guys) . So you have a trust meter and if you do to 
 much "bad" it will slide to the JBA side and vice versa. I don't really understand how the NSA 
 cannot trust you though, I mean like they assigned you to the task so they know what you are up 
 too so why do they have to be suspicious to your actions? That part I didn't understand. Besides 
 that the game play is the same solid Splinter Cell you would come to expect.
  
  The graphics are nothing amazing. On my HD Samsung T. V it seems to have a watery, blurry look to 
 it (other games look fine on my T. V) . So nothing special. Average 360 graphics.
  
  So we have a pretty solid single player but is there good multiplayer? No. I do not know what they 
 were thinking with the multiplayer. I absoluty loved pandora tommorow and chaos theory's multiplayer 
 so much. I would play those hours on end non stop. But now the multiplayer is extremley different!
 
  Now the spies are on steroids they move so fast there a blur. They have these remote hacking devices 
 used to hack the objectives which I think is 
  not that bad of a feature but i still prefer the classic way. The spys also look like pathetic 
 (along with the mercenaries) . The spys are now limited to only snapping necks and jumping on mercenaries, 
 they dont have a gun, they can only have one gadget and this all really simplifies the multiplayer. 
 The mercenaries look like complete morons and now dont have traps, only frags and drones. Drones 
 are basically cheap ass robots that go around blowing up spys. The maps are also very poor and 
 most people are only on one map. Sure the levels are bigger, but in this case bigger is bad. I 
 can't see anyone who has played pandora tommorow and chaos theory liking this multiplayer better.
 
  
  So in the end I give it a 7.5, overall a good splinter cell game nothing really new though, flaws 
 in the "double agent" part and horrid multiplayer. I really don't get the multiplayer, If it ain't 
 broke don't fix it. Anyways this is my review of Splinter Cell: Double Agent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  By the time you've cracked this latest 
  testosterone-fuelled Tom Clancy mission, you'll have crept through a sniper-happy Mexican township, 
 wrestled with a defective parachute while plummeting towards the Arctic tundra, and learned how 
 to haul guards into a watery grave as you swim into a frozen enemy base under the ice. But while 
 these delirious spy capers will be familiar to fans of the Splinter Cell series, a host of refinements 
 and a commitment to evolving the franchise make Double Agent the most gripping instalment to date.
 
  
  
  This time the adventure takes the gruff hero deeper undercover than ever before, working as a double 
 agent for a shadowy government organisation while infiltrating a terrorist group. The game's new 
 'trust' dynamic - where you must fight to keep both sides happy so your cover isn't blown - forces 
 players to make some tough choices, whether it be hatching a bomb plot without risking civilian 
 casualties, or executing an innocent man just to prove your unflagging loyalty to a terrorist kingpin.
 
  
  
  As well as creating moments of intense drama, your choices also affect how the tale unfolds; Double 
 Agent's plot branches in various directions based on your decisions, forcing players to consider 
 the consequences of every move. And while a bad decision can radically alter the course of individual 
 missions, the path you take also affects how subsequent levels pan out, taking the story off on 
 unexpected tangents and making this a game you can play again and again without reaching the same 
 denouement.
  
  
  Splinter Cell's consistently stellar production values have also been polished for this latest 
 release, making Double Agent one of the best-looking games on the shelves today. As well as bringing 
 greater variety to the murky environments and introducing a handful of daylight missions that radically 
 change how you play the game, the sprawling levels are more vibrant than ever, with electrifying 
 set-pieces - such as a burning bus careering down a city street and crushing everyone in its path 
 - making its world feel like a living, breathing place, rather than the comparatively spiritless 
 levels of earlier episodes. The impact of the game's naturalistic shadows and sublime lighting 
 has also been enhanced by the removal of most of the on-screen gauges, including health and ammunition 
 bars, making it easier to become immersed in the experience without being distracted by ugly chunks 
 of text.
  
  To cap it all, Splinter Cell's online multiplayer mode has also been tweaked. The structure of 
 the multiplayer games remains largely the same - where six players split into teams of spies trying 
 to steal data from a bank of computers, and a group of heavily armed mercenaries try to stop them 
 - but the developers have brought a greater sense of balance to the proceedings, making it possible 
 for new players to hurl themselves into the fray without becoming cannon fodder for mean-spirited 
 experts.
  
  
  While most console sequels amount to little more than the same game tarted up and shoved in a new 
 box, it's refreshing to see Ubisoft taking so much care with its distinguished franchise. And in 
 polishing every aspect of Splinter Cell's classic structure, Double Agent is among the most riveting 
 and masterful adventures money can buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gatermag
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  It a great game that has a very interesting system in that you can choose to do things that will 
 either hurt or help you trust rating for the terrorists or the US gov. it is very good since you 
 can do things against the terrorists side but they wont find out about it so it wont hurt you against 
 them but it will help you for the US side. 
  
  The problem is that in the end there is only one ending and it forces you to stop the terrorists 
 so its doesnt let you choose who you want to help for the ending.
  
  The multiplayer is very addicting. its very fun to play with your freinds. there is a lot of strategy 
 in it and it makes things really cool. there is certain terminals that you either defend or you 
 try to hack in the multiplayer. it is more even then people think. people think it is harder to 
 defend but you just have to know were people usually go to hack them.
  
  This is a great game that is 100% worth renting for anyone and depending if your type of game is 
 stealthy then you should deffinatly buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaji84
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  This is definately one of the best stealth action games, and 360 games yet. Graphics wise this 
 game is pretty good, but gameplay is where it realy shines. Throughout the game you get tons of 
 different stealth options, such as hiding under table and inside of lockers, or climbing into vents 
 and then stealthly knocking out unsuspecting guards. Most of the action in the game is stealth, 
 and your guns are used usually to take out some unsuspecting guard with a silenced weapon to the 
 head, and getting into huge firefights will leave you dead. The double agent choices are not too 
 interesting but do make for some quite interesting choices wheter you want Sam Fischer to be a 
 ruthless killer or just a man with a mission is up to you. One of the best aspects of this game 
 is the hundreds of ways to dispose of your opponents whether you jump down from above and knock 
 the guard out, or you come up from behind and slit the terrorists throat is all up to you. A quite 
 entertaining game that should be picked up by most 360 owners, Double Agent is an extremely satisfying 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Armadilloe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Very few stealth action games can be associated with Double Agent's innovative plot. Sam has to 
 be a double agent; therefore he works for the terrorists and the NSA. What makes Double Agent original, 
 though, is the story and the actions you will have to carry out in order to progress. Sure, it's 
 probably been done before, but not in this form. Youll be most surprised to play through this 
 game, and it will keep you interested the whole way through. The only downfall I have for this 
 game is that it is very trial and error. I found myself doing numerous repeats in certain missions 
 just to obtain hidden or to complete an objective. The enemies seem a bit careless sometimes, but 
 are highly intelligent in others. It is hard to predict what actions they will do, making the game 
 both fun and tedious. It's frustrating to walk up behind an enemy guard just to have him turn around 
 and spot you before you nab him. Moments like these make you disappointed, and that is why I have 
 rated this game as an 8.5. If you are looking for a new twist on the splinter cell series, and 
 are a fan of the stealth action genre, Splinter Cell Double Agent is a must have in your collection. 
 The story is original, and the multiplayer keeps you coming back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: syorks1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is really fun but it probaly isn't the best in the series. It is really fun but its just 
 a generic story about terrorists who don't really matter. The gameplay is identical to the previous 
 ones and there are a few new moves. There are a lot of fun missions and the JBA missions are actually 
 pretty fun. If u are a fan of the series then u won't be disappointed but u might be angry cuz 
 its so short. The whole thing about keeping the NSA and JBA happy doesn't really effect the game 
 and the only parts that do effect the game are 3 things. Its either letting something blow up or 
 decide to kill or not kill some people. The 3 endings aren't even important other then one ending 
 that gives u another lvl. Its fun but nothing amazing or that will blow your mind 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mekky_9892
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  I am quite new to the Splinter Cell series, having only ever played this and Pandora Tomorrow on 
 the Xbox. I have one thing to say: If you're new to stealth games I'd give it a miss. If you are 
 a fan of games the Hitmans and the Metal Gear Solids i would reccomend it.
  
  It is a lot better than Pandora Tomorrow in terms of creativity and realism. Having more open choices 
 makes it a deeper and more complete gaming experience. The storyline is great and doesn't intrude 
 in the gameplay too much, and the graphics are solid, especially since the game is a year old now.
 
  
  I have yet to play the Multiplayer but since the game is old now it probably wouldn't be worth 
 the bother. All in all Splinter Cell Double Agent is a solid stealth game that adds something new 
 to the Splinter Cell formula, but still remains somewhat inaccessible to newcomers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bankisa
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 4:24 am PT
Review:  I have loved Splinter Cell from the first game, and was really looking forwards to this one. To 
 my immense disapointment the first mission of Double Agent felt poorly designed, annoying and chaotic. 
 This was enough to put me off and leave the game to gather dust for some months.
  
  Finally I took another look and got past the Thermo-Energy plant level, an to my joy it is all 
 uphill from there. Gone is the annoying co-agent and back in the quality Stealth-Action gameplay 
 with a brilliant tactical angle. The gadgets are there, the AI is top class and the new moves work 
 wonders. Graphically it is one of the best games the Xbox 360 has and the controls are very well 
 set up (I played all the previous games on PC so it is testament to the dev teams skill that this 
 worked so well for me on the controller) . The stroy is brilliant, with a clear cut plot so that 
 you always know what you are doing and why. The characters are also great, each with real personality 
 (Which really makes a differnce when part of the game is choosing which ones to betray) and brilliant 
 voice acting. All in all this game left me begging for more (Oh and what a clif-hanger to end on!) . 
 Roll on the next game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo2_fan391
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The core gameplay is the same as other splinter cell games but this time the mission 
 objective are a lot more in depth. The trust system is a lot better than on the ps2 and xbox versions 
 because theres 2 bars for NSA and JBA which is more realistic. Theres a lot more gadgets and weapons 
 in this game and you could'nt do everything in the campaign the first time through. The game is 
 just better mostly because of the daytime levels and graphics and if you've been playing the xbox 
 or ps2 version for a while then this game will seem so much better.
  
  Graphics: Very good
  
  Sound: no complaints
  
  Value: Worth buying for splinter cell fans 
 or stealth fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakjbt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  splinte cell is an amzing game that really sucks you in with the a great story and heart beating 
 gamplay.
  _____________________
  gamplay: the game itself is great to play with nice new addions to the splter cell series this time 
 most of the HUD is gone which gives you a clearer viw of the screen.
  _____________________
  Graphics: nicly done graphics with geat character detail the envoirments 
 are pretty impresive to.
  _____________________
  sound: top notch sound effects on and offline and music to go with stealthy moments.
  _____________________
 
  value: this game will last a very long time with its great online matches, co-op and missions.
 
  _____________________
  online: this and halo are pesonally my favourite online games with a good lot to do theirs only 
 n game type but it is one great game!
  _____________________
  well thats my short review on double agent.
  :/play me?
  gamertag: jackjbt07 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthPanama3
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  I played the first one on the first Xbox and it was alot of fun but when it came to playin the 
 360 version it was a whole new game to me although the levels were very similar. I like the addition 
 of the terrorists base of operations and the puzzles, Sam was more human and showed how deep being 
 a spy really goes.
  
  Overall I loved the 360 version awhole lot more and was excited at some points during the storyline 
 and gameplay with all the twists and turns and choices you had to make throughout. Now i ANXIOUSLY 
 await Conviction which seems they again opened a new world for Sam in this one coming up. But very 
 good game, graphics, and storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atarii
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  Sam Fisher's first go at next-gen is a solid game. The gameplay is still the same as in previous 
 Splinter Cell games. Most of the gadgets return, and there's a few new ones. Sam finds himself 
 in a lot more well lit rooms this time, making the game seem more action orientated then you may 
 expect.
  The story puts Sam in the hands of a terrorist group, John Brown's Army, JBA for short, and asks 
 him to complete some missions that require you to possibly kill allies. The story is actually enjoyable 
 to myself, it's no classic book or movie script, but it's fun nonetheless. The story takes you 
 to many places, all have varied environments and look amazing. Sometimes interiors look bland, 
 but most of the times as you sneak from room to room you'll be greeted with nice lighting and shading 
 touches that make things look good. The sound effects are nice, but nothing amazing.
  As a somewhat casual gamer, I didn't bother to play the online component of this game, which is 
 a shame because I know it's likely very good. So keep in mind this score (although not being penalized) 
 is based solely on the single player experience.... which was great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablobasher
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2007 1:20 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell has been the prominant steath/action series for quite some time, it's only real competition 
 being series like Metal Gear, which offered a somewhat less serious, but by no mens inferior experience.
 
  
  Sam Fisher returns, after a somewhat dissapointing Chaos Theory, only this time, he' a Double Agent. 
 The plot of the game revolved around infiltating and capturing a terrorist organisation known as 
 the John Brown Army, or JBA. To do this, you must undertake a number of missions for them, while 
 maintaining the trust of boththe JBA and the NSA by meeting a number of objectives each mission.
 
  
  The trust mechanic in Double Agent while interesting, is not very subtle. You will gain or lose 
 trust with factions dependng on which objectives you meet, however the core gameplay does not change 
 until you lose all trust with a factionm, at which pointhe game ends. So all it really does is 
 ensure that you finish most of th objectives throughout the game. Which has it's merits, as each 
 mission has certin objectives marked by a star, for each one you complete you unlock extra gadgets 
 and upgrade.
  
  Splinter Cell's core gameplay has remained very much unchanged from the previous titles, sneaking 
 around plays an extremely important role, an as ever, Sam cannot take a huge amount of damage before 
 dying, so you will need to remain stealthy. Especially so at higher dificulties, as in addition 
 to taking realistic damage, you will be provided with little to no ammunition fo your weapons. 
 While this is not a bad thing, sometimes you just want to shoot everything up, which can only be 
 done on a higher difficulty if you find some ammunition.
  
  Fortunately, gadgets are a plenty (Aerofoils, Stick Cameras, Shockers etc) as well as simply being 
 able to close the distance and knock out, or kill your enemy. Kiling your enemy however, is no 
 longer a simple choice of the left or right trigger buttons, given that you are undercover in a 
 terrorist organisation, some of your opponents will be innocent bystanders or security guards, 
 and you will lose trust with the NSA for murdering them.
  
  The main plot of Double Agent is simple yet enjoyable, you have to incriminate, and bring down 
 the five main members of the JBA. No plot twists or mind bending storylines here. That said, the 
 plot is nothing less than it needs to be given the simplicity of the situation.
  
  Gameplay is given a little bit of extra variety by giving you undercover 'headquarter' missions, 
 where you are given a task by a member of the JBA, inside their main headquarters, which you are 
 left ane to complete. Givng you roughly 25 minutes to roam the base at your leisure, either completing 
 objectives fr your NSA pals, or simply hanging back and completing the tasks given you by the JBA, 
 such as running an obstacle course, or cracking an email code on one of their computers. During 
 tese missios, certain areas are out of bounds to you, and you will have to be stealthy if you wish 
 to enter them. Otherwise, you are free to roam as you like and watch members of the JBA interact.
 
  
  While the major players in the game have little personlity to speak of, it is fun to watch some 
 of the scenes unfold as you sneak around the HQ, for example, one character has a hilarous dialogue 
 with a computer, because he can't figure out how to use it.
  
  Some changes are present from previous Splinter Cell games, the most prominant being the light 
 meter, which is no longer displayed on your HUD, but instead shown by a light on sams suit, which 
 changed colour depending on your situation, green means your safe, yellow means in danger of being 
 spotted, and red means if you dont plan on loading a previous save, you better run for cover pretty 
 quickly. For anyone intent on getting high rankings at the end of missions, one major change has 
 been implimented, you lose stealth points for anything and everything you do that can be detected 
 after you have left the scene. Shooting lights, knocking out enemies, being seen by enemies, firing 
 weapons, and more lose you points, meaning certain missions are near, if not impossible to receive 
 anything more than 50% stealth on. Fortunately, these ratings dont get you any bonuses, so you 
 wont have to tear your hair out attemptin them unless you want to.
  
  To the detriment of the game, Double Agent is not a good place for players new to the series to 
 start, as it somehow managed to have a wore training mode than Chaos Theory, which didn't have 
 one at all...
  
  Double Agents training mode is little more than a creepily lit room, and the voice of what sounds 
 like a mental health analyst. You are given no explanation of how to play the game, or how compliated 
 mechanics work. Hacking for example, unless you are very quick on the uptake, or have played a 
 previous game, you will have to read the manual to figure these things out.
  
  Visually, Double Agent, while hardly a showcase for what the 360 can do, is very appealing. The 
 game looks nice and crisp and character models look nice and animate well, environments looks good, 
 and there are few texture errors or level glitches that could get in the way.
  
  Overall, Double Agent is a solid, enjoyable experience that provides a good deal of variety, even 
 if it is rather short, and only provides difficulty in the trial and error way that most stealth 
 based games do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xRmRxfreakBOMB
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who's played Caose Theory won't even have to do the trianing. (Even though it's worth a 
 few gamer pionts.) The graphics are very worthy of the 360's power and the controls are very comfortable. 
 Everything in this game is well done, but what really stands out is the online multiplayer. It's 
 like a whole new game! They've also given the Spys new abilities like jumping through glass and 
 crawling in fake ceilings where the Upsolons can't get to.
  
  The downfall about the 360 version is the there is no Co-op which I played a lot on Chaose Theory.
 
  
  Still, you need to at least rent this game because I know you'll have a lot of fun with it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthew_rs7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  I was waiting for double agent for a while and when i got it on the ps2 i almost s*** my pants 
 with excitement.
  
  the commercial and trailer showed all this awesome stuff in it like day missions, swimming, sky 
 diving and.. well you have all probably seen the trailer and know what i mean.
  
  but when i played it on the ps2 i was like wth? this is nothing what i had expected in any way!
 
  
  i did research and found out that there were 2 versions the first 1 (good 1) is on the x box 360 
 , pc. and the bad one is on ps2, game cube, wii.
  
  so i got a 360 and this game and holy f*** what a difference. all missions are different graphics, 
 game play and EVERYTHING in the game is different. this one has cut scenes and not stupid photographs 
 with audio dubbed over it and best of all, you don't have William Redding crawling up your ass 
 through out the game.
  
  the good: is the unique game play and offers a little bit different stealth in this one, meaning 
 not only do you hide in the dark but you take cover and blend in the environment, great character 
 development, shiny graphics and a very deep and involving storyline with fully integrated game 
 play.
  
  the bad: the lighting is horrible and unrealistic (how can they not see me) instead of a light 
 meter you have either green, yellow, or red light, no sound meter, and no health meter so you don't 
 know when you going o die, also there are no med kits, they killed off Sarah fisher.
  
  so over all i would definitely say pick the game up, it's been out for a while now so it's lower 
 in price (i got mine for $20 Canadian) but expect it to be different.
  
  one other thing is i found it more difficult then the other splinter cells 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkkiller145
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2007 12:56 am PT
Review:  In Double Agent we take control the control of Sam Fisher but is not the Fisher we knew. Now Sam 
 is a member of a terrorist company (JBA) . Sam become member of this company to arrest the leader 
 of JBA (Emile) for NASA (Lambert) , because he is dangerous to be free but Sam decided to take this 
 mission not because Emile was dangerous for the world but because someone from JBA murdered his 
 daughter and now he wants revenge.
  
  To complete the game you have to control the trust meter. Also trust meter affects your equipment 
 to each stage so you better be careful.
  
  To gain respect for each side you have to complete some tasks for each side. To complete a stage 
 you have to complete the main tasks and then you go to the extraction point to complete the mission. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fat_otter
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Boy, the Splinter Cell series has come a long way. It started as a more realistic version of Metal 
 Gear Solid and wasn't even expected to do that well. And in Ubisoft Montreal's fear of the game 
 being a bomb, they kept raising the quality bar until the game ended up being incredibly good. 
 And 4 sequels later, the series is as strong as ever! Unlike the previous installments, Sam Fisher 
 is no longer the goodie-two-shoes agent he was in the past titles, because now, he must be loyal 
 to both the good guys and bad guys. For Sam's latest mission, the NSA has sent Sam to become a 
 member of an American terrorist cell so he can weaken them from the inside out. SCDA adds some 
 new and exciting elements to the series which was starting to run low on ideas. The game features 
 a trust meter. You are given objectives for both the NSA, and JBA (John Brown's Army, the terrorist 
 cell) . For example, you can kill this certain guy who is a friend of the NSA to impress the terrorists, 
 or you can let him live because he's part of your own side. Despite these objectives, the mission 
 out come will always be the same. The only true importance is that if you have enough trust with 
 the NSA by the end of the game, you get a bounus mission and an additional achievment. Another 
 new feature are the headquarters missions. In between every few missions, you get an oppertunity 
 to wonder around the JBA headquarters for about 15 minutes. Here, you can complete objectives for 
 either the NSA or JBA. This gives you an oppertunity to get more trust from the side who trusts 
 you less. This can range from completing a obstacle course, to sneaking into an off-limits area 
 to get some top-secret terrorist files. These missions are a bit slow, but come in handy when your 
 low on trust. All of the other missions are what you'd expect from a Splinter Cell game - Find 
 this, kill this guy, interogate this guy, ect. But each mission is a lot more diverse than in previous 
 installments. For example - in one mission your infiltrating an oil tanker that's stuck in the 
 Bearing Strait, then your rappeling down a high-riser during a thunderstorm on Chinese New Years 
 in Shanghai, then your in the middle of an African war-zone in Congo under the blazing sun. Each 
 mission is unique, exiting, and has its own feel to it. Besides the double agent stuff, it all 
 feels very familiar to any Splinter Cell vet (like me) , or even if you just played one other SC 
 game. As for multiplayer, get ready for a whole new ballgame, because Double Agents multiplayer 
 has been completley renovated, and is a lot more accessible than before. The biggest change is 
 that both the spies and mercs have less gear. The spies don't have any weapon, except for a choke-hold. 
 You can carry a single item such as flash, and smoke grenades, syringes (for healing yourself) , 
 a jammer (so mercs can't dectect you as easily) , and other stuff. All the mercs get is an assualt 
 rifle with a grenade launcher, and a drone which can be flown around in in accesible places and 
 blow the spies up. There aren't that many game modes, deathmatch, and collect the file. But if 
 your a Splinter Cell veteran or new to the series, you will find Double Agent a fun game in both 
 the singleplayer and multiplayer departments. (But if your new to the series, I recommend the previous 
 installments first) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advent_Ech0
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the Splinter Cell series for a few years now. Every time a new game in the 
 series is made, the developers usually have a new, innovative feature to the game. This, in my 
 opinion, is what keeps the series alive. This game has a new feature which is, of course, to play 
 both sides of the field. You can do different objectives besides the main objective that allow 
 you to gain or lose respect with both factions, the NSA (good guys) or the JBA (bad guys) . 
 
  While this is a new feature, it is not innovative. In fact, it feels more like a gimmick to keep 
 the series alive. Many games that have a good side/bad side feature pull it off a lot better (eg. 
 Oblivion, Darkwatch, Bioshock) . Respect is not lost from one side by doing another's objective, 
 so there are no real moral consequences. The reward system gives more items and upgrades for completion 
 of the secondary objectives, and while it isn't a bad system, it isn't really imaginative either. 
 This succeeds in making the secondary objectives feel like regular objectives instead of a choice 
 that plays an integral part of the gameplay. 
 
  Overall, though, the gameplay is pretty good, albeit long load times. The graphics are a very 
 nice upgrade for the series, it plays as well as, if not a little better than, other games in the 
 series. 
  If you're a longtime fan of the series or like stealth games, you will probably like Double Agent. 
 If you're new to the stealth genre, I strongly suggest you rent it before you buy. 
 
  Splinter Cell: Double Agent gets a 7.5 from me because while it has flaws with its choice feature 
 and long load times, it stays true to the series with its fun stealth/action gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drum_228
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  I had an old Splinter Cell on the PS2 (I cant remember which) and i thought it sucked; by this 
 I mean i brought it, spent like 3 hours on it got bored and NEVER played on it again. Not with 
 this game, this game rocks; it, along with GRAW (i didnt like rainbow 6) have re-installed my faith 
 in games under the name of my favourite author. If you don't like this game something is wrong 
 with you, it is truely a great game!
  And jac454 - i know your score is only your opinion, but 1!!! Are you kidding?!? You have got to 
 be having a laugh!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigb89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  The two versions of the game feature different plot lines. They share many of the same levels, 
 but with completely different designs and in a different order.
  
  Version one
  
  The game begins in September 2007, shortly after the events of Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Chaos 
 Theory as Sam Fisher and rookie John Hodge are being flown to Iceland to investigate suspicious 
 activities at a geothermal plant. After he averts a missile strike by Islamic terrorists, he is 
 met by Colonel Irving Lambert aboard the Osprey to deliver bad news. Sarah Fisher, Sam's only daughter, 
 has been killed by a drunk driver. Overcome with depression, he is unable to concentrate on his 
 work and is pulled out of active service.
  
  Shortly thereafter, Lambert offers him the rank of a NOC (nonofficial cover operative) , hoping 
 that it will help him refocus. NOCs are operatives with backgrounds from both the CIA and NSA, 
 trained to infiltrate organizations for HUMINT purposes. The government denies any involvement 
 in their activities. The NSA stages multiple bank robberies and killings to set up Fisher to infiltrate 
 a domestic terror organization known as John Brown's Army (JBA) . He is sent to Ellsworth Prison 
 in Kansas where he is placed in the same cell as Jamie Washington, a JBA member, and spends the 
 next six months digging a tunnel for escape. By February 2008, Fisher helps Washington escape, 
 and is welcomed into the JBA.
  
  At their compound, Emile Dufraisne, the leader of the JBA, gives Sam the order to shoot Cole Yeagher, 
 the pilot of the helicopter used to escape the prison. If Fisher kills him, he will earn JBA trust 
 and lose NSA trust. If he misses his shot on purpose, Jamie will kill Cole, and Sam will lose trust 
 with the JBA. He is then sent on a mission to take over a Russian oil tanker in the Sea of Okhotsk. 
 Sam needs to take over the tanker so that JBA ally Massoud Ibn-Yussif can use it to deliver one 
 of the bombs.
  
  As soon as Fisher is finished, he is quickly flown to the Jin Mao Hotel in Shanghai. CIA agent 
 Hisham Hamza orders him to record a meeting between Emile and a Pakistani Nuclear scientist, Dr. 
 Aswat. During the meeting, Aswat sells Emile several kilograms of red mercury, a fictional explosive 
 material. With Third Echelon on high alert, Fisher is told to collect a sample from the safe in 
 the meeting room. While he's doing that, Carson Moss radios in and orders him to steal notes from 
 Aswat's hotel room. The NSA then orders the assassination of Dr. Aswat.
  
  With both the red mercury and Dr. Aswat's notes, the JBA constructs a bomb which they wish to test. 
 Emile sends Fisher to Cozumel to blow up a cruise ship. The success of the bomb is determined by 
 the player and is therefore the first of the three major events. Fisher can choose to either let 
 the bomb detonate, maintaining his cover with the JBA, prevent the explosion by jamming the signal, 
 or use Enrica's disarm code, if the player acquires it from her office during the JBA HQ mission. 
 Preventing the explosion causes Dufraisne to execute Enrica in a fit of anger.
  
  Emile then goes to a meeting in Kinshasa with Allejandro Tawkfir and Massoud Ibn-Yussif, allies 
 of the JBA. Fisher bugs the meeting and finds out that the three terrorist leaders each have Red 
 Mercury bombs. They plan to destroy Mexico City, Los Angeles and New York City. During the meeting, 
 Hisham Hamza's cover is blown.
  
  Emile orders Fisher to kill Hisham, who has fled to the Congolese presidential palace in Kinshasa, 
 from the top of a radio tower with a sniper rifle. Fisher may shoot Hisham, but if he spares his 
 life, another section of the level is unlocked where Fisher extracts him safely from the palace.
 
  
  When Fisher returns to the headquarters, he is ordered to shoot Lambert, who was captured sneaking 
 around the complex. The player can decide to either shoot Lambert or Jamie Washington. Shooting 
 Lambert will maintain the JBA's trust, while shooting Washington will send the JBA into high alert 
 and reveal Fisher as a traitor. Enrica Villablanca, if she is still alive, discovers Fisher's NOC 
 status, but allows him to pass into the labs underneath the HQ, even giving him his equipment if 
 he does not have it already.
  
  A SWAT team then storms the compound, crashing in through the ceiling. If Sam saves the cruise 
 ship, CIA Agent Hisham, and Lambert, or only two out of three with NSA trust above 33%, then he 
 evades capture and escapes the compound, incapacitating a SWAT officer, and donning his stolen 
 suit. In the unlocked bonus level, the NYPD pursues Fisher through New York, but he boards a stolen 
 Coast Guard boat that Carson Moss is using to deliver the last bomb. Fisher kills Moss, disarms 
 the bomb, and escapes the boat seconds before it is destroyed. This ending is the only one that 
 ends with To be continued... 
  
  If Sam only saves one out of three, or all three with NSA trust below 33%, he is captured by the 
 NYPD, charged with murder and conspiracy to commit terrorism, and pleads 'not guilty'. Before his 
 trial begins, however, Sam breaks out of prison and is on the run. If Sam does not save any of 
 the three, or only one with NSA trust below 33%, he is initially captured by the NYPD, but escapes 
 using a smoke grenade.
  
  Version two
  
  The game begins shortly after the events of Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory as Sam and 
 CIA agent Hisham Hamza are being flown to Iceland to investigate suspicious activities at a geothermal 
 plant. However, the mission is aborted, with Lambert activating a Splinter Cell co-op double team 
 to destroy the plant. Sam is met by Colonel Irving Lambert aboard the Osprey to deliver bad news. 
 Sarah Fisher, Sam's only daughter, has been killed by a drunk driver. Overcome with depression, 
 he is unable to concentrate on his work and is pulled out of active service.
  
  Lambert offers him the rank of a NOC (nonofficial cover operative) , hoping that it will help him 
 refocus. NOCs are operatives with backgrounds from both the CIA and NSA, trained to infiltrate 
 organizations for HUMINT purposes. The government denies any involvement in their activities. The 
 NSA stages multiple bank robberies and killings to set up Fisher to infiltrate a domestic terror 
 organization known as John Brown's Army (JBA) . He is sent to Ellsworth Prison in Kansas where he 
 is placed in the same cell as Jamie Washington, a JBA member. With indirect assistance from a Splinter 
 Cell Co-op double team, Fisher helps Washington escape, and is welcomed into the JBA.
  
  At their compound, Sam finds an e-mail written by JBA member Cole Yeagher. If he chooses to send 
 this information to the NSA, they will extract Yeagher for interrogation; if he chooses to send 
 it to the JBA, Emile kills him.
  
  Sam is then sent to hijack a train in Grand Central Station, carrying a large sum of money, gold, 
 and jewelry. Because Lambert pretends to be an arms dealer, Sam has access to his NSA equipment.
 
  
  After the JBA constructs a bomb using red mercury, Emile sends Fisher to Cozumel to test it by 
 blowing up a cruise ship. If the player chooses to sabotage the bomb detonation, Sam and Enrica 
 are severely beaten. Unlike Version 1, this decision does not affect the ending of the game.
  
  Sam is then sent on a mission to take over a Russian oil tanker in the Sea of Okhotsk. Two 
 computers on the tanker have an e-mail to Emile from an anonymous sender who intends to blow Lambert's 
 cover as an arms dealer.
  
  Emile then goes to a meeting in Kinshasa with Allejandro Tawkfir and Massoud Ibn-Yussif, allies 
 of the JBA, to buy more red mercury. He orders Fisher to kill Hisham. If the player lets him go, 
 he will receive an adrenaline syringe, which does not make an appearance for the rest of the game. 
 Fisher uncovers information that sets up a mission for a Splinter Cell co-op double team to sabotage 
 a chemical bunker owned by Takfir. An e-mail on Massoud's computer reveals that there is a mole 
 inside the NSA.
  
  When Fisher returns to the headquarters, he discovers that Lambert has been taken hostage, and 
 the terrorists are about to send off the Red Mercury. Sam has to choose whether to place information 
 on the JBA server backing up Lambert's cover, or plant information that proves he is with the NSA. 
 At the end of the mission, Director Williams seems strangely indifferent to the death of Lambert, 
 if the player chooses that route. He can also choose to disable two of the red mercury bombs.
 
  
  Unlike the other version, regardless of whether you save Lambert or not, the mission starts with 
 the JBA discovering that Sam is a spy, with Williams authorizing the Fifth Freedom. Simultaneously, 
 the Splinter Cell double team focuses on disarming multiple Red Mercury bombs in the Tanker headed 
 for Los Angeles. Enrica, unable to kill Fisher, helps him by setting off the sprinklers in one 
 room. After Sam kills Emile and disables the last bomb, Enrica comes looking for him, and is shot 
 by a Splinter Cell agent. As a result, Sam kills the agent and removes his subdermal for his cochlear 
 implant. He then accuses Williams of murdering Enrica, and vows revenge.
  
  If Sam disarms the bombs in Nashville and Los Angeles, the end newscast will say that a potential 
 terrorist attack has been stopped. If only one of the bombs is disarmed, the newscast will report 
 on a bomb, whichever one was not disarmed, exploding and killing many. If neither of the bombs are 
 disarmed, the newscast will say that two bombs have gone off in Nashville and Los Angeles, killing 
 many people. If Nashville is destroyed, it is also noted that the President has been killed due 
 to a visit. He is succeeded by his Vice President.
  
  Features
  
  Both versions * Fisher is given objectives from two separate parties, the JBA and NSA, sometimes 
 forcing the player to choose between them in order to progress. o Due to the fact he is working 
 for two different organizations, Sam is faced with several choices in the game that affect his 
 trust with the JBA and the NSA, represented by the trust meter . Trust on either side affects Sam's 
 weapon arsenal: completing NSA objectives will unlock a high-tech arsenal, while completing JBA 
 objects will unlock a lower-tech lethal arsenal. o A non-linear storyline that changes based on 
 the objectives the player completes (those of the JBA or NSA) . * Multiple endings are introduced. 
 * The lock-picking mini-game returns and a new bomb defusing game is introduced.
  
  Version one * Two alternate single-player missions, eight all-new merged versus and co-op maps 
 and interactive cutscenes. * Daylight missions, in which Sam does not have his goggles. Also, in 
 the regular areas of the JBA HQ, Sam's only maneuver is walk. * Regenerating health (a similar 
 element was introduced in Call of Duty 2, although Double Agent has no visible health bar) and 
 a simple three-state (hidden/exposed/alert) stealth meter, as opposed to the past light and sound 
 meters. * The Playstation 3 version includes an, as of yet, unnamed female Splinter Cell; in the 
 Xbox 360 version, she's available in a download by Xbox Live. * The computer hacking mini-game 
 returns, and new mini-games are featured that let you decrypt e-mails and defuse bombs. * A new 
 type of level, where Sam has a little less than a half-an-hour to complete multiple objectives. 
 He can choose what order to do them, and does not have to do all of them. The more you do for one 
 side (or both sides) , the more trust you can receive.
  
  Version two * The game's plot is told as a huge flashback of Sam reiterating what happened to NSA 
 Director Williams. Version 1 takes place in the present. * An additional single-player mission 
 with alternate ending, a new Spies vs. Spies online mode, an extended co-op mode and LAN. The story 
 has also been altered almost completely in these versions of the game; one change of note is inclusion 
 of a HUD very similar to Chaos Theory's. * The player receives the SC-303 Compact Launcher in a 
 few missions, which shoots only non-lethal rounds. * The PS2 version includes two exclusive flashback 
 missions: one mission has Sam rescuing his daughter from a cargo ship (the level design is borrowed 
 from the Yugoslavia mission in Splinter Cell: Essentials) , and the other has Sam escaping captivity 
 from a German bunker (level design borrowed from the SEALs mission in Essentials) . The Playstation 
 2 version featuring exclusive levels is not new to the series.
  
  Gameplay
  
  As part of the JBA, Sam must complete objectives set by them to gain their trust as well as complete 
 objectives from the NSA. The decisions he has to make will become increasingly difficult as he 
 progresses through the game. Earlier decisions, such as deciding whether or not to free all of 
 the prisoners during the prison breakout, will just affect his score, but as the game progresses, 
 Sam is faced with serious choices that could kill thousands if made wrong, but may blow his cover 
 if he does not do it.
  
  Despite this, Sam must make the JBA trust him, in order to gain access to the restricted areas 
 of their base and complete NSA objectives. If he is seen in restricted areas before he is allowed 
 to go there, it will dramatically affect his trust with the JBA. Similarly, if he is caught using 
 an NSA gadget or picking a lock in JBA HQ, he will be killed on sight.
  
  He is also watched by the JBA in most of his missions, if he is seen completing NSA objectives 
 or is thought to be doing something out of the ordinary, his trust will go down. Killing people 
 apart from those ordered to be taken out will affect his NSA trust in the same way.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  Version one
  
  Upon joining the game, the player selects one of two sides: 
 the Spies of Third Echelon or the Mercenaries of Upsilon Force. The choice of side affects the 
 player's mission objectives, equipment, and overall play style.
  
  Spies of Third Echelon
  
  The Spies of Third Echelon are extremely fast and agile, much more 
 so than the Mercenaries. The Spies have a variety of almost superhuman acrobatic maneuvers that 
 allow them to navigate the map and infiltrate areas that their opponents cannot reach on foot.
 
  
  Mission objective
  
  The mission objective of the spies is to retrieve two encrypted files from four terminals scattered 
 around the map. The spies use their wrist computer to hack the terminal. The closer the spy is 
 to the terminal, the faster it can be hacked. All progress made whilst hacking any terminal is 
 cumulative for that particular spy until he is killed, when the information will be lost. To win 
 the game, the spy team must retrieve 2 files and return them to their starting point. The spy team 
 can also win by killing all of the Upsilon Force members, but this method is risky and not advised. 
 The whole mission takes place in less than 20 minutes, otherwise Upsilon wins the match.
  
  Equipment * Wrist computer - A powerful wrist computer with a range of ten meters which they can 
 use to manipulate their environment remotely. While hacking, Spies enter a first-person view and 
 can only change the direction in which they are looking, and walk. The wrist computer can turn 
 off lights, break glass using ultrasonic sound waves, hack security doors, turn off the main electrical 
 generator, and cause the mercenaries' EM vision and other equipment to malfunction. * Night vision 
 goggles - capable of standard light amplification and infrared night vision, and thermal vision 
 capable of sensing heat * Gadgets - capable of carrying one o Syringe - restores the health of 
 the Spy or his teammates o Flashbang grenade - blinds mercenaries for a short time o Smoke grenade 
 - creates a thick cloud of smoke that impairs a mercenary's movement and vision, and can knock 
 one out after extended exposure o Jammer - can be dropped on the ground to create a fake presence 
 on the mercenary's proximity detector
  
  Mercenaries of Upsilon Force
  
  The Mercenaries of Upsilon Force are heavily armed with a variety of ways to neutralize intruders. 
 They have a melee attack that knocks their opponents to the ground and temporarily stuns them. 
 They have the ability to sprint for a limited period of time, reducing their turning and aiming 
 accuracy. Mercenaries can also sprint into a spy, knocking them down and stunning them temporarily. 
 They can rappel down certain surfaces, allowing them to move to lower floors quickly.
  
  Mission objective
  
  The mission objective of the Mercenaries is to defend the four terminals 
 from attack by the Spies. The Mercenaries win when they kill all of the Spies or when the timer 
 runs out before the Spies can successfully return two files. Mercenaries receive an audio and visual 
 alert whenever a terminal is being hacked and also can see which Spy is currently hacking and how 
 much of the file has been retrieved.
  
  Equipment * Rifle - The Mercenaries have an assault rifle capable of fully automatic fire. The 
 rifle has unlimited magazines and each magazine contains 40 rounds. It has a scope capable of 4x 
 optical zoom for sniping. * EMF Goggles - shows all electrically-active devices in the area, including 
 a spy that is hacking or using night vision goggles * Motion Sensor - always active device that 
 outlines a fast-moving spy in white * Torchlight - a flashlight attached to the mercenary's rifle 
 * Grenades - launched from the mercenary's rifle * Drones - remote-controlled flying cameras capable 
 of exploding * Proximity Detector - always active device that detects the presence of a spy within 
 10 meters, giving off a heartbeat style noise that gets faster as the spy gets closer
  
  Version two
  
  Some console versions have a Spy vs. Spy mode, with players able to play as 
 Third Echelon or the Upsilon Force spies, and also has a co-op mode intertwined with the single 
 player portion of the game.
  
  There are six Game Modes in these Spy vs. Spy matches: Team Hack, Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, 
 Key Run, Sam Vs. All, and Countdown. Team Hack has players trying to retrieve data by hacking into 
 enemies computers and securing their own computers, similar to Capture The Flag. Deathmatch and 
 Team Deathmatches pit players against each other. Key Run is similar to Team Hack, except retrieving 
 a Key to hack into the other team's computer is the main item to capture. Sam Vs. All is reminiscent 
 to Metal Gear Solid 3: Subsistence's Sneaking Mission game mode, in which one player who is Sam 
 Fisher must play as a lone wolf and hack into computers defended by an Upsilon spy team. However, 
 the key difference is that Fisher lacks the equipment from the single-player mode, and is nearly 
 identical to normal spies. Countdown is similar to Deathmatch, except players must outlast each 
 other by getting more kills to extend their time limit.
  
  Co-op
  
  Like Chaos Theory, cooperative missions are available that tie in directly to the storyline. They 
 have the spies provide covert support for Fisher, either helping him with his objectives or acting 
 on intelligence he has gathered.
  
  The first mission takes place in Iceland shortly after Sam Fisher is pulled out. The spies are 
 sent in to complete Fisher's mission by blowing up the plant. Next, the spies go to Ellsworth Prison 
 to start a riot, providing a distraction to allow Fisher and Jamie Washington to escape. Thanks 
 to intelligence provided by Fisher, the spies are able to sabotage the chemical bunker in Kinshasa 
 owned by Tafkir and Massoud, as well as getting valuable intel. The last mission happens in conjunction 
 with Fisher taking down the JBA. The Splinter Cell duo, under the command of Assistant Director 
 Williams, sabotages the Red Mercury bombs on a cargo ship heading for Los Angeles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScRP192
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  Being a big fan of the previous trilogy of splinter cell, it was inevitable for me to pick up double 
 agent, after buying and trying i am very impressed with the latest in the series of, it gives you 
 more freedom within missions, the gameplay is much more interactive and the graphics are superb 
 with its debut on next gen. You follow sam through infiltrating a terrorist organization as he 
 attempts to prevent their threat. While working for the NSA and staying in the good books of the 
 JBA the gamer has to make tough decisions and prioritise objectives to prevent arousing any suspicsion 
 as you travel the world from iceland to africa. A must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabisu999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 5:02 am PT
Review:  Even if it's story doen't feel as touching as the splinter cell chaos theory was, this new sequel 
 plays well with a good story line that is going to be countinued on conviction.
  If you like to go stealth, atack and don't be seen, well this is the game for you.
  This is the 
 kind kind of game that just makes metal gear looking childish.
  
  The inovation here, you're a duble agent, you'll have to choose wich actions you'll perform during 
 your time on JBA, and that will determine the end of the game. It can get pretty nasty in there, 
 play in the shadow adn you'll be allright 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lsdisforme
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 10:12 pm PT
Review:  I think, it's safe to say, that this game has been what the Splinter Cell franchise has needed. 
 Up until Double Agent, we have been privy to Sam Fisher globe-trotting across our vast planet, 
 righting wrong-doings and trying to prevent World War 3 in the process. Perhaps it was a natural 
 progression from Chaos Theory, or perhaps the writing team/development team had finally decided 
 that after three games of the same sneak here, kill there, climb up and get the Gold Star gameplay 
 that enough was enough. I could certainly see how that was the case.
  
  Double Agent begins with a pretty standard Splinter Cell mission. Definitely one we'd come to expect 
 from the series. However, upon completion of the mission, Sam Fisher is given the bad news that 
 his daughter has been killed in a car accident by a drunk driver. Of course, this sends our hero 
 deep into a downward spiral of depression, one for which Sam's boss Lambert seems only too eager 
 to take advantage.
  
  With Sam's consent, Lambert offers him a long-term mission to infiltrate a home-grown terrorist 
 organization called the JBA (John Brown's Army) , to which Sam, being depressed and really having 
 nothing else to live for besides the job, agrees to. A series of bank robberies and murders are 
 staged to help give Sam credibility as a criminal. He is eventually caught and sent to prison, 
 orchestrated so that he shares the same cell as Jamie Washington... a rather prolific JBA member.
 
  
  From there on in, Splinter Cell takes an entirely new direction. Gone are the rubber black suits, 
 the high-tech, James Bond gadgetry, and the awesomely cool night-vision goggles (for the most part) . 
 Instead, we are given an edgier, meaner, balder, and slightly more psychotic Sam Fisher to toy 
 with. The game works on a number of levels, thanks to this new direction. The path that was growing 
 rather stale of ducking, covering, hiding, gathering intel, and occasionally laying waste to terrorists 
 who got in your way was, for all intents and purposes, not that fun anymore. The development team 
 behind this (Ubisoft Shanghai) , had decided that a new, fresh approach was needed to continue the 
 franchise.
  
  And in the end, that's where this game really shines. No more are we intelligence gatherers trying 
 to find out all we can by going behind enemy lines, and safely making our way back out again. Now, 
 the player is a *real* spy. A NOC (Nonofficial Cover operative) that has been given the task of 
 infiltrating the JBA, gathering intelligence, and hopefully shutting it down before the damage 
 can be done. While it does sound slightly like the older versions, I can assure you that Double 
 Agent takes a fresh, new spin on almost every angle of previous Splinter Cell games.
  
  The player is tasked with gaining the trust of the JBA. This of course could mean murder, destroying 
 cruise ships, or even allowing someone you know from the NSA to be capped (maybe even pulling the 
 trigger yourself) . Gaining trust from the JBA is essential, for without it, your cover is very 
 vulnerable, leaving you paranoid as to whether or not any member of the JBA would spot you for 
 what you really are. Because of the intense and rather brutal nature in which to gain trust from 
 the JBA, Sam Fisher also needs to find a balancing act. Lambert and the NSA will continually give 
 Sam Fisher assignments while he is on a mission with the JBA, that will more often than not contradict 
 those the JBA has set for him. This gives the player a whole new realm of choice previously unseen 
 in past Splinter Cell iterations. It is really up to the player, and how much the JBA's (and for 
 that matter, the NSA's) trust is really worth to them. Lose too much trust from the JBA, and your 
 cover is blown, leaving you to be taken out behind the shed and executed. Too much trust lost from 
 the NSA, and they will restrict your methods more and more until they declare you a rogue and a 
 convert to the other side.
  
  And its perhaps because of this constant weighing of trust that really makes Splinter Cell: Double 
 Agent a truly paranoid game. Whenever you're off doing something you shouldn't be doing in the 
 JBA HQ, Sam will begin to sweat nervously, and his eyes will shift from side to side, trying to 
 keep a lookout while simultaneously trying to get his NSA objectives completed. It's really the 
 little touches like this that makes Double Agent such a captivating game. I more often than not 
 found myself sweating, my heart beat pumping wildly, and my mind racing with paranoia. Perhaps 
 it's due to the very nature of this game, but it perfectly builds the suspense up with each high-risk 
 objective. And you, the player, are often caught in the middle, trying to weigh the trust of the 
 JBA and NSA objectively, whilst also trying to maintain the illusion that you're really with the 
 JBA.
  
  The game, flat out, is perfect in many respects. At least, from a narrative and presentation perspective, 
 that is.
  
  The problems I found with Splinter Cell: Double Agent, are perhaps more technical in nature than 
 anything else. I found the score, the presentation, and the narrative very compelling. And the 
 constant wave of paranoia you felt while doing something incredibly risky was also a welcomed experience. 
 However, something about the animations, the controls, and perhaps even the engine itself felt 
 kind of... dated. While Splinter Cell: Double Agent for the X-Box 360 definitely feels like a next 
 generation game in presentation, it just doesn't seem to make that next leap in the gameplay aspects. 
 We are given a new view, a new slant on how to play the series, yes, but it also feels like we're 
 still playing the *same* series. I guess, in the end, this is an old dodge with a new coat of paint. 
 A fresh -- almost breathtakingly so -- approach to an otherwise stale and dated franchise. While the 
 new coat of paint and the new bells and whistles are certainly enough to make any fan of the series 
 instantly snatch up a copy, I still have to wonder just when we're going to get that true, honest 
 to God next generation Splinter Cell experience. Perhaps Convictions? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 20, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is very realistic, so it may not be for everyone, but it is very fun for stealth fans. 
 You can do alot with the enviorment, and you can interact with everything. The graphics are amazing. 
 They are the best i've ever seen. The problems happen when you don't know what your doing and you 
 get caught or get killed out of stupidity. There are also way to many load times. The game loads 
 when there is a check-piont, it loads when going from the multiplayer screen to the main menu, 
 and it loads in alot of other places. There is also no multiplayer other than online. So those 
 are the reasons I didn't give it a 10. Overall, though, this is a very fun secret agent game, that 
 you may or may not enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jac494
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 19, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  Shame on you UBI for ruining a fantastic series with this monstrosity. Ok so the single player 
 is just fine, my problem is with the multiplayer. WTF is that BS?! Everything that made the Chaos 
 theory great was RUINED with this trash. I despise you people for ruining one of the best and most 
 unique multiplayer games. I would love to come to the UBI office and beat you all down. There is 
 no spy gun, all the cool gadgets are gone. I mean seriously UBI WTF? Lazy MFers. You are completely 
 incompetent. I bought this game thinking that it would be like the previous ones only newer, well 
 needless to say I took it back immediately. I WILL NOT purchase TCSC: Conviction unless the multiplayer 
 is returned to its previous glory. Dont buy this game ever. You should go buy TCSC: Chaos Theory. 
 If I could rate this a 0.0 I would! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X360Gurl
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2007 3:13 am PT
Review:  I've had this game for a while now and have long completed it and actually sold it. I settled for 
 a ending and didn't bother to get a different one. I have just ordered it again about two days 
 ago with a game guide to help me achieve my different endings. When i played on it again all the 
 memories of sneaking all night until i completed a certain mission all flooded back to me. I like 
 all the Splinter Cell games and have at some point owned everyone it's just this one stands out. 
 I'll explain...
  
  The story mode is fantastic because of how engaging it is. Not you're normal Sam Fisher, now bald, 
 no friends but lots of enemys. This Splinter Cell is all about revenge and it will be taken. The 
 gameplay is pretty much the same with a few new extras but nothing massive, classic Splinter Cell 
 with a certain degree of change. Ubisoft have really pushed the boat out with developing the Xbox 
 Live Multiplayer though. You can choose between to sides, mercs and spys. They each have different 
 specialitys like Mercs have a big load gun whereas Spys have night vision goggles to spy on the 
 mercs then make they're move. It builds up such suspence it's amazing. This is exactly what Ubisoft 
 wanted though for people to feel such suspence as to feel their hearts beating against they're 
 rib cage it's fantastic! It's not so expensive anymore - about a tenner on Ebay ($20) . It will 
 keep you entertained for hours on end, online or not! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowofamn1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 13, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  The graphic is great, which is expected with the next generation console. The sound is well done 
 in most part of the game, the background music and the environment mix well together. The story 
 starts off with Fisher, the main character, investigating in iceland. It is more of a practice 
 mission but it quickly turns into the main plot, which is rescuing a criminal in jail, earning 
 their trust, getting yourself into their HQ and being their agent.
  
  The game can be beaten in almost anyway, there are lot of optional objectives to keep you busy 
 yet as long as your trust is not zero, you don't have to do anything of them. You can kill and 
 blast your way or sneak by without touching anyone. Decisions that will change the plot and ending 
 which gives you more replay value.
  
  Most disappointing part of the game is no coop mode as in split screen. The multiplayer's population 
 is decreasing but still has a handful to throw around. Double Agents is a 30 bucks game, well worth 
 the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: visionedorange
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 13, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  The new installment in the splinter cell series Splinter Cell Double Agent delivers a fresh new 
 perspective to the series. Instead of what you'd expect from a splinter cell game, and has been 
 (in my opinion) overused is a game where you are playing as an agent for a secret government agency 
 going to different locations trying to exploit terrorists and such on, as is the case with all 
 the splinter cell games. However, although its kinda the same thing in this installment, gamers 
 now find themselves playing as a double agent, which i believe is a new way to play the game. You 
 play as Sam Fisher once again, but now you are trying to gain the trust of the terrorist organization, 
 while also trying to maintain the trust of your agency. This also gives the player new choice objectives, 
 which lets the player choose what happens in the game, and affects your overall trust, most of 
 the time resulting in you losing the trust on one group and gaining the trust of the other. These 
 occur in the terrorist base which you get to roam around in 3 different levels, which adds exciting 
 new elements to the game. As for the rest of the game, its everything you'd excpect from a splinter 
 cell game, and the missions themselves are fairly routine, yet are still fun and enjoyable. Its 
 definetly worth a rent and the innovative multiplayer makes it worth a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 10, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  I first played Splinter Cell Doublt Agent on my Ps2 where I found it to be an absolutely amazing 
 game. Now I figured the Xbox 360 version is probably even better, and yes I was right. Double Agent 
 on the Xbox 360 exceeds all of my expectations. The game actually has an interesting story which 
 has not always been the main focus of the previous Splinter Cell games. Sam Fisher is in prison 
 and he is supposed to infiltrate a terrorist organization known as the JBA (John Browns Army) tensions 
 flare as Sam must decide between objectives that means killing old friends or saving them and risking 
 his cover. This is hands down the most intense Splinter Cell game out there on the market.
  
  The game brings some new gameplay elements such as daytime missions (which look beautiful by 
 the way) and HQ missions in which you sneak around the JBA HQ getting information for your friends 
 back at Third Echelon. The HQ missions are far by the most intense missions in the game and thankfully 
 there are four of them (the last one being hands down the best) . Other than that the game plays 
 like a Splinter Cell game should, you stay in the shadows and you don't get caught.
  
  As I mentioned before the graphics in the outside missions look absolutely amazing. The character 
 models glisten (if thats how you spell it) and the environments rock. I must say though that this 
 game doesnt blow you away like the previous games did, games like Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 
 2 look a lot better than this game, but this game still looks amazing, but its amazing to see, 
 how major the graphics change in just a half a year. As always Splinter Cell sounds amazing in 
 the sound effects and in the voice-overs.
  
  Splinter Cell Double Agent features and advanced version of the multiplayer that made Pandora Tomorrow 
 famous. This time there are three people on each team. Im still not totally sold on the concept, 
 and I still don't enjoy it as much as other people seem to. One thing that the game is missing 
 is the co-op that was in Chaos THeory and in the Ps2 version of this game. Yes you can play it 
 online but its more fun when you are playing with a friend right next to you.
  
  Splinter Cell Double Agent ends with a bang! A big bang to be exact that only ends with a To Be 
 Continued... message, that will have me waiting in line for Conviction the day that it comes out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beutlich99
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 9, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell Double Agent is an amazing game. If you like stealth action based games this is an 
 absolute must have. If you are not a fan of stealth action, you still might want to check this 
 one out because it has its fair share of straight up action too if you feel like playing that way. 
 _
  The game starts off with Sam on some mission for Lambert in some country and it plays very much 
 like a standard Splinter Cell mission. A lot of dark places and guards to circumvent or take out. 
 It's not a long mission or even that difficult, but it is not the tutorial either. If you want 
 that then play the tutorial missions from the main menu. After the opening mission though, Sam 
 is told his daughter Sara is dead. With not much left to really live for, in Sam's opinion, he 
 opts for a difficult undercover mission to infiltrate a terrorist group. _
  The missions within the terrorist groups headquarters are a definite change from Splinter Cell 
 games. Because you are undercover, and the terrorists trust you, Sam is free to walk about as he 
 pleases. Only when entering restricted areas is Sam even able to crouch, sneak, turn lights off, 
 etc. You will have no weapons here and cannot take guys out in any way, so it is pure stealth. 
 Over the course of the game you will come back to this base four times. It might feel a little 
 repetitive, but the game does a nice job of making sure that you are always going to new areas 
 of the base. Plus, you are given a time limit each time to complete the necessary objectives, which 
 gives the mission a sort of frenzied pace. _
  Missions not in the terrorist base run the gambit. You may be in some dark abandoned ship, or you 
 might be in the streets of the middle east in broad daylight. The missions are quite varied and 
 sufficiently difficult if you choose to play the game in pure stealth. In fact, I would love to 
 see somebody play some of the missions without having to take certain guards out. I don't think 
 it could be done. _
  Another unique quality to Double Agent is the trust system. Obviously Sam is not a terrorist. He 
 works for the NSA still. But he must also appear loyal to the terrorist organization (JBA) . Each 
 will give you missions and objectives to complete. Sometimes it is the same goal, most times it 
 is not. If you do one thing for one group, you gain trust, but lose trust with the other group. 
 It might sound tough to balance, but it is never hard to keep both trust levels high. _
  As for all of the technical areas of video games, I won't profess to know all the details. The 
 voice acting of Double Agent is on par with the rest of the series. Michael Ironsides does a great 
 job again. All of the other characters are believably voiced again as well. The graphics are phenomenal 
 this time around since it is next-gen. The lighting effects are brilliant; a lot of different lighting 
 is available throughout the game. The frame rate runs fine. I never had any trouble with the game 
 bogging down, and with the exception of long load times before each mission, I never noticed any 
 other trouble with loads. _
  Double Agent is a fantastic game. A step in the right direction for the Splinter Cell series. It 
 kept much of what worked in previous iterations of the games, which I like, but it also brought 
 it several new elements of gameplay that kept the gaming fresh for even a die hard stealth action 
 fan like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: japanimational
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 2, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  Awesome game, the story mode on it is a dream to play through but quite frustrating in parts, the 
 multiplayer is good but the lack of offensive moves, tactics and weapons when playing as a spy 
 lets it down, not to mention the fact that when you do go to snap a mercs neck from behind it doesnt 
 always work. Surpassing most splinter cells from the past in the story mode with its intricate 
 and down right hard to decide choices between JBA and NSA but ultimatly let down by annoying little 
 flaws not worth mentioning for the price it can be currently bought for. Apart from the qualms 
 i've listed a damm good game and worth having even this late on in the 360 catalogue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  Sam fischer, I just can't quit you... things get a little darker and a little more interesting 
 in Splinter Cell: Double agent. And guess what, you get to be a double agent to figure out what 
 the heck the JBA is doing in its free time. After the death of his daughter, sammy has nothing 
 to lose and goes double agent in jail and see how much he can do and find out. The twist in double 
 agent is you're having to think more about how can you keep both the NSA and JBA to trust you? 
 More the JBA, but it still can be a challenge nonetheless.
  
  The gameplay, other than that, is typical splinter cell, just a little slicker presentation. You 
 have to be very very careful in the JBA headquarters in particular, restricted sections will hurt 
 your JBA rating and doing very suspicious actions like checking confidential information will out-and-out 
 end it.
  
  The graphics are a tad nicer than the original xbox version, sam looks as good as ever, and so 
 does everything else. The sound is as always, top notch. The single player can be a little short, 
 but you may get some fun out of the multiplayer as well. It's a fantastic rental, and for the price, 
 a good buy. It'd at least be entertaining to try out each way to complete it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ginger-stallion
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 30, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  The fourth installment to the hugely successful Splinter Cell series is a welcome and top rate 
 addition. Although this time around you still work for good old Lambert but you must also infiltrate 
 the enemy and try to convince them that you are working for them and only them. The balancing act 
 of trust between the two organizations is an interesting and enjoyable spin on the series. Along 
 with the new and extremely challenging daylight missions. I didnt find the single player campaign 
 to be as engaging as the Chaos Theorys but the excellent Online play where you can play as either 
 the Mercs or spies makes this game one of if not the best in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Theman3788
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy has a long running history of being one of the best writers when it comes to war and 
 different sections of the Military. It would seem odd then, that one of the best game franchises 
 ever, used the name Tom Clancy, yet was the only game to have a book written after the game, not 
 the other way around. Splinter cell has had three great games, each one having its own unique feel 
 and level design, it really has immersed you into the game of espionage and stealth. The latest 
 offering from Sam fisher comes in the form of Splinter Cell: Double Agent, and it doesn't disappoint. 
 Its been a while for Sam. After saving the world yet again, and swimming up several hundred feet 
 from an underground facility, Sam started training the new generation of super spy. Thats when 
 things started to go downhill. His daughter is suddenly killed in a car accident, and an assignment 
 in Russia gone terribly wrong leaves everyone Sam loves dead. Thats when Lambert approaches Sam 
 about a new mission, the most difficult and daring mission he's ever undertaken: go to jail, befriend 
 a man connected to a terrorist organization, and break him and yourself out of jail. The game plays 
 just like the other splinter cell, sharing more closely to chaos theory than any other game in 
 the series. The story is not very long; you could probably play through it in eight to ten hours, 
 faster if you know what you're doing. Still, this game has plenty to offer. The game is based around 
 the decisions you make. For instance, one of the early levels depends on you shooting a captured 
 man. He's innocent of all crimes, yet the terrorist organization gives you a weapon and demands 
 you pull the trigger. You have trust meters for both the JBA (the terrorist organization) and the 
 splinter cell team. Depending on your decisions you will either gain or lose trust on either team. 
 It's pretty easy to keep in good graces with both factions on normal, and still isn't incredibly 
 difficult under hard. The game's sound is great. The attention to detail for the sounds of the 
 floor squeaking to the fireworks in Japan to the cloth that is blown in the wind is great. I would 
 have enjoyed more voice acting from the captured foes, since in Chaos Theory nearly everyone you 
 met had something to say, whether worthwhile or not. Still, the main voices are strong and really 
 helps immerse you in the game. The graphics are simply beautiful. Some of the levels look like 
 they may have had a few parts of the textured borrowed from Chaos Theory, but the new attention 
 to Sam's facial expressions down to the bead of sweat running down his face, this game really helps 
 make Sam's adventure come to life. The Multi-player in this game is fantastic. The game is pretty 
 straightforward. You have two teams: The spies, which need to download a file and get back to base, 
 and the soldiers, who need to stop said spies. The balance is worked out very well and it really 
 just is a fun experience over Xbox live as well as system link if you can get enough 360's and 
 copies to fill each. The only disappointment in the multi-player is the co-operative missions. 
 Chaos Theory had three strong levels that really were a lot of fun if you had a friend that wanted 
 to play along. There is a co-operative mission for Double Agent, but it is the same scenario as 
 the basic multi-player, just both players are on the same faction. Still Multiplayer shines through 
 as one of the best multiplayer games I've played on the 360. Overall this game is a great experience 
 if you played the games previously. The game flows great and is an enjoyable experience. If you 
 have never played a splinter cell game before, and enjoy a good action game, this would be right 
 up your alley.
  
  Final Score- 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edjbuddha
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Not a bad game. I am playing it on easy as its not a very easy game. I am not having trouble with 
 the game except to try and figure out what it is they want you to do. Its so realistic, I mean 
 every move, and how you shoot, and hide. The goals are not that hard to achieve, but hard enough. 
 I am only a few hours into it, but I have to say that it was worth the purchase. I wish there were 
 some short scenarios to play, but it plays out like a movie. I still have to see what more it has 
 to offer. I gave it an 8.
  
  EdJ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MAD_PLayEr1
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply fantastic. I haven't finished it yet - in fact I am on the forth mission.
 
  
  The controls I found surprisingly very easy to remember and use (unless you play MGS 3 on ps2 just 
 before you play it - which I did on the second day and it confused me slightly :P) but all in all 
 the controls are nothing marjorly difficult to learn.
  
  The graphics for the game are FANTASTIC. It feels as if I am controlling a real life person and 
 making him do these things - god like - its simply overwhelming.
  
  The story is not the best but it does make sense. I am not the sort of person that really cares 
 if theres a plot as long as its fun to do what I am asked to do. Having choices in game is really 
 something I enjoy. Obviously the choices I make will give me different outcomes throught out the 
 game and at the game ending which is not something many games do or at least used to do.
  
  If you have never played a spy game, this is one you will love. If you get bored spying around 
 quietly, take out your pistrol and start taking them all down! So far, its possible to do it without 
 any stealth (I am on the 4th mission - about to start the 5th) .
  
  The game gagets are great as well although personally I never use grendades, I prefer my pistol 
 to anything else they give me.
  
  You get 3 special modes - night vision - thermal and wave (I am not sure what the wave one is for 
 just yet) but the first two are very useful in the game and the modes don't ruin your view of the 
 game - some games really mess up when it comes to special mode views such as night vision - this 
 one has done a good job with it and I don't even mind going through the whole game with it on - 
 although off course you miss out on the fantastic scenery and graphics throughout the game if you 
 did that ;) .
  
  The sounds in the game are also great. Taking out a weapon makes the right noise, some seem to 
 think you can take your pistol out just from your rear without a problem. This game, all your weapons 
 are on your back or in the holster!
  
  This is a spy game I suggest you go for, even if its your first!
  
  Good luck and enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jono8192
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 27, 2007 2:46 am PT
Review:  Double Agent is the latest installment in the hugely popular Splinter Cell series. Sam Fisher is 
 back but must choose whether he will stay loyal to Lambert and the NSA, or if he will betray them 
 and help the JBA, a secret terrorist organization.
  
  The plot is well scripted, providing you with many oppurtunities to find out on which side your 
 loyalties lie. JBA are planning to bomb New York, Los Angeles, and a huge cruise ship, while the 
 NSA are doing their upmost to prevent this. Both sides need your help and each decision you make 
 will either cause you to gain or lose trust with them. The campaign can be completed within 7-8 
 hours depending on how well you perform in the Stealth genre. As the first Splinter Cell game to 
 hit the Xbox 360, the graphics look brilliant. Everything from the lighting, to the sweat running 
 down Sam's face in a scorching African city show just what the 360 can do. Combined with the nice 
 sound effects, the game really draws you in and keeps you hooked and constanly thinking about what 
 you will do next.
  
  The game offers you online play over Xbox Live, however there is only one game mode which you may 
 find quite boring after a while. Basically, the spies have to hack computers for information, whilst 
 the mercenaries have to prevent this from happening. The only variable online is the maps which 
 you play on, which again get a bit dull after a while. Because of the quite dissapointing online 
 mode, you may want to consider renting the game and seeing how much you enjoy it for yourself.
 
  
  Overall, a pretty good game, but with a couple of little setbacks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayormoose
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  As a mercenary you can go into a warzone GUNS BLAZ'IN . As a spy you can slip past hundreds of 
 gaurds unseen or kill them all just as stealthily. The purpose behind what you do and how you do 
 it makes you an American soldier. This game leaves super secret nighttime gameplay in the past. 
 In this game you travel to an Iceland geothermal nuclear plant, Kansas Ellsworth Penitentary, New 
 York warehouse, Russian supertanker, Shanghai hotel, and a Kinshasa, African warzone. You can choose 
 to play the game in favor of John Brown's Army, a terrorist organization run by an insane cajun 
 terrorist or America's very own National Security Agency. The way you play the game determines 
 the trust levels for both of your organization. The multiplayer has two teams of three. the spys 
 have a million ways to evade the mercenaries and the mecanaries have just as many ways to kill 
 the spies. I give this masterpiece a 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 20, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  I love the other 2 splinter cell games, and was really excited about getting this one. The main 
 game will take you a little bit to get through and is really fun. The graphics have definately 
 improved since the previous ones, since it went next-gen. The multi-player is also really fun to 
 play through, and you have to use one anothers help to get through levels. The gadgets are also 
 very fun to use. I haven't had this game too long, but I love it already and have already spent 
 quite a few hours into it. I know about the rest of the game because iv'e rented it and beaten 
 it, and wanted it for my own. So if you liked the other splinter cell game, I think you will love 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTSCOTT14
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 19, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  first the single player is great and stay true to chaos theory and pandora tomorrow but the multi-player 
 is nothing compared to the ones found in the other to splinter cells,
  the spies cant be stealthy and more and try to kill the mercs because now the mercs have a presence 
 detector that tells them if the spy is nearby and ruine's the spies ability to sneak up on him. 
 i would go on but this games multi-player just isn't has good has it used to be but if you haven't 
 played chaos theory or pandora tomorrow then go for the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Migsten
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 10, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is a big step up from the previous splinter cells. The story is awesome. It keeps you 
 thinking throughout the entire game. The acting is great, especially for that of a game, how ofter 
 do you come across even adequate acting in a game? The graphics are very detailed and smooth, however 
 so low fps spots in story mode. The game-play in story mode however is generally the same in Chaos 
 Theory, except a lot of your sensors are gone, such as, the noise meter, and visibility meter, 
 you really have to think more on your own in this splinter cell, which good because it presents 
 more of a challenge. The multi-player blew me away. It is very intense, and is a lot more balanced 
 compared to how it was in Chaos Theory. Both mercenary and spy have some annoying weaknesses and 
 some overwhelming strengths yet in the end each one is balanced perfectly. The game-play in multi-player 
 is much more fluid. It's fast pace and a lot more real. There is only one game type, but the game 
 type is very fun to play. Although I play splinter cell mainly for the multi-player, I still recommend 
 the campaign, the story is well thought out, and to me, it's worth playing just for the story. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Radeoxe
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 9, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell Double Agent has beautiful next gen graphics that can be appreciated easily. The 
 gameplay is pretty much the same as Chaos Theory that made the series fun in the first place. The 
 game has a cool story that may AMAZE you throughout the game. The multiplayer is really fun and 
 adds to the longetivity of playing this cool game. Overall this game is fun and has a great story 
 which past splinter cell games never really had and I suggest you buy this game if you don't have 
 it. It is a must buy for splinter cell fans! Splinter Cell Double Agent Rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrendanBox39
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 5, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Summary: Splinter Cell: Double Agent is a nice addition to the Splinter Cell world, although it 
 feels more like an expansion rather than a full-on game. The trust levels, revamped HUD, and field 
 missions are great parts of the game, while the JBA headquarter levels are just plain annoying.
 
  
  Missions: The actual mission-missions are great, with stunning locals that seem familiar at times. 
 The objectives are more understandable than the last game (Chaos Theory) , and don't take a whole 
 lot of time to look for. The JBA Headquarter missions really annoy me, as you couldn't knock-out 
 any members in restriced areas (though it makes sense) , and the dual objectives were sometimes 
 confusing, and I couldn't make it through some levels without a guide. However, that being said, 
 there are some of those moments when I felt exactly what the developers wanted me to feel: fear. 
 Fear of being discovered, and the fear of the consequenses of my actions.
  
  -- Mission-Missions : These would be assigned to you by the JBA, and once you are on-location, 
 the NSA would contact you to give you some of THEIR objectives. All of these missions are nice, 
 spanning from ships to hotels, icelands to deserts. The dual-objectives here are actually quite 
 cool, and it takes some time to plan out your route if you are aiming to complete all the objectives.
 
  
  --JBA Headquarter Missions: These missions are in-between most mission-missions, and I don't like 
 them very much. However, this is just my opinion and you may like them. The premise here is always 
 the same: you are following a JBA member, they give you a task and a time frame when they'll be 
 back. The time is always 25 minutes. Now, the original objective doesn't take too long, and if 
 it does, just use a guide. Once you start completing the other objectives (mostly for the NSA) , 
 the things they ask for you to do mostly reside in the Headquarter's restriced areas. Once you 
 reach this place, it is classic Fisher time... except not quite. You see, the only spy things you 
 can do here is crouch, run, roll, hug walls, and whistle. In the other areas, you can only walk 
 upright, and the JBA members don't mind you there. In the restricted areas (now called R. A.'s) , 
 you cannot be spotted by a patrolling JBA agent, or you will be chased out of the area. You can 
 use gadgets and, thankfully, it is darker in these areas. When you are done sneaking up to no-goodness, 
 you must make it back to the area where the JBA left you. Believe me, the time limit is cutting 
 it close.
  
  The Trust Meter: The trust meter is a new addition to the series. It comprises of two sides: the 
 NSA and the JBA. In any mission, objectives on your OPSAT include NSA objectives and JBA objectives. 
 If either meter goes down, the game is over. On your OPSAT, under the Objectives tab, you will 
 see how far up or down the trust will go for both sides if you complete that objective. Sometimes, 
 doing one objective for one side raises trust on one side, and lowers it on the other. Other times, 
 it just raises. Also, some objectives will show a green bar going up and a lighter-green bar go 
 down, on the same meter (NSA or JBA) . If you do the objective, then it will go up to the darker 
 green. If you fail the objective, then it will follow the lighter green. On Normal difficulty, 
 the trust isn't too hard to control.
  
  Controls: The controls are relatively simple, and similar to the last game's. I will not list them 
 here, but they work out fine, and I have not read a single complaint about them, as you can change 
 them to your will.
  
  Mechanics: The whole premise of the game is stealth, and you must stick to it. Here are some basic 
 things to think about while playing the game stealthily: lights, bodies, knocking-out or killing, 
 objects, objects used by Sam Fisher (these can be found by the enemies: sticky cameras, airfoil 
 rounds) . The mechanics work well.
  
  A. I.: Artificial-Intelligence has always been a little... missing in this series, which is odd, 
 as the game is based around your actions. The enemies aren't stupid, however, and you will find 
 that out, hard or easy. Run too fast, and they will look in the direction of the noise. Shoot someone, 
 and they will do the same. When an enemy walks into a dark area, they shine on a flashlight, and 
 this is where the pulses start pounding. When shot at, the enemies will run for cover (or make 
 it) and shoot, call for backup, and then -uh-oh - raise an alarm. The AI isn't going to take on 
 a real human anyday, but it works well enough.
  
  Weapons: The weapons are the same, and you have them on your real missions. Fisher walks slower 
 when his weapon is drawn, and the guns aren't too accurate when he's walking, either. Attacks: 
 As for close-quarters-battle (C. Q. B.) , the attacks are AWESOME. You decide whether to attack lethally 
 (with the Right-trigger) or non-leathally (with the Left-trigger) . You will know when Sam can attack, 
 as his body tenses up and he is visibly ready. The K. O. attacks are either a punch to the head, 
 a backhand, a sleeper-hold, or a palm, and they depend on which stance you are in and where you 
 are attacking the enemy (side, back, front) . The lethal attacks are cool, and are all performed 
 with your knife. Whether it is a neck-slash, a stab to the stomach, a stab to the shoulder artery, 
 or a knee in the spine, the result is gratifying. Sam can also attack from the water... or under 
 the ice! The ice attack is, without a doubt, completely cool. You can knock on the ice to get a 
 guards attention, or just go to the thin ice (while underwater) and a Grab Character icon will 
 appear. You grab the ice, break it, and then drag your enemy underwater, where you stab him in 
 the heart. Just like the ledge-grab (yep, it's still here!) , the enemy will not move if you are 
 performing it. You can also grab an enemy from behind a corner with your back to the wall, where 
 you either put him on the ground for a K. O. or lethal attack (you decide) or you pull him up to 
 the standard Grab position to decide his fate. This move is also quite nice to see performed.
 
  
  Gadgets: Gadgets are unlocked as you complete objectives with stars next to them on your OPSAT. 
 These objectives are usually don't raise alarms. You have the standard ring-airfoil rounds, the 
 sticky shocker, the sticky camera, and grenades (frag, sonic, flash, EMP, and smoke) . However, 
 you can unlock new one's as well as the old gadgets (only some are available at the beginning of 
 the game) . There is a wall mine with three capabilities: explode, stun, and flash. There are the 
 new EMP and sonic grenades, too. The EMP is pretty much your pistol's EEV in a grenade, and takes 
 out lights, cameras, etc for a short while. The sonic grenade is more of a noise grenade (kind 
 of like the flash) , but your enemies can still see you, just not hear you. There are also grenades 
 (same as above) that can be launched via your rifle. Then there are force-hack upgrades, where, 
 instead of hacking, you press X and the hacking is done in a second, although an alarm will be 
 caused. Then there are electric lock picks, which don't take you to a mini-game and instead the 
 lock-picking is done for you, and a little progress bar in the corner of the screen shows you the 
 time until its done (just a couple seconds) . There is also a sound-emitter, which can be pointed 
 to make guards go to that area so you can escape or sneak by.
  
  Graphics: Stunning. No problems whatsoever with the graphics or framerate.
  
  Sound: Somewhat 
 recycled from the older games, which means they're old now, but still realistic. Once, though, 
 I heard a guard say the same thing as I heard in Chaos Theory.
  
  Multiplayer: I have yet to truly enjoy the multiplayer of Splinter Cell, but it's not bad. It's 
 just not great. And, split-screen is taken out, and the coop isn't worth your time anyway: it's 
 completely butchered where all you have to do is, as a spy, download files while competing with 
 mercenary bots.
  
  Replay Value: Quite high, as the hard difficulty gives you a nice achievement if you complete the 
 game on it. If you didn't get all the gadgets, then you can just go back to get them all, as well. 
 Thankfully, you only have to go back to the mission where you didn't get it. Aside from playing 
 your favorite missions over again (mine was a Shanghai hotel and an Arctic Wasteland) , there isn't 
 much to do. Just go for the achievements.
  
  Achievements: Nice! I really didn't care about my gamerscore in the beginning, but you achieve 
 30 points just for completing a mission. Believe me, it adds up. Some achievements have wierd names 
 and purposes, such as the Human Light Switch, where you disable 20 lights with your EEV.
  
  Overall, this is a great game, and doesn't require you to play the other games in the series (although, 
 if you want, playing Chaos Theory would be a good start) . The last major letdown that I want to 
 tell you about is the game's length, which is sadly very short. I completed the game in about 9 
 hours, and you can too. Even worse, there is no Downloadable Content such as additional levels 
 to purchase. Even so, Double Agent is a great addition to the series, a great game overall, and 
 just plain fun, where the good outweighs the bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DamienRulz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 4, 2007 11:09 pm PT
Review:  I have always played the recent games, Like chaos theory, and had alot of fun. I thought the graphics 
 on them were good, But when i saw this i was like wow, Graphics are awesome, Especially on the 
 water on the Boat mission. The Frame Rates need a bit of adjusting but Excellent Graphics.
  The sound is great, Cool sounds when your stealthing around...
  I especially love 3rd person 
 view, Im not a big fan of FPS but Love 3rd person. This game is alot of fun, The cutscene at the 
 start is surprising and cool. I took orders.. Know i execute them. Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Double 
 Agent .
  
  Great Game, must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master-CA
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 2, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  So much to do, so meny options.... hmm, maybe to meny options?
  Well, sometimes there are annoying choises that will affect the game alot... Watch out what you 
 doing, if you do wrong it could be gameover for ever.
  
  Gameplay:
  The start of the game is a kinda boring. Well the first mission is fun but the 2nd no, and after 
 a 30 min 3D puzzle. And lots of new boring mini games in the whole game that sucks.
  Beside, when you well play a real mission without this crap, it's a very very very and did I say 
 very? ... very, very, VERY fun game. You be able to play in meny fun diffrent missions... You will 
 be able to play in meny diffrent places as well... everything from Russian, Africa, China, US and 
 so on. They did a great job, beside the stupid mini-games that is really boring. There are also 
 meny new intresting weapons and items to play around with.
  
  Graphics:
  Texturing, lightning, animations and models are very good design and well done. But the enemy death 
 animations are weird and un-realisisc. And the frame rate can be buggy sometimes but it's still 
 good looking. The AI is not tho the best I've ever seen.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is just awesome, perefct exept the pistol silencer can be a little loud I think. But 
 voices are the best of all sound content in the game. Really next-gen sound system, but a little 
 buggy in sometimes.
  
  Value:
  BUY BUY BUY IT!!!!!!
  
  This game is really outstanding, if it just wasnt any mini games I whould rate it 9.0 ... PIZZA 
 PIZZA PIE, EVERY MINUTE EVERY SECOND BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jellyjamsixpack
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 2, 2007 1:06 am PT
Review:  The game is a great addition to Splinter Cell series and it has amazing graphics, sound, and of 
 course the multiplayer. The missions are also fun and can be very challenging and fun but I also 
 got really frustrated at certain points in the game. One of the things i really liked was the trust 
 meter between the Good and Bad guys. There were certain things that if you did then it would make 
 the NSA hate you so then you would have to go and earn there trust back then somewhere in that 
 mission you would make the bad guys mad and then have to earn there trust back and it was just 
 a constant battle of who likes you more. If you have never played any of the other Splinter Cells 
 before then i suggest that you go buy one right now. And for those of us that have played know 
 that we will already have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lsnicket94
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  I know I have said this about a lot of other games, but this one is definitely true. This is the 
 best game ever!
  
  Splinter Cell - Good, not great. It can get old after a long time, but still... a LONG time.
 
  
  Splinter Cell Pandora Tomorrow - Better than the first, but it can still do better. After beating 
 it a couple of times, you move on.
  
  Splinter Cell Chaos Theory - Fantastic game. I never thought it could get any better, until Double 
 Agent.
  
  Splinter Cell Essentials - Just looking at this game, it's a bit disappointing for a Splinter Cell, 
 but when you think of it as a PSP Splinter Cell, it's fantastic.
  
  Splinter Cell Double Agent Current Gen. - It wasn't as good as Chaos Theory, but it was still great.
 
  
  Splinter Cell Double Agent Next Gen. - I don't even know how to put it into words. I was so happy 
 when I got this game. I wanted to play it right away. And then I was pissed when the 360 wouldn't 
 read it. Then I was even happier when I traded it in for a new one. Then I was relieved when the 
 360 read it. Then I was pissed when I beat it, but on my brother's profile. Then I was happy when 
 I beat it again on mine. I beat it twice, now I'm giving it a third go. I don't think this game 
 will ever get old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 22, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you'll notice about Double Agent is how different it is compared to the oher Splinter 
 Cell games. That's a good thing, since I found the other Splinter Cell games to be good, but repetitive. 
 The story has been strengthened tremendously. That's a huge plus. How about graphics? Gourgeous! 
 Some of the best for the 360. The sound is great, too. Gameplay is tight, though the play control 
 is stil a bit stiff. It's the one area I feel the developers still need to work on. The missions 
 have great variety, as well, as you switch from working for the NSA, to working undercover for 
 the enemy. Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WickaWireX
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 16, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell Double Agent is the fourth installment in the Splinter Cell series. In DA you play 
 the role of Sam Fisher, the complete bad ass war veteran. Sam is to infiltrate and work undercover 
 in a separatist group who has disastrous plans for America. Working for this group of terrorist, 
 and perform NSA tasks as well is the main storyline, but this time there is not a huge blur between 
 missions because each level is very closely related. Graphics hasn't changed much since Chaos Theory, 
 and there looking to change that in the fifth game in this franchise, Splinter Cell Conviction. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 14, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  The Splinter Cell series has always been my favorite of the 'Tom Clancy' games. The first one was 
 an excellent game that I rank only behind the great Metal Gear Solid, as the best stealth-action 
 game I have ever played. 'Pandora Tomorrow' was a bit of a disappointment for me, due to the single-player 
 game being more of the same. That game did introduce the addictive and very cool multi-player game 
 that really gives this series some lasting power even to this day. 'Chaos Theory' really took care 
 of a lot of my single-player game worries and I still consider it to maybe be the best in the series. 
 So how does 'Double Agent' fit into all of this? Well, I think it's a great game that any fan of 
 the series should check out. It's just not that 'next step' that I was hoping the series would 
 take. But, of course, it certainly has it's moments.......
  
  If you have played any of the previous three Splinter Cell games, then you will have no problem 
 picking this up and playing it right away. There are a couple of tutorial levels for the newbies, 
 but veterans of the series will just go through them for the achievements. When you first start 
 the story, Sam Fisher is in rough shape. Since the story is actually pretty good in this game, 
 I won't ruin the game with spoilers here. But as the game advertises, you end up joining an underground 
 terrorist organization called the JBA. While undercover, your job is too get enough evidence to 
 take these guys down, stop any terrorist attacks they are planning, and basically save the day.
 
  
  Double Agent basically breaks down into two parts. Most of the time, you will be doing missions, 
 just like you did in every other Splinter Cell game before this one. That part of the game is still 
 fun, but it shows that this series needs a jumpstart. Thankfully, the developers threw in a few 
 daytime missions so you won't just be running around with your night-vision goggles on the whole 
 time. These missions are a nice change of pace and hopefully we will see more of them in the next 
 game of the series.
  
  The other part of the game has you inside of the JBA headquarters. When you start one of these 
 missions, you have about twenty-five minutes to accomplish whatever task your boss has given you 
 (assemble bombs, un-encrypt an email, etc.) and the rest of the time is yours to freely roam around. 
 This is where the best parts of the game come to play. Sneaking around trying to uncover files, 
 information, and other stuff is a lot of fun. Just don't get caught.......
  
  You also have a couple 'trust meters' that you have to keep your eye on. Basically, you have to 
 keep both the JBA and the NSA happy or it's game over for you. So between the in-game missions 
 &amp; the missions at the JBA headquarters, there is a constant ebb &amp; flow to the game. To 
 go even further, there a few times in the game where you are given a 'moral' choice of sorts. I 
 won't spoil them for you here, but they are cool when they happen. Unfortunately, there are only 
 a few of them.
  
  What all of this amounts to is this is the same Splinter Cell game that you have played before, 
 except with the 'Double Agent' theme running throughout the game. There isn't much in the way of 
 new weapons, moves, controls, sounds, etc. The graphics look nice, but like a lot of other games 
 that are made multi-platform, they could have been better.
  
  The multi-player remains intact here and is as fun as ever. This is my first foray into actually 
 playing this series over Xbox Live and it was a lot of fun. It's a nice mix of strategy and gunplay 
 and certainly breaks up all of the FPS I play online. Playing as a spy is a blast and I can hardly 
 wait to see how they improve this in the next game.
  
  Splinter Cell: Double Agent is a game that if you liked the other entries in the series, I would 
 recommend picking it up. The series hasn't evolved as quickly as I would have hoped by now, but 
 there are definate signs of improvement on the horizon. With the multiple endings, tough moral 
 choices, daytime &amp; undercover missions, and great multi-player........ this is a game that should 
 satisfy even the biggest Splinter Cell fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mishaboy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 13, 2007 3:24 am PT
Review:  And I thought I liked Chaos Theory! Firstly, this game has sick graphics. I could have sworn that 
 I was looking at real people. If they were aiming toward realistic, they definitely got it. And 
 the gameplay? It was the best 360 game I've ever played. Sorry to say this, but Call of Duty 2 
 sucks in comparison to Double Agent. The gameplay is similar to Chaos Theory, but not quite the 
 same. Different. As in better. If you kill people, you don't lose. Your trust meter goes down. 
 You have 2 trust meters. One for the NSA, and 1 for the JBA. You can actually turn bad. It's sick. 
 Or you can be the good person, and save the world, which is also sick. When you are good there 
 is 1 extra level where you kill a JBA commander. It's awesome. You try to grab him, he grabs your 
 hand and trys to make you stab yourself, then you turn him around, whack him, and break his neck. 
 Now the sound. The sound is great. The voice work fits in perfectly. Looks great, sounds great, 
 feels great, Double Agent rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan_7008
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 7, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  I've owned and played this game since it's release on the X360 and I enjoyed the game... It warrented 
 a few play throughs for Single Player. It has a well put together Multiplayer. The game has been 
 out long enough, so I'll assume you can judge the graphics and know what sort of gameplay this 
 game has by now. What I want to do is offer the opinion of a Splinter Cell vet on the latest outing 
 in case you want to go looking through your locale game shop and debate whether or not you want 
 to pick this one up.
  
  In short... If you do find a bargain Splinter Cell Double Agent copy, go ahead and pick one up 
 for yourself. It's a great game that won't disappoint, It looks good, sounds good, plays smoothly. 
 However if you've just taken the Next Gen plunge and you're a hardcore Splinter Cell player, Don't 
 expect much.
  The game does not do Splinter Cell justice.
  
  While I personally am very excited for the fifth installment Conviction, Double Agent is a bleak 
 point in the series... Unfortunatly the multiplayer, while very well put together, lacks replay 
 value. Not to say it isn't fun, rather it gets old rather quickly, that bundled with little support 
 from Ubisoft in the way of new content the online population is like a ghost town. Another sad 
 point for this game is Sam's wonderful personality that we see so much of in the earlier games 
 is nearly non-excistant in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mingin444
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 2, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  The yearly installments keep getting better and better. Double Agent is a clear improvement over 
 its predecessor.
  
  Gameplay
  
  *Excellent controls
  *Nice use of gadgets
  *Interrogating is fun
  *You don't have to be stealthy unless you're going for achievements.
 
  -JBA compound missions suck
  -You can run up to guards and punch them as you get shot
  -No tutorials for the mini-games
  
  Graphics
  
  *Beautiful outdoors
  *Cool effects with 
 night and heat vision
  *Awesome lighting
  -It isn't much of an improvement over chaos theory, but that game looked awesome
  
  Sound
 
  
  *Interactive music, the closer you get to danger, the music changes
  * Awesome voice acting on each character
  
  Value
  
  *Replayable campaign
  *Decent length 
 first time, about 11 hours
  *Multiple endings
  -Online isn't that great
  -Online community sucks
  
  It's the best in the series and I'm not a big fan of stealth. The 
 story is realy well done. The online is lacking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whirlbat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  Who is more hardcore: Sam Fisher or Solid Snake? Not to step on the toes of any Metal Gear fans, 
 but if you don't say Sam Fisher, you must not have played Splinter Cell: Double Agent. In spite 
 of Splinter Cell: Conviction being already on the horizon, Id like to recommend this gem to all 
 gamers who enjoy having to put a little more thought into their action games than John Wayne. Let 
 me start off with the (few) problems with this game and get them out of the way.
  
  The Not So Good: The control scheme is quite unlike other Tom Clancy games, like Rainbow Six and 
 Ghost Recon, so be ready to take some time getting used to it. While not totally intuitive, the 
 controls are logical, given what the game allows/requires you to do. You probably won't master 
 the controls your first time through the game, but let me clarify by saying that when I say mastering, 
 I mean you might not be able to do some of the more humorous/elaborate stealth maneuvers. Even 
 without them, you can still enjoy the game immensely; the basics aren't too hard to pick up.
  
  Neutral: Some of the levels are unreasonably difficult in certain areas, meaning that you have 
 to save every couple steps just to get through them. These areas aren't especially plentiful, but 
 they are a real pain if you're trying to get the 100% stealth score in a level. Also, killing enemies 
 brings down your stealth score a little, even if their bodies aren't found. Somewhat logical, I 
 suppose, but it limits the gadgets you're allowed to use (if the stealth score matters to you) . 
 The multiplayer is interesting, in spite of being a mite too distressing for me personally. (It 
 can be kind of pop-out-at-you scary at times.)
  
  The Unbelievably Enticing: The storyline is not only creative and unique, but amazingly, it is 
 open-ended (with four possible endings) and never comes off too contrived. The levels are all amazingly 
 unique, with minimal backtracking required. On top of that, there are secrets within most of the 
 levels, making the games setting seem more realistic and, once again, less contrived. Bonuses 
 are unlocked, based on the completion of certain assignments within missions (making the assignments 
 worth doing, rather than simply ignoring) . The achievements are fun and moderately challenging. 
 The developers also give you an immense amount of control over Sams actions, meaning that missions 
 dont necessarily have to be completed in one special way (adding to replay value) . Interrogation 
 sequences (when Sam grabs and interrogates and enemy) are often have very witty and humorous dialogue, 
 along with (believe it or not) useful information.
  *small spoiler ahead* There is also a bonus level, unlocked at the end of the game, depending on 
 your performance, that proves to be a unique and entertaining challenge. (Especially if you sneak 
 up on and attempt to interrogate Moss.)
  *end of spoiler*
  The characters are unique, memorable and well-developed throughout the course of the game. The 
 in-game missions make sense and dont just seem thrown together by the developers. The sheer number 
 of gadgets and weapons you have at your disposal make the story mode amazingly fun to replay a 
 couple times, just to try going about the levels with a different approach.
  
  I could ramble on and on about the positive aspects of the game, but rather than waste your time 
 any further, I believe it will suffice to simply say go get this game. Well worth the buy; more 
 than worth the rent. If youre into getting achievements, like I am, this game will have some serious 
 replay value for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebornInFlames
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 31, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  Ah, stealth games. With titles like Thief, Metal Gear Solid, Hitman, and Splinter Cell, there are 
 many diverse takes on the genre. I find all very satisfying, and Splinter Cell Double Agent is 
 no exception. Sam Fisher is another Tom Clancy badass, so you pretty much know what the character 
 is like, although he has more of a sense of humour than, say, Logan Keller. In this game, he must 
 infiltrate a terrorist organization called the JBA by being inserted into a prison. From there, 
 you will bust out a JBA member named Jamie Washington, who then brings you into the fold. The prison 
 breakout is the second level, with a prologue-type assignment for the introductory level. Once 
 in the JBA HQ, you will begin taking orders from 2 different organizations: the JBA, and the NSA. 
 Occasionally these will be in conflict with each other, such as when your new pals want you to 
 kill innocent people and the NSA does not. These situations are rare however, and generally it 
 boils down to this: There are two mission types -
  1. Standard assignments, which have a variety of great settings like a cruise ship and are generally 
 JBA ordered missions but you will also have NSA objectives to complete. 2. JBA HQ missions, where 
 you have a certain amount of time, usually 25 minutes, to spy on the JBA members. You also will 
 have to complete a couple tasks for the JBA but these are not time consuming. While on these missions, 
 you cannot attack anyone and are restricted to sneaking. On all missions, your primary objectives 
 are linked to your trust meter with each organization, a new feature in splinter cell games. Failing 
 any objective causes trust to be lost with whoever gave you the objective. Causing alerts by being 
 seen on your missions, and by getting caught in restricted areas at JBA HQ, also will lower your 
 trust rating. If either meter reaches zero, you lose the game and have to start at your last save. 
 The trust level also affects the ending you get. Gameplay is fantastic. Your best friend, just 
 like in the thief games, is darkness. The AI cant see you in the dark, and you have the ability 
 to knock out lights with EMP if you need extra cover. You have a lot of options for going through 
 the levels, and for taking out enemies. You can sneak by guards, whistle and lure them into the 
 dark to be knocked out, take them hostage and interrogate them, shoot them, leave mines along their 
 patrols, and even bash doors into their faces. Sam can also climb over railings and hang on the 
 edge to hide himself, and from this position you can grab passersby and pull them over. Controls 
 are surprisingly simple, and the A button takes care of most options by being context sensitive, 
 bringing up icons you can scroll through when you are near an object you can use. All your gadgets 
 and weapons are brought up by holding RB and scrolling through a similar list. You only have 2 
 guns: one is a pistol that doubles as your EMP emitter, and the other is a silenced SMG that it 
 a true jack-of-all-trades, featuring attachments for all your grenade types, shotgun shells, an 
 instant knockout taser type fitting, and more. Shooting people is not as satisfying as sneaking 
 up on them though, and the game encourages this approach as usually if you start shooting you'll 
 cause an alert and lose trust. Also, on the hard difficulty (which is the best) , you get no bullets 
 for either gun. Graphics are very nice, and Sam's model is particularly realistic looking. One 
 level with a blizzard is very impressive as well. Multiplayer is very unique, and pits spies against 
 mercenaries in incredibly detailed maps. The goal of the spies, who are very nimble and near invisible 
 in the dark but unarmed except for a couple nonagressive gadgets, is to download data from terminals 
 throughout the map (usually 3 or 4) . To assist you, you have great jumping ability and thus access 
 to many secret passages and paths that mercs don't. Conversely, mercs have scoped assault rifles 
 and flashlights, and can open locked doors throughout levels that spies cannot use. As soon as 
 a spy starts a terminal hack, the mercs are informed of which one it is. It is a very different 
 and difficult multiplayer, but is a lot of fun and requires excellent teamwork. Get this game. 
 It is the most enjoyable of the Tom Clancy series in my opinion, difficult but not frustrating, 
 and changes the action up often so you never get bored. Very worthwhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazuki87
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 30, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Double Agent doesn't stray too far from standard Splinter Cell gameplay. The average level is still 
 sneaking around getting stealth kills and completing the same sort of objectives which by now is 
 starting to get a bit old. The main problem I have with this game is that the frustration hasn't 
 been toned down whatsoever. The enemies can go from ridiculously stupid to genius in a second which 
 makes planning how to go into a new encounter difficult a you never really know what youre supposed 
 to do. Theres a lot more trial and error involved then I'd like as well in some levels. A new gameplay 
 feature is when youre undercover in the terrorist base which is sometimes good but often plagued 
 with unclear objectives and frustrating restrictions. The game adds some choice in the plot but 
 theres really only one way you'll want to do things in orfer to get the best ending and the real 
 last level. Also by balancing the trust on both sides you often have little real choice in what 
 to do. The game isn't awful, just not any different most of the time. There are really cool levels 
 and if you liked the Splinter Cell formula before you'll like it now, as I did. Its just that the 
 problems facing the older games are still as glaringly obvious as they always have been. Graphics 
 and sound in this one are incredible too. The lighting effects and textures are great. The environment 
 has clear effects on characters causing realistic sweat on Sam and others. Multiplayer was changed 
 and I feel its for the worse. The game has undergone a complete overhaul and while some may like 
 the new balance I personally hated it. Pandora Tomorrow is still the best in this category and 
 it appears that may never change. The spies have been castrated and the levels are poorly designed 
 making it even more intimidating for newcomers to the game.
  
  Overal the game really isn't bad, its just too much of the same and that needs to change in order 
 for this franchise to stay alive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makavelo
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 29, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  This game just blew me away.
  It's just the best TC SP game so far.
  This game give's you you're own space to make decisions and try to keep the trust with the JBA 
 and the NSA at the same time and the game gets harder and harder.
  
  Conviction is coming and here you are a fugitive on the run and here you ain't got no cool gadgets 
 anymore.
  Here it is more about blending in with the crowd.
  
  But Double Agent is worth playing because it is just fun and there is alway that what if .
  
 
  TC fan 4 Life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_zone
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 29, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  NOTE:
  This is a single player review only:
  I
  f you think the past series is too easy because you can hide in the shadows.. then try Splinter 
 Cell Double Agent on the Xbox 360! Not all of the missions are shadowless, some still requires 
 you to use the darkness and shadows for your advantage, BUT it's still quite tough to get past 
 thru coz you need to be fast too besides being stealthy. Timing and tactics is everything in this 
 game.
  
  Don't get confused by the tittle Double Agent simply means this time, Sam Fisher is going undercover. 
 In General, there are two factions in this game, one is NSA, another is JBA. NSA is the allies, JBA 
 is not. So in most missions, you are given specific tasks to do.. and that's where you choose and 
 think Should i do the NSA objectives? Or Should i let the JBA members trust me more by completing 
 what they told me to do..? You will use some thinking if you played on the Hard Level coz that's 
 where the Trust System comes in big part.
  
  Yes... A Trust Sytem! It's challenging to have the trust system on both NSA and JBA, depending on 
 which Faction's objectives you do, it will affect the trust meter.. But there's a little bit of problem 
 in it, Once the NSA or JBA don't trust you anymorfe, it's GAME OVER. So i consider that a little 
 linear.
  
  Ahh... Decisions, decisions.. if you've watched the trailer, the JBA boss, Emile Dufraine, mentioned 
 the word Decisions twiced... he said decisions, decisions and that means he said it twice... whyh? think 
 about it.. why he said it twice? Coz in the whole game, there's only TWO Major Decisions Making 
 moments that makes the game interesting,. the rest of the decisions are just gameplay objectives 
 that affects the trust system. But the two Major Decisions Makin Moments are not between trsut so 
 much.. it's between life and death... Though that's most Fun Part of the game.. i wish there's more..
 
  
  Gameplay wise remains almost the same like the past series except for some new moves and little 
 bit of remapping of a couple of buttons. and shadows don't exactly play big bart of the game. There 
 are overall about 5 missions altogether, and the whole game can be completed in 10 hours if yoiu're 
 a beginner and first timer playing Double Agent,, But there's also SubMissions that u MUST do in 
 the JBA headquarters.. It's simple, the JBA gave you about 20 mins to complete certain objectives 
 in their headquarters.. and the NSA gives you some tasks to find out more bout the JBA members while 
 you're in the enemy territory.. YOu don't need to complete all the objectives.. Basically you complete 
 the Primary ones.. and the rest are optional.. To me, it's challengin to play in the JBA HQ, cuz that's 
 where your skill comes in handy.. you can judge by the end of the 20 mins, how many objectives have 
 yoiu done..
  
  No doubt that Double Agent is one of the most eye poppin graphics in the 360 industry besides GRAW 
 and GOW... So don't worry much about the graphics.. it looks fantastic.. but there's ome issues with 
 it too.. not a big one.. just some lighting problem.. sometimes you wouldn't know whether you're in 
 a shadow, or exerting the light heat.. but it's not a big issue.
  
  Sound is average.. If you have a Dolby 5.1 attached to your TV, then it'll be good.. coz you can hear 
 additional sounds with Dolby 5.1 surround. Voice acting are still humorous like the past series..
 
  
  It has some items that can be unlocked as you progress, and you can use it on your next missions.. but 
 i just wish some of the unlockables arent there.. coz it makes the game more easier to accomplish.. the 
 gadgets are all available this time around.. you can't choose which one you want.. it's all available.. good 
 replay value.. but not as challenging once you've achieved all the unlockable gadgets..
  
  Ovarall.. Double Agent for the 360 is a great game.. Not much shadows makes it more challengin.. If 
 you guys prefer the old classic splinter cell, then i suggest you to buy the Original Xbox version 
 and play on your 360.. I have both, and i consider the next gen one is better..
  
  Thanks for Reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: podgod333
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 26, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Double Agent has finally found the perfect balance between being too easy and being so hard in 
 sections it pisses you off. The hard difficulty is so intense and engaging you won't want to stop. 
 Just play the single-player on normal first, so you know how to beat the harder sections. With 
 only the under cover missions in the JBA to slow down game play, the single-player is full of action
 
  and satisfying maneuvers / kills, but even the JBA HQ missions add a level of storyline excellence 
 not achieved in the first three Splinter Cells.
  
  All in all the single player leaves little to be desired. If only this was true of the multiplayer. 
 This part of the Splinter Cell experience is dull, pointless, involving 15 minutes of running around 
 after shadows or 15 minutes constantly on the move going from terminal to terminal being shot at 
 and moving to a new terminal. The actions is spotty with maybe (for merc forces) a few minutes 
 of seeing some spy run away form you. While in the single-player stealth is the key with back-up 
 options in case of discovery mainly the knife and guns, the multiplayer involves no skill other 
 then knowing how to flee form point A to point B on the map. Some people like the multiplayer I 
 definitely do not. But the single-player is definitely worth the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SexxiyGunzz
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 25, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Yeeeaaa
  this is what i wanna see. some goddamn back story and character development for our main man Sam!
 
  First two games we got to know the agency and what it is that makes him so great. it had great 
 gameplay and stuff...... but we diden't get to no him.
  chaos theary we did a bit.
  but double agent keeps its amazing story and gameplay, while giving some insight and stuff to Sams 
 life. it makes you feel for him more while adding a new approch on the stealth aspect.
  I personally love the direction there taking the serise and i think its gonna be good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davves
Rating: 9
Date: May 24, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Didn't think this was a good game when i first saw it and also fought it would be same as the others 
 but i was bored and brought it and i found out what an amazing game this is and would encourage 
 any 1 to buy it ( : The single player is the best bit about this game the online is good against 
 people but the co-op online missions are really hard arfter the first 5/6,
  this game would of been 1 of the best if it had offline co-op offline like alot of other gamees 
 i know. {-: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerG2300
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 21, 2007 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Alright, the main problem I have with this game is the loading times.. Hey Ubisoft! No One Likes 
 to Wait! so why the F@ck do you have to have 2 separate loading screens to actually get into the 
 game, not to mention it has to load the main menu, then load the single or multiplayer menu depending 
 on which you choose. Thats just BS, I don't pay 60 bucks for your game to wait!
  
  Hey Ubi in your next Splinter Cell game why dont you improve on the loading times... maybe having 
 1 or 2 loading screens and thats all? or maybe abolishing the all together?
  
  now that im done with that ranting heres my review of Splinter Cell: Double Agent. Its a good game, 
 not much of a graphical upgrade from chaos theory, but none the less amazing to look at. The AI 
 seems to be a bit too harsh in some cases, but most of the time it works perfectly.... well theres 
 really not that much to say, they implement this trust meter which is alright but kinda dumb at 
 the same time, doing certain tasks can increase or reduce trust from the bad or good guys, but 
 some things that reduce trust really shouldn't for example, not executing a bad guy can reduce 
 your trust with the good guys. anywho overall I would say this game is a rental and nothing more, 
 and unless you enjoy the multiplayer, then I would suggest even steering away from a dropped retail 
 price.. or at least untill its under 30 bucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamuja
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 20, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Campaign is very well detailed and layed out. The achievement system goes well with this game and 
 the online system has a very well detailed ranking system. The controls for the game are not that 
 hard to learn and you can adapt to this game instantly. You really get a feel that you are in the 
 game and you can alter the game so that you appear to be a good guy, a bad guy, or a double agent. 
 On online there are many different modes and styles of play that you can play. You can make a squad 
 with your friends and go out and rise through the ranks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell Double Agent For Xbox 360.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  ===========================================================
  THE GOOD : Gameplay Is Amazing, 
 The Ice Kill Is Great, Graphics And Sound Are Top Notch, Online Is Very Fun.
  ===========================================================
  THE BAD : Levels Are Too Short, 
 The Game Is Too Short, More Multiplayer Modes Would Have Been Nice!!!!
  ===========================================================
  
  
  The first time you ever 
 saw Splinter Cell, were you not amazed? Did you not feel the incredible advance in the stealth 
 gaming genre? If you did, you will pleased to feel it again with this installment of the SC series. 
 What makes this game different from the previous three? Oh, how about everything!
  
  A new, and more personal storyline, intense, fast-paced multiplayer, the classic splinter cell 
 gameplay with more elements to enjoy. There isn't anything not to love in this game! This is my 
 review of Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Double Agent.
  
  
  This time around, Sam's back and he means business. He is sent to investigate a terrorist cell 
 and slowly destroy it from within it himself but, that's not all, you can choose to play with the 
 terrorist cell and become one of them. You'll start out on a NSA mission that goes terribly wrong 
 and then the storyline will take off from there. You'll be given many amazing plot twists as you 
 go progress through the game and you'll be given a choice that can change the game forever.
  
  
  Gameplay : SC: DA offers the original splinter cell gameplay but, with a few new Up's and 
 down's. First of all, there are lots of new options that add to the single-player gameplay and 
 with the list achievements, you'll want to give them a shot but, the new HUD, it's hard to tell 
 just how noticeable you are. The new HUD tells you how visible you are by indicating a green button 
 to let you know you are hard to see, a white button to let you know you are visible, and a red 
 button to let you know that you have been caught but, you can you tell just exactly how visible 
 you are? Another thing they took away was the ability to check your health at anytime. Now, when 
 you get shot or hurt, A shield appears next to your objective list that tells you how hurt you 
 are ONLY when you are being hurt. Otherwise, it tells you nothing. That really disappoints me.
 
  
  Splinter Cell multiplayer has always been a strong point among the series but, sadly it gets worse 
 in this game. Yes, you will have some awesome times playing Spies vs. Mercenaries with your buddies 
 on Xbox live or System link but, they just can't compare to those good old Chaos theory days. The 
 multiplayer has really been toned down for spies because now, the only way you can take out a merc 
 is to jump on him or grab him from behind and knock him out. All the merc has to do is follow his 
 heart rate monitor and the blow your head off with his gun and that's not very fun because at times 
 it seems unfair. However, the co-op is intense, and amazing. You will definately have some good 
 times playing co-op with your buddies taking out mercs together or against each other in Double 
 agent mode. Double agent mode sends you out on the average spy mission but, challenges you to be 
 the first player with the most files downloaded by the end of the game. It is very fun and very 
 challenging.
  
  
  Graphics : The graphics in this game are amazing! Better than ever and if you played Splinter cell: 
 Chaos theory, the graphics in this game are alot better.
  
  
  Sound : The sounds are also a treat. Sam finally has more and better lines. The dialogue in this 
 game really brings all of the characters to life and adds power to the storyline. This game also 
 sounds great on Surround sound.
  
  
  
  Although lacking in a few fields, Splinter Cell Double agent offers a very good single player with 
 a strong storyline and hours of replay value. Don't overlook this game when you see it at the store, 
 buy it! You will be glad you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinkobach1989
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 6, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  The game is as great as its elders. The mission are very cool and extremely well made. You will 
 plant bombs on cruise ships in daylight, hide in snow in Russia. Break out of prison and spy at 
 the most frightening band of terrorists in the world. You will be placed in moments where you will 
 have to decide who to kill and how it will affect the future. The graphics are breath taking and 
 the game is geniously made. And it is up to you, what will happen. You'll decide which way to go? 
 The right or wrong?
  
  One things for sure.. Sam Fisher has never been the same! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GFofgaming
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2007 4:54 am PT
Review:  Y'know, we've never really liked the Splinter Cell series all that much. There's just something 
 about playing the role of a government spook working for the CIA, the NSA or whatever that rubbed 
 us the wrong way.
  
  But we're professionals, so when the boss asked us to play Splinter Cell Double Agent, we begrudgingly 
 agreed. After all, we were starting to get used to being a tool of the Man (just kidding) .
  
  When we fired up Double Agent, however, it didn't take very long for this gem to surprise us 
 with its maturity and addictively tense gameplay. Lead scary guy Sam Fisher begins the game up 
 to his old tricks of sneaking around and knifing oblivious thugs in the neck, but it doesn't take 
 long for things to get more complicated.
  
  When Sam learns of the death of his daughter, he breaks and loses the will to serve his country 
 and, possibly, to live as well. That tragic event sends Sam into a spiral of depression and self-destructive 
 behavior that culminates in him becoming a double agent in a dangerous terrorist organization.
 
  
  Sam's gloomy mood colors the entire game and adds depth to the storyline. Superb voice acting from 
 Michael Ironside brings a new dimension to Sam Fisher and provides an emotional backdrop for the 
 disturbing events in the game. And believe us, there are many disturbing events in the this game.
 
  
  The tension never lets up as Sam plays both sides of the fence. Rarely do you get the fifth freedom 
 that enables you to slay fools with immunity, so most of the enemies you come across must be dealt 
 with using non-lethal means. This means that Sam (and you) never gets to relax as foes could suddenly 
 come to and ruin your carefully laid, stealthy plans.
  
  Veterans of Splinter Cell Chaos Theory may be disappointed with Double Agent's multiplayer. Yet, 
 while some may call this game stripped down, we thought the lack of gadgets streamlined the multiplayer 
 experience and sped up matches online. Robbed of these complications, we found the multiplayer 
 to be frantic and fun. Ubisoft was obviously hoping to expand Splinter Cell's appeal, and we must 
 admit they succeeded in hooking us (and we imagine those unfamiliar with Chaos Theory won't notice 
 the missing bits) .
  
  We loved both the single and multiplayer versions of Splinter Cell Double Agent, so we have no 
 issue recommending it to any 360 owner looking for some stealthy action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokiisback
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 20, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  The game is another Splinter Cell classic. From the addicting campaign mode, to the even more addicting 
 multi player, this game is near perfect, to my Splinter Cell standards. For starters, the addition 
 to the Trust bar just makes Splinter Cell that much better. The only complaint I have is that they 
 got rid of the guns that they had in earlier games, and I simply don't like it. Also, there is 
 way too much stand-by'ing online, but not enough to stop you from playing... But it can get aggravating. 
 As usual, your doing plenty of stunts not possible by a normal human, like for instance, climbing 
 a 50 story building without tiring out, but ignore that fact and you have this... A GREAT stealth 
 game, with a great online, a MUST BUY if you ask me......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdelli01
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 18, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, I still enjoy the Splinter Cell series but it is definitely reaching the end 
 of its life cycle. Other than the visual boost it received on the behalf of the 360's processing 
 power it is much the same as its predecessors. The guys at Ubi did a great job with the game (as 
 usual) but they didn't do anything to advance the genre. When the original Splinter Cell game came 
 out along with Metal Gear it was such a novel concept. Now, some six or seven years later the gameplay 
 is getting played out. Once again, I still enjoyed the game -- I always do. However, it would have 
 been nice to see a noticable departure from the standard sneak and slash game that we have become 
 accustomed to. That being said, visually the game was stunning. It definitely brought a greater 
 sense of verisimilitude to the series what with the graphical enhancements made to the game. Beyond 
 that however, the game is no different than any other Splinter Cell game. If you were bored after 
 the last three don't bother with this one. If, on the other hand, you just can't get enough of 
 Sam Fisher, give this one a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterkcchiefs
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 16, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  My thoughts on this game are a bit mixed. I've always been a big fan of the Splinter Cell games 
 and couldn't wait until Double Agent came out. I bought the game a few days after its release, 
 hurried back home and popped it into my 360. This is my account of the game on the Normal Difficulty. 
 The first level looked pretty amazing with the water effects, the lighting, and played pretty much 
 how I expected a splinter cell game to be. After John dies and you complete the mission, there 
 is a cutscene that sets the mood pretty well for what this game will be like- an emotionally driven 
 story where you're gonna have to decide between good or bad, choosing to save someone's life over 
 completing an objective. This is what the game was made out to be through the previews that were 
 given us before the games release, and this is what got me excited for this game. The game starts 
 to get interesting as you have missions inside the JBA (John Brown's Army) headquarters and have 
 to complete both NSA and JBA objectives in a set amount of time. Those missions were always pretty 
 fun but I never really felt pressed for time trying to complete the primary objectives and ended 
 up doing the secondary objectives to pass the time. Later on in the game you'll find yourself having 
 to decide what to do with a given task. Kill hundreds of people aboard a cruise ship, frame your 
 partner, or save the ship. You will have multiple consequences for what you do. I never really 
 had any attachments to the characters throughout the game and bluntly didn't give a crap what happened 
 to them. I could go on forever about different things I would change, add, or remove but I don't 
 want to bore you anymore than I already have. To sum it up, Splinter Cell Double Agent keeps the 
 same gameplay that we know and love about the Splinter Cell with a few added features. The game 
 starts out well and looks like its gonna have a great story, and characters you will care about, 
 but later on it didn't seem that great. Enrica, Hisham, &amp; Jamie's (etc.) characters should 
 have been expanded upon so you would care about them. The levels were ok graphically, excluding 
 Kinshasa which was one of the best missions in the game expecially the
  part where all th- woops.. got a little caried away again. This game is pretty good and if you 
 enjoyed the past games in the series you will enjoy this one but its nothing special. The single 
 player is alright while the multiplayer is the shining point of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deschain
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 14, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  (This review is focused on the solo - aka single player - game) Having played this version, and 
 now most of the way through the X-Box version of the same (yet different) game, the deficiencies 
 of the game are all that more apparent. First, the story line does not explain a lot of things. 
 There plot of the game for the original X-Box is more complete. The missions for this version are 
 typically in the daylight, I'm assuming to show off the graphics. The question is why send you 
 on a mission in the middle of the day. None of the missions seem that time sensitive. Basically 
 this means that many of the gadgets are not as useful.
  
  Also, the trust system makes more sense in the X-Box version. Taking time to perform a task for 
 the NSA should cause the JBA to be more suspicious of Sam.
  
  All this is not to say this is a bad game. If you like Splinter Cell and cannot (or for some reason 
 don't want to) download the patch that allows you to play the X-Box version, this version will 
 satisfy. Also, if you are into achievements/gamer score, you'll probably want to play this version. 
 Admittedly, the graphics, particularly Sam, are much better than the X-Box version (however, some 
 of the more minor characters did not seem to get as much attention) . But, in my opinion, with the 
 360 version you are paying more for a game that isn't quite as good as the X-Box version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killiasxxx
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 13, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun but not all that much better than Choas.
  
  SinglePlayer: The singleplayer is fun the story is very good. I like ho you are a double gent trying 
 to juggle the NSA and the JBA. I like some of the new features like getting against a wall and 
 grabing some one as they walk by you. And breaking Ice from under a enemy. Over All the SinglePlayer 
 Is Super Fun.
  
  MultiPlayer: This is were my review goes to the down fall. Ok the multiplayer is not fun there are 
 no dath matches justthe same old go to intel and hack as a spy and when a mercenary looks at you, 
 your body is outlined that really helps to be the spy. And as the mercs its fun but not quite fun 
 enough and even when you are a spy going up against bots they spawn in front of you when your about 
 to turn a corner. Im sure thats happened to everyone and its not right is it and it says it has 
 Co-Op BIG FAT LIE . So over all the multiplay Sucks and choas theory's was alot better. So over 
 all just play it for story Mode. Or just rent it. I cant fully recomend this game if you want to 
 play it for xboxlive but if you dont have Xboxlive and u liked choas pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splintercell93
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 13, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  splinter cell double agent is a fantastic game. it goes far from the old splnter cell games has 
 a grea story and hard decsions to make that will effect the game. the first few levels are not 
 that great r good levels but arnt that great but when you get deeper into the solo campaign it 
 really hooks you in. The graphics in this game werent really that amazing for me it did look good. 
 there were frame rate issues and things like that. The sound was pretty good not the best but decent.
 
  
  The multiplayer is very fun and i play it alot. they changed it for the better from the last splinter 
 cell game chaost theory. they made it easier for new players.
  I reccomend you buy this game if you like stealth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Max-Th3-Noid
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Double Agent is the fourth installment in the Splinter Cell series 
 of video games developed and published by Ubisoft. The series, created by American author Tom Clancy, 
 follows the character Sam Fisher, a Splinter Cell employed by a black-ops division of the National 
 Security Agency, dubbed Third Echelon.
  
  Originally the game was set for a March 2006 release, but Ubisoft moved the release date to September 
 2006 in order to have more development time. Ubisoft then released their fiscal quarter results 
 for Q1 2006 and announced that Splinter Cell Double Agent would be put back at least 1 month in 
 order to boost Q3 2006 income.
  
  There are actually two separate versions of Double Agent . One version (Version 1) was made by 
 Ubisoft Shanghai, who developed Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow and was released on 
 the Xbox 360, PC, and PlayStation 3. The other version (Version 2) was made by Ubisoft Montreal 
 (Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell and Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory) and was released for 
 the Xbox, PlayStation 2, Nintendo GameCube and Nintendo Wii. The Xbox 360/PlayStation 3 version 
 features a completely custom engine while the PS2/Xbox/Wii/PC version plays more like the classic 
 Splinter Cell games. The games share the same general plot but each one features different story 
 lines, plot twists, and levels. Even the levels they share have completely different level designs. 
 They do however, share the same background music and share a few cut scenes.
  
  Double Agent was released for the Xbox 360 on October 19. The PlayStation 2, Xbox and Nintendo 
 GameCube versions were released on October 26, 2006. The PC version was released on November 17 
 and the Wii version on November 28. A PlayStation 3 version was released on March 27, 2007.
  
  {Courtesy of Wikipedia)
  
  PROS:
  Sharp character models and environments
  Alot of 
 content to unlock
  Multiplayer rules
  Achievements are well thought out
  At points you get to decide the outcome of the game ...
  
  CONS:
  ... but this only happens 
 three times (only two of which really matter)
  Gameplay is mostly cut from Chaos Theory
  The series' sound problems persist once again
  
  As part of the JBA, Sam must complete objectives 
 set by them to gain their trust as well as complete objectives from the NSA. The decisions he has 
 to make will become increasingly difficult as he progresses through the game. Earlier decisions, 
 such as deciding whether or not to free all of the prisoners during the prison breakout, will just 
 affect his score, but as the game progresses, Sam is faced with serious choices that could kill 
 thousands if made wrong, but may blow his cover if he doesn't do it.
  
  Despite this, Sam must make the JBA trust him, in order to gain access to the restricted areas 
 of their base and complete NSA objectives. If he is seen in restricted areas before he is allowed 
 to go there, it will dramatically effect his trust with the JBA. Similarly, if he is caught using 
 an NSA gadget or picking a lock in JBA HQ, he will be killed on sight.
  
  He is also watched by the JBA in most of his missions, if he is seen completing NSA objectives 
 or is thought to be doing something out of the ordinary, his trust will go down. Killing people 
 apart from those ordered to be taken out will affect his NSA trust in the same way.
  
  We have been waiting for this game for a long time now, but not as much as you may think, as this 
 game, in no way, ties in with Chaos Theory's story. Basically, the series starts a new saga, of 
 revenge. Sam's daughter, Sarah, is killed, and he loses the will to live and takes on a dangerous 
 assignment to infiltrate the JBA (John Brown's Army) and first he must infiltrate their ranks by 
 befriending one of their officers who is incarcerated in Ellsworth State Prison.
  
  After the jailbreak you take part in many ,somehow repetitive, missions that involve reaking terrorist 
 acts upon the world. The story does end up being some kind of a clich&eacute;, but I shalln't spoil 
 it for anyone, but it does involve a bomb and suicide ...
  The multiplayer focus of the game is very fun to play, in classic Spy vs. UPSILON style play. The 
 graphics and gameplay borrow heavily from previous Splinter Cell games, but if you've enjoyed the 
 series so far, you will be happy to play thorugh the same again, except for certain sequences like 
 piloting a helicopter, parachuting and hostage situations, the game does kind of improve on it's 
 predecessor's, but it's basically the same game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_smith
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 8, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell: Double Agent, is a new take on the stealth action genre, though it has retained the 
 stealth gameplay of the rest of the series, it encompasses new experiences. Unlike its predecessors, 
 Double Agent includes unlockable equipment and multiple outcomes to the story. The plot is darker 
 and more personel than that of the other Splinter Cell's, and more relevant to sam. The game spans 
 ten missions that take sam from the arctic, to china, and even to africa. They also include terrorist 
 headquarters missions in which sam has a limited amount of time to complete as many objectives 
 as possible. Each mission (HQ, or field) includes objectives for both the terrorists and the NSA. 
 A new implement in the game is Trust, in order to continue the game, sam must keep his trust levels 
 with both factions up, performing objectives for each group will earn sam trust, while failing 
 to do them will lose trust. Much like chaos theory, Double Agent includes a stealth rating depending 
 on your performance in each mission. The multiplayer is rarely unentertaining, and includes both 
 online and system link gameplay. The online play feature a squad system that allows you and two 
 friends to challenge another group. The online play also has unlcokable content, including new 
 skins for your avatar. Multiplayer has eight maps to choose fom, including warehouses, ship yards 
 and hotels. In the end Double agent is another among the few stealth action games out there and 
 is definetly the best of the Splinter Cell series. I highly recommend buying it instead of just 
 renting it, as after the story mode has lost its draw, the multiplayer is addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imrlybord7
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 7, 2007 10:46 pm PT
Review:  I thought this would be very different from other splinter cells. Sure, I expected stealth, but 
 I also expected some extreme action, like doing some real terrorist stuff. Blowing up buildings, 
 a lot of civilian killing, etc. I quote, Killing thousands to save millions. No one should have 
 to make that choice. You barely kill hundreds, let alone thousands. The game is basically Chaos 
 Theory with mediocre level design and a few good twists. It is also VERY short compared to previous 
 games. Not to mention that the story is mediocre, as it should have been more deeply portrayed.
 
  However, one of the most heartbreaking things is the sound. Talk about lazy. Ubi used almost no 
 new sound from CT. Sound effects and most enemy voices are from the original. I practically had 
 flashbacks of CT, like someone who was in 'Nam. The only good part of the soumd is the voice acting 
 of the main characters.
  Now the multiplayer is really a mixed bag. It has been dumbed down too much, but at the same time 
 it has fixed many aspects. It's basically like they fixed what was broken and then fixed things 
 that weren't. Balance issues are actually a little worse, as some maps are easily dominated by 
 spies while others by mercenaries. Gadgets have been broken. However, the quicker, more action-y 
 gameplay is very fun, albeit in a different way than previous games. New abilities are very useful 
 and generally well implemented. I can't really say which I prefer, DA or CT/PT multiplayer.
  All in all, this is a decent package. Worth buying for $20-$30. However, for anyone hoping to feel 
 like a terrorist, this is not even worth a passing glance. I have heard that the Xbox 1 version 
 has a better story and singleplayer overall, and I can't wait to pick that one up to see if this 
 can be redeemed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike11230
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 7, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  I HAVE TO SAY THIS GAME GETS NEVER BORING FROM THE BEGINIG TO THE END ITS PACKT WITH ACTION, OUT 
 OF ALL THE SPLINTER CELL GAMES THIS ONE TOP IT. NOW ITS UP TO YOU WHAT YOU WANNT SAM TO BECOME ONE 
 OF THE GOODS GUYS OR ONE OF THE BATS GUYS. THRU OUT THE GAME SAM HAS SOME VERY DIFFICULT DESISION 
 TO MAKE WHERE HE HAS TO CHOSE BETWEEN THE RIGTH THIG AND THE RONG THIS TO DO ULTIMATLY ITS UP TO 
 YOU WHAT YOU WANNT HIS TO BECOME WHAT EVER PATH YOU CHOSE YOU WONT BE DESAPOINTED SO MAKE THE RIGTH 
 CHOISE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lahistephen
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  In this game you are sam fisher, who decides to become a double agent and joins a terrorist group, 
 because his daughter has died and had nothing to lose anymore. The thing I like about this game 
 is the trust meter, which goes up if you follow an order and goes down if you disobey an order. 
 everything you do will affect your gameplay later on. Like if you destroy or kill all of the main 
 objectives, you won't get a good ending. But if you save atleast some of the main objectives, you 
 should get a bonus stage after you clear it. If you finish the bonus stage it'll say to be continued 
 so there's going to be a splinter cell 4.
  
  The multiplayer for this game is awesome. It's fun playing as a spy or an upsilon force.
  
 
  I have both versions of the game one for the 360 and one for the ps2 and they're both great, but 
 I like the 360 version more better. It has way better graphics, and I liked the stages more better.
 
  
  If you like playing stealth games, this game is definitely for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskongen
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 6, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  Ok first of The good things about Splinter Cell DA: The new role you're put in as a Double agent 
 working for NSA, And a terrorist group you infiltrate to stop attacks on the world, is new and 
 great. You also have two Reputation bars for JBA, And NSA which either goes up or down depending 
 on your actions (this much more noticable on harder difficulty) you are forced to make decisions 
 through out the game that will affect the outcome of the story, for example Kill a person but let 
 the other one live, or other way around, either way outcome is different (Also achievement involving 
 this) . I have played all Splinter Cell games, and ofcourse this is a great game but it was much 
 more different than what i've experienced before, many leveles you are working in Daylight and 
 unable to hide as well as before, which makes the single player much harder and a nice challenge, 
 though could be longer story.
  
  Quick Summary of the good
  
  - Great Graphics, similar from previous games but still very good (HDTV even better)
  
  - Nice 
 new story and ability to be alittle evil as a terrorist is fun too
  
  - Somewhat Good multiplayer and unlockable stuff if you play enough and are good, you can rankup 
 too
  
  - The Ability to unlock many Gadgets if you complete Objectives marked with a star
  
  Summary 
 of things that could be better :
  
  - Singleplayer, could be longer and alittle tweaked some places
  
  - Some framerate slowdowns 
 on some missions
  
  - Multiplayer is less Co-op than it was before, you mostly work alone stealing data from Terminals, 
 you cant boost your allies up places and stand on their shoulders climbing up eachother getting 
 to high places and such like in Chaos theory
  
  That basically concludes my review.... final score 8.6, Great game, still love Splinter Cell ;D 
 its a must have game if you're a fan of such games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manbot_AMP
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 5, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  The good: very player interactive campaign, trust system, awsome lighting and sound, more then 
 1 ways to complete a mission. new places to hide and new graple moves.
  
  The bad: No major chnage in moves regardin interogation, short story line.
  
  For the first 
 time in splinter cell hisotry you actually feel you are a spy. the new campaing system puts you 
 in the shoes of Sam fisher... literaly. With numerous choices throught the campaing witch affects 
 you're trust with either agencies. choose to save million of people or kill them all. This game 
 really makes you fight with ur concious, you really do feel bad after killing millions of people, 
 just because you couldnt be bothered to jam the signal, or the timer ran out.
  
  The good old graphics are back, what was amazing on the xbox is even better on the 360, you can 
 now see the sweat on Sam's face, you can see his expression when he gets caught by the nearby guard.
 
  
  for anybody who played the privious Splinter cells, this game is a MUST BUY! you wont see any better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pacman1192
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 1, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game and i liked it but........... it was lacking that special something that all 
 good games have the multi player is pretty good and i know a glitch but that is off subject. The 
 story could be allot better and can be too easy or too hard it just depends on how patient you 
 really are. I honestly expected better and its a good game and all but if I were you i would just 
 rent it and not waste my money. The multi player also takes a little getting used to after playing 
 story ( you no longer have any weapons as a spy or you are a gaurd with a machine gun) , but it 
 is fun getting a bunch of friends together just to sneak around and hack stuff or just shoot the 
 heck out of each other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: star_fire_777
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 30, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  I love this game - well, the single player portion of it that is! If you are a fan of stealth-action 
 games like the Hitman series and of course the Metal Gear series, then this game will provide you 
 with a lot of fun in the single player portion. Unfortunately the game is a little short, but the 
 mechanics, graphics, sound and overall presentation are all top-quality. The game is truly fun 
 to play while it lasts, and again if you like this type of game, you won't be disappointed.
  
  But beware of the multiplayer part! It has real potiential, and some mechanics are quite fun, 
 but I found it more annoying than fun due to what I think are balance issues between spies and 
 mercs. Overall, the gameplay is just not much fun, although it really could have been. I have not 
 played the other games in the Splinter Cell series, but I have heard that earlier versions of the 
 multiplayer mode were much more fun than in the current game. I can imagine this is so, which really 
 is too bad. I walked away feeling Ubisoft had really dropped the ball on this one.
  
  So, the single player is excellent, but I would not expect much more than that. You will probably 
 find some fun in the multiplayer portion (who knows, maybe you'll really like it) , but I would 
 not count on finding much. I didn't, and I really like this game! But the multiplayer just isn't 
 much fun, in my opinion. It can be if tweaked in future games, but for now I will pass. I suppose 
 I am not the only one, because I found very few people playing the game online.
  
  In closing, Splinter Cell: Double Agent for the Xbox 360 is totally worth a rental for the single 
 player portion - buying it for the multiplayer... I'm not so sure. I wish I could say an enthusiastic 
 yes, but I can't. Don't pass this one up, but don't expect the world either. Maybe next time... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imfeelinpanda
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 29, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  double agent is defently the best in its series. Then new multyplayer has u sneaking around donloading 
 things and bringing them back to a location. One catch there are mercanaries trying to kill u and 
 can get to u in seconds. The story lines is u play as Sam Fisher a secret agent and Terrorist ( 
 Hensi why they call it double agent) . The story mode is hard be cause u cant find anything in the 
 place. Back to the multyplayer. Yuo can kill lights mess with the flashlights of the mercanareys 
 break glass and just sneak around. Hint find dark areas and when u are donloading dont move because 
 the mersanarys can trafck u. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kizzle28
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 29, 2007 12:10 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell is to Xbox as MGS is to Playstation. Well, except for this game. On the 360 version 
 at least, this game is a great one. Singleplayer is rather straight forward, but made far more 
 exciting by the double agent activities you must do. You are Sam Fisher (again) , who has had a 
 terrible tragedy during a mission. Depressed, he still needs to do his job. And this one will be 
 the most difficult he's had to face. In the face of temptation, Fisher will be a double agent, 
 both with his NSA bosses and a terrorist group called John Browns Army (JBA) . There, you must infiltrate 
 the JBA. The catch is, you have these trust meters for both the NSA and the JBA. Doing certain 
 activities that would help the NSA drives the bar higher and the NSA trusts you more. But that 
 also drives down the JBA trust bar, so a delicate touch is required on selecting which priorities 
 you will do for what organization. If your not careful, you could easily find yourself working 
 for the JBA and not really know it. Because of this simple trust system, Splinter Cell: Double 
 Agent adds a new level of excitement to an otherwise average campaign. Multiplayer adds a new level 
 of depth to the Splinter Cell series. With co-op and several multiplayer modes at your disposal, 
 SC: DA is definitely a great game if you like the stealth genre.
  
  Gameplay
  Everything plays usual to the Splinter Cell series. Sam can do all the things he used to, including 
 a few extra moves.
  
  Graphics
  Mostly good, like the wrinkles on Sam's face and the general quality of the game is excellent. 
 Sometimes you'll get the odd ugly models.
  
  Sound
  It is utilized very well in SC: DA. Listening to enemies as you creep around is an integral part 
 of the game. Not to mention the music lends itself well in tense situations.
  
  Value
  With a 10-15 hour singleplayer plus nice multiplayer modes, SC: DA will keep you busy for a while. 
 Oh, and there are achievements, too.
  
  Tilt
  A 9 from me. Great game, nothing more to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentallemon
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 27, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion this game was one of the most enjoyable of them yet i know that this is one of the 
 lowest reviewed of the series but i think that they radically changed the gameplay and made it 
 more enjoyable than the others. I think that the mark they gave that game only represents how this 
 game competes in the current market. The things that made this game a 8.1 was how many modifications 
 they made to the gameplay and weapons. In this game you could upgrade all of your weapons depending 
 on how stealthy you were and this is brilliant because although you had a choice of the easy or 
 hard way (blowing everyone to pieces or sneaking ) you got extra weapons to help you if you were 
 taking the hard route. The decision making was brilliant because you made the choices and also 
 chose your ending, first time around i didn't do the game on hero lol but now iv'e done it on hero 
 it was even more exciting having an extra level. They also had the new moves added in, incase you 
 haven't discovered them yet all you do is press yourself up against a wall with a corner or doorway 
 then go to the edge (preferably dark) and the grab option will appear. Have fun with that one, 
 i did. The game was quite short to be honest but that might have been due to the fact that i have 
 played and completed all of the games. The last boss on this game was fairy simple but not so easy 
 on expert.
  
  To finish off this review all i can say is if you like stealth games and action games this is a 
 best buy and definately the best title of the stealth genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GUNSNROSES1OOO
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 27, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  SPLINTER CELL DA appears first time on the next gen systems for the first time ever.
  
  THE STORY
  
  So in SPDA you go undercoverr to bring down a terrorist group known as the jba
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The gameplay in SCDA is all based around stealth, you have basically got to go on missions for 
 the JBA while you help the NSA with this new trust system. The trust system is basically if you 
 fail a objective for the JBA then some of your trust goes down if its a primary it will go down 
 more than a secondary objective. there sam can bassicly do every think he can do in the previous 
 games.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics are recycled in some places but look really detailed and good.
  
  SOUND
  
 
  The sound is realy good all guns sound reallistic the voice acting is good.
  
  VALUE thats the big downer in this game it should only take you about 7 hours to complete.
  
 
  SHOULD YOU BUY IT
  YES you should only pay 25&pound; $) $ for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pittfan666
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 26, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Upon purchasing this game at Best Buy I was expecting a Splinter Cell game that would be similar 
 to the previous sagas. As it came to my realization, the game was almost completely opposite. The 
 concept of stealth is hardly existant for Fisher. With the lack of a stealth bar, and only being 
 reliant on the little light that is on your back you are forced to assume that you are being stealthy. 
 To top it off, it is really hard to sneak up on enemies to take them out. Even though I'm walking 
 behind an enemy in complete darkness, they always somehow manage to trigger the alarm before I 
 can knock them out.
  
  Despite the stealth factors that seem to have been left out the game itself is visually stunning. 
 Unfortunately, the graphics have been left out of the multiplayer, which leads me to my last complaint. 
 The multiplayer in my opinion is horrible. I found it extremely difficult to even play the multiplayer 
 portion. Overall I would reccomend that you rent the game and beat the singleplayer, because to 
 me the multiplayer was a major dissapointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegas_6
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  First off, I will admit I'm a late bloomer to the Splinter Cell series as this will be my first 
 game to play of the trilogy due to my loyalty to the PS2 over the years. I'll admit, as soon as 
 I popped in the CD into my 360 and began playing the training mode, it didn't really catch my eye. 
 It was not only very short (finished in roughly 15 minutes) , but very dull with a plain feeling 
 as you're basically in this virtual testing area where you are in a world full of nothing ... blank.. 
 whiteness and the training courses set up are virtual. This impression, however would not last 
 very long. Starting from the first mission, I saw the enjoyable cut scene and my first impression 
 was the rather fluid voice acting of the characters, especially Lambert who for whatever reason 
 reminds me of Dennis Haysbert, the old voice of David Palmer of 24. Anywho, as I first played through 
 the mission, I noticed everything was very dark. Granted, I knew it was a night mission and I had 
 my night vision which made everything seem much more clear, I continually noticed way too many 
 dark areas throughout the game on different missions which was increasingly becoming annoying as 
 I'd literally have to get up and get closer to my TV to see where I'm going. Luckily, there is 
 a very easy to use brightness feature in the options which I took to my advantage, I would say, 
 for me at least, 80 brightness and 50 contrast seemed to make everything look a lot more solid 
 and less washed up. So let me backtrack a little here, when you first begin the game, it asks whether 
 you want to play one of three difficulty levels: Easy (for newer players of the Splinter Cell series, 
 such as myself) , Normal (for the more experienced) , and Hard (supposedly for the pros) . While it 
 recommended me to play on the Easy level, I figured I'll only get a first impression of this game 
 once so I went with Normal with the fear that it would be a little too easy. This should be no 
 surprise to veteran players of the Splinter Cell series, but this is a true tactical stealth espionage. 
 I'll have to admit, this is not a genre I'm all too familiar with other than the Metal Gear Solid 
 series which was the best game of its kind in the Playstation and Playstation 2 days. This game 
 takes a lot of thinking, much more so then a free open shooter as say... Call of Duty 3. Though, 
 don't get me wrong the Call of Duty series is a great one, but it just involves a lot of free form 
 shooting without stressing on stealth tactics too much. Splinter Cell Double Agent is not a game 
 you can expect to play its single player for too long. There are only 11 missions in the game but 
 if you want to get the most out of those 11 missions, your best bet is to play the game it was 
 meant to be played. And by that I mean try to receive the best stealth rating possible (you will 
 get a stealth rating at the end of every mission, pointing out the percentage of stealth you displayed 
 in the mission) , best bet is to aim for 100% and while it may sound like a daunting task, it's 
 actually rather simple. Use all your possible resources, don't go out knifing every guy you see, 
 be extremely sneaky, etc.
  
  OK, time to break down the games attributes. The Graphics weren't exactly the best I've seen, the 
 360 is clearly capable of much more but they aren't exactly bad either. Pretty much just average, 
 even playing on a 1080i HDTV. The player models are rather bland in my opinion, and it really seems 
 like there wasn't too much emphasis on them. They honestly look like just a modest upgrade over 
 the PS2/Xbox. The sound is surprisingly good in this game, throughout your sneaky adventures through 
 missions, you'll constantly see other people having conversations that seem to differ quite often 
 so you're not stuck hearing the same chit chat all the time and the conversations actually seem 
 relevant to the scenery. Another thing to point out is they react with just the right words when 
 you're spotted or they think somethings up. I'm not going to go into too much detail on what they 
 say, but you'll easily see once you start playing the game. The value in this games single player 
 is not great, the single player will take roughly 8-10 hours to finish, depending on whether you 
 rush through the game or try to get all the available gadgets and upgrades. The multiplayer, however 
 is a different story. I'm sure the game was a lot more populated a while back but it still is a 
 great way to get the most out of this game. Many have stated that the multiplayer is completely 
 one sided with the spies pretty much owning every game, I've found both sides to be pretty evenly 
 matched from what I've seen, and both sides have been thoroughly enjoyable to play. My final thoughts 
 of this game is that if you've already been a loyal fan of the Splinter Cell series, I have no 
 idea why you're reading this review, as any true fan would've gotten this game at its original 
 release but no worries, it's not all too likely that this'll be the first game you see in your 
 local game stores bargain bin. Splinter Cell Double Agent is definitely a keeper, and at just $30, 
 it easily is one of the best bang for your buck games out now along with GRAW, another fantastic 
 game from Tom Clancy's game series. If this is going to be your first Splinter Cell game, like 
 mine was, I think you'll be pleasantly surprised. Granted, it will take some getting used to be 
 if you're really used to those free form shooters. This game takes a lot of stealth, brain, and 
 yes, even some shooting skills though you'll find if you want to get the best stealth rating possible, 
 you'll probably have to stay away from your gun most of the game. All in all, Splinter Cell Double 
 Agent has been a very pleasing and good first impression of the Splinter Cell series and has really 
 made my game collection much deeper with its addition. I hope to see the next Splinter Cell game 
 be released soon as I for one will not miss out on another game of this amazing, one of its kind 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpowerfull
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 21, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game with great detail in the graphics, a plot that could have been and lots of 
 puzzles to solve. Let's start with the graphics. Allthough the detail to environments and especially 
 charactor models are extremely good and represent what a next gen game should look like, the charactor 
 animations of everyone (but Sam Fisher) remind me of my early Gamecube games. The charactors have 
 terrible copy and paste animations, such as if you (SPOILER) let the JBA blow-up the ship late 
 in the game, the 2-3 charactors on screen will all look at you, clap 3 times, totally stop all 
 movement, and repeat for about 2 minutes as they talk to you at the same time. If you've played 
 the game, Sam's animations look pretty good don't they? Now if you can get sam against a wall or 
 crawling down or something and change the camera view so his head fills the screen. He raises his 
 eyebrows and lowers them, then moves his mouth or something like that and repeats in about 2 seconds 
 or less. So every 2 seconds he does the same animation again and again. The voice acting is even 
 more glitchy, as every guard has the same voice when you get caught in a restricted area. What 
 was really funny was that in one of the early levels, Sam was on the radio with the NSA. He would 
 say something and his mouth would move with it, and when the girl on the other end of the line 
 said something, or the black guy said something, Sam's mouth would move perfectly with their voices 
 too. I'm like WTF? I read the Gamespot review and I find it odd how they dis the game 85% of the 
 review but give it an 8.5. Everything they say is true, so don't think they're being harsh, what 
 you read is noticeable throughout the game. And they're right, Tom Clancy canNOT make a good story 
 if their life depended on it. Splinter Cell starts out with an amazing plot that gets you going 
 right off the bat. It dies down as soon as you finish your first task for the JBA. So many things 
 are totally pointless. At the end (SPOILER) you have to get a retina (eye) scan of all the main 
 JBA members, I'm not sure how I'd do that without them noticing so I decided to kill them to get 
 it. Somebody spotted me and the whole base went up in arms and was ordered to shoot me on sight. 
 As you leave the Low-Security Area of the JBA base and enter the High-Security section (which turns 
 out to have alot less security) the girl (whatever her name is) that works for the JBA says Oh 
 I don't want the bomb to go off, I'll help you, here take these goggles and gun. Come see me after 
 this is all over You do a bunch of easy crap and make it to the defusal of the bomb. You do the 
 same thing you've done 20 times throughout the game and you get objective complete and the screen 
 goes dark. Suddenly the credits roll. I'm like WTF the game's over???? No exiting voices or anything, 
 nothing that leaves you hanging or something cool. The girl that gives you equipment at the end 
 was pretty much something they threw in there just so you can have your goggles (that you never 
 use the whole game) and gun. Last thing I wan't to say in the biggest review I've ever made or 
 seen. For a game that's rated 'M', why is there no blood? It's sad when I slice someone's throat 
 and they just fall over like I had pushed them. Oh BTW the 90% of the gadgets are totally useless 
 throughout the entire game. I have my screen brightness at the default 50% and can see easily in 
 the darkest areas without the use of nightvision goggles. The heatvision goggles are even more 
 pointless as when a guy is bundled up in tons of fur with nothing but his face showing in the middle 
 of the Arctic, all you see is a little red smudge where his face is with the heatvision goggles. 
 If they were real heatvision goggles I think you'd see a little more than the heat from his face 
 alone. And whatever the 3rd vision is, I never found a use for it so that's even MORE pointless. 
 I got through the game using nothing but, pistol, machinegun and gun that makes noises at a distance 
 to distract guards. I could've gone through the game with the sound gun thing alone, which would've 
 been a bit harder but still pretty easy. Obviously there are a few gadgets that you HAVE to use 
 for missions but you don't use them outside of the JBA headquarters. The load screens also bring 
 me back to the Gamecube days as it takes forever between menus and missions. The Multiplayer is 
 actually pretty good, but could do with alot more people and pretty much everybody want's to be 
 a Spy so it takes forever to get a game started.
  
  If you've lasted this long I congradulate you, and if you've skipped from the first line to this 
 then I don't blame you. This game is only worth it because I got in in the used section of Willow 
 Video for $25. If you have to pay over $35 for this game than don't bother buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acklawhunt
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 8, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Double Agent for the Xbox 360 is simply the great. When I put the disk 
 into my hardrive the game there on was very impressive. With its top notch graphics I was very 
 pleased. Here is Good and Bad of Splinter Cell.
  
  Good: Grahpics, New Features like the new stealth meter, New Moves that you will enjoy. A choice 
 If you wan't to go in Stealth or Assualt. Multiplayer is entertaining
  
  Bad: All this change is hard to take in at first. You may miss the original ways of the classic 
 Splinter Cells. I loved Splinter Cell and if you liked the originals you will too. I give it a 
 9.3 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Forgansiar
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 21, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  When I bought this game i figured it would be exactly like the other splinter cell games. When 
 i say that i mean things like outfits and gadgets are no different than the other games as well 
 as the subject matter. The game was a complete 180 in terms of gameplay as well as what i listed. 
 It has intense firefights, intelligent AI and the fact that you don't have to do the objectives 
 or even be stealthy if you don't want to be and i think that is what appealed to me the most even 
 though i absolutely love stealth games the aspect of choice is why i love the game so much. The 
 only dissappointment was the lenght and it was way to short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan-1137
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  Sam Fisher is back and better than ever ! This game is sssssoooooo freakin awsome, its some of 
 the best gameplay ever in the series. It features all new moves, New weapons, Everthing about it 
 is awsome, its a Masterpiece by Ubisoft. There is a very interesting story line, where you can be 
 a Spy, Double Agent, Soilder, Or Mercenary. Working undercover for a terrorist organization is 
 an exciting twist for the Splinter Cell series. The missions are very exciting, especially the 
 mission were you have to break out of prison. Splinter Cell: Double Agent has allot of Exciting 
 twists in it, Especially where you have a choice of morals, where you can be Good or Bad. The multiplayer 
 is extremely fun also, I wish that I had X-box live because playing this game on live is awsome, 
 Spy vs Mercenary is freakin-sweet, especially because you can be both. All in all, this game is 
 extremely fun, I recomend it to anyone !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bdjohnst
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Spinter Cell is back with a new Twist. Sam Fisher is now a Double Agent, that snuck into an enemy's 
 organization to gain their trust and act as a member. The 'twist' is a trust based system. It is 
 pretty simple, you have two sides: the enemies and Lambert. You do what each wants, you gain their 
 trust, which is the main objective of the game. The actions and controls are still pretty much 
 the same and the levels are still massive and long. One good thing about Double Agent is that the 
 new missions do a good job of mixing up the environments and making the game interesting. The multiplayer 
 and online multiplayer is much improved and can be quite enjoyable, but I haven't played it much 
 because I am trying to finish the game and I'm almost done. Overall, Double Agent is still a worthwhile 
 game for fans of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Single player rocks, the environments are beautiful! Working as a bad guy is really cool and playing 
 on both sides of the law is a great concept. The execution was slightly off because most of the 
 time when you lose trust its not that much and really won't affect the game. Rather it is the cutscenes 
 where you hold someone else's life in the balance where the game gets good. How far will you go 
 to stay undercover? The variety in levels is what really sets this game apart from the other ones 
 in the series. The gameplay has not changed (which is a good thing imo) . Multi-player is really 
 the best part about the game. It can be very fast-paced and heart-pounding at certain times or 
 it can be slow, quiet, and tense. The game is at least worth a rent, you won't be disappointed. 
 Any stealth-action fans would do well to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 14, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Sam seems to have lost the spark that made his original installments so fun. He has been striped 
 of almost all darkness and seems to have lost his good nature in it. In his first installment, 
 Sam was a good natured old guy who just wanted the bad guys to either die or sleep but by his 3rd 
 installment he had become increasingly agitated. Now in Double Agent, he has almost lost touch 
 with being the good guy and almost losing his mind by losing his daughter Sara. STORY: Sam enters 
 the game with a highly routine stealth mission, except another newbie agent will be accompanying 
 him. He is sent with his new friend to do some type of recon work and while there he finds out 
 a missile is about to fire. He then is forced to keep his new friend safe and deactivate the missile. 
 After that, he learns his daughter Sara is killed by a drunk driver. Later on, he enters Ellsworth 
 Prison, which he intends to get in the good graces of a member the JBA (John Brown's Army) . Overall 
 the story amps the series up a few notches in certain area's but it still requires more work.
 
  
  ENTERTAINMENT: Many new additions seem useful such as the flash wall mine or the smoke wall mine 
 but usually you only need your sticky shockers, your 20-K launcher gun and knife. Almost every 
 single level in the whole game is lighted with the sun and I barely ever used my night vision or 
 heated vision. The new trust meter is an interesting new factor but it sometimes becomes a little 
 irritating; although you rarely ever have problems and if you do, I usually just reloaded an old 
 save. The graphics are allot like Chaos Theory but in parts are polished very nicely, for your 
 360. Voices are nice and provide a little more to the experience but the music is forgettable.
 
  
  PROS: Great new concepts, a little better multiplayer experience then Chaos Theory, Fun and interesting 
 new game; which features extra replay value.
  
  CONS: Practically every mission is always in the dark and I used my night vision and heat vision 
 rarely, Horrible loading times which get very annoying after awhile.
  
  OVERALL: Double Agent provides a good amount of replay value considering all the space and new 
 weapons and the extra endings but is just plain good. Its not the Sam we have come to expect with 
 the previous entrees and he seems to have lost some Spark value. Its still not as bad as I have 
 heard it to be and grips on to a few good new ideas. It is a big bump in the road for Sam but hopefully 
 he faces a lot more darkness in his next installment otherwise I feel its moving in the wrong direction. 
 A worthy rental, otherwise its a good low priced game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ztoky
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 5, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  This is the forth game in the series and it's really a great game but it got it good sides and 
 bad sides. The good sides is the new kind of day stealthing when you go around and sneak when it's 
 daylight everywhere it kinda gives you a new thrill with the stealthing. There is like not so much 
 new things on the game and the single-player campaign is still too short as the other Splinter 
 Cell games but you will get cool levels to go through and ofc one of the coolest game characters 
 the bad ass Fisher. The best side of this game is the multiplayer it got the nice graphic as the 
 singleplayer and is much faster version then the other multiplayer versions. The multiplayer is 
 really floating and the game play on both the mercenaries and Spies side is really fun to play. 
 They both are fast so it doesn't feel like the other side is funnier then the other, maybe just 
 a little funnier on Spies in my opinion :P. Well this game is for the players who have been playing 
 the series or are just after the multiplayer els you need to see the other games before getting 
 in the story but you can play the story without been playing the other games but it makes more 
 sence to been playing through the whole story :D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everon22
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 5, 2007 12:59 am PT
Review:  Theres a lot things that makes the Splinter Cell games a great experience. There's nothing more 
 satisfying than sneaking up to a player and taking him out quickly and silently.
  
  With this saga to the series, our all-american hero has gone undercover to take on some american 
 nationalist militant group who plan to blow up the US. To be honest, the singleplayer storylines 
 were never masterpieces, but this particular game I never really understood the motivation of these 
 particular aggressors or what they think they could accomplish by committing these acts of terrorism.
 
  
  As much as I enjoyed sneaking around levels and taking out guards, there were a lot of elements 
 in this game that annoyed me.
  
  Level design was the biggest surprise for me. Most of these missions are being done during the 
 daytime which renders most of your stealth equipment useless. Its an interesting choice, trying 
 to hide in broad daylight, but ultimately breaking gameplay from previous games. Rather than having 
 to consider watch out for light sources and line of sight. It boils down to the more simple stay 
 out of sight. The other half of the missions is revisiting the militant base to complete some tedious 
 minigames and semi-stealth missions.
  
  Removal of important gameplay from previous games. Doorlocks and security code locks are a thing 
 of the past apparently. Early on in the game you recieve an automatic picklock device, which removes 
 the entire experience. Security codes for doors are insanely easy. In most occasions they have 
 conveniently placed guards or laptops that are 5 feet away from the door. It loses its challenge 
 almost immediately, which is disappointing.
  
  Optical scanners? Wifi-hacking? Reading security pads with thermal vision? All things of the past, 
 most elements have been sadly streamlined to make the game easier. As you progess further down 
 the game, you earn tons of weaponry that makes missions even easier.
  
  The splinter cell multiplayer is a first for me. It reminds me a lot of the nostolgic games of 
 cops and robbers - except ninja style. You play as spy vs infantry. Spies are given mostly minimal 
 tools, but a large arsenal of aerial and acrobatic moves, while the infantry are decked out with 
 guns, grenades, and apparently explosive flying cameras. The spies are given the goal of stealing 
 files without getting caught and killed by the opposing team. This is what honestly saved the game 
 for me. I ended up pouring more time into the multiplayer trying to outsmart and out-coordinate 
 the other team. Online play obviously varies, but I had some really good matches where teams ended 
 up dead even for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samjcb
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 2, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  This great Edtion to the series is far the best yet with a compelling story that would grip the 
 average gamer. I am a fan of the splinter cell series completing all of them and this is by far 
 the best. The great thing is that you controll the the story wheather to play as the good guy or 
 the bad guy. This is a very unique method in the series, The graphics are good, plus that annoying 
 alarm has gone were your made to end the mission threw killing to many people. You are your own 
 man in this game with making decions that can cause good recations and bad it really does make 
 you choose your actions wisely. There is also alternative endings depending on the decions you make 
 which leaves a lot of life in the game. We jus hope that this is not the end for Sam Fisher but 
 the beginning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermonkeygogo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 2, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell, why won't you get old? D. A. is a stupid idea but really leaves a taste of gin and 
 stubble in your mouth or around it, but whatever D. A. is a gritty stripped down version of the 
 rest of the series. You play as Sam Fisher signing up for his deadliest mission yet as his daughter 
 his dead he let an agent down and has nothing to lose to he accepts the mission to infiltrate a 
 prison and bust out a prisoner and gain access to their terrorism group find out what they are 
 doing and stop it. D. A. gives you a real feel of interactivity as you can kill inocent people if 
 you feel like it and actually side with their group.
  
  D. A.'s story is great but frustrating as some points in the game are near impossible but still 
 great. D. A.'s multiplayer is amazing though awkward to start up you can play as 'spy' or 'solider'. 
 As a spy you have to find the generator and download a full file and return it which is alot of 
 fun. Or you can be a Upsilon solider and your aim is to stop the spies in any means neccesary. 
 This has yet to get old for me the only thing is starting it up is a chore and in many games as 
 the host controls all if he/she doesn't like whats going they can kick you immediately. All in 
 all its worth buying but only if you like the rest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tentpole
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  First off, I will admit I'm a late bloomer to the Splinter Cell series as this will be my first 
 game to play of the trilogy due to my loyalty to the PS2 over the years. I'll admit, as soon as 
 I popped in the CD into my 360 and began playing the training mode, it didn't really catch my eye. 
 It was not only very short (finished in roughly 15 minutes) , but very dull with a plain feeling 
 as you're basically in this virtual testing area where you are in a world full of nothing ... blank.. 
 whiteness and the training courses set up are virtual. This impression, however would not last 
 very long. Starting from the first mission, I saw the enjoyable cut scene and my first impression 
 was the rather fluid voice acting of the characters, especially Lambert who for whatever reason 
 reminds me of Dennis Haysbert, the old voice of David Palmer of 24. Anywho, as I first played through 
 the mission, I noticed everything was very dark. Granted, I knew it was a night mission and I had 
 my night vision which made everything seem much more clear, I continually noticed way too many 
 dark areas throughout the game on different missions which was increasingly becoming annoying as 
 I'd literally have to get up and get closer to my TV to see where I'm going. Luckily, there is 
 a very easy to use brightness feature in the options which I took to my advantage, I would say, 
 for me at least, 80 brightness and 50 contrast seemed to make everything look a lot more solid 
 and less washed up. So let me backtrack a little here, when you first begin the game, it asks whether 
 you want to play one of three difficulty levels: Easy (for newer players of the Splinter Cell series, 
 such as myself) , Normal (for the more experienced) , and Hard (supposedly for the pros) . While it 
 recommended me to play on the Easy level, I figured I'll only get a first impression of this game 
 once so I went with Normal with the fear that it would be a little too easy. This should be no 
 surprise to veteran players of the Splinter Cell series, but this is a true tactical stealth espionage. 
 I'll have to admit, this is not a genre I'm all too familiar with other than the Metal Gear Solid 
 series which was the best game of its kind in the Playstation and Playstation 2 days. This game 
 takes a lot of thinking, much more so then a free open shooter as say... Call of Duty 3. Though, 
 don't get me wrong the Call of Duty series is a great one, but it just involves a lot of free form 
 shooting without stressing on stealth tactics too much. Splinter Cell Double Agent is not a game 
 you can expect to play its single player for too long. There are only 11 missions in the game but 
 if you want to get the most out of those 11 missions, your best bet is to play the game it was 
 meant to be played. And by that I mean try to receive the best stealth rating possible (you will 
 get a stealth rating at the end of every mission, pointing out the percentage of stealth you displayed 
 in the mission) , best bet is to aim for 100% and while it may sound like a daunting task, it's 
 actually rather simple. Use all your possible resources, don't go out knifing every guy you see, 
 be extremely sneaky, etc.
  
  OK, time to break down the games attributes. The Graphics weren't exactly the best I've seen, the 
 360 is clearly capable of much more but they aren't exactly bad either. Pretty much just average, 
 even playing on a 1080i HDTV. The player models are rather bland in my opinion, and it really seems 
 like there wasn't too much emphasis on them. They honestly look like just a modest upgrade over 
 the PS2/Xbox. The sound is surprisingly good in this game, throughout your sneaky adventures through 
 missions, you'll constantly see other people having conversations that seem to differ quite often 
 so you're not stuck hearing the same chit chat all the time and the conversations actually seem 
 relevant to the scenery. Another thing to point out is they react with just the right words when 
 you're spotted or they think somethings up. I'm not going to go into too much detail on what they 
 say, but you'll easily see once you start playing the game. The value in this games single player 
 is not great, the single player will take roughly 8-10 hours to finish, depending on whether you 
 rush through the game or try to get all the available gadgets and upgrades. The multiplayer, however 
 is a different story. I'm sure the game was a lot more populated a while back but it still is a 
 great way to get the most out of this game. Many have stated that the multiplayer is completely 
 one sided with the spies pretty much owning every game, I've found both sides to be pretty evenly 
 matched from what I've seen, and both sides have been thoroughly enjoyable to play. My final thoughts 
 of this game is that if you've already been a loyal fan of the Splinter Cell series, I have no 
 idea why you're reading this review, as any true fan would've gotten this game at its original 
 release but no worries, it's not all too likely that this'll be the first game you see in your 
 local game stores bargain bin. Splinter Cell Double Agent is definitely a keeper, and at just $30, 
 it easily is one of the best bang for your buck games out now along with GRAW, another fantastic 
 game from Tom Clancy's game series. If this is going to be your first Splinter Cell game, like 
 mine was, I think you'll be pleasantly surprised. Granted, it will take some getting used to be 
 if you're really used to those free form shooters. This game takes a lot of stealth, brain, and 
 yes, even some shooting skills though you'll find if you want to get the best stealth rating possible, 
 you'll probably have to stay away from your gun most of the game. All in all, Splinter Cell Double 
 Agent has been a very pleasing and good first impression of the Splinter Cell series and has really 
 made my game collection much deeper with its addition. I hope to see the next Splinter Cell game 
 be released soon as I for one will not miss out on another game of this amazing, one of its kind 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathanfwlr
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 27, 2007 5:41 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the Splinter Cell games since the very first one came out. The sequels have 
 only improved upon the great gameplay and graphics of the first one. With the fourth installment 
 in the series, the developers have taken Sam Fisher out of the darkness and exposed him to the 
 light. They have also included the best story in the series to date.
  
  Graphically, Splinter Cell Double Agent is simply amazing. It takes advantage of the new hardware 
 to make the game stunning. Not only is it a great looking game, but you can actually see the greatness. 
 Instead of hiding everything in shadow and forcing you to look through night vision to see anything, 
 the developers have included a great many areas that are out in broad daylight. These environments 
 are what look the best. This game also has the most varied levels, when compared to the three other 
 games in the series.
  
  The sound is still great. It isn't really different from the last game but the music has been improved 
 upon. It was a big disappointment to see the absence of the sound meter. The gameplay of the game 
 is going to seem similar to anyone who play Chaos Theory, but will also feel quite different. Because 
 many of the levels take place in the daylight, or in lit areas, you are forced to do much more 
 hiding. You can't just wait in the shadows all the time for the enemy, you now have to hide behind 
 things, move through the levels slowly and wait for your enemy to have his back turned to make 
 your move. I felt that this made the game a much better stealth game than the previous installments. 
 There is also an area that you will constantly return to: the terrorists headquarters. This area 
 is always timed and features a wide variety of objectives and more of the level is available to 
 you as you progress through the game. A new addition to the series is the inclusion of a trust 
 meter. Since you are a double agent, you must maintain a balance of trust with the NSA and the 
 terrorists. If the NSA doesn't trust enough, you won't get a lot of weapon upgrades. If the terrorists 
 don't trust you a lot, you will have a harder time accessing areas of the terrorist headquarters. 
 If you completely lose trust with either organization, you fail the mission. Each level includes 
 secondary objectives that will gain you trust with each organization, but sometimes you will be 
 faced with two objectives that contridict each other, such as the terrorists wanting someone dead 
 and the NSA wanting that same person alive. The game forces you to make these kind of decisions 
 at varies point of the game, and they sometimes have a big effect on you trust meter.
  
  The multiplayer is a little different than it has been from the last few games. Since I don't really 
 get into the multiplayer part of the game (which can only be played online) , I won't really review 
 it, part it is most likely worth checking out. I will update my review if I get into the multiplayer.
 
  
  Overall, I thought that Double Agent was by far the best game in the series, and one of the best 
 you can get on the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monco59
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 15, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  Most people are familiar with the Splinter Cell -series. It follows the exploits of Sam Fisher, 
 member of the NSAs elite black ops divisions dubbed Third Echelon. Double Agent kicks off with 
 a mission in Iceland, that manages to go sour and costs the life of Sams hothead partner. Being 
 the ultimate bad ass, Sam manages to complete the mission only to find out on the ride home that 
 his daughter has been killed by a drunk driver. Naturally, Sam becomes depressed, chucks out his 
 trademark goggles and is eventually pulled from active service. But since there would be no Splinter 
 Cell without Sam Fisher, he is eventually persuaded to join the working force and becomes a NOC. 
 His assignment is to infiltrate a domestic terrorist organization calling itself the John Brown 
 Army as a double agent. This premise sets up a string of interesting missions all around the world, 
 and results in some quality gameplay.
  
  Speaking of gameplay, Double Agent maintains the high standard originally set by Splinter Cell. 
 This also means the game feels like previous installments, but to newcomers or fans of the series, 
 this will hardly matter. As always, the game consists of Sam sneaking around levels filled with 
 enemy patrols, trying to accomplish certain tasks. But this time, theres a twist. Sam happens 
 to get orders from both the NSA and JBA, resulting in some conflicting objectives. The NSA might 
 order you to protect a person from harm, while the JBA might order you to assassinate that very 
 same person. Both sides also have a trust meter which shows how much stock either team is putting 
 in you. If either of the meters gets too low, its game over. It gives the game a nice dramatic 
 feel and forces you to choose sides, which will be ultimately reflected in one of the games three 
 endings. Unfortunately, the double agent twist isnt utilized to its full potential, since you 
 can basically max out both trust meters until the very end of the game. By then, youve been outed 
 and it makes no difference either way.
  
  Each mission is broken up by a visit to the JBA headquarters. Once inside, you need to do some 
 snooping for the NSA, be it by hacking computers or gathering various intel on the terrorists. 
 Like in regular missions, these are contrasted by JBA objectives. Sometimes you will be ordered 
 to run through an obstacle course or help in the construction of mines. This forces you to carefully 
 allocate your time, since you wont be able to finish every task in the given time frame. Its 
 a nice touch, that helps break up the action a bit. Also, since youre effectively working for 
 these guys, you arent allowed to kill any JBA members.
  
  The multiplayer portion is a great addition and adds a ton of replay value to the game. Its still 
 based on the innovative concept from Pandora Tomorrow, pitting a team of three nimble spies from 
 Third Echelon against three heavily armed mercenaries working for the Upsilon Force. Luckily, the 
 pace has been quickened and the gameplay streamlined, resulting in more fun sessions that are easier 
 to get into. Each map has a clear objective for both teams: the spies must infiltrate a certain 
 building and use their wrist computers to download files from several different terminals, after 
 which the files need to be returned to the insertion point. The mercenaries must of course stop 
 the spies at all costs. Thanks to the fact that the spies and mercs play so differently and uniquely 
 to one another, the multiplayer still feels fresh and unlike most other multiplayer games out there. 
 Double Agent also has a nice co-op feature, which helps expand replay value even more. Co-op is 
 essentially similar to the multiplayer aspect, but without human adversaries. Some missions even 
 manage to incorporate a competitive twist, which will surely result in some fun games between friends.
 
  
  The X360 version is very pretty, mainly thanks to Sams awesomely detailed character model (the 
 individual sweat beads running down his stubbled head certainly look great) , beautiful level design 
 and presentation and as always, truly outstanding lighting. But at times, the game also has somewhat 
 of a last-gen feel, with some locales looking decidedly average and most animations feel too canned 
 and repetitive. A minor inconvenience, the game also suffers from a few framerate hitches here 
 and there, but luckily nothing serious. While Double Agent would have a hard time competing with 
 the likes of GoW or Lost Planet, it is still a pretty game to look at.
  
  The sounds in Double Agent carry over that recycled feeling the graphics sometimes have. Most sound 
 effects seem to be brought over from the very first Splinter Cell, and they rarely pack a punch. 
 On the upside though, voice acting is very good. I especially liked Keith Szarabajka (voice of 
 Emile Dufraisne) . He manages to steal the show with his imposing and charismatic Southern drawl. 
 As usual, Michael Ironside nails the part of Sam Fisher. Double Agent features some decent tunes 
 that set the mood, but like in any stealth action game worth its salt, silence is the best mood 
 setter.
  
  For fans of Sams previous efforts and new comers alike, Double Agent is a solid stealth action 
 game that manages to cook up a decent story while maintaining the high gameplay standards of previous 
 Splinter Cells. Admittedly, DA doesnt really bring anything new to the franchise, and it can sometimes 
 feel like a port from a last-gen version, but there is no denying I had fun playing through the 
 game, and Im sure you will too. Thanks to a great and expansive multiplayer, a singleplayer filled 
 with replay value and a nice co-op feature, Double Agent gives you bang for your buck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bp275
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  This game was amazing. The graphics were insanely awesome and the gameplay was absolutely marvelous. I 
 love this game but the AI was a little lacking. I was standing right in front of a guard for about 
 5 minutes and he never moved or reacted in any way. Besides that, this game was all around fun and 
 challenging at times. The missions were extremely organized and they all took places in interesting 
 places. Ifelt like a tourist in high security areas. I say that this game deserved an award of some 
 kind. I'll give it the stealthiest game of the centurey. Icant wait for tom clanceys new addition 
 to the splinter cell family. If this game was fun i think and hope that the sequel will be funner 
 and cooler. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jk4life2
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 19, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  this game is a cool game i like sneaking games a lot like the mgs series and this game is great 
 but it could have been better u kno the story couldv been better and its kinda short u kno online 
 is not that great either but this game is cool to the gameplay is good i like sneaking up on people 
 and either knocking them out or killing them and in the snow level its cool when ur under the water 
 u could break the ice and grab them under the water and stabb them its crazy but i dont like the 
 guns it sounds bootlegg and when u shoot no blood comes out they just fall down like dummy all 
 in all this game is a great game if you are in to splinter cell series u should get it if u never 
 played splinter cell before i prefer u rent it see how it is its a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steve_dude10
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 15, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  Firstly, lets start with the graphics. The graphics for splinter cell are nice, but could be better. 
 I don't have a HDTV so I'm not getting the whole experiance, but compared to others games such 
 are GRAW, I'd say SC takes a backseat when it comes to graphics.
  
  For Gameplay, there have been some good changes and bad changes. The single player is mostly like 
 chaos theory except for that fact that you have to keep two people happy at once, which is fairly 
 easy to do. With online, the changes are all good. The spys now move much quicker then before, 
 putting Sam Fisher to shame. There have also been other small changes but they help even the gameplay 
 out. The only problem I have is the missing of COOP missions which where in SCCT.
  
  Sound... is pretty much what you expect from any splinter cell... nothing fantastic or bad
  
 
  Value - I got the game the first day it dropped in price from $59.99CND to $29.99CND so I'm not 
 complaining. In the end, if you like stealth action games or your looking for a good, cheap game, 
 give SCDA a try, it's worth the $30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameguy182
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 12, 2007 2:06 am PT
Review:  theres not mutch to say about this game bisides great graghics and a intrasting story.
  the stealth action is cool but gets old fast.
  theres alot of cool gadgets and alot of realy 
 cool moments in this game.
  and thoughs moments make this game vary mutch like a movie expearionce.
  the multiplayer isnt 
 that great and theres only one mode but i do like how they let you choose to be and merk or a cell 
 but still its less exieting
  but i wouldnt lisen to me because im not a big tom clancy fan i have tride to play this game and 
 ghost reacon but i just dont like them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oger1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 11, 2007 4:37 am PT
Review:  I think this was one of the best splinter cell games yet. It had very good graphics, the story 
 was also ok. Really awesome how you can play for two sides. Online was okay but they took some 
 of stuff out from the previous splinter cells like in the spy's vs. mercenary's online game mercenaries 
 cant place traps. And for beginners the controls are easy to learn but you some times have to save 
 constantly. Also when someone is talking to you you might have to turn the camera a certain way 
 to get a better hearing. I found it frustrating on how you have to keep both sides trust up, loose 
 to much and you lose the mission, which means save constantly. But this game will give you about 
 11+ of hours to play. And is still very, very , very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x-evil
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  When I first played Double Agent, I was thinking 'this is gonna be just another sneak around cut 
 throat, snipe from a distance' kind of game, but no I was wrong. What these other people fail to 
 realize within their reviews, Is that this game was ment to take on a whole new approach, to test 
 things out a little. This wasn't ment to be just another sneak around game, this was to give you 
 the feel of going over enemy lines and trying do your job as an agent, but at the same time keep 
 your cool with the terrorists no matter the cost, but I found that the camera even though I could 
 control it, would some times bug out on me and go through a wall. However I did find the game play 
 to be fun and realistic, what other game could you walk into a tiny room with four guys with one 
 chained up, and shoot the prisoner in the head! I mean come on, you don't get that kind of realism 
 in last gen's consoles, so that's how I know that this game was ment for next gen, plus the fact 
 it 'DOES' still have that solid sneak around just incase you were begining to miss it some, also 
 the story line has changed dramaticly. Sam loses his daughter and becomes a darker person, so within 
 that he is able to do what he needs to do rather it be killing guards in a prison, or killing a 
 prisoner themself. So it gives you kind of 'in depth' perception of what someone would be like, 
 after such a huge loss like that. Also I gotta hand it to the makers for putting in such a humor 
 level, you'll see quite alot of it within the Splinter Cell series itself, plus when on multiplayer 
 missions you can turn the sound off and have a friend come over, doing some pretty funny stuff 
 with your own voices and actions, such as one guy going to try and stealth kill someone, you can 
 throw a snowball at that terrorist and make him turn around spotting the other player, setting 
 that other player into a trap! Now that's some grade 'A' humor against your friend, unless you're 
 the SERIOUS type. In which case you may just play through the game, In your own mind set thinking 
 of what you would do in Sam's place, that's another thing! It gives you choices of what you want 
 to do, or how you would do it. Something all the rest of the Splinter Cell series didn't really 
 give you, so I say sure... Go out and rent it, If you like it then buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CubeJL
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 6, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Short review here --
  
  Graphically, the game is such a mixed bag it's frustrating to discuss. Some of the levels are portrayed 
 in so much more detail than others that it's often jarring to behold... and one can't help feel 
 like this game is intended for last-generation technology with a smattering of next generation 
 icing.
  
  Splinter Cell has, as of late, placed more of an emphasis on a situational soundtrack --that is, 
 adding tracks and increasing volume as the tension of the on-screen action intensifies. Double 
 Agent continues in this trend, yet doesn't offer anything significant worth discussing on its own.
 
  
  The controls in Doulbe Agent are, like the sound, simply more of the same. Expect a few new options 
 on your list of one-button-controlled commands this time around. Nothing flashy, really.
  
  As many have gathered from the various trailers for the game, the theme of the game has taken a 
 bit of a detour and offered somewhat of a branching storyline, which is probably its newest, freshest 
 feature. Sam will have to make some difficult decisions throughout the game, and the player is 
 left to his moral judgement in order to proceed. Overall, Doulbe Agent disappoints; the game's 
 half-baked next generation graphics and sounds, and its somewhat aging control scheme leave the 
 game feeling less formidable, and more formulaic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MallratsJaySB
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 5, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Sam Fisher is back to his old tricks again..... sort of. In the latest entry in what has become 
 one of the most popular video game franchises out right now, Splinter Cell: Double Agent goes down 
 a new path and begins to stray away from the elements that made it so popular to begin with. You 
 are Sam Fisher and you are out on a routine mission, but soon afterwards you learn that your daughter 
 has been killed in a horrible accident. With nothing left to lose, you take on your most dangerous 
 mission yet. You go undercover as a terrorist in a group called the JBA to try to take them down. 
 I don't want to give too much of the story away, but this is how it starts out so I'm not ruining 
 anything for you.
  
  The gameplay is, as mentioned before, slightly different than the previous incarnations of this 
 franchise. Aside from perhaps one or two missions, every mission has you either searching the JBA 
 headquarters or sneaking around during the daytime. Compared to the other games in the franchise, 
 this is a drastic change in the tried and true formula. Instead of being able to rely on the shadows 
 to progress, you are forced time and time again to find hiding spots or try to blend in. Ultimately, 
 this is an interesting aspect of gameplay, but unfortunately not as compelling. I'm a person that 
 thrived on being sneaky in the first three games. If I was seen, I was disappointed and tried to 
 motivate myself to not be seen at all. In this game, it's nearly impossible to not be seen in some 
 areas. There is a lack of of things to hide behind in some areas and the path that the enemies 
 walk never gets them close enough to attack or far enough to sneak past. This is most apparent 
 in the daytime missions.
  
  During the missions where you are undercover at the terrorist organization JBA's headquarters, 
 you will have to try to find information regarding the terrorist's identities, future plans, etc. 
 You have a time limit which usually falls around 25-30 minutes to do the objectives in these levels. 
 One thing I think is absolutely ridiculous about this part of the gameplay is that is you are caught 
 snooping around a restricted area in the JBA's base, they do nothing but tell you to get out. They 
 don't think for a second that the new guy sneaking around crouching in the dark could be up to 
 anything. It's just plain ludicrous so instead of having a real consequence for being seen, all 
 you have to do is simply walk out of the area and enter back in and try again. Another bad part 
 of this is that at times, there are a whole lot of objectives and it's impossible to get them all 
 done in that short amount of time. Some of these are more important than others and must be done, 
 but others will get more respect and trust from the JBA or NSA. Which brings me to the trust meters. 
 Throughout the course of the game, you will have to balance your trust between the JBA and the 
 NSA, the government organization you work for. This is a very cool dynamic to the game because 
 it gives you choices and they actually mean something. In other games, choices usually don't mean 
 jack. The game will try to portray the decision as something that is actually important, but it 
 usually isn't. In Double Agent, each and every decision you make is important and more importantly, 
 it eats away at your conscience if you do something you know is wrong. Not many games can make 
 you feel bad for doing something wrong, but this game manages to lay the guilt on you hard after 
 some decisions. Some decisions are simple and do nothing either way besides raise some trust for 
 each organization. It usually simply boils down to this: which of the organizations is your trust 
 lowest? If it is lower for the JBA, do more of their objectives. If it is lower for the NSA, do 
 those instead. I won't give away the major decisions that actually eat at your guilty conscience 
 since they are the coolest part of this game in my opinion, but I will say that they are very important 
 for the story line and it determines which ending you will get.
  
  The graphics look just as good as they always have, but on the Xbox 360 it should have looked a 
 whole lot better. I was still pleased with the amount of detail that went in to the character models 
 and the environments, but it really wasn't a drastic improvement from the original Xbox Splinter 
 Cell games. Each and every game on the Xbox looked gorgeous with each one adding more and more, 
 but this game doesn't do much to stand out.
  
  The sound is something I always thought the Splinter Cell games nailed. Maybe it's because you 
 have to be silent and it's not hard to create a silent atmosphere. Maybe it's because Michael Ironside's 
 voice is a perfect fit for the character and he always delivers his lines perfectly. Or maybe it's 
 because the score set the tone of the game well. Regardless, this time I wasn't very impressed 
 with the sound. The score still sounded great and the sound for the various other things in the 
 game sounded fine. My biggest complaint and disappointment is the voice work from Ironside. He 
 really just didn't have too many lines in this game and when he did, it never showed the emotion 
 in his character. Sam Fisher's daughter dies, but you'd be hard pressed to notice through his tone. 
 The game tries to play it off as he has nothing to live for and doesn't care about these dangerous 
 suicide missions anymore, he welcomes them even, but the lack of emotion or breakdown from Sam's 
 character really puts a detriment on the whole point of the game. Besides this one fact, everyone 
 and everything else sounded fine.
  
  Overall, I think this is a game that you need to at least play if you own an Xbox 360. This is 
 the first game I've played that ever made me feel guilty for my actions, but at the same time knowing 
 that it is essential to do these terrible things to keep my cover. Not everyone will have the same 
 experience that I did and some people might not care one way or the other what happens or what 
 they do, but for the ones that get it, there's nothing else out there like this game in terms of 
 playing with your emotions. Despite the JBA levels being rather boring and the fact that the old 
 Splinter Cell that we all know and love is practically absent, it's still an incredibly addicting 
 game and it has a ton of replayability. I almost feel guilty for giving this game as low of a score 
 as I'm giving it, but even with the fun time I had with it, I believe this score is what the game 
 deserves. Although different, anyone that has played one of the previous games will instantly catch 
 on to this one and for that reason, Splinter Cell: Double Agent is a rent before you buy but must 
 play game that deviates from the original formula, but still manages to captivate the player through 
 tough decisions and original gameplay mechanics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XENOmorph00010
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 3, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Its tough to look at the Splinter Cell games as good representations of author Tom Clancys strengths. 
 Despite holding the name of the New York Times best-selling storyteller, the games havent exactly 
 shared that aspect. Ever since the series debuted on the Xbox in 2002, all that Splinter Cell has 
 offered in terms of a story is taking down a group of terrorists. In a sense, Double Agent-the 
 fourth installment in the Splinter Cell series-doesnt stray too far from that kind of plot. The 
 only difference is that the story is more involved and doesnt follow a specific path.
  
  The story opens with fan-favorite Sam Fisher returning from a fairly routine mission only to find 
 out that his daughter was killed in a car accident. But Sam isnt given much time to recuperate 
 from this loss as the National Security Agency sends him to prison. Why Sam and why prison of all 
 places? Well, the NSA has found out about a terrorist organization known as John Browns Army is 
 up to something and that one of their leaders-Jamie Washington-is in prison. After escaping from 
 prison with Jamie, Sam must act as if hes part of the JBA while gathering information for Third 
 Echelon.
  
  There are quite a few aspects that make not only the JBA but also the game itself more interesting 
 compared to previous installments. For one, the game gives you a lot of time to see what goes on 
 in the JBA by placing you right in the middle of it. Youll usually revisit the JBA after completing 
 one or two missions; given about thirty minutes to gather intelligence for the NSA. Another key 
 difference is that the game takes place in several areas that the Splinter Cell series hasnt visited 
 before. Most of these missions take place in broad daylight, which does add a nice twist to the 
 series formula. Some locals youll traverse arent too far away from what Sam has visited before, 
 such as an oil tanker surrounded by ice. But then there are some areas that you would expect to 
 be last place Sam would go to on-duty. These regions include a cruise ship mission and even a two-part 
 mission in Africa during the midst of day.
  
  But perhaps the most interesting shift for the series is the inclusion of a trust meter for the 
 JBA and NSA. Basically, youve got two bars in your HUD; one for the JBA and one for the NSA. The 
 higher you can keep each meter, the more that organization will trust you. If either side loses 
 all trust in you, then its game over and youll need to either reload your last save or checkpoint. 
 You can alter how much each side trusts you by doing certain actions in the field; some are rewarding, 
 others punishing. But the only time youll be able to lose or gain a significant amount of trust 
 is in certain points where you must make a crucial decision. For example, in one mission youll 
 need to decide whether you want to blow up a cruise ship you set a bomb on or jam the transmission 
 so it doesnt go off. If you chose to blow it up, the JBA will trust you more but the NSA wont 
 exactly be feeling the same way, and vice versa.
  
  While Double Agent certainly isnt the first game to incorporate a system based on choices, its 
 really the first to make those choices significant. Unlike other games such as Fable where your 
 choices usually just impacted your character, Double Agents choices are on more of a global scale. 
 Not only that, but there are three different endings to the game, each of which are determined 
 by the choices you make in the game. In addition, certain choices you make may affect what your 
 next mission in the game will be. For instance, if given the choice of whether to kill an important 
 individual or not, the next level you play will be affected by the choice you make. Its definitely 
 an interesting new addition that keeps the game tense and exciting in some situations. And considering 
 how your missions may change depending on your choices and the multiple endings, theres definitely 
 some incentive to play through the game a second or third time.
  
  The story, trust system and new locations do add a bit of flair to Double Agent, but the rest of 
 the game is virtually unchanged from previous installments. Youve still got primary and secondary 
 objectives to complete and the feel of the game is about as familiar as Splinter Cell can get. 
 Like its predecessors, Double Agent encourages you to move around undetected, mostly because the 
 game lacks any real feel of evolution gameplay-wise. Youll still use the same moves, tactics and 
 although there are some nice new gadgets, none of them really prove to be that useful. So really 
 your only resources in the game will be your SC-20K assault rifle, pistol and trusty knife. This 
 lack of advancement for the series doesnt necessarily hinder Double Agent, but it wouldve been 
 nice to see some new dynamics introduced to the gameplay.
  
  Fortunately, for those that have become fond of the series for its stealth-themed action, Double 
 Agent should definitely appeal to them. But for those that are either inexperienced when it comes 
 to Splinter Cell or are virgins to the series, the game might not leave the same impression on 
 them. One of the odd and unfortunate parts of Double Agent is that the controls dont feel that 
 smooth. When starting the game, youll more than likely have trouble getting used to the cluttered 
 feel of the game. Sam tends to respond to analog controls in a sluggish manner and you never really 
 feel like you have complete control over him. While youll certainly get a better feel for the 
 game later on, the game never really feels like it handles anywhere near as smooth as other action 
 games.
  
  There are some aspects to Double Agent that help it stand out, most of which are strengths that 
 the series is known for. For instance, the visuals in Double Agent are very impressive, despite 
 not looking drastically better than Chaos Theory on the Xbox. Sam is rendered in spectacular detail 
 and although the other character models dont look quite as astounding, they still look fairly 
 sharp. The games environments also look very striking; for the most part. While there are some 
 areas that look worse than others, such as the JBA headquarters, the rest of the locals look fascinating. 
 Since theres never that much action going on in Double Agent, framerate dips are pretty much nonexistent. 
 But if you decide to go guns blazing, you might see the framerate drop a bit, but its not that 
 noticeable.
  
  Another aspect to the game that helps it shine is the sound, particularly the voiceovers. For starters, 
 the soundtrack is a marked improvement over what you heard in previous installments. From the main 
 theme to the music youll hear while sneaking around, Double Agents soundtrack doesnt fail to 
 deliver. But the area that the game really stands out is in the voiceovers. While Sam has always 
 been known for saying some humorous lines, hes not so light-hearted this time around. But this, 
 combined with the excellent talent provided by other voice actors helps to compliment Double Agents 
 serious tone. About the only real issue with the games sound is that the enemy dialogue is as 
 unintelligent as ever. Other than that issue, there arent really any flaws in Double Agents sound 
 and is probably the games strongest attribute.
  
  However, the strong presentation found in the single-player isnt so great in the infamous Spies 
 vs. Mercenaries mode. For those who arent aware, the Spies vs. Mercenaries is the games primary 
 multiplayer portion. Basically, there are two teams, the Spies and the Mercenaries. The Spies are 
 objective is to hack the Mercenaries terminal and bring the information back to their base. The 
 Mercenaries, on the other hand, must protect their terminal by hunting down the Spies and killing 
 them. Each side has their own distinct advantages and disadvantages, like how the Spies can reach 
 areas the Mercenaries cant but theyre much easier to kill. As a Mercenary, youre equipped with 
 a haunting assault rifle, but its harder to spot the Spies while in the dark.
  
  Anyways, as I stated before, the presentation in this mode isnt anywhere near as impressive as 
 that of the single-player. Visuals are reduced to low resolution quality and most of the levels 
 are too dark to see much of anything. Not only is that, but the entertainment that the Spies vs. 
 Mercs mode offers quite low. This is mostly due to how the mode has been simplified to draw in 
 newcomers. Such changes made to accomplish this include highlighting the Spies in the sights of 
 a Mercenary and a vibration being emitted to a Mercenary when a Spy is nearby. These changes not 
 only make the Mercenaries seem overpowered, but it gets rid of just about any thrills it couldve 
 offered. Since theres never really much question of where a Spy is, it makes their presence seem 
 laughable most of the time and makes the matches almost completely unbalanced.
  
  Fortunately, Double Agent brings back the Co-op mode introduced in Chaos Theory, this time allowing 
 for up to three people in a Co-op match. The concept behind Co-op hasnt changed much, but this 
 isnt necessarily a bad thing considering its still a fairly new addition. The idea and execution 
 of teamwork in this mode worked very well in Chaos Theory, and it works just as well in Double 
 Agent. Theres also a substantial increase in maps available to go Co-op in, which is definitely 
 a nice treat compared to the embarrassingly low amount in Chaos Theory. That, combined with a single-player 
 that simply urges the player to go back and get every part of the story makes for a good deal of 
 replay value.
  
  Double Agent doesnt too much that separates it from previous Splinter Cell games, but this is 
 still a quality title from Ubisoft. The more involved story and inclusion of multiple outcomes 
 based on your actions definitely make the single-player more enjoyable. In addition, the still 
 strong Co-op mode delivers some memorable moments and will be part of what keeps the game in your 
 360 for some time. However, the simplified Spies vs. Mercs mode just doesnt manage to deliver 
 anything other than an underwhelming experience. Other than that, Double Agent is another solid 
 addition to the Splinter Cell series and although most of the changes are subtle, they make the 
 game all the more enjoyable for the most part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sup_92
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 2, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Sam Fisher is back for another go, and I couldn't be happier. While I never really got into the 
 series (failing a mission because an enemy simply glances at you) but I decided to give this one 
 a try because I heard it was more action oriented. One thing I really noticed were the visuals. 
 This game looks amazing. It is ridden with great textures that bring this game to life. Sam looks 
 very realistic, with his breathing and eye movements and even the streaks of sweat running down 
 his face. Visuals aside, the game play and scenarios are interesting. The levels were very diverse, 
 ranging from a cruise ship to a hotel in Shanghai. This helped to make thew game feel diversified, 
 even though four of the missions ocurred at JBA headquarters. The sound in this game is very well 
 done. Especially noticeable during one of the latter missions involving war torn streets, the sound 
 is realistic and helps to create whatever ambiance is intended. The controls felt crisp, and I 
 could preform the context sensitive moves without much difficulty. It felt great to sneak by enemies 
 without them notcing, but it felt even better to come up from behind and take them out. One of 
 the most compelling things about this game is when the player is faced with moral decisions. On 
 paper these choices may not seem very intriguing, but when faced with them it helps to immerse 
 the player in this virtual world of right and wrong, and is implemented quite well. On the negative 
 side, there are times when the player is not given a clear path to follow. It's great that there 
 are numerous ways to get to the objective, but when in more enclosed and on-rails environments, 
 it is sometimes tricky figuring out exactly where to go. Another bit of a complaint is that though 
 vastly improved from the first two games, Double Agent still makes things a little too careful 
 and stealthy. Sometimes the player may want to take an enemy head on, but this will likely lead 
 to disaster. Multi-player is a definite highlight. It felt great to run around as a spy, with all 
 the slick moves and speed. Then again, it also felt good to have the firepower of the mercenary. 
 That is the balance of the multiplayer and it's great. Quick and nimble against slower yet more 
 powerful. There isn't much to complain about. This game is great for anyone who is a fan of the 
 genre. It's an improvement, and hopefully the next game i the series will continue the improvement. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jake11977
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 2, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  I had never played Splinter Cell game until I experienced SCDA, I just wanna let everyone know 
 that fresh out the gate. I honestly had a good time with this game. It was especially fun to play 
 after the run and gun of Gears of War, it makes you think about combat in a different way, making 
 it more strategic and stealthy. The games graphics are NICE. I especially enjoyed the snowy level, 
 and the one where you are on the cruiseliner. I must admit the multiplayer is very quirky. For 
 those who don't know, the good guys run around in third person mode with no guns and try to download 
 information from points on the map while the bad guys are in FPS mode trying to stop the downloads 
 from happening. The only way a good guy can kill a bad guy (and YES, he does respawn) is to sneak 
 up behind him and break his neck (which is kinda cool but very hard) or to jump on his head from 
 a higher plane (again, difficult) Meanwhile, the bad guys have weapons galore! I'm not saying I 
 didn't like the mutliplayer, especially the co-op missions (those are fun) , but it is just different. 
 And if you are considering buying this game for multiplayer action I would definitely RENT IT FIRST. 
 That's all I'm saying. The Single Campaign is great and would be worth purchasing by itself. I 
 didn't at all think SCDA was a bad game, I just know that it will not work for some. Make sure 
 you do your homework before you spend your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Walton31
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 30, 2007 4:38 am PT
Review:  Having got this game for my xbox 360 the first thing that jumps right out at you is the graphics. 
 They are highly astounding, there are know little graphic gliches and the whole texture is very 
 smooth. Its very impressive, especially on the sunny boat mission. I like the way that as every 
 mission begins the atmosphere and location has dramatically changed, you go from the snowy and 
 very cold surroundings to very hot and sweltering locations. He also has time to change into a 
 different costumes in every mission.
  
  Each new mission is like a whole new game in its self.
  
  The game overall lasts only about 
 8-10 hours which is quite dissapointing but i promise that with both the graphics and the ever 
 changing scenarios youll be playing this game a couple more times over, just to show it off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bguy9
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 29, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Double Agent is highly addictive, and a masterpiece of ubisoft. The A. I. is just right, and the 
 game itself is very intelligent. Sam's character shows a lot of personality, and the plot is interesting 
 , which makes the game a lot more realistic and fun. The missions are different and there is plenty 
 of cool moments in every one. Working undercover, for a terrorist organization is an exciting twist 
 to the original plot of splinter cell. There are some amazing visuals, especially in the cruiseboat 
 mission. This is definitely the best splinter cell yet, and will keep you guessing until the end. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KeybladeHolder
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 29, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  I never got a Splinter Cell game before. I read the review for the game in EGM and decided to give 
 it a try. After playing a while I was really liking the game. I loved the idea of sneaking around 
 and knocking someone out. On the Xbox 360 the game really shines. The game's graphics are really 
 good and they show off what the 360 can do. My only complaint with the game is the lock-picking. 
 Thankfully, you can get a gadget that does the lock-picking automatically without any trouble. 
 The new trust system is great. It really makes u think about the choices you make in the game. 
 For any newcomers to the series there is an easy mode so the choices don't impact the trust meters 
 as much. Any person who likes the spy genre should give this game a try first before making the 
 full purchase just to make sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boricua529
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 29, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  This in my opinion is the best Splinter Cell so far. The graphics on this game are awesome, missions 
 are fun and challenging, and the moves and ability to do different things make this game fun. The 
 story of the game is not bad and as you proceed you will then make decisions. The missions are 
 fun specially while trying to accomplish the objective for both sides. The only thing that I did 
 not like about the game is that while you try to keep your trust with the NSA and expect to be 
 a hero, the ending of the game was pretty lame. They could had done a better job and perhaps have 
 a better ending after all that you've done. Other than that, it's a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKim89
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 28, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Sam Fisher returns to his secretive work, not as a blacksuit ninja, but a double agent, who can 
 turn the tide of war through his actions.
  
  Gameplay:
  Splinter Cell veterans will automatically note that there is no meter for indicating light or sound 
 stealthiness, at least on the xbox 360 version. Thus, you are forced to make more darkness for 
 yourself to hide yourself. The only indicator of your stealth is a light strapped onto your suit. 
 Veterans will also note that Sam does not stalk his prey during night as much anymore. Actually, 
 the majority of his missions will include him walking around in his standard bullet-proof vest 
 suit. You'll also play more during daytime. As for his moves, Sam has retained all of the same 
 kill and KO moves. However, he does have a few more tricks up his sleeve. He can wait next to a 
 doorway, and grab any unlucky passerby to interrogate him in a rather rough way. As for weapons, 
 Sam's got a ton more. While these weapons aren't exactly jaw-breaking devices, they do help him 
 in many scenarios. Sam now has an ultrasonic emitter, which sounds just like your whistle, except 
 you can direct it somewhere else. His pistol has a better EMP device (later on in the game) which 
 recharges way faster. He has several new grenades, which can even be launched by the SC20K. Oh, 
 Sam's SC20K is a way better deal than before. While not exactly great for silent killwork, it has 
 a very distinct zoom feature, with a laser dot for sniping.
  
  Graphics:
  Surprisingly, the graphics aren't well-polished for the xbox 360 version. In fact, Splinter Cell: 
 Chaos Theory seems to boast slightly better features. Of course, Sam himself looks gorgeous as 
 always, and you can even see sweat dripping down his bald head, but the character animations of 
 the NPCs leave something to be desired. When Sam interrogates a hostage, the character's mouth 
 flaps open and closed, much to the viewer's chagrin. The ragdoll physics doesn't seem as impressive 
 as featured so in the previous Splinter Cell game.
  
  Sound:
  Voice acting is much better, and your enemies actually speak in different languages. They still 
 speak perfect English when you interrogate them, but at least it has an accent. The background 
 music helps the mood, and it really comes into play whenever Sam is sneaking around in restricted 
 JBA areas. You can even hear his heart thump faster and faster. Value:
  By now, most of you know that there are several different endings as a result of the decisions 
 you make in the game. I just finished the game playing as the ultimate good guy, and the ending 
 isn't as grand as I hoped it to be. Of course, I'm playing it now as a total badass, but my hopes 
 aren't high. However, for each level you play, there are different ways to access your objective, 
 or different ways to tackle your obstacles. This game should last you about 15 hours the first 
 time through.
  
  While the singleplayer campaign surely entertains the gamer, it offers nothing exciting or groundbreaking. 
 But keep in mind that this is still a great game to play and to wean the hours away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooper182
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 28, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  First I want to say that Splinter Cell online has been changed completly now on Double Agent. they 
 completely destroyed the co-op missions for the game and the death matches. The game designers 
 felt that the should only have some maps to start out with and make the player unlock each map 
 by wining which is almost imposible as a merc if you don't know the map. The new Co-op is basicly 
 just you and a couple of people running around hacking the targets with Merc all around you. Now 
 that we got that out of the way we can talk about the campain. The game is based around the trust 
 of the terrorist and the NSA, if you lose to much trust game over. It starts you out with a computer 
 partner that only dies and does nothing but shut off a fan for you. once you finish that mission 
 it takes you to the part that changes the game, the death of Sam Fishers Daughter. This is when 
 things get interesting. It sets you up in a prison cell with only a knife that you cant really 
 use because if you kill a guard which you will meat manny of you cant kill them otherwise you lose 
 the NSA's trust. The whole game is based around trying to work for both companies and trying not 
 to get caught working for the NSA otherwise you lose the trust of the NSA. You cant kill any one 
 who is not a terrorist without losing a little bit of the NSA's trust. THis version also gives 
 you a score that tells you how you did stealth wise. This is the part that bugged me, you get minus 
 points if you kill players so you have to knock them out whitch makes you have to grab them or 
 you get a bad score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onedia-f-ball21
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Well this game isn't a walk in the park like the rest of them. This is challenging and fun. The 
 story line is great and it depends on what you do is how the game ends. The xbox live....... fun 
 but kinda dum you can be a spy or a terrorset. The sps have no wepons so you ither have to sneek 
 up behind them and brak there necks or jump on them and knock them out. When your a terrorest you 
 have a machine gun a gernade launcher and a bot. But the spy cant get up to places the terrorest 
 cant. But this game is exiting, fun, and its worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PanamaJack445
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 23, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Synopsis: Being that this is the fourth installment in the series I'll admit that my expectations 
 were rather high, and I was shocked that the project was handed over to Ubisoft's Shanghai Studio 
 (which in my opinion was a mistake from the beginning) . That being said I felt that the game was 
 decent, but simply not up to par with the rest of the series.
  
  Story: This is something that should be added to the scoring categories for any review as this 
 is the department I feel most game developers have been seriously lacking in since 2001. Perhaps 
 the reality has set in that developers don't need to be great writers so long as the majority of 
 their audience is, for lack of a better word, mindless. The background story that explains Sam's 
 situation is a bit hazy and extremely lacking in detail, but as far as character development is 
 concerned at least makes sense from a logical standpoint. The JBA is a terrorist organization that 
 isn't really given any proper background information as to their beginnings either and their goals 
 aren't terribly clear until the very end, if then. Basically the story is extremely lacking in 
 detail and not very well developed for a fourth release in the series.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay was fairly good, but not as consistent as it should've been with the rest 
 of the series especially Chaos Theory. The co-op system in place in Chaos Theory was excellent 
 but excluded from this release which, in my eyes, was also a mistake on the developers' part. I 
 do however like the swimming element and the ability to grab enemies from beneath the ice on some 
 levels. There are a few new gadgets that are fairly useful, but I found the enemies to be terribly 
 flawed on some maps where enemies several floors below you would become alerted to your presence 
 when you made a noise that no one in the nearby area would even notice. The online play is alright, 
 slightly different from the previous release but still lacking in something that makes it worth 
 playing more than once or twice.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are ok, but not really up to par for next gen games and certainly a far 
 cry from Gears of War. Perhaps in time they'll get it down and there might be another release in 
 the works as the game hints towards this notion at the very end of the game.
  
  Sound: The sounds were excellent as always although I liked the music in Chaos Theory a lot better 
 than in this release.
  
  Value: The title is worth playing if you're a fan of the series and hoping for another release 
 with a chance to add to the story a little bit more.
  
  Overall I felt that the game was simply not up to par with the rest of the series in terms of Story 
 and motivation. The single player was also fairly short for a fourth release and I'm hoping that 
 should the title get picked up for a fifth release (not likely, but wishing) that the project be 
 handed to a better Ubisoft studio like the Montreal department. Or at least a developer team willing 
 to write a more in-depth storyline that feels concurrent with the series and create a longer single 
 player. This has been the best stealth-oriented series since Thief and I'm hoping they pick up 
 the Thief series again soon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshuafonsecais
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  First I want to say that Splinter Cell online has been changed completly now on Double Agent. they 
 completely destroyed the co-op missions for the game and the death matches. The game designers 
 felt that the should only have some maps to start out with and make the player unlock each map 
 by wining which is almost imposible as a merc if you don't know the map. The new Co-op is basicly 
 just you and a couple of people running around hacking the targets with Merc all around you. Now 
 that we got that out of the way we can talk about the campain. The game is based around the trust 
 of the terrorist and the NSA, if you lose to much trust game over. It starts you out with a computer 
 partner that only dies and does nothing but shut off a fan for you. once you finish that mission 
 it takes you to the part that changes the game, the death of Sam Fishers Daughter. This is when 
 things get interesting. It sets you up in a prison cell with only a knife that you cant really 
 use because if you kill a guard which you will meat manny of you cant kill them otherwise you lose 
 the NSA's trust. The whole game is based around trying to work for both companies and trying not 
 to get caught working for the NSA otherwise you lose the trust of the NSA. You cant kill any one 
 who is not a terrorist without losing a little bit of the NSA's trust. THis version also gives 
 you a score that tells you how you did stealth wise. This is the part that bugged me, you get minus 
 points if you kill players so you have to knock them out whitch makes you have to grab them or 
 you get a bad score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElitesIgnorance
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 22, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Confuse on your objectives is all that matters to you, Sam Fisher. You sneak, plot and carefully 
 observed by your upper handed men and women, across the dark planes of prison to make the perfect 
 liking with one man that has a conspiracy on America. After loosing your daughter, you really have 
 no idea what to do since you lost the only thing that really matter to you. You became in a state 
 of insanity, doing any contract that will kill you to see your daughter. You start to feel unfair 
 to victims of America or out of land men, but you don't care because you think of that car driver 
 running over your daughter everytime in a hostage situation. They deserved it... because you are 
 a Double Agent...
  
  Double Agent is just like the previous games you played in the Splinter Cell franchise. You kill, 
 you skulk, and you interogate people is what the whole franchise is basically been known since 
 the game of the year, Splinter Cell. Since we all got pretty sick of killing the same Russians, 
 Japenese, or whatever in those other games, we actually have the chance of knocking around of our 
 own man that conspires some unreal conspiracy we think what they are doing. Confusing? Right? Well, 
 this story is being told in a hazy fashion, making Sam, or you, going nuts on who to trust.
  
  The story is being told in a familar way like the other stories being told, through missions. 
 The game has a different change though. Like Fable, you will need to gain your trust between two 
 sides of the game's forces, the NSA and the JBA. The NSA is people on the American side secertly 
 sending you missions to gain trust on the terriost or what so ever. You will also need to gain 
 trust throughout the JBA actions to stay intact with the conspiracy plot. You go through missions 
 of doing one side courses and the other, depends on what your actions during the outcomes of the 
 what you do at the end of the missions. It's different, but sometimes you don't want to do some 
 objectives that seem a little wrong with you. It's not perfect, but you will enjoy the courses 
 of the game.
  
  The gameplay is the same, but you don't have some key items throughout the storyline. When you 
 are going through the dark places people can't see you because you needed to be under a specific 
 dark/light meter marker is offically disposed and destoryed. You only have a green/yellow/red light 
 on Sam Fisher because he isn't going to be under the same suit every mission. It plays easy, if 
 you are seen it turns red and blinks rapidly. If it turns yellow, you might be under some stress 
 for being found by an enemy. Lastly, green just means your safe and are at the right sight for 
 not being detected. Another key item that is taken away is the sound meter. You will have to go 
 by the luck and not be caught by your own footsteps making a wishing factor that Sam had a sound 
 meter on his belt or whatever. Getting away from the factors, you have two choices of playing the 
 game. You mostly have to play third person, but in perspective view, you can play the game in a 
 semi-useless first person mode. You can use stealth actions like creeping onto a wall to shooting 
 an enemy with a stealth weaponery. You still have the easy-to-use knife attack with a quick squeeze 
 of the R button. Easy, safe, but sometimes controls can get a little out of hands. Pressing the 
 X button at times will make Sam slowly, and I mean slowly, pull his gun out in situations he is 
 getting shot at. The game also have to be under action. Everything is being use by pressing the 
 A button, boring, slow, and no Resident Evil 4 rapidly or sequel pressing. It's almost perfect, 
 but the second nature controls are almost feel too generic.
  
  The graphics are very good in detail since all Splinter Cell wants to catch that realistic regional 
 area. Enviroments are just astounding when Tom Clancy actually experiences the conflict. It's great 
 in detailed, but the enemy design is like cloning them, making the game appear a little to cheaply 
 in production. Also, the game seems to have the early Xbox 360 graphic touched like Oblivion and 
 Perfect Dark: Zero making the game feel a little dated in a today's view. With fair graphics, the 
 game is nothing but average in this category.
  
  The sound productions is fits perfectly into the stealth/shooter of Splinter Cell. With every level 
 changing the songs action scene song making the game have great replay value throughout the enemies' 
 conflict with you. The sounds of weapons are very detailed in a superb value cost, and the voice 
 acting is honestly up today's standars with Sam's funny humor and acting. There is no downside 
 in the sound production making a perfect score for this category.
  
  In conclusion, this game is honestly a must have for any die hard fan of the Splinter Cell franchise. 
 With a unique twinst into the storyline, Sam will show is actions being placed by you, making the 
 game have a really high replay value. The game has lots of moments you won't forget, and you will 
 never get old of the new multiplayer mode it persents with lots of new modes and really fun times. 
 You will thing it's the greatest, but only will show limits after many days. Splinter Cell Double 
 Agent almost plays like the past games, but new changes makes this one a little different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goodfellajd
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 20, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  This is a must have game for any Splinter Cell fan. The gameplay is great and the story is very 
 exciting. This game brings a different feeling from the last three as you are apart of the bad 
 guy team. I won't ruin any info but if you enjoy the series you will enjoy this game. Only downfall 
 is that the story is too short and the other versions are more in depth. The other downfall is 
 that they cut out some of the great multiplayer modes in this version. The graphics in this version 
 are nothing short of amazing though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JL2K6
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 20, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  This is one of the most original game sequels i have ever played. DA strays far from the previous 
 games' formulas while keeping the same stealth intact. The game increases its worth by adding a 
 Trust System which allows you to make more mistakes, which was unacceptable in the first two games. 
 Also, an incredible story is added. Sam Fisher returns from a regular mission to find out his daughter 
 was killed by a drunk driver. Sent into a state of rage and shock, he decides to take on the most 
 dangerous mission possible: Becoming a Double Agent. Now your choices in certain areas can affect 
 the end of the game. First off, the graphics are amazing. Secondly, the guns, explosions, slash 
 sounds, and voices are great. There isn't anything bad about this game really. The undercover levels, 
 (4 of them, but the last one is DIFFERENT) may seem boring the first time through, but when you 
 play them again, they are more fun, because you know what to do. The whole game is like that. It 
 has plenty of replay value. You are an idiot to miss this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havik17
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 19, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  it's fun it's different it's short this is one of the shortest game i have played but the little 
 bit of time i could spend with mr. fisher was fun and cool but what is with the darkness there 
 is none batman needs a cape spawn needs wanda and sam fisher needs to be in the dark don't mess 
 with with sucess keep him in the dark please i don't want to walk in the snow or run around in 
 a well lit ship keep it real and keep it almost like chaos theory in the dark but i think anybody 
 would like playing this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerX500
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  ive never seen better graphics ! the graphics gives you a shock, it is so real !! when i got the 
 game i think the game should be funniest game ive played on a loong time, but i was wrong, a little 
 dissapointing but its still one of my classics to Xbox 360. the gameplay is awsome but not the 
 gameplay i belived its was, and i dosent got an Co-op mode and thats BORING ! but to the the old 
 Xbox can you play Co-op. The details in this game are soo cool !! The water quality in this game 
 are soo amazing, you can also swim in this game and if an enemy stand right near the water you 
 can grab him and take him under the water and break his neak. If you looking at Splinter cell Double 
 agent too the other consoles you can see that Sam can only swim in the Xbox 360-version, on the 
 other consoles Sam can only be in a pool with water ( could not explain better, sorry) and grab 
 an enemy and steep them in the pool.
  
  And my final score is... 9.1 !!! not bad ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hwoarang12
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 6, 2007 2:16 am PT
Review:  Im sure that all the people who loves Splinter Cell series have been waiting for this game since 
 the first screenshot. Im a big fan of Splinter Cell series, Sam Fisher is my favorite character 
 and I also couldnt wait for this game. When I saw the screenshots and videos I was very, very 
 impressed about Double Agent for the 360. Finally I got the game and I have to say that its not 
 as good as I thought in the beginning.
  
  Gameplay: We have got the year 2008. Everything begins when Lambert is telling Sam that his daughter 
 Sarah has been killed by a drunk driver. Not only this happened but the John Browns Army (JBA) 
 organization are using new tactics and weapons, they are much, much more deadlier and brutal. Fortunately 
 Fisher didnt give up. Sam and Lambert came up to the plan to destroy the enemy from inside. If 
 they want to do this so Sam will have to go to the jail and from there he will try to join JBA. 
 Sam Fisher is now a Double Agent and this mean that he will have to cooperate with the NSA and 
 JBA. So the storyline is well done, its interesting. As a double agent you will have to make a 
 lot of really hard decisions. Decisions such as kill or not kill. NSA will give you a task not 
 to kill an agent but on the other hand JBA will give you an order to kill this person. Each decision 
 you make as a double agent will depend on the ending. Actually Splinter Cell Double Agent offers 
 three endings. Bad, good or the best ending. Beating this game with the best ending will give you 
 a bonus mission, unfortunately its very short. So making those complicated decisions in this game 
 is very interesting and great. Trust meters will help us not to lose too much trust from NSA or 
 JBA, we are able to check the trust meters to make sure what decisions we can make. Another cool 
 thing of this title are interactive cinematics. In the Okhotsk mission Fisher jumps from the plane 
 and we have to open his parachute. In the Shanghai mission we have to take control of the helicopter 
 but its not hard to align the flight. It is also really cool. First we can complete a short training 
 and then we have ten missions with bonus mission but only if you get the best ending of course. 
 These missions take place in Iceland where Sam has to infiltrate Geothermal Plant, jail (really 
 good mission) , JBA Headquarters Part 1,2,3 and 4 (the last ten mission) , Cruise Ship, Shanghai 
 and my favorite mission in Kinshasa. Thats eight missions but they have two or three parts so 
 that makes it ten. The bonus mission is a Coast Guard Boat in NYC where we have a task to stop 
 the last JBA terrorist. You probably think that if this game has that superb missions then its 
 almost perfect but unfortunately I have to say no. The missions (not all missions) are not as cool 
 as it looks like. The first part of JBAs missions is really good, but the second and third mission 
 in the JBA are simply boring for me. We almost have to do the same things over and over again. 
 Search some informations for the NSA, plug Trojan horse to the JBAs server, practice at firing 
 range, record some meeting and more. We have a lot things to do but they are not interesting when 
 we have to do it in the second part and again in the third part of JBAs missions. The fourth part 
 is fortunately better. Also Im very angry because I saw many cinematics in the trailers, for example 
 Sam was in the train, so why those cinematics are not in the game? In the trailers we were seeing 
 that they are in the game. Maybe Ubi Soft cut them? I dont know but it makes me very angry. One 
 of the biggest minuses of Splinter Cell Double Agent for the xbox 360 is that the game doesnt 
 have fantastic cooperation mode better known from Chaos Theory and in Single Player Sam is also 
 working alone. Yeah, in Geothermal Plant some agent is going with us but hes not going the same 
 way that we are going and this agent has been killed. Also in Kinshasa mission we have to help 
 a CIA agent Hisham Hanza, but its only a minute of cooperation with him, Sam helps him jump through 
 the fence and thats it. The game is also short, missions are short. We can easily beat the whole 
 game in about ten hours. Chaos Theory on xbox has longer missions. As I said, I think that unfortunately 
 most of the games potential has been wasted. Of course its not a bad game on the 360, its a 
 very good title with really good gameplay, but I dont have the same awesome feelings that I still 
 have with Chaos Theory for xbox. I also have to say about Sam Fisher. He has great outfits in the 
 missions and hes using a lot of outstanding gadgets. I like the new sticky camera, she can blow 
 out! Fisher also has some new moves, finally we can grab an enemy and kill him in the water. The 
 swimming in this game is a fantastic idea. I also think its great that the missions are by day 
 not only by night. The gameplay in Double Agent on the 360 is very good but unfortunately I have 
 many reservations to this title.
  Multiplayer is a little bit different that he was before. Of course we can play as spies or mercenaries. 
 For me playing as spies is a lot better than playing as mercenaries. Spies are faster, they have 
 great moves and also you are almost untouchable. The maps in multiplayer are really good and big. 
 I'm thinking why all spies and all mercenaries are bald? I don't know but it's funny for me cuz 
 it looks very unrealistic in my opinion when all of them are bald, both spies and mercenaries. 
 Really funny.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are awesome! We have bump-mapping, normal-mapping and more. Textures and 
 the environment look amazing. Character models are very detailed, also character animation is really 
 well done. The lighting and shadows are sharp and they look realistic. The snow storm, rain, fog 
 are great. All weather effects are superb.
  
  Sound: The soundtracks in each mission are very atmospheric. Voice acting is a superb job and other 
 sounds like weapons noises are cool. The sound when we are underwater is very realistic.
  
  Overall: As I said, I love Splinter Cell series, Fisher is my favorite character but Splinter Cell 
 Double Agent on the 360 is not as good as I thought it would be. I thought that there will be more 
 cinematics from the trailers, that the missions, especially JBAs missions will be more interesting. 
 Its a very good game overall, very good game but its not a revolution on the 360. I think you 
 will like this game cuz its not bad but also Double Agent on the 360 is not a perfect game unfortunately. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yandor
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 16, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the series since the start and though I had a lot of fun with the previous two -- including 
 countless hours on multiplayer -- I'm a little disappointed in this installment. The double agent 
 idea sounds good on the back of the box, but it's not nearly what it could have been. There's no 
 doubt that the Splinter Cell franchise needed a face-lift, and the inclusion of daytime missions 
 works great. For the first time, there is a real sense of worry because the bad guys aren't walking 
 around in total darkness just waiting for you to snap their necks. The daylight offers a whole 
 new angle on stealth, and it works well, despite the fact that there seems to be no change in the 
 looks, dynamics, or interaction from the other games. Sure, there's a little more polish on the 
 graphics; Sam looks better than ever, and the environments looks great, but it's not quite as pretty 
 as I expected. Still, there's a few times I had to stop and admire the details. (You'll know what 
 I mean when you take tha first step on the deck of the cruise ship. Wow!)
  There's really two games here; the same style missions from the previous games, and now, a kind 
 of go-fetch undercover set that completely wrecks the experience. Each mission is seperated by 
 Sam going undercover for the JBA (the bad guys) and walking (literally) around their hideout completing 
 various silly objectives both FOR the JBA and the NSA. Your level of trust for each is measured 
 periodically and it's up to you whom you want to keep allied, giving you mulitple endings. It sounds 
 much better than it plays. The JBA sections are timed. You have about 24 mintues to try and complete 
 a list of objectives, most of which are things like searching file cabinets, arming land mines, 
 finding medical records, recording voices, blah, blah blah. You can't run (seriously, the controls 
 won't allow it) , so you walk up and down stairs trying to enter 'restricted areas' to obtain this 
 or that. There's a kind of creepy love/seduction thing that you could play with for a while but 
 with no real satisfaction, and what's worse, most of the henchmen in the JBA headquarters don't 
 seem to notice you even when you're standing right in front of them... unless you entering the dreaded 
 'restricted areas'!! I'm sounding bitter because I really hated these break-ups between the missions. 
 Sure, the missions also had you making some quasi-moral decisions, but you could take your time, 
 and you had plently of great gadgets to use. And compared to the JBA headquarter AI, the mission 
 AI are almost mystical in their ability to spot you. But that's not a bad thing. The challenge 
 is adrenaline pumping! It's these missions that save the game. Though Sam doesn't have any new 
 tricks up his sleeve, (save for pulling dudes through the ice) it's still great fun to work your 
 way through so many different locations, even if most of them were as linear as before. Besides, 
 what's the real draw for this game anyway? Right... MULTIPLAYER! And it rocks. Great additions to 
 this part of the game. Computer controlled enemies so you and you pals can play co-op against the 
 computer-this is like a gift from the Splinter Cell Gods. There is seemingly endless fun in these 
 maps, and it's the only reason I play now. For fans of the series, this is one that you're gonna 
 love or hate. I bet most gamers are skipping the campaign and jumping right into mulitplayer, and 
 I wouldn't doubt that this is the feature that future iterations of the series will focus on more. 
 Buy is used, or rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cabooserckr
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 16, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell: Double Agent is the latest Splinter Cell game and by far one of the best. You play 
 as Sam Fisher, a covert operative sent to infiltrate a Terrorist Organization. In the very beginning, 
 Sam's new teammate (John) is killed and after stopping a bomb, Sam learns that his daughter died. 
 Sam is thrown in jail to break one of the JBA's (John Brown's Army) main members out in order to 
 join. Once you have joined, you will be taken around the world and you will have to make choices 
 that will affect the trust that you have greatly. Kill an innocent man or not, let a bomb go off, 
 etc. And I'll tell you now that if you played Chaos Theory and got to the Seoul level, there's 
 a level like that that's just as annoying.
  
  The Multiplayer got a total upgrade and is MUCH better than before. Whether you're a noob or a 
 seasoned veteran, everyone will fit in with the new sytem. The spies' annoying shock gun is gone 
 as well as the annoying sticky cameras. The Spies will rely on speed and athleticism to win. The 
 Mercenaries make the game a little unbalanced, however. The Mercs can run FASTER than the spies 
 which gets annoying and they can jump, but they can't jump over ANYTHING. Their guns never run 
 out of bullets and have too large of a clip, and the drones get on your nerves after a while. But 
 overall, this game is well worth your hard earned money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrwizard310
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 14, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  Great graphics, unless you have a NVidia graphics card which it seems to not like at all. I own 
 a Gforce 7600 with 512megs and the game constantly spits me to the desktop. So be warned... The 
 story is very interesting, good and evil choices as opposed to the super clean Sam Fisher we all 
 know. The premise of the story is pretty weak. Sam's much loved and fawned over daughter from the 
 previous games gets whacked by a car (no, this isn't giving anything away) . Who killed her? Was 
 it random or deliberate? Why don't we see Sam dissolve? He just seems to show up all messed up 
 in da heed. What was the charge that gets him thrown in jail? Lots of unanswered questions for 
 me lead to a bit of frustration but that balanced against the strong campaign stories and good 
 graphics still left me with a satisfied feeling. My biggest ding? Short game. I finished in it 
 what seemed to be very short order. I don't list the actual time played because I believe that 
 the player should feel this naturally, The game was long enough . Believe me, I didn't leave with 
 that feeling after playing Oblivion , the GTA series or the Diablo series. Over all exactly what 
 you'd expect and want from a Splinter Cell, even if it is Less Filling , it does Taste Great . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b0rderp4trol
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 14, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  This game was good but i think the publisher could have done better. Its the kind of game that 
 when you beat it you dont want to go back and do it again. I also think the multiplayer could have 
 been better, it was still fun but not as fun as halo and gears and even tom clancy's own ghost 
 recon. The graphics, i think were solid and the gameplay was really cool. I like the fact that 
 you can pull a guard off a ledge to his death. Dont get me wrong, this game was still a great installment 
 to splinter cell and i think tom clancy will still have many great splinter cell games to come. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themarksman2
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 14, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  This game starts off really well. I truely love the action of solo-missions. I really enjoyed beating 
 the game and finally (after about a month) completing all the missions. I am however shocked at 
 the multiplayer and the lack there of an excellant game. I feel this game made the multiplayer 
 very hard and too advanced for beginner players. The fact that the only thing you can do against 
 the mercs is sneak up and snap there necks or jump on them from above (which only renders them 
 unconcious for a bit) makes it extremely hard. Even when you hack a merc all you do is shut there 
 lights off, and if your playing against CPU mercs then it doesn't really matter if they have lights 
 of not because they are going to see you. Granted I have yet to be able to play online yet, so 
 I think it will be a little easier once I am able to play against humans. All in all I complain 
 just a little about the multiplayer in the game; I do enjoy the challenge of having such a hard 
 task to overcome the mercs, so I give this game and A in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djelwell
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 13, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  I Rented Splinter Cell on gamefly, i was exited for it, because i read many things about it and 
 it sounded like the most interesting one in the series yet, i was actually thinking it might be 
 a buy, (which means the game has to be pretty damn good since theyre so expensive for the 360) . 
 but in the end i was definetely glad i didnt. the biggest problem with it is that it encourages 
 you to do only the lame things an agent would do, which is to always be stelthy... and i mean ALWAYS... 
 if you really were an undercouver agent under grief for your dead daughter, trying to make it believeable, 
 you would be doing alot more damage than the game itself encourages you to. if you fire a couple 
 rounds into a bad guys chest, thetll take offpoints for your nsa score, but wont add any to the 
 jba score. all the taglines to the game tell you about betrayel, and stuff, and yet when the time 
 comes to betraying, you can only have 2 options and if you do it the right way the game gets harder, 
 and if you do it the wrong way, you get a bad grade and you cant see the ending sequence. but besides 
 that, the game is very entertaining, and alot of the stuff you do is interesting and challenging, 
 i just would be a better game if they didnt give you so many choices to make, and if you dont do 
 the tedious steathy secondery objective stuff, (which gets really old after awhile) , then you dont 
 get good equipment to make your job easier. but if you try the game, and like it alot, then thats 
 fine, but in my opinion, this is definetely not the best in the series. Although the very original, 
 fun addicting multi player, almost makes up for some of its faults. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alastyr
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 13, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  The multi player in Splinter Cell: Double Agent (SCDA) revs up the spy vs. merc interplay but sacrifices 
 the plodding, heart thumping prowls of Chaos Theory. This isn't a bad thing, but it will likely 
 be the cause of many a seasoned spy feeling homesick for their old haunts and their trusty gadgets.
 
  Sure, the abscence of mines, spy trackers, cameras, and alarms may feel initially liberating for 
 spies used to seeping along walls like molasses, but one soon realizes what Ubisoft has actually 
 done is drain the water out of the pool and unlatched the gate for the children to run in and play 
 in the puddles.
  What we are basically left with are all the boundaries of the spy vs. merc game play with none 
 of the depth.
  
  Don't misunderstand me. SCDA multi player is a unique experience and is perhaps the only lasting 
 reason to purchase this game. However, would it have been too much to ask the developers to give 
 us a few more options, to fill the pool with water if we wanted to swim as it were. For example, 
 the option for the mercs to have mines and spy trackers, or spies to have sticky cams, or the option 
 to turn the motion tracker and proximity detector off would have given the game more depth. Such 
 simple measures increase the replayability immensely.
  
  SCDA brings a lot of great new ideas to the table and Ubisoft deserves credit for that. The spies' 
 new flight movements are brilliant and the merc's grapnel and drone are perfect additions. The 
 new maps take their rightful place in terms of construction and quality with those grand Splinter 
 Cell multi player maps of old, yet it's lamentable the large amount space in these maps that goes 
 unused. The reason is likely because the only thing balancing the spies' speed (sans mines and 
 alarm lasers) is the enormous size of these maps, with huge chunks of neutral ground separating 
 the spies' spawn point from their objectives.
  
  SCDA is a good bet for fun gaming whether you're a veteran or new to the series. With any luck 
 (big hint coming up here Ubisoft) , the next Splinter Cell will have maps of the Chaos Theory variety 
 alongside Double Agent style maps so gamers can experience both the cerebral stealth of Choas Theory 
 with the nimble acrobatics of Double Agent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthDravvid
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 13, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell: Double Agent brings the player back as NSA agent, Sam Fisher. However, the story 
 goes in a different direction, with Sam becoming a double agent after his daughter's untimely death. 
 This may come as a bit of suprise to most gamers who are used to the franchise, but it turns out 
 quite nicely, blending elements of the new JBA missions and the classic Splinter Cell missions 
 we all know and love. Overall the game's sound and graphics are about the same as Chaos Theory: 
 excellent. My only complaint is the slight lagging of frames per second in certain areas. Sure 
 enough the graphics are heavy on polygons, but there are 360 games out there that simply do not 
 have this problem, and I don't see why any of them should. Either way, the game is a pretty good 
 package, although I would've liked to have had a longer story to play on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 16, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Good- 2 paths to take; Graphics looks awesome; smooth framrate; intresting story and great voice 
 acting
  
  BAD- Still the slow moving, non actiony gameplay; No good music
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Splinter Cell games is all about you saving hostigages from terrorists as you sneak 
 about and kill them silantly, but this time you are a terrorist, well if you want to, you can chosse, 
 which is a great idea giving you 2 ways to play the game, but the only probblem is that the gameplay 
 is very slow, theres toom much sneaking and hiding than going out there and blasting them all away, 
 i know that this is what they wanted, but its not a game for me, theres many different weapons 
 to pick up, either your own or the enemies weapons, theres is, however, cool moves in the game 
 whilst you sneak about like hang from polls, quick kill enemies or grab them from behind, theres 
 so many.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics are great, they look awesome, Tom Clancy games realy know how to use the 360 hardrive 
 realy well and this is'nt much better or worse than Ghost recon and RainbowSix Vegas, the framerate 
 holds up tight whilst through fighting and the special effects look great!.
  
  SOUND:
  Even though the sound does'nt have brilliant music to get you into the game, it has great voice 
 acting, the probblem with the music is that they are too quiet and you want adrenalin music to 
 pump you up into the game.
  
  OVERALL:
  Apart from its slow gameplay and bad chose of music, the game is great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parlevous
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 12, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  As someone who's played all the SC games i must say this is a really good addition to the series. 
 The different environments are very well done. It plays like the other SC games which i think is 
 a plus since i'm a Hitman junkie. I love replaying missions over and over in order to get a 100% 
 on stealth and still manage to complete all the objectives. I haven't had the change to get into 
 MP yet so i can't comment on it, but i am looking forward to it. My one complaint is the horrid 
 screan tearing. IMO this should NOT be happening on a next gen console. Maybe they should take 
 a page from GOW or COD3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 11, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Don't see how people can't like this game, The single player is good, the Multiplayer is even better, 
 and now I don't know what to say but THIS IS A GREAT GAME.
  
  The singleplayer is a good start to a good storyline, it is compelling in all these ways that I 
 can't describe, either that, then its a rip off of Hitman except you actually can't be seen.
  
  Graphics ARE AWESOME. Not sure if they are using the Unreal 3 engine, Because I heard a rumor 
 about it, but the Graphics are really good, top to bottom.
  
  The multiplayer is what kept me going, no doubt. its fun, and the Teams are counter balanced so 
 nicely and it keeps each team playing fair, the only critism I have is that the spies don't get 
 those electric weapons like from Pandora tommorow.
  
  I would rent it first for you no sayers, but for the rest, get it with what ever means necessary. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dattylawnglaygz
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2007 2:28 am PT
Review:  I have always been a big Splinter Cell fan so I must say that this one does not disappoint. Yet 
 another solid game from the Tom Clancy series. Yes it can be hard and unforgiving but thats whats 
 good about stealth gaming rather than shoot'em ups... its a thinkin game. Plus, every aspect of 
 it is great from the graphics to the sound to the gameplay. The only 1 flaw is how they eliminated 
 the wall splits from the Sammy Fish arsenal... but its cool they made up for it in other ways... feel 
 me? But yea definately check this title out. So far all the Clancy titles for Xbox 360 are solid. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiltaJay
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 8, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  Although I still like Splinter Cell Double Agent for the current gen a little more, this version 
 is still classic Splinter Cell. It's refreshing seeing Fisher out of his Cell gear and going through 
 stressful moments undercover. But what really stands out in this version is the environments. There 
 are still some dark sections Sam can hide in to infiltrate his destination, but now it's mostly 
 in the day where the challenge is the toughest yet. Unless all you do is foolishly run n gun everything 
 on site, you will not finish this game under 10 hours. Now it takes twice the patience to complete 
 an objective as not only is the day the least of your worries, but the enemy AI is smarter and 
 have realistic eye instinct. As much as a person can see someone in the corner of his eyes in real 
 life, so too these enemies in this game, so it really isn't the AI being inconsistent, it's that 
 they're much smater. Unless you run n gun, you will die alot using stealth and get frustrated if 
 you're not patient as the guards are less predictable than previous Cell games. They also take 
 different route patterns when you restart a level. Simply put SCDA the toughest Cell game yet. 
 Trying to get a score close to 100% on hard level will take alot of skill and eat up alot of your 
 time, as this game can take 2-3 times longer than average to achieve this. If you're a stealth 
 freak, you will definetly enjoy the challenge that awaits you, but if you run n gun it'll be an 
 average no fun shooter. The JBA HQs are the most stressful levels if you're trying to complete 
 as much objectives from both sides as the timing is the greatest challenge in any Splinter Cell 
 game, truly brilliant. Being next gen or current gen, this is the best Splinter Cell yet. It's 
 amazing how the developers come up with a better version with each installment. Looking forward 
 to number 5 as the ending left a big cliffhanger. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azaiel
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell is now a series of tried and tested, trial and error gameplay that some find frustrating 
 and boring but others find enthrauling and captivating. I am one of the latter being a Splinter 
 Cell fan since the original. This time around though there are some nice new elements that make 
 this more than just another Splinter Cell title like the rest.
  
  The trust system while being relativley easy to maintain on Easy or Normal dificulty is a very 
 nice addition and makes you plan your next move more cautiously but yet with you working along 
 side a terrorist group it also losens off the reins alot on Sam's part allowing you to do things 
 that in previous iterations would cause you to fail the mission entirely. Also the inclusion of 
 daylight areas in this game makes a suprisingly nice change of pace from the midnight shadow of 
 darkness feel every other version has, sometimes finding cover can be quite ilusive and you will 
 need to improvise on the fly on more than one occasion.
  
  The power of the 360 shows through on this game, Sam himself looks more detailed than ever and 
 the environments are full of great detail and soft touches that bring the areas to life in so many 
 ways. Weather your in the JBA HQ or skulking around on a cruise liner the visuals always remain 
 first rate.
  
  The audio is the same as what you would expect, top notch voice acting from the returning characters 
 of the series and the new additions also putting in a great performance. The music works well to 
 build the tension as enemies approach you while your hidden the tempo kicks up and fading out when 
 your safe again. The score is similar to previous versions but thats not a bad thing, if it aint 
 broke dont fix it.
  
  Online this game has to be played to be truely appreciated, it brings something that no other game 
 has done before. It evolves the multiplayer from Chaos Theory making it more newbie friendly but 
 then also when you learn it you will realise that there is still alot of depth and some of the 
 matches can be down right brutal. Both the Spies and Mercs are tons of fun to play as and it really 
 should not be missed by any stealth action fanatic.
  
  Overall this is a great game if you like the series, but it also assumes your pretty much up to 
 speed on how it all works aswell dropping you straight into a pretty intense mission from the get 
 go. There are a couple of training missions to teach you the ropes and they will come in very handy 
 for newcomers and veterans alike to learn the new tricks Sam now has. With a little patience and 
 getting over the learning curve the core game is as good as ever and online adds a whole new aspect 
 to where this franchise can and probably will go next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splintacell25
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 22, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  The single player story reinvents the Splinter Cell series and sets up for great sequels. People 
 might not like the campaign as it really goes in depth into the JBA, but the way it sets the series 
 up for continuations really show how great this game really is. The multiplayer improves every 
 flaw in the old spi vs mercs and is even more enjoyable then the single player. This game does 
 an amazing job of developing Sam Fisher into a deeper character than just a spy. If you haven't 
 got into the old Splinter Cell's than the campaign might not be as enjoyable but it really is a 
 great achievment from the graphics to the storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: --MAV3R1CK --
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 7, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Double Agent features our protaganist, Sam Fisher in his Fourth Dilemma. 
 The story of Sam's life and mission continues as he is sent down by Lambert to neutralize the Nuclear 
 Missle being set off with Sam trying to disable it. In this mission, you get to see his working 
 apprentice as they try to help eachother out. I don't want to ruin everything so i'll get back 
 to reviewing the game. If you want to know more, play the game and find out.
  
  Single Player:
  The single player mode of Sam Fisher is very good either for first-time users 
 or experienced players. The campaign isn't really short with about 10 missions, I beleive. The 
 missions are pulse-pounding and thrilling with each move you take. So be careful. There's also 
 a new feature that should be worhty noted for Double Agent ---the trust meter and the actions you 
 take and how it affects it. Whatever decision that YOU make in the game, impacts the game greatly. 
 If you are playing as a beginner, then the consequences won't be as worse as the mid-level or experienced 
 player. Your action will also affect how the game ends so be aware of that. There's a surprising 
 twist at the end of the game and I don't want to ruin it right now.
  The acheivements are very balanced and very organized, if you want acheivements fast, you can do 
 the traning missions and that will get you a few points up. So, overall, the Campaign mode of Sam 
 Fisher is nice and long and will definetely keep you playing for a good 15-30 hours if you want 
 to be as stealthy as you can. Now, on to the multiplayer.
  
  Multiplayer:
  The multiplayer aspect of the game is very nice indeed also. It continues the Live-excellent multiplayer 
 started out by Chaos Theory and Double Agent has continued that tradition. You get to play as either 
 a Spy or a Mercenery and, boy is it intense. Playing in the multiplayer is nothing compared to 
 the single player because the multiplayer aspect is much more paced, much more action oriented 
 and requires a LOT more thinking so be prepared. It's good to have a few friends around SC so that 
 you can invite them and such because if your just a beginner in the series witha low-level trying 
 to get your level up, you'll most likely be rejected by the higher-level junkies who like to play 
 with only the high and experienced players around. You can up your level by playing the co-op missions, 
 which is another new addition to the multiplayer branch. It's a good way to hone your skills as 
 you try to level up and practice for the biggies. The multiplayer is just as addicitve and is really 
 good.
  
  Conclusion:
  The Splinter Cell Series never looked this good especially since its next-gen this is one of the 
 best games i've ever played. Pick this one up and you'll get what I mean. This is a MUST for all 
 Splinter Cell fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stealth89
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  i remember reading a lot of previews for Double Agent, and having some worries that some of the 
 changes being made might affect the game in a negative way... and, sadly, my worries became true.
 
  
  graphics: obviously, since this game is on the Xbox 360, the graphics will be at least decent. 
 and i will admit, there are some textures and character models and lighting effects that did impress 
 me, but to be honest, there isn't a huge leap from these graphics to the graphics for Chaos Theory 
 on the Xbox (and in some places, i think CT's graphics are better) .
  
  Game play: this is the part that is most disappointing. in this version, Ubisoft got rid of the 
 light meter and sound meter and replaced them with a light on Sam's back (Green = you're invisible, 
 Yellow = not invisible, Red and flashing = lol, you idiot, someone saw you and is about to put 
 a bullet in your head) . this, to me, was either a horrible decision or just plain laziness. i want 
 the light/sound meter back! also, the previous SC games have had one main guideline: stick to the 
 shadows. in this game, thats pretty hard to do, considering it seems like there is more light than 
 there is shadow. thats right... Ubisoft decided to put you in broad daylight for some of the missions. 
 bloody ridiculous. other than the bad stuff, its mostly the same SC game play.
  
  Sound: as for the sound, i suppose it is satisfactory for the most part. my only complaints are 
 that they didn't have Amon Tobin do the game's music for this one (he did it for Chaos Theory) , 
 and that disappointed me a lot, as i thought Tobin captured Splinter Cell's atmosphere brilliantly. 
 another odd thing (this may just be my Xbox360 fault) is that sometimes the sound for one part 
 of the game just dies for about a minute, then comes back (for example; the noise of Sam's knife 
 dies out, and when an enemy fires at you, you don't here the gunfire) .
  
  i suppose i probably seem pretty harsh right now, but if you are a stealth action fan, you will 
 at least like this game. also, please note that i have yet to try multiplayer, and i here that 
 alone is a good enough reason to own this game for the Xbox360. maybe im being a bit picky... i 
 kind of wanted (more or less) an expansion to Chaos Theory.
  
  i hope Ubisoft realizes their errors in time for Splinter Cell 5.
  
  hey update on 2-4-07, 
 just got XBL, played multiplayer, and its like crack. (meaning its addictive as hell) . so, I made 
 the score a little better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waitey1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2007 1:20 am PT
Review:  Ok lets make one thing clear, Double Agent isn't as good as Chaos Theory or Splinter Cell. It is 
 however a fantastic stealth experience you don't want to miss. It looks sensational, sounds amazing 
 and is in a league of its own in gameplay stakes. There are a number of new features to get to 
 grips with. The trust meter is one. Depending on whether you kill or knock out, sneak by or shoot 
 up, prevent explosions or cause them, your trust meter will rise and fall for the JBA and NSA. 
 If any of these bars hits zero, its game over as either the terrorists will kick you out or the 
 NSA will disown you. This adds a bit of excitement as you are forced to complete JBA objectives 
 or NSA objectives to maintain their trust in you. Another new thing is HQ missions. Here you are 
 in your JBA HQ and must complete objectives for both sides. There are restricted areas in the HQ 
 and it is often in here where objectives are. JBA objectives include making mines and taking bodies 
 down to the furnace while NSA objectives are sneaky, requiring you to bug antennas and build profiles 
 of key JBA members. This is a welcome addition and is really different to previous games. However, 
 Double Agent is let down a lot as well. Most of the missions are in the light and daytime so take 
 away some of the stealthiness we love. The game also seems to have taken a much more action approach. This 
 shows often. However, when you play oldskool Splinter Cell levels such as a geothermal plant, you 
 notice the Cell magic once again. Top game then but let down by a few weaknesses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lemur911
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 4, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  The Splinter Cell series took my breath away with great visuals (in the time frame) innovative 
 game-play, and pulse-pounding game-play. Unfortunately, I can't say the same for the latest installment.
 
  
  Don't get me wrong, it was good, and worth the Sixty Dollars, but it didn't meet up to Splinter 
 Cell standards. In this review, I will break it up into two segments, one for Single Player, and 
 another for Multiplayer.
  
  Single Player
  *SPOILER START*
  After the introductory level, Sam rushes into the helicopter, but knows something is wrong, his 
 boss, Conoel Irving Lambert, is inside. Sam hops in, panting, What the hell is going on?! and Lambert 
 breaks the news to him. Sam's daughter, Sarah, was killed in a tragic car accident, and Sam is 
 on the brink of insanity. If you have read the books, you'll know that Sarah was Sam's only means 
 of support in his rugged life full of espionage, secrets, and a rocky love life. When Sam realizes 
 he has nothing else to lose, he asks Lambert to give him the most dangerous assignment possible. 
 Now Sam has purposely made an image as a criminal, and thus, must join a Terrorist Orginization 
 known as John Brown's Army.
  *SPOILER END*
  
  The core gameplay is the same as the rest of the series, finish your mission unseen and without 
 a trace (though you can do it recklessly with worse end results.) but with a few changes.
  
  1. You will not always use the shadows anymore, you now will be using more organic cover, like 
 snow, complicated arcitecture, or just as a friendly target.
  2. You will now be balancing your trust between the NSA, and an un-named orginization (If you want, 
 see SPOILERS above.) and certain actions will determine your trust, and if you completely lose 
 trust with an orginization, the mission is over.
  
  These might sound like good changes, but they have their flaws... By using organic cover, it's hard 
 to tell whether or not you are hidden, and this often misleads you, and the trust system often 
 ends with frustration, because it drastically limits you. The core gameplay is still exciting, 
 with the same old,  and gun-slinging goodness. It's tense 
 and in the end, a fun experience.
  Visually, this game is very pretty, sweat glistens from character's skin, and there are a variety 
 of locations, meaning there are no drab, samey locales, plus the game utilizes the Havoc phsyics 
 engine, meaning that most things you do come to life with believable action.
  Old Michael Ironsides, a seasoned actor, does the voice acting for Sam Fisher, the main character, 
 giving him a a persona with more depth, and all the other characters as well have rich voices drenched 
 with talent.
  
  Overall Score: 8 out of 10
  
  
 
  Multiplayer
  Spies Vs. Mercenaries is like the old games, a team of highly skilled and nimble spies are pitted 
 against the Bulky, gung-ho Mercs, but there are some changes...
  
  1. There are now 3 man Squads for each team, with the option of bots for the Mercs team.
  2. Each 
 team-member can only take one gadget with them at a time.
  3. Spies can no-longer stun the Mercs with their face punching move, bringing some well-needed balance 
 to the game.
  
  All these changes are good-ones, now becoming more acsessible to new players, though hard-core 
 vets may find it a little to dumbed down for their tastes. but be warned, even though the case 
 says so, THERE IS NO SPLIT-SCREEN MULTIPLAYER. Which is an outrage. Hopefully the new game cases 
 will be printed differently. Thankfully, for you LAN lovers, there is system link. But there are 
 some notable glitches still not fixed after two patches: the game disconnects often, giving you 
 an odd: Host has left Session message. This has been confirmed by players other than me. Graphics 
 aren't as striking as Single-Player, but they just barely snagged the Next-Gen qualifications.
 
  Sound effects are good, and Voice-Chat support is excellent, and the game is alot of fun to play.
 
  Hopefully in the future, they will fix the bugs, and we will raise the score if they do.
  Overall Score: 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaveFrehley
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 3, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  Well, I got this game as a christmas gift, and I had not played any of the previous Splinter Cell 
 games to date so I had very little idea of what to expect. I knew it was a stealth type game, but 
 that was pretty much all i knew. There are a lot of great things about this game, but there are 
 a couple faults. My biggest problem with this game is the control sceme. For the most part it's 
 not too bad, but using the pointer function in the Wii control to rotate the camera can get irritating 
 very quickly. I can only play this game a little at a time because I lose patience so quickly with 
 the controls. The lack of online multiplayer is rather disappointing. I think it would be cool 
 to have some kind of online head-to-head feature. That being said, the multiplayer that IS included 
 in the game is pretty cool. There only seems to be a coop mode which is fun, but i would like to 
 see some kind of DM play.
  
  The coop mode is great, though! You get to use a lot of the special moves that you use with your 
 partner (when you have a partner) in the single player campaign. (i. e. human ladder, or tossing 
 your partner over a large gap, or the classic boost to launch your partner up to a high ledge.) 
 You use these moves to accomplish tasks that you could not accomplish on your own. Now keep in 
 mind that these are only my initial impressions of this game as i haven't gotten TOO far yet. If 
 you're a Splinter Cell fan i'd say go for it, but rent it to give it a try first because not everyone 
 will have the patience for the control scheme. (Note: I have not checked to see if the controller 
 scheme can be changed to the user's preference. This may be an option.) In any case, if you're 
 not a fan of this game on the Wii i'm sure that the 360 version is probably a bit better.... and 
 from what i understand it DOES support online play. So that's one point in its favor. ~ D&sup1; 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clinton015
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 2, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Everyone's favorite super spy is back at it in the latest installment of Splinter Cell. Double 
 Agent brings back all the good aspects of the first three and combines them with an undercover 
 aspect to keep everything fresh. Delve into the world of Sam Fisher who lost his daughter to a 
 drunk driver and will never be the same again. The gameplay is Splinter Cell, the core returns, 
 but now there are more moves and gadgets to play around with. As always these always make it a 
 little funner to take down the enemy. Campaign is a must however, to get most of the cool new toys 
 you have to unlock them by going through the campaign and completing bonus objectives to earn rewards. 
 So remember that part you were stuck on?... Guess what... It has a star next to it and it is teh 
 only thing standing between you and that last gadget. What once would have been skipped and forgotten 
 about now will receive countless attempts to receive a gadget if not an achievement later on also. 
 For once achievements can actually make a game. They give SC DA so much replay value and exploration 
 value as well you might go through story mode 3 or 4 times to get them if you don't plan it out 
 the first time through. Achievements are offered for odd accomplishments as well as for collecting 
 data that is a series of bonus objectives. Just one slip up could make it harder to beat the rest 
 of the game, and the time limit in HQ missions makes streamlininga must. You can't just blow off 
 assignments though because you can lose trust from the NSA or JBA. (John Brown's Army) Online is 
 a unique experience. Featuring Mercs and Spies duking it out and each group has there own abilities 
 and if executed right both can have a serious upper hand. There is a wide variety of maps to choose 
 from and a co op mode similiar to the GRAW and R 6 terrorist hunts that feel like an instant action. 
 The story is immersing and fun to live through several times. It features a trio of endings to 
 fit anyone's personality. The Traditional good ending as well as an opposite one and one stuck 
 somewhere in between. Also character relationships can develop to make you think twice about your 
 actions. I will go into more detail about the story below. There will be spoilers so if you don't 
 want to know what happens leave now.... (click the link for the rest of the review)
  [spoiler] The stroy for SC DA is an engaging experience worth several play throughs. Sam infiltrates 
 a terrorist cell found in New York called the JBA. There he learns more of the JBA's goals and 
 has to make his choices as he goes. You will be trained and asked to kill a Helicopter pilot. Later 
 you will help retrieve data for a bomb that could kill millions and then asked to plant a test 
 bomb aboard a crew ship. All of this while working against yourself for the NSA. Most of teh objectives 
 are optional but cause your trust bars to fluctuate. So not planting a trojan in the terrorist 
 computers will lose respect with teh NSA but not killing a target can lose you respect for the 
 JBA. [/spoiler] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegamegod
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 2, 2007 1:36 am PT
Review:  Being a huge fan of the previous splinter cell games, i was eager to get my copy of double agent, though 
 i had too wait ages to get a copy because i wanted it on my 360, which, i didnt get until christmas, but 
 god was it worth the wait.
  
  story - The story of the game revolves around the decisions you make when it comes to deciding 
 who you'd like to work for, either the good ol' NSA or the terrorist group the JBA. Working for 1 
 or the other, puts down or puts up your trust meter between each group, and it works rather well... and 
 thank god, on this installment, they decided to scrap the constantly dark levels, and give you some 
 more challenging levels in broad day light, something you dont appreciate in other games, til' you 
 play this.
  
  graphics - obviously, this game being for the 360, the graphics are top notch, and easy on the eyes, well, i 
 say that cos' i played this game for hours at a time and didnt have a problem with it. There's detail 
 everywhere on this game, though, the character models for the NPC's are overused, something i thought 
 they would have overcome for a next gen game, but thats nothing to big or bad, i honestly cant put 
 enough praise into writing for the graphics on the game, they're just really good, especially on 
 the shang hai level...
  
  sound - the sound is good, but thats something you expect from a splinter cell game, it had me jumping 
 at shadows a few times, your weapons sound like they always have, and its not a formula they should 
 change
  
  gameplay/controls - i cant say that they changed much since the last splinter cell game, apart from 
 the different control layout of the 360. Otherwise, they're easy to people who have played other 
 splinter cell games, but may take a little time to learn if your new to it, but soon enough you'l 
 be sneaking around like the best of em'.
  
  All in all, this game is brilliant, mutiple endings, lovely environments, and a really good story. Buy 
 the game, you wont be dissapointed
  
  *note that i didnt right anything on the multiplayer, or online play, this is cos' i never got around 
 to playing it, though im sure its good* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Infernogfx
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 31, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  First off before reviewing this game, I would like to say something. I'm not the type of guy that 
 will be a stupid fanboy and say: HEY THIS GAME ROCKS!!!! GET IT NOW OR YOU ARE GAY SAM IS SOOOO 
 COOOL YO! I usually play the game on a crappy run through the first time, but on my second time, 
 I analyze the game very deeply so my reviews aren't going to be based only on graphics and sound, 
 but on more vital and essential things such as gameplay, physics, reality etc. I also DISCUSS my 
 ideas and back them up with reasons, and I am not ignorant by saying: PEOPLE WHO DON'T LIKE *insert 
 game* SHOULD GO TO HELL! That being said: on to the review: First of all, a basic explanation of 
 the gameplay mechanics is in order. Splinter Cell Double Agent (SCDA for short) is a stealth/tech 
 game utilizing various techniques and technologies to your advantage to remain undercover and complete 
 your missions. I for one like stealth games; especially ones that are innovative. You may find 
 my review a bit opinionized; apologies for that before-hand.
  
  DIFFICULTY: All right, difficulty is a rather small put significant part of the game. You are given 
 three settings of difficulty. Easy, Normal, and Hard. Easy bieng cake, Normal being your sweet-spot 
 difficulty, and Hard being your sort of extreme difficulty. Normal is where you should start playing. 
 Difficulty is finely tuned and almost perfect. Except for the Hard difficulty which you'll find 
 to be well.... hard. One thing to note, as you increase difficulty, so do your penalties. You will 
 lose a larger amount of trust, and gain a smaller amount.
  
  Gameplay Almost perfect gameplay with some problems. You get a few advanced really cool-looking 
 techniques, 2 guns; a sub-machine gun, and a pistol with an EMP device attached, 4 types of grenades 
 and a non-lethal knock-out steel ring. That's all good! What's bad about this? FIrst, half of those 
 advanced techniques at your disposal you'll never have the chance of using except for once or twice, 
 and some others you'll never use at all! So your techniques are pretty limited. Here's the good 
 part. Sneaking around a base never felt so real. Enemies won't site you from far away, there are 
 many places to hide, when your outside in a blizzard, the snow will cover you etc. Also, there 
 are many ways to do a mission and not just one solid way you HAVE to follow. You can be a real 
 agent and play real stealthy or be a real hardcore serial killer and kill everything on site. Either 
 way, you'll have fun. The game obviously recommends playing stealthy, as you get upgrades to your 
 mechanisims and even new hardware. You can also hide behind walls, dust, slabs, cars, anything. 
 You can also pick locks, or even break them! You can grab an unsuspecting NPC from behind and interrogate 
 them for very important information that ACTUALLY WORKS. For example, I grab a guard, interrogate 
 them, and he tells me the code for the gate is lets say 9999. I kill him, go to the gate, type 
 the code in, and it works. The game really makes you feel like a undercover agent. You can also 
 bottles, coins etc. to lure enemies away from their posts, and they'll fall for it. As you get 
 farther into the game, the enemies will realize it's really a trap and won't go to the exact location 
 and will stay away. Graphics Awesome top notch graphics providing clear visuals and excellent framerates 
 provide almost perfect smooth quality gameplay. Be warned, sometimes when there are alot of explosions 
 the framerate drops severly. Sound Okay sound. The guns feel real and all, but there is something 
 to be desired. A better soundtrack, more diversity in music (soundtrack is the same for 4 levels 
 of the game) , the voices of the guards are all the same.
  
  Value Totally worth a place in my gaming library, and deserves your 60 dollars. Overall, this game 
 is an excellent follow-up to an excellent sequal. Highly enjoyable. Story could have been a bit 
 longer though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mish55
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 31, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  splinter cell double agent is basically the same as all the other splinter cells but is more tedious 
 to play, and also annoying.
  
  The story is about................. well i actually kind of forgot because its really uninteresting 
 at best, but your sam and your relative got killed and then you get sent to prison.......... it 
 goes on from there, but you eventually start working for terrorists and the good guys (lambert) .
 
  
  You can do things to piss off, or help either side, and doing so affects your trust meter for each 
 side. If one meter is empty, you lose the sides trust and the game is over.
  
  The bad thing about this game is that its much much harder to play the other splinter cells. Before, 
 enemies were easy to lure so you can beat them down, but now enemies are just a little too jumpy 
 and might find you if you do  from a mile away (exagerrating) if 
 your in their sight, theyll randomly assume your an intruder and start shooting, instead of checking 
 to see if your just another guy. This gets annoying and your tactics are basically useless.
  
  This game is also much more linear than the rest, seeing as how you just do one thing at a 
 time. you can do side missions to help a side, but you'll do them anyway because theyre right on 
 your path to beating the mission, might as well do them.
  
  this game also doesnt use the light meter anymore so your just gonna have to assume an enemy doesnt 
 see you in the dark (which is annoying) . The game has the old sc20k and pistol are still here. They 
 have new types of ammo such as the exploding cameras but they are pretty much just there for show 
 because its just easier to shoot them in the head with the pistol or something, either way your 
 gonna start an annoying fight with the gaurds.
  
  This games graphics are really great but they sometimes get ugly, such as the indoor levels which 
 look like their from splinter cell chaos theory. But the game looks decent anyway.
  
  Multiplayer is what you will be spending most of your time on, except they downgraded the graphics 
 by a large margin (kind of looks like a really crappy chaos theory) , which is strange because games 
 like mgs subsistence and gears of war can maintain the same graphics in the single player and multiplayer.
 
  
  the multiplayer is completely different than pandora tommorrow and chaos theory. The spies do not 
 have any guns instead they are just faster and easier to control and they have a forearm panel 
 that can download files or shock the mercs.
  
  the mercs have some new moves like rappling and homing mines, but thats basically it. the new object 
 is just to prevent spies from stealing the files, except spies can download data from anywhere 
 around the file, so you have to have a good eye and use your every item.
  
  one thing thats annoying is that if your a spy and you want to break a mercs neck, the mercs have 
 this vibration thing that lets them know your around, so you can never break their necks by surprise 
 only hassle.
  
  This game is really boring to play in single player because its just trial and error, and its really 
 simple (just shoot) .
  
  the multiplayer is fun but some people wont like it if they loved the old formula 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampire_Turtle
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 31, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell 4 is a stealth game which you must choose to betray, lie, sabotage and kill. The 
 choice is up to as you explore through enviornments each with its own characteristic. You play 
 as a double agent working for the NSA and the JBA. You don; t hear much from the NSA anymore in 
 this game than you did in the previous three. But a downside is I think it is to short. I managed 
 to complete it in 3 days. Which I found was a bit disappointing. But graphics wise its very good. 
 Not the best in the series but a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 26, 2006 10:31 pm PT
Review:  So you're Sam Fisher again, except after your daughter Sara dies, you decide to undertake a mission 
 that will put you in the shoes of a terrorist. Your mission is to infiltrate a terrorist group 
 called the John Brown Army, gain their trust, and take them down piece by piece one step at a time.
 
  
  Its just like all other Splinter Cell games - you sneak around completing various objectives like 
 killing someone or stealing some files. You can do all your famous moves like rolling, snapping 
 peoples necks, stabbing them, shooting them with your trusty pistol or SC-20K assault rifle or 
 whatever, blow out lights, use wall mines, hack computers, use zip lines, etc. In addition you 
 can grab unsuspecting hostiles and sometimes be able to interrogate them for information. There 
 are also some new moves like pulling people into water through ice which was pretty diesel.
  
  Every now and then you will have to do these odd mini games such as cracking a safe by rotating 
 an analog stick clockwise and then counter clockwise, assembling &amp; disassembling a mine by 
 slowly lowering this tube into the mine without touching the walls of the mine.. They are pretty 
 fun, though kinda useless.
  
  However, unlike other Splinter Cells this game does a few things different. For starters, Double 
 Agent pits you in areas full of light with very little cover forcing you to use your environment 
 to protect you. Secondly, you have a trust meter where you're given objectives by JBA &amp; NSA 
 and depending on who you do you lose or gain trust with the other (ie: do a JBA objective you lose 
 trust with NSA... get it? got it? good.) Finally, you have to do sort of recon missions in the 
 JBA headquarters where you can't kill anyone and just gather intelligence really... that was the 
 lamest part of the game.
  
  On the flip side the action can be pretty intense. A lot of the time you have to calculate your 
 attacks because in one area there may be 5 soldiers walking around ready to pump Mr. Fisher full 
 of lead. Also, most of the missions are pretty fun like in Shanghai where you have to repel down 
 the side of a huge skyscraper while a helicopter shines its spotlight to find you.
  
  Unfortunately, the online multiplayer is complete &amp; utter GARBAGE.. no... garbage isn't even 
 the word. You can play as either a generic Splinter Cell or a generic mercenary... as said spies, 
 you have no weapons besides this little computer thing on your arm that is used to hack these computer 
 terminals and extreme acrobatics. The only way to defeat your opposition is to either run away 
 or snap their necks if your enemy is COMPLETELY unaware of your presence and has his back to you.. 
 this proves difficult since the Mercs are overwhelmingly overpowering. They have machine guns with 
 infinite ammo, grenades, are able to do this kick that spins the Merc around and knocks out any 
 enemy nearby, and if you happen to get knocked out then the Merc can grab your limp body and head 
 butt you causing you to die. In addition to all of that, the Mercs have these radars that beep 
 when a spy is nearby, they have thermal vision AND flashlights. You can play with friends or against 
 bots, but either way its not fun. I give multiplayer a big 1 outta 5.
  
  The graphics have their ups and downs to be honest. The character models look alright and the environments 
 looked detailed, interesting, and varied (by this I mean you visit numerous places such as a snowy 
 stage, New York, Shanghai, the Congo..) but somehow Splinter Cell: Double Agent just doesn't utilize 
 what the X-Box 360 is capable of. Everything looks sort of.. hm.. for lack of a better word: fake. 
 If I had to, I would say the graphics are either on the same level or slightly better then the 
 smash hit Chaos Theory on the regular X-Box.
  
  The voice acting, music, and sound effects sound realistic and very good.. so no complaint from 
 me. You got the guys who played Lambert &amp; Sam reprising their roles, the explosions and guns 
 sound really good, and the music (depending on the stage) is pretty spot on for the most part.
 
  
  There are like 3 endings in the game depending on how much trust you have with the NSA.. the one 
 I got was that the police came to arrest every JBA member you didn't slaughter and you escape to 
 this dude named Moss' boat where you have to defuse a bomb that could wipe out almost all of New 
 York.. When you complete that mission, the US Coast Guard calls out to you to surrender, you jump 
 off boat, boat explodes, and you're given a To Be Continued... screen... lackluster, but it felt 
 SO good to demolish the JBA headquarters.
  
  Overall, Splinter Cell: Double Agent isn't the most spectacular stealth game nor is it the best 
 game in the series but it is enjoyable for the most part. It does have it's fair share of glitches 
 and frustrating points but for the most part SC: DA is an alright game worth atleast playing all 
 the way through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odamkevin
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 24, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  First, I was really dissapointed at this game at first, but i got used to the single-player. At 
 first, i thought the level design and overall story-line was bad, but starting on about the 4th 
 level it grew on me. The graphics are good but dont blow me away. i like unlocking new gadgets 
 the further i advance. Im very dissapointed that there's no offline co-op. Personally, I believe 
 that the multiplayer is awful. It seems way to arcade like and fast paced compared to games of 
 past, so i wouldnt recommend this game for online play. If your looking for some classic splinter 
 cell action, single player should treat you well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo16161616
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 24, 2006 10:40 am PT
Review:  This game turned out nicely. The new gadgets made the game all the more fun. Ubisoft turned this 
 game of stealth into a game of choice and alot more action. Good luck getting through levels with 
 a 100% stealth score. Almost everything you do takes it down. The only way is to avoid all contact 
 with people, no knock outs, shooting lights, or killing. The splinter cell multiplayer/xbox live 
 is highly addictive. Spys vs Mercinaries. Mercs have guns spys dont. Spys have night vision, and 
 infered, mercs dont. Will provide hours of addictive action for anyone. Also a great way to get 
 your gammer score up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjhink3
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 23, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  SCDA is absolutely a cool game with a challenging campaign and neat multiplayer modes that intrigue 
 your interest for a while. The only thing I can definitely put into a nutshell is that you get 
 bored of it after a few weeks and it doesn't keep your interest that long when playing it because 
 of how challenging it is. This game is for experienced gamers who are good at mastering the many 
 controls of games like this. Once you master it though, it can be a pretty fun game to play because 
 of the multiplayer madness of snapping bad guy's necks and extracting classified files. The singleplayer 
 is amusing yet not too long which happens to be good because, like I said many times prior, it's 
 hard in the first place. Pick it up at your local movie store and rent it because it's not a must 
 buy unless you're a huge fan of either the series or Tom Clancy's games.
  
  Thanks for reading... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PandoraTen
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  As soon as I popped this disk in my 360 I was hooked. From the very beginning mission all the way 
 to the end I was always on the edge of my seat. Just like the three games before this one in the 
 series, I was not disappointed. The only part that I did not like about the game was the little 
 interlude missions where you were inside of the JBA headquarters. Not that I'm complaining, this 
 part did fit seamlessly into the game and played a big part on your ending as a player. I did spend 
 a lot of time restarting at my save point but hey, being a special operative isn't a cakewalk. 
 The controls were flawless as usual and the graphics were amazing. Looking out over the Chinese 
 skyline and watching the fireworks show from atop a sky-scraper, it couldn't get much better than 
 that.
  Overall this game was great. I will always stay a loyal fan to the Splinter Cell series and as 
 long as Ubisoft keeps putting them out, I will keep playing them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jai_hawk
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2006 9:51 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY:
  One of the outstanding differences from this game to the Prequels is the fact that you are befriending 
 the enemy. And of course the dual role missions, which seems difficult, but proves not too hard. 
 The most annoying thing, I thought, after every mission, Sam returns back to the HQ and does this 
 double agent kind of thing and doing almost the same mission 4 times. But overall the other missions 
 werent too bad. And all the good gadgets you get to use and the unlockable items are pretty sweet 
 too. Also the missions are very different to the last 3 games, you get to go to whole new places, 
 and do totally different things, its awesome! And the new feature which is awesome, when you immobilize 
 enemies, you dont do it the same time every time, its different from time to time. And the Multiplayer 
 is super fun, whether playing mecenery or spy, you are bound to enjoy it, Fps fan or Stealth fan, 
 the multiplayer is for everyone.
  GRAPHICS:
  These are the best graphics in the whole series! The super tanker mission, which is based in the 
 snow, is just awesome, it all looks so good. And the mission in Africa is also awesome; no dark 
 areas really impose a challenge. And all the different things Sam Fisher wears, like the snow gear 
 or the desert suit. Its all looks awesome. And the mission which stands out in best looking definitely 
 goes to the Shanghai mission. When you are rappelling off the side of the building, you can actually 
 see the cars moving down on the road and you can see all the buildings and the little lights turning 
 off now and again. It looks sensational!
  SOUND:
  The sounds in the game are awesome. When youre rappelling down the side of a building, you can 
 hear the cars beeping now and again, or when you through someone of a building, you can hear the 
 scream until they hit the ground. Or when you grab someone from behind you can hear them squirm 
 and growl. Or even in the snow you can hear the blizzard roaring. And when you are running through 
 the war stricken streets of Africa, you can hear gun fire in the background and the occasional 
 helicopter flying by and the explosion of a missile from a tank. Everything sounds like if it were 
 real. VALUE:
  I think everyone would agree this game is worth every dollars, whether for the singleplayer missions 
 or the multiplayer online challenges , it's worth every dollar, that's why i give it a 9.0, superb! 
 Good job Ubisoft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quagmire555
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 20, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Positives: Outstanding graphics. Sam Fisher looks outstandign in next generation. Spy gadgets are 
 as always fun to use. and never get old. Undercover mode is aweosme, and gives you some freedom. 
 Fighting for two orginizations will make u want to play the campaign again to get all the possible 
 endings. Awesome new multiplayer mode
  
  Negatives: No nightime missions. Don't get to feel the darkness. COuld have benn more gunplay.
 
  
  SPlinter Cell is an awesome spy game. I recommend it for any Tom Clacy fan. Just like any other 
 splinter cell game, it will blow u away. Totally get this game in ur 360 library. You won't regret 
 it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mccavour69
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - If you've played the splinter cell games then you know what is to be expected form this 
 game except for a few new twists. During the course of the game there a few missions that take 
 place in daylight. This might sound bad but it requires you to use distractions to avoid or sneak 
 up on your enemies. Along with that there are tons of new gadgets to mess around with and a worthwhile 
 multiplayer mode that has been remade from past SC games.
  
  Graphics - Even though the graphics in this game arent as good as Gears of War they are still greta. 
 Once again lighting is great and character models are fantastic. One problem is the shadowing which 
 can get pretty blocky at some parts.
  
  Sound - Sound as always is great. Realistic gunfire and explosions and great neck cracking and 
 heart stabbing make this games sound come alive.
  
  Overall this is one of the best games in the series and makes for a great buy if your a fan of 
 the splinter cell series or the stealth action genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: franky111
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 17, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Sam Fisher is back and more dangerous than ever. In this game you play as a double agent inside 
 a terroist organization called John Brown's Army or (JBA) . You have certian objectives you get 
 from the NSA and from the JBA and failure to complete them will cause a loss in trust. Speaking 
 of, the trust meter plays an important role in the game, killing or saving certian people or things 
 can make you gain or lose trust, if your trust meter with the NSA or the JBA hits 0, it's game 
 over. Some of the objectives are contradicting, for example the JBA may ask you to kill a certian 
 person while the NSA may ask you to do the very opposite and save him. Also you gain upgrades for 
 completing objectives marked with stars, putting an emphasis on completing some or the secondary 
 objectives you may have been reluctant to complete in the past Splinter Cell games. Sam also has 
 a couple of new moves in this game too and the same old good ones. In this game the missions take 
 place more in daytime rather than night and in totally diffrent parts of the world from Shanghai 
 to the Democratic Republic of Congo. The multiplayer has made unbelieveable improvements. The multiplayer 
 is now much more balanced and fun than Pandora Tommrrow's and Chaos Theroy's multiplayer. In this 
 version the spys no longer have there gun, but are armed with a hacking divice that can from a 
 distance temporally disable lights, break glass, unlock doors, hack the mercanaries gear making 
 it go haywire, and of course hack the terminals to extract files. the spies are much more acrobatic 
 and have some very intresting escape moves, that can also save your skin. The Mercs have also been 
 improved. They now have drones that self destruct and can reach places the mercs can't to kill 
 spys, such as vents or rooftops. They also have infinate clips along with a radar system that tells 
 you when spies are near. The unlockables are worth obtaining, such as new skins for the spies and 
 mercs. My only complaint is that they took out the co-op from Chaos Theroy, but overall this game 
 awsome and is really worth buying or at least renting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhantomNemesis
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 16, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell Double Agent is the fourth game in the Splinter Cell series, a well-known stealth 
 game that takes Thriller storylines and mixes it with gadgets, acrobatics and stealth. You play 
 as Sam Fisher, a veteran military man who strives to keep order in the world.
  
  To begin with, you start with the usual Splinter Cell mission, with some of the new features (mainly 
 lethally killing things or spy moves) , but soon to find out after this mission, Sam's daughter 
 is dead. He then goes in the typical downward spiral, before Lambert (his NSA superior) offers 
 him the chance to get his life back. Go undercover and help us save the world again!
  
  Your job is to infiltrate the John Brown's Army (I don't know why either) , a small terrorist cell 
 that's showing up on the radar. This starts off with yougetting chucked into prison, helping out 
 a member to escape, after thatm you enter their world, and their base. This starts off the first 
 of four little missions in which you sneak around their base and complete objectives to keep both 
 sides happy. Why? The Trust meter, in order to stpo one side blowing your head off, you need to 
 make sure both sides Trust meters never hit zero, or it's game over. This can be fairly easy to 
 do, depending on difficulty.
  
  Most gadgets are still there, somehow your SC-20k pops up in the arsenal again, with the standard 
 NVG's. Some new additons are added, and completing some objectives unlocks more gadgets to use.
 
  
  AI in DA is intelligent, but I wouldn't put them in charge of my base, sometimes they can stare 
 at you and think 'Did I see something? Guess not, oh well...' and stroll along.
  
  Double Agent throws a little more light into the game, it's not all pitch black, far from it. You 
 need to have your wits now that it can be broad daylight, although the only thing that means is 
 a better Stealth Score (like a How Pro you are score) in which you don't need to bother with.
 
  
  Co-Op is no longer a bunch missions working with the main story, it's now like a Versus Match with 
 the AI, this can be good fun, although the lack of Splitscreen means only Gold Members can have 
 fun. Versus mode is better than ever, and unfortunately shows how better it is then the Campaign, 
 which although is fun, it's lacking in the Splinter Cell theme.
  
  Double Agent is rounded up with 3 endings, depending on how evil you've been, you'll see one, one 
 of these features a bonus mission, which is good fun. However, none seem to really appeal to make 
 you play the Campaign again.
  
  In all, Double Agent looks fabulous, and the Multiplayer is too boot, while some may find the Single 
 Player lacking, the game is still worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bharrison911
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 15, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  When I think of being a double agent, I think of Alias. In Alias you are not only sneaking around, 
 but there are also plenty of times when you are shooting your way through different places. In 
 the case of Splinter Cell, it was much more sneaking around and not a lot of shooting your way 
 through. Matter of fact, you actually get penalized at the end of a mission for each person that 
 you kill even the bad guys. This takes a lot of the enjoyment of being someone that is in a hostile 
 situation. The graphics are fantastic and the storyline was pretty good as well. I really enjoyed 
 the voice actor for the main character. The number of different weapon types was nice, but I never 
 used more than three of them at any point in time. Overall, I think that the game is pretty good, 
 just not all that it was made out to be when I watched the commercials. I think that it would have 
 been alot more fun if there had been more action involved rather than adventure types of actions. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathbal888
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 14, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  The only other Splinter Cell Game that I had played before this one was Pandora Tomorrow which 
 I thought was a pretty entertaining game so I decided to buy this one since I heard good things 
 about it.
  
  First of all, since I hadn't played Splinter Cell for a while, I had to remember how to do some 
 of the stuff in the game and get used to the gameplay. I really think they did a good job with 
 the graphics in this game. The game is pretty good but some levels take some time.... like there 
 was one mission where I couldn't find where I had to go next and I was just walking around for 
 like an hour just looking.. until I found a hidden ladder....
  
  Also there are parts where it doesnt specify what exactly you need to do... for example when you 
 sky dive.... I died the first time.... and I think almost everybody dies the first time.......
  
  Very good game, if you have played splinter cell before then I would definitely recommend this 
 game. If you have not played, it is gonna take you a whiloe to learn how to play, since the training 
 courses are useless, and in the missions it doesnt tell you where exatly you have to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popsadent
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  In Splintercell Double agent you play as Sam fisher. After news of a family members death you go 
 for the most ambitios sting of your career, becoming a double agent. You must make moral choices 
 as you rise the ranks of a terrorist organization and report back to the NSA. The graohics in splinter 
 cell are very good but does seffer a frame rate problem here and there, especially during the Tanker 
 level. Everything looks how it should and has great, albeit re-used, animations. Like most 360 
 games though it lacks anti-aliasing which makes edges look bad but it doesnt take much away from 
 the game. Overall good graphical quality. The gameplay is the splintercell stealth we all love. 
 With a moral twist. You sometimes have to choose wether to help the NSA or the JBA. This is a cool 
 twist on the gameplay. The controlls are good and the miltiplayer is top notch improves upon the 
 multiplayer from the older games. Ultimately this is a good game worth the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Multi-Magic
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 13, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  Yet again Ubi has brought us another Splinter Cell title, and yet again it has become better than 
 ever.
  
  Splinter Cell: Double Agent offers thrilling new locations; from beginning in the harsh snowstorms 
 and cold waters of Iceland, to the hot heat of Africa, to the tall skyscrapers of other cites. 
 From awesome new moves that only Sam Fisher could pull off, to wicked new gagets to help Sam on 
 his way. As like the old games there is a separate single and multiplayer modes. Single player 
 is quite lengthy if you do everything properly and stealth through the missions and also very enjoyable, 
 the multiplayer action is awesome as usual.
  
  I think the game offers outstanding visuals and graphics and you could never get bored of the enviroments 
 and effects. If you are a fan of any or all the Splinter Cell titles and can't make your mind up 
 about this one, your going to love it to bits as soon as you start playing.
  
  Personally, I am a huge Splinter Cell fan and I think this is the best one yet and they just keep 
 getting better and better every time a new one is released, keep it up Ubi! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aurelien48
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 10, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  This game I went and played at my friend house and was fun in the begining but then boring. The 
 online is the wrost part about this game, is really bad. the gameplay have lots of option. The 
 graphic is weak , not the best for the xbox 360. Rent this game first, dont buy it except is you 
 like game that kind. I think Hitman is better, I don't why, but I played Hitman way longer and 
 like it better but this game was boring to me after a while. so this game should of ben better 
 if they worked on it more, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rentago
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 10, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  The game story and motives were great, I found the game looking surprisingly great and the game 
 play was amazing! Even though at first I thought it was just a cut scene you actualy take part 
 in it, for example: Sky diving and needing to activate your parachute on time. (I died the first 
 time)
  
  When I went through the story I had trouble keeping stealthy because I never thought of people 
 busting through doors behind me (&gt;.&lt; it was a loop in which the AI was badly managed in the 
 sense that they can HEAR the unhearable or investigate things they shouldn't even be tempted to 
 investigate. But they get hunches magically giving you away 24/7.
  
  Anyways you can do almost anything in the game I have never seen any game with so many actions 
 like climbing fences, rolling, diving, dashing, climbing, acrobatics, etc. Your like spider man 
 in the game!
  
  The way they setup online multiplayer was poor though, stripped it of it formal glory and the AI 
 was retarded or too perfect nothing right.
  
  The multplayer levels are repetitive and poorly designed since if you have well experienced players 
 agenst you they can easily beat you, for example: I had two mercenaries just spam grenades onto 
 a boat the spies started on and constantly killed us through out the whole game because they learned 
 the perfect spot to stand to where they can spawn camp.
  
  Spies tend to be super cheap by using tactics that hinder the mercenary. Mercenaries can't climb 
 out windows or anywhere they can only go to 35% of the level and the spies can get anywhere. I've 
 seen spies hack consoles outside windows as soon as you show up they get out of your view. IF you 
 could climb out the window then you could do something, but nope they can easily avoid mercenaries 
 and its frustrating.
  
  Mercenaries get a probe with a bomb attached to it... sadly its too slow, IT GLOWS BRIGHT ORANGE, 
 so they had to make it obvious enough to see across a level like it was suppost to be deadly agenst 
 spies... that thing is worthless.
  
  alot of the times when spies hack a console and are running back to their base you can't stop them 
 because there is a fence between you and their spawn (Scoring zone) and usualy the fence is so 
 large there is no way to prevent someone from getting across, underground tunnels, roofs, etc. 
 you can't cover their escape paths making it impossible to prevent them from scoring even if you 
 guard a console area they don't need to be in your sight to hack it they just hack it from an unreachable 
 location where you can't get them.
  
  So in conclusion multiplayer is just awefully laggy, crappy, and wasn't clearly thought through 
 with all the useless gadgets they give you and unbalanced gameplay. However you can get it for 
 the good single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TerminalEcho
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I'll break it down like normal.
  
  Graphics: Games like this is what the 360 was built for. I played this game before Gears of War 
 came out, and at that time it was maybe the best graphical game I'd seen. Rather you're in light 
 or darkness, sunshine or rain, this game delivers the goods. The lighting and shadow effects are 
 superb, and the character models are great. You can even see the facial hair and rippling muscle 
 lines on Sam. Nothing but goodness to be found here.
  
  Sound: The sounds of the game are also great. On the quiet levels, you can hear the little noises 
 from the guards (whisteling, mumbling, etc.) , and on the faster levels, the guns, explosions, and 
 general ambience sounds great. Also goodness here.
  
  Gameplay: The learning curve for this one is roughly an hour due to all of the controls, and the 
 complications with learning them. The training mode does help, but it does not teach you everything 
 you need to know. The option of what objectives to follow and not follow finally opens this game 
 up a little, and you will have more fun than ever with this title. Rather you're sneaking up on 
 people, or breaking out the rifle and just opening up, it's fun on about every aspect. The gadgets 
 are cooler than ever, and you've got more than you'll ever use. More goodness here.
  
  Value: Having the option on your objectives will finally give this series some replay value, but 
 the modes stay at only the campaign and on-line play.
  
  Tilt: I wasn't sure what to expect from this one, so it gets a nine on the tilt.
  
  Bottom 
 Line: A fantastic game this one is. There really is no down side, and you'll have much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sixgears2
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 3, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell Double Agent is one of those games that makes you drool a little when you first hear 
 about it. I have been watching this one since I first heard about it almost a year ago, and I must 
 say I am not disappointed.
  
  The basic premise of DA is much different than that of the other Splinter Cell games, at this comes 
 at a very crucial time for the series. Although Chaos Theory and Pandora Tomorrow are both good 
 games in their own right, the old Captain America themed Sam Fisher was beginning to wear a little 
 thin. Ubisoft knew they needed to make him more interesting, and more interesting he is in this 
 new installment. Now, instead of a patriotic, super-hero type Sam, we get to see a darker, nothing-to-lose 
 character. After the death of his daughter, Fisher has lost everything he could and now has nothing 
 to live for. Which is why he takes the assignment that lands him smack dab in the middle of a terrorist 
 cell as an undercover NSA agent.
  I find this to be a briliant shake up for the Splinter Cell series, one that has breathed new life 
 into an aging Sam and revitalized the series right when it is needed it. My only complaint is that 
 they didn't do enough with it. The concept is so fantastic, yet all we really get about the change 
 in Fisher is a short cut scene showing his daughter die and telling us about his emotional and 
 psychological pain. As sadistic as it sounds, it would have been better if we had actually SEEN 
 Sam's pain and watched him descend into his new, darker personality. There was so much unused potential 
 here, but still, I have to praise Ubisoft for the change.
  
  Now on to the actual game. I'll start with the graphics. Splinter Cell has always been known for 
 its outstanding visuals. In fact, the original SC was one main reason I bought an Xbox in the first 
 place. The graphics were just so lifelike compared to other games at the time it was unbelievable. 
 Double Agent continues the legacy of great visuals, but I was just a little disappointed that I 
 didn't feel wowed by the graphics. They are great, don't get me wrong, but the animations are a 
 bit robotic and some oft he environments could have used some extra polish. That said, though, 
 Sam looks amazing and the weather effects are fantastic (I was especially impressed by the snow 
 level, which I won't spoil for you here) , so it balances out in the end. I think the big question 
 here is: How does the new twist in the story affect the gameplay? Well, fans will be happy to know 
 that the SC gameplay mechanics remain entirely intact (although I have to say I miss the split 
 leg move Sam used to do between two walls in a narrow hallway) . The game palys exactly like the 
 other Splinter Cells, and if you have had any experience with them you will have no trouble with 
 this one. The main levels play great, if a little confusing sometimes due to a cluttered and sometimes 
 nearly unreadable 3D map that hurts matters more than it helps them. They play just as you would 
 expect them to in SC, and they range from an arctic wasteland to a cruise ship under attack by 
 your own terrorist cell. I found it very exciting to have Enrica (the terrorist who most frequently 
 talks to you...... for a while) tells me to plant a bomb to blow up a cruise ship while the NSA 
 tells me to get the detonation code to prevent the explosion. This all adds to the feeling that 
 you really are a double agent. The much hyped trust meter doesn't seem to be much of a factor, 
 although you are able to choose whether to help the NSA or the terrorists, and your choices will 
 affect the outcome of the game. It's well worth playing through twice just to get both endings. 
 I do have one gripe about the gameplay, and that is the timed terrorist HQ sequences. These sequences 
 happen between every main level and usually involve you being instructed to do something for one 
 of the terrorists and then using the remaining time before they return to sneak around and gather 
 intel, plant bugs, or listen to conversations. These segments tend to be very tense and I found 
 them very fun........ until I ran out of time and had to repeat it to make sure I didn't miss anything. 
 These levels were such a great idea and they play so well, but the timer just kills it. I am hereby 
 sending a memo to all game developers: gamers don't like timers, they make games suck. It is a 
 shame to have these sequences marred by the lame timer system. Ubisoft should have been able to 
 come up with something more creative to keep the tension up without raising the extremem frustration 
 level ten notches. That aside though, this game plays very well and I am suitably impressed.
  
  After you have done the single player campaign twice and gotten all the achievements, it's 
 off to Xbox LIve! to try the multiplayer game. And this is where you get the idea that Splinter 
 Cell DA is really two games, because the multiplayer is an entirely different animal. The games 
 consist of three on three spy vs. mercenary matches in which the objective is to hack one of the 
 colored terminals that dot each map and get the completed file back to your base. Two completed 
 files is a victory for the spies, all the spies dying or the timer running out is a merc victory. 
 The spies are extremely nimble and can go almost anywhere, but they have to weapons other than 
 the ability ti turn of lights (including mercs flashlights) or use a few gadgets like flashbang 
 grendaes. They can kill mercs by sneaking up behind them and breaking their necks (you can even 
 talk trash to the person before you end them, which is a nice touch) , but other than that are relatively 
 defenseless. Mercenaries on the other hand have a powerful assault rifle with unlimited ammow, 
 a grenade launcher, and exploding drones that can follow spies up into the vents or onto rooftops 
 where the mercs cannot go. This unique formula offers an improvement over Chaos Theory and provides 
 a fun and addicting alternative to the wealth of deathmatch-only 360 games on teh market right 
 now. It's a refreshing break, and it is ridiculously entertaining. The coop missions are great 
 as well and serve to get your stats up to help you unlock more gear just like the versus matches 
 do. My only complaint is that Ubisoft should have offered more unlockable material for your character, 
 but this is a minor issue in an otherwise superb game. Overall, Splinter Cell Double Agent may 
 not blow you off your couch with stunning visuals, but it still looks great and plays just like 
 the other SCs which fans like myself wwill appreciate. The single player campaign offers a fun, 
 rewarding, if sometimes frustrating experience and the online play is something that you absolutely 
 have to try for youself. I recommend this to any SC fans and any one else who enjoys a good stealth 
 action game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shizzam911
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 3, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  This game doesnt have the revolutionary graphics like the first 3 did but this one delivers on 
 a refined game. The single player is fun but harder than the other three. You might want to pull 
 up a strategy guide to help you out with some of the harder parts. Enemys are smarter than they 
 used to be and there are several more ways to take them down. When you get to the double agent 
 part you want to keep both of the sides happy. It isnt that hard when you keep both of them balanced 
 by completing them evenly. The multiplayer has been revamped and is a whole other game on its own 
 because the spies have different skills and the mercs are totally different from any other thing 
 tied to splinter cell. Its great and makes this game even more valuable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorj11111
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 3, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  I thought this game was really disappointing if you have ever played the other 3 splinter cell 
 games. They try a lot of new things that go away from the traditional splinter cell games. For 
 example, there are many day time missions which I am not a fan of at all. Also, when you are at 
 the terrorist HQ the gameplay changes. You have a 25 minutes time limit to snoop around the complex, 
 but you can only walk (no crouching or running unless you are in a restricted area) from one place 
 to the next. This really changes the pace of the game. This was my least favorite level, and to 
 make things worse 4 out of the 11 levels are at the terrorist HQ. Same level, just different objectives. 
 The game also does not utilize all the gadgets and weapons as the previous games did. I could easily 
 go through the whole game just using my pistol or maching gun and kill everyone on the majority 
 of levels. I never had to use any of my cool vision gear (night vision, infrared, etc) . What was 
 the point of having it in the game? Some of the campaign levels are just dull. This game also has 
 no co-op in the campaign mode. As for the multiplayer, they actually did a good job. You can form 
 a team with your friends to take on other teams as either a spy or defender. However, it just wasn't 
 as fun as I thought it was going to be.
  
  Overall, the game does have a good graphics and sound, which will give the game a higher rating 
 then it deserves. I would pass on this game, maybe rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidKeevo
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 3, 2006 1:10 am PT
Review:  Ok, before I start this review, I want to point out I'm a HUGE Splinter Cell fan, and I'm not here 
 to flame the game, but it has left me feeling disappointed.
  
  Gameplay: So in this Splinter Cell, your a Double Agent, hence the title. Your undercover in a 
 organization called the JBA. While doing missions you have to do things for the JBA and the NSA. 
 Some of the things you do will affect both, one in a positive way, another in a negative way. Every 
 2-3 missions you go back to the JBA headquarters where you need to do a simple task for the JBA 
 (decrypt messages, make bombs) . They give you 20-30 minutes to finish it, and then after that, 
 you will want to do some objectives for the NSA, like getting fingerprints, files, and history 
 of JBA members. Other then all the stuff I just said, SC: DA is like any other Splinter Cell game, 
 nothing much is new.
  
  Multiplayer Gameplay: This is where Gameplay gets put down a few notches. The new multiplayer is 
 horrible. Mercs are overpowered and Spies can barely defend themselves. Whenver I'm a Merc it is 
 extremely easy to track down and find a Spy, but when I'm a Spy I always end up getting found. 
 The Mercs have drones that explde, a fully automatic rifle, grenades, 2 different melee attacks, 
 and a heartbeat sensor. Now lets compare that to the Spies little writs gadget, which hacks, turns 
 out lights, and breaks glass.... whoopdeedoo. Well, there is my rant on multplayer. I find in Pandora 
 Tomorrow, the Spies vs Mercs was very balanced and perfect. They should never have changed it.
 
  
  Graphics: Lets start with the good things about the graphics. The detail to the characters and 
 environments is great. There is so much detail to the characters faces. The shadows are great as 
 always. When your not looking at things closeup though, it looks like Chaos Theory, but just a 
 bit better. Overall the graphics are pretty good, and are definatly next-gen.
  
  Sound - I love great voice acting in a game, and SC: DA has that. From Sam Fisher himself to a stupid 
 gaurd who can give you some information, the voice acting is awesome. Also, I love the sound bullets 
 make a different surfaces, and the shotgun attachment on Sam's rifle sounds powerful!
  
  Value: Really, I don't see much value in this game, an I'm glad I borrowed it from a friend. The 
 singleplayer is short, Spies vs Mercs gets annoying, and the Co-op isn't like Chaos Theory, it's 
 just you and some friends against bot Mercs, who are extremely smart by the way. I can only reccomend 
 this game for people with live and people who love the Splinter Cell Series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: galacticat
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 2, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  I just completed Splinter Cell DA single player campaign. These observations comes from the perspective 
 of someone new to the Splinter Cells series. At first I was worried that I might struggle with 
 this game seeing as how I was Splinter Cell newbie. This was not the case, as I found the game 
 controls to be fairly intuitive and the levels progressed in such a way that I was able to advance 
 my skills in a natural manner and without too much frustration. This game takes excellent advantage 
 of a large screen HDTV and is one of the more enjoyable 360 titles to date. I thought this game 
 was just plain more fun than GRAW, which didn't feel as immersive to me. This game feels like it 
 was someone's labor of love much more so than a lot of games I've played.
  
  I played through the whole game barely ever touching my gun. Guns in this game aren't that fun, 
 although you can certainly play that way if you want. I'm not that patient and don't have a super 
 long attention span, yet I never felt bored keeping my gun on my back and sticking to just sneaking 
 up on dudes and knocking them cold or stabbing them with a quick thrust or wicked slash... very 
 satisfying.
  
  Some of the desicions you have to make in the game make you feel truly conflicted, and this adds 
 real suspense to the gameplay. The environments are really cool, I'd give the terorist headquarters 
 a strong B and the other enivronments a sure A. If you are new to the series, don't be intimidated 
 by this game... if it seems at all intruiging to you, I really think you will enjoy it and have 
 fun. Really solid 360 title. I'd give it a little higher score even, but this game does deserve 
 to be marked down a bit because of the heinous time it takes to save a game... outside of that, 
 this game delivers a really quality gaming experience! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameogameo
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 2, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  This is more a rating than a review as I haven't exactly owned the game, however I can say quite 
 confidently that Splinter Cell Double Agent is a relatively decent game to play. Unlike previous 
 games it has multiplayer mode which is a welcome addition to the franchise. There is plenty more 
 to enjoy here though, the mission designs are great, very detailed. The graphics are impressive 
 as well, (shame about the AI) . Some good sound and replay value make this an almost great XBOX 
 360 game. The controls and gameplay may annoy you at the beginning of the game but you'll soon 
 get the hang of it and will be sneaking and stabbing enemies in no time.
  
  Worth a look 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaredschwyhart
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  The Campaign for Splinter Cell 4 on the 360 is very far from the original splinter cell. I think 
 they switched some of the creators of the games. Some of the graphics they could have done better 
 too. the feet don't stick very well to the stairs. Some lag problems in the terrorist headquarters.
 
  There are some graphic improvements, but not much compared to SC:3.
  I hope they do a lot better on the 5th one. If there is going to be a 5th one.
  Also, the multi-player, 
 I think, is the best so far. three on three is much more fun. When there is a new guy, it doesn't 
 affect the whole game turn out. The multiplayer definatley makes up for all the glitches in single 
 player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SNIPER-CAZ
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 1, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  Since the beginning of the Splinter Cell franchise we have seen astonishing, visuals, illusive 
 story line's and that need to snap neck's. This Splinter Cell falls just under the bar. So the 
 makers at Ubi soft introduced the choice option in the game. Though it was innovative, there was 
 not much put into it. With your trust being either NSA or JBA or even on both, there wasn't any 
 real significant use for it. A side from that, Splinter Cell feels familiar to its predecessor 
 Splinter Cell Chaos Theory. Not saying that this game is worst, but it doesn't quite feel like 
 a next gen game other then its graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xIxrubenxIx
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 30, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Splnter cell has been know a very good game beacuase all the diferent aspects that have make this 
 saga a very good one. So we have splinter cell DA the 4th game of sam fisher and the question is 
 &iquest; this game worht buying? to be honest i would recomend absolutely this game to the fans 
 of the saga tha enviroments are very good and also the moments to select what to do are very inovating 
 (still there are only very few moments to decide what to do) the story is quite good but the ending 
 is just terrible they could have make a very good ending buy they dint. By the ohter side you have 
 a new type of multiplayer more balanced if you compare it with caos and pandora tomorrow. At the 
 end you have a very good multiplayer mode so in my opinion you must check out this game first as 
 rental.
  P. S If you are a fan of the saga you must have this one . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pookers47
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 29, 2006 11:10 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Double Agent is definitely the best game in the series to date but for 
 the fourth game it does not add much to reinvent the series or add much to make it more innovative. 
 However, this is not necessarily a bad thing because the game works well, especially the single 
 player, where it achieves that right balance between realism and fun game play. Not to say that 
 the it never was good before but this time around the game feels like how it was meant to be, really 
 giving you the feeling of playing as a splinter cell and a double agent. To add to this effect 
 has to be the terrifically designed maps. Never in any of the other games of this series have they 
 been able to make the single player maps of the campaign this well. Each level is unique and varied 
 in its own way making it distinct and giving you a reason to want to play it again. These levels 
 include a hotel in Shanghai in which you get to rappel down, a level in Iceland and perhaps the 
 most impressive looking level in Africa which is absolutely gorgeous as it is large. The amazing 
 graphics of the 360 and its power has helped to take the Splinter Cell franchise to a new level 
 at least in its presentation. Now there are in game cut scenes in which you play a part in kind 
 of like Resident Evil 4 which offers some fun and diversity from the rest of the game play. For 
 instance this in one scene in which Sam Fisher is parachuting out of a plane and his chute gets 
 stuck and you must fumble to pull the pin. It works nicely but could of been implemented better 
 and more often but still a nice addition. As for the game play most is the same and straight forward 
 with exception to a few new things worth mentioning. With the levels being even more larger in 
 depth and the choice of objectives coming with being a double-agent allows for more choice which 
 makes it refreshing though there could be more choices rather than the three or four major ones 
 in the game. These include thing like deciding to blow up a cruise ship or not or killing your 
 boss Lambert. These all work well but again could of been implemented better. You can now do a 
 few more contextual movements such as different melee attacks and grabs as well as the old ones. 
 One fun and very well executed element is that of swimming which works really well and helps in 
 the making you feel immersed in the environment and stealthy at the same time. You also execute 
 moves such as the ice attack where you sneak up and grab an enemy from below the ice if it is thin 
 enough. There is also a in game map thats lets you see where enemies are now and the ability to 
 unlock new weapons and gadgets through the completion of objectives as well as carrying them all 
 with you on missions. As for the story you pretty play as a double-agent Sam Fisher who uses the 
 death of his daughter to infiltrate a terrorist organization known as the JBA (John Brown's Army) 
 and must gain trust for both them and the NSA. The game tries to take a more cinematic and story 
 driven approach which is better than the previous games but still fails at being successful at 
 that. The sound is good just like the other games.
  
  The multi-player in the game is probably the most changed element of the series. It totally starts 
 over from the previous games for a new basic way of game play for new comers and veterans alike. 
 While it is fun in its own way, I still in someways prefer the older model of game play but this 
 way works well too. The maps are well designed for 3 vs 3 spies against mercenaries and the spies 
 get one gadget which I find to be less useful than before. They include a health syringe, Flash 
 bang grenades, smoke grenades and decoy gadget. They are all good ideas but could work better. 
 To make up for this though the spies are now twice as fast, more agile and can perform some pretty 
 flashy moves especially in get away situations. The mercenaries are armed with one standard assault 
 rifle with unlimited ammo. No longer is there the choice for a shotgun or SMG. They also have 3 
 frag grenades capable of launch, a sniper mode and constant motion tracking which does not require 
 them to switch it on and off. They still have there EMF vision and a new drone capable of following 
 spies in there hard to reach areas and detonating an explosion. In addition to the berserk mode, 
 all of this makes the mercenary more lethal than ever and with the constant beating of the spy 
 detector whenever a spy gets to close, their motion tracking and the spies in ability to perform 
 melee moves other than the neck grab makes it a lot harder to kill mercenaries. Overall it all 
 works and I would recommend this game to people who even remotely liked the previous games because 
 this one is a lot better especially in the single player and the mulitplayer will also last you 
 a long while. The game just does not seem to standout that much as a great game because of the 
 current season of releases of the PS3, the WII and Xbox 360's very own Gears of War, Call of Duty 
 3 and Rainbow Six Vegas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightfire_5
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 29, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  The story line is good.... but disappointing that they leave some stuff out. Like Sarah dying. But 
 all in all it was and is a great game, the online play was amazing and for controls well the people 
 that havent ever played the series might have a hard time for little bit. But for those who have 
 played the whole series, its just like riding a bike you never forget! I'm looking forward to the 
 next installment of the Splinter cell series (conviction) . And I hope that even if its Sam's last 
 game it wont be the end of the series. Maybe they will use some new and fresh and younger. But 
 we will see, but for now all i can say is... keep doing the fantastic job you guys are doing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kriznat
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 29, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  i mean c'mon the maps where your in the base are the worst i got to the last base level and... ijust 
 coulnt finish it. Also the multiplayer is EXTREEMLY BAD! that is like the worst multiplayer in 
 any game! the games single player is just the same if worst.. i mean in some levels you can just 
 run up and kill guys w/ your macheine gun. i mean if there gunna put that ina game y call it a 
 STEALTH action game and the whole trust system is just stupid! over this is definately not a game 
 worth buying, itll be good for a weekend or two, but it wont last you very long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 5.9
Date: Nov 28, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  He's back in yet another gritty stealth adventure. TCSCDA is the latest adventure of Sam Fischer, 
 our favorite official unofficial splinter cell agent. If you are familiar with his previous games 
 on other consoles, you can pretty much expect what you are going to get. Over all a decent game, 
 it brings nothing spectacular to the table.
  
  Gameplay - I have to take points off for this... while the basic controls are simple, I frequently 
 had problems with changing weapons (it was like the R shoulder button wasn't working) . Checking 
 my inventory revealed I should have been able to, but it was like the game decide I couldn't use 
 my rifle here for some reason (I like to snipe : () Graphics - Again, decent to good. Nothing spectacular 
 compared to most 360 titles, but that is the problem with most games you see released on multiple 
 gen consoles. Sound - Gritty but in a good way. Sam sounds as good as ever, and as long as you 
 aren't shooting everything in sight, your ears are as important as your eyes (my surround system 
 told me where most enemies were before my on screen motion detector)
  
  Value - WIth so many games coming out for X-mas, I can't give TCSCDA anything more than a rent 
 unless you are dying for a stealth shooter on the 360....
  
  RATING - Not for children! Parents, it is your responsibility to know what your child it playing... take 
 responsibility, do not require the goverment to do it and strip rights from all of us! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CleveBROWN
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 28, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  If you love Splinter Cell you will falll in love with this one. It provides somthing for everone. 
 The silienced machien gun its not just accurate but can kill with just one shot. Plus the ungrades 
 on all waepons and gadgets and unbelievable. There is just so much tyo do in this game. The online 
 play is also a lot of fun. ALthough how great this game is it has some faults. One for example 
 sam fisher is under 6 foot and when you grab so ledges his feat are within a foot of the ground 
 and if you pukll someone off an edge they falll no more than 7 feet to there death... A little 
 unrealistic but this game proves that Sam Fisher is the man and this game ROCKS!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6878456
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 28, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell Double Agent is the fourth installment of thr splinter cell franchise. In SCDA you 
 play as Sam fisher a Splinter Cell after reciving the news that you doughter was klled in a drunk 
 driveing accident you ask fro the biggest and badest mission the NSA have to offer. Youare in a 
 prison and break out with a man called Jiame Washington. He is with John Browns Army know as the 
 (JBA) .Throught the game you must decide weather you want to complete most of your missions for 
 the JBA or the NSA. For some missions your actions affect the game in a big way there is a meater 
 witch ha a bar with the JBA and NSA the futher the bar goes for the NSA the less the JBA trust 
 you, the futher the bar goes for the JBA the les the NSA trust you. If the bar for the JBA dropps 
 too low the game ends. The graphics fro the game are jaw dropping every sinle thing is very well 
 detiled. The game also has multiplayer just as the past two splinter cells. You play Oupsolon vs 
 Mercnary. Now in the pervious Splinter Cells when you play as a Spy/Opsolon you get alot of gagets 
 like flashbang, smoke, tazer, and a few other gagets. You can play death match or data collection. Over 
 all the single play is aswome and fun but the multi-player I think is for people who havent played 
 before if you are a merc it's like playing G. R. A. W sharpshooter mode it's so easy to kill the opsolon. But 
 the game is still great and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkcellblack
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell 4....
  This is the first game i purchased when i recieved my Xbox 360. And i was blown away. I was impressed 
 at the fact that they no longer have to make cutscenes from gameplay. In other words, the graphics 
 where wonderful.
  
  I can't write too much about this game because simply, it was just, awesome. The single player 
 campaign was lengthy and had an original twisting storyline.
  
  And don't even get me started about the multiplayer. One word; FUN.
  The spy VS Mercenary gameplay 
 just keeps getting better. I was overly impressed with the gameplay of both sides. Spies gives 
 you heart pounding- on the edge action. While Mercenary just gives you the right to blow the hell 
 out of everything.
  Definetly a keeper.
  Perfect Ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffejufo
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 28, 2006 2:31 am PT
Review:  I love all the prevous splinter cell games but this one sucks. First off I can't believe no has 
 complainted about how hard it is to see with the nightvision goggles or in the prison level its 
 pretty hard to see in the dark maybe he should of given you light to see were you going with that 
 knife. The training levels that don't even tell you what you should do if you do it wrong they should 
 make you do it right to pass it, not say thats ok conitnue and pass. How about the recycle levels 
 with pointless tasks and no gadets. How emenys can see in the dark and have super hearing because 
 they can still hear you sneaking up on them with gun fire going on. Not really double agent. Very 
 short game. It just seems rushed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phillyIRL
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 28, 2006 12:19 am PT
Review:  Cllllllllllllllllassic game, Good to have a something that is a bit of a challenge again, as apposed 
 to just running and round shooting.
  
  So far it is living up to my expectations across the board.
  The thing you can always Reilly 
 on with the splinter cell series is, at some stage you are going to get to a part that is going 
 to have you stuck for a week trying to get bast :o) .
  It shows the calibre of the games if you are willing to get stuck, a keep coming back. A few games 
 over the years have gone bin bound for that reason, not worth waisting the time trying to figure 
 out how to get past 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waynekautz
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 27, 2006 11:36 pm PT
Review:  You know when you hear about a sequel of one of your favorite games and you get really excited 
 about it even though it's number whatever in the long running series? That's what it was like for 
 me with Double Agent. I love the Splinter Cell so of course I was stoked to hear of a sequel. The 
 downside comes with the fact that Double Agent recycles just about everything in the past games 
 and doesn't even really care. Sure, the story is (graciously) much easier to understand and there 
 is less of a restriction on taking violent action but everything else is still just about the same. 
 The idea of this entry is that you are Sam Fisher. Distraught NSA agent who has reached the end 
 of his rope by losing his daughter and thusly throws himself into the most dangerous mission the 
 NSA will give him. Said mission involves buddying up with one of the most dangerous terrorist cells 
 known called the JBA or John Browns Army. After a prison break level, that quite frankly should 
 have been more intense, you begin your infiltration of the terror headquarters. There are some 
 very interesting characters here, including a potential yet impossible love interest. Much of the 
 fun simply comes from sections that begin before actual levels in which you walk around the headquarters 
 and try to accomplish missions for both the NSA and JBA. Some moments can get very intense and 
 it requires a challenging level of concentration to balance out the objectives and avoid getting 
 caught doing something you shouldn't have been doing.
  
  When you actually do get to the missions the extreme sense of Deja Vu sets in. Sadly, the only 
 thing missing is Sams greatest allies. The shadows. Most missions occur in broad daylight and thus 
 the difficulty goes through the roof. Some missions are horribly frustrating simply because you 
 are presented with an enemy filled room that has hiding spaces few and far in-between and the feeling 
 that whoever built the room wanted to make sure no sneaky agent had any shadows to hide in. Having 
 the levels drenched in light does do one thing for the game however. Stages can range from looking 
 updated current gen to absolutely gorgeous. It's also a bit sad that the graphical style is exactly 
 the same. While Chaos Theory mixed it up a bit, Double Agent merely slaps some fresh paint on the 
 same house. It's a d**m fine house, no doubt. But you get the idea. However the moment the game 
 starts and you take a peek at the beautiful aircraft you are in and then progress to the Cruise 
 Ship level you know the game can make the levels look like something special. It almost makes you 
 wish they would have used that horse power to make you some darkness though...
  
  All mourning for the loss of darkness aside, Sam still has plenty of gadgets and moves at his disposal 
 to even the odds. From a guard distracting sonic emitter to the never-gets-old exploding sticky 
 camera, Sam made sure he got his hands on the best equipment. Would it be nice to know just how 
 the JBA got the exact equipment that Fisher used in every single Splinter Cell game? Nah! They 
 must just be that sweet to him! Sam Fisher handles all his equipment jus fine too. Most moves and 
 actions are immediate and accurate. You'll occasionally get stuck trying to climb that annoying 
 ledge but it happens rarely enough that you won't notice enough to be annoyed. So with all this 
 talking of how well everything works why is it that I seem to dislike it? Well, I don't. I simply 
 have played this game before. Sure, the new levels are nice but I've seen most of what's been done 
 here before. With no true innovations or added jolts to the game I simply cannot recommend buying 
 this game any more than I would recommend buying an expansion pack that skimped on the content. 
 It's a good game, sure, but I simply can't suggest a $60 light add-on to something that we've seen 
 before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxpayne10
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  This is what happens when Sam Fisher isn't a 100% good guy trying to stop terrorist. The game begins 
 with a mission to explore a factory with a new recruit who is untested, you of course play as vetran 
 Sam Fisher who reluctantly takes this quick assignment. Things go wrong the rookie gets killed 
 and Sam finds out his daughter is dead after finishing the seamingly simple mission. Sam has nothing 
 to lose and takes the job nobody else would take to infiltrate a domestic terrorist group known 
 as John Browns Army. The fun begins as Sam starts off in prison. This is the most solid Splinter 
 Cell gameplay wise. The story isn't much but thats okay because there is a lot more character added 
 to Sam esspecially during the decision moments. The game has you using every move Sam has to try 
 to infiltrate and stop (or not) the terrorist group, this is a game where you the player uses your 
 morales to decide what to do for example in a later level do you stop a group of revolutionaries 
 from executing some civilians or do you keep on trucking? The gameplay is solid. There is great 
 detail to the chracters, Sam particularly looks great graphics wise. The game has great voice overs 
 and Micheal Ironside keeps on making Sam comparable with the other stealth bad*ss Solid Snake. All 
 in all this is a great game, the only complaint I have is the weak story and unsattisfying ending 
 but at least there is another Splinter Cell in the works and each game gets a little better story 
 wise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeMoose
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 26, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  In Splinter Cell: Double Agent, you of course, play as Sam Fisher. But in Double Agent we see a 
 different side of Sam Fisher, and the decisions you make effect the outcome of the game. You can 
 choose to continue to do missions for the current organization, or you can change the roll of the 
 game and do a bit darker objectives. The latest addition in the Splinter Cell series may not be 
 the best, but it has a few new innovations to make it a game that is definitely worth a pick up. 
 So like I said earlier, you play as secret agent Sam Fisher. You continue to do objectives for 
 the current organization that you are currently working for, or you can take a darker role in the 
 game and do different objectives for another organization. The game a few new features that make 
 the game more worthwhile as a pick up.
  
  One of the new features of the game is that you now have a trust meter. Doing objectives for a 
 certain organization will obviously boost the trust you have for them. However, if you fail objectives 
 for that organization you will loose trust, and when the trust meter is all the way down. You fail 
 the mission.
  
  You also are given more hard choices in the game. Like for instance, you will be given two different 
 sets of objectives. They each will be for a different organization. In most cases you cant do all 
 of them. So you need to decide what role you are going to play. You must decide if you are going 
 to play the good guy and to the correct objectives, or if your gonna do the terrorist objectives 
 and gain more trust for them. It at times can be tough to decide which you are gonna do. But just 
 for a tip, do the objectives of the team you have the lest trust with. That way you will be sure 
 not to run out of trust for any certain team.
  
  When it comes to how difficult the game is, Splinter Cell Double Agent is the same as the others. 
 And in case you wondering, that means that the game is very hard and at times frustrating. I found 
 the first mission in particular to be very hard and frustrating. It almost caused me to stop playing 
 the game all in all. Hopefully that doesnt happen to you, because after that level the game isnt 
 as hard and is very enjoyable.
  
  Well what it comes down to is that Splinter Cell Double Agent is a very fun game, but at times 
 get to frustrating and can cause you to say some things that you dont necessarily want to say. 
 But I guess it is all for the challenge. The games new features are defiantly for the better. They 
 bring even more challenge to the hard game. Those are some of the reasons why I give the game play 
 in Splinter Cell Double agent a superb 9 out of ten.
  
  Now the graphics, though great, I was disappointed by. Now dont get me wrong, they are great. 
 But they werent as good as I was expecting them to be. They were but a small upgrade from the 
 current generation Splinter Cell games. If the Xbox 360 version of the game was on the current 
 gen systems, than they would be absolutely astonishing. They are great, but not what you would 
 come to expect from a Splinter Cell on a next generation system such as the Xbox 360.
  
  The lighting is very good in this game. It is almost as good as the Xbox 360 has to offer. The 
 shining effects in the game are simply astonishing in Double Agent. You are probably thinking Light, 
 in Splinter Cell?!? Yes yes, most of the game is played in the light quite surprisingly. This 
 is surprising since the previous entries in the Splinter Cell series have basically played in all 
 dark. But this game is different. The face details in the game are also very good. They look like 
 almost real faces for the most part, and you dont see faces much in this game. But when you actually 
 do they look very well.
  
  So it is obvious that Splinter Cell Double Agent has very good graphics. But they didnt blow me 
 away like I expected them to do. Dont get me wrong, they are very good with the good lighting 
 effects in the game and the great face details. But it just didnt meet the high expectations I 
 had for it. Therefor the graphics get a solid Eight out of Ten.
  
  The sound in Splinter Cell Double Agent is quite good as well. Just like every other Splinter Cell 
 game. The gun fire in the game sounds legit ament. It sounds exactly like the gun sounds would 
 in real life today. Well, as always there is not much more to talk about when it comes to the sound.
 
  
  So the sound has legit ament gun sounds and also has amazing voice overs and just has an amazing 
 sounds in the environment. Which is why the sound gets a superb 9 out of ten.
  
  So what it comes down to is that Splinter Cell Double Agent is yet another great Splinter Cell 
 game. It has great gameplay with new innovations and things that make it even more fun. It has 
 very solid graphics with great lighting effects. The awesome sound with the great voice overs and 
 the legit ament gun noises. It comes down to the fact that The latest addition in the Splinter 
 Cell series may not be the best, but it has a few new innovations to make it a game that is definitely 
 worth a pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sosotiit
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Another great game for the flagship of stealth. The game continues on the track of the excellent 
 SCCT. I found the four missions in HQ a bit too much, bet the rest was great splinter cell.
  
  Again GS comes with a rating under 9 for a splinter cell game ( perfect dark zero got 9 !!!! 
 and many others) . The same happened with SCCT, as I said then, GS when it comes to evaluating stealth 
 you are not the reference. All that meant with the highest respect, you simply do not get it with 
 stealth.
  
  A good example is on the X360 version guide where you mention a few times that you probably do 
 not care about stealth rating anymore, well I did it at 100% and yes it was part of the fun because 
 I like it.
  
  rgds, soso 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OGslayer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 26, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  I have played both single player and multiplayer both are great, but multiplayer real shows what 
 this game is capable of. Online you get the choice to play as a merc or spy both are fun and offer 
 different gameplay, as for me spy is a better experience. As a spy online it is third person while 
 a merc is first person i prefer third. Overall the game is great and very exciting and fun to play 
 only drawback is lag issues online which isnt experienced while playing coop. The co op mode is 
 broken up into three skill levels which are only unlocked by beating them in sequential order. 
 Some you play on a team as the other spies other to play against them trying to download more than 
 everyone else. The co op game which you play together are addicting, they display high scores at 
 the end of the match so run it again to try and beat the high score. The maps and abilities are 
 unlocked as you play you dont start with all the maps or skins for your characters you must earn 
 both skins and levels so its a little motivation to play online a little more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawookie
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 26, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  So, Sam has finally taken a turn for the worst. Or has he? In Sam's latest adventure, his daughter, 
 Sarah Fisher, has been killed by a drunk driver. Sam, overcome with grief, attempts a robbery and 
 a murder. He almost succeds, but then he is overwhelmed with cops and S. W. A. T. members.
  
  So in this adventure, you decide if Sam is really gone to the dark side, or if it was a momentary 
 outburst of wrath . There is no real tutorial mission in this game, which is a little strange. 
 You have to go to these 2 training missions, which are fun, but also don't actually help you understand 
 the controls all that well. If you are playing on the Xbox 360, you will get 10 points for completing 
 the first mission, and 40 points for the next mission. These missions will help you learn how to 
 do things like holster and pull out your gun, move about, stay in the darkness, but they don't 
 teach you all of the gameplay mechanics. The first mission has you on a plane over iceland with 
 a partner who you are teaching to be a splinter cell. It is supposed to be a simple recon mission, 
 but shortly after dropping in, Lambert tells you that terrorists are in the compound. You work 
 your way through the mission, until you find out the kid has been captured and you lose contact. 
 When you find him ,he is lined up and shot. After the first mission, Samis told his daughter is 
 dead and the story of how Sam winds up in prison.
  
  After 6 months in the slammer, Lambert contacts him and says he's willing to get Sam out to work 
 on a mission. An inmate called James Washington is part of the John Brown Army, a terrorist organization 
 inside New York. Lambert wants you to help him escape and go undercover in the JBA warehouse. Jamie, 
 when he contacts you at the begining of the mission, wants you to help him escape and work for 
 his organization. This is where the second trust meter is thrown in. A new feature here is the 
 trust meters of the NSA and the JBA. When you complete or fail a task for either organization, 
 the meters will go up or down. Luckily, not all the objectives will cause them both to move. If 
 one of the meters hits zero, its game over.
  
  The prison level has you helping Jamie and other inmates escape, and when you are outta there, 
 you will find yourself in the JBA warehouse. you will find many of these HQ missions throughout 
 the game. Every one of them gives you a large list of objectives to do, and 25 minutes to do as 
 many of them as you can. You have your primary, secondary, bonus, and profile objectives. You will 
 not fail the mission completely if you don't complete the primary objectives here, but they will 
 affect the course of the game quite harshly.
  
  There are 3 separate endings to the game, Good, Normal, and Bad. The way you play the game affects 
 the outlook of the game. So that's the story, and now for the Graphics and Sound. The games graphics 
 remain fairly good, and the lighting system and shadow effects are till spectacular. The movies 
 are FANTASTIC! It is almost like a real film!
  The sound is alright. The guns don't sound realistic, though. The enemy weapons are loud and blunt, 
 but Sam's silenced weapons are pretty nice. The knife is real good here, and its the same system 
 used in Chaos theory. You can interagate the guy, kill him, or knock him out. The voice acting 
 in the game is superb, though. Every single person is greatin their voices, especially Emile and 
 Moss, the JBA guys.
  
  The games multiplayer is still the great fun it was in the other games. However, Deathmatch isn't 
 present here, which is a load of **** You've got a really highly extended co-op game though, with 
 about 15 missions or something like that. There is also a versus mode and the game has about 8 
 maps to play around with. The lobby holds up to 6 guys. 3 as Mercs, and 3 as spies. The only major 
 flaw here is that the maps are so huge and dark that finding the spy can be extremely frustrating. 
 But, in conclusion, this game is verymuch worth anywhere 50 dollars and below, and if you're a 
 little shaky still, try at least a rental. The single-player will take you about 10 hours, and 
 the multiplayer will keep you coming back for more until the co-op is done and then there is the 
 versus mode to toy about with. This latest adventure will keep you on the verge of suspense, and 
 will be very much worth your time. Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo-IV
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 26, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  This is not the best in the series (Chaos theory still is) , but it adds onto an already amazing 
 series.
  
  Pros
  -Great visuals in the singleplayer
  -Single player offers a veriety of locations
  -Multiplayer adds 6 player support
  -Always great 
 voice acting and sound
  -Its Splinter cell
  
  Cons
  -Lag issues online in some games
  -Hard to get online matches going
  -HQ missions are different and new, but i didn't enjoy them 
 that much (double agent feature)
  
  Bottom Line - I would even buy this game just for the single player. It is just another splinter 
 cell game, and thats what makes it a good buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrbobbster
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 25, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  I would have loved to play this game and also to be able to enjoy it. Splinter Cell games of 
 the past have been pure joys to play.
  
  My problem with Double-Agent is the TIMED missions. In a game where thinking, stealth and planning 
 are keys to success, adding the stress and fun stifling pressure of that process being timed completely 
 ruined the fun factor for me.
  
  I realize many will say, Hey dude thats just realistic, get over it, but I am pretty sure the 
 timer also makes what could have been a very enjoyable, challenging and fun experience sessions 
 of frustration for many in Double Agent. I really wish there was a way to turn-off the timer.
 
  
  Otherwise, it is an excellent game, much of which I will not experience because I am taking it 
 back after just a few missions.
  
  Another frustration is not being able to contact Ubisoft directly and email them with my thoughts. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sausn2002
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 25, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  The only thing keeping me from reviewing this game highly is the fact that this game doesn't do 
 anything very different than its counterparts. However, there are some much improved action and 
 an upgrade in things that Sam Fisher can do.
  
  They did a good attempt at making something different. This time Sam Fisher plays both sides. Gathers 
 intel for the NSA and works for a Terrorist Group. Its new that you have to play both sides and 
 gather a trust for both (indicated by two status bars in the game) .
  
  For the most part the gameplay is not any different than the other Splinter Cells, but there are 
 more memorable parts. For Example: On one level Sam Fisher starts out swimming in some water within 
 an Arctic environment. He sees above him a guard standing on some thin ice. He can go below this 
 guard, break the ice, and pull the guard underwater, where fisher then kills the guard with his 
 knife. I've never seen anything like that before, and that was the best action I've seen for awhile 
 in a game, besides that kind of scene not happening in any game before this one.
  
  This game is a must for Splinter Cell fans, but some might be disappointed in the change of pace. 
 Its a great one to rent, but whether you would want to buy it or play it again is up to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryder552
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 24, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  This is my first review, and I hope you enjoy it!
  Splinter Cell Double Agent is an overall great game. The graphics are beautiful (Not the best on 
 360) . The sound also shares the same story. Now, about the gameplay, trying to be a stealthy agent 
 is just simply fun! Although the story mode sometimes is a bit dull. It starts of pretty fun, and 
 as you play throughout the game you have to make tough decisions, however, its not always great 
 during more subtle parts. The online mode, were do I start. How about, WOW! The online mode is 
 usually played 3 on 3 (As that is the most you can play with) . Its basically Spies against the 
 Upsilon Forces. On each map there are multi coloured terminals. The spys objective is to hack 
 100% of a file and return it to their base. They must get two files in order to win. The Upsilon 
 Forces objective is the complete opposite. They are supposed to kill all the spies, or prevent 
 them from getting two files and wait until time runs out. The online play is almost a completely 
 different game then the Story Mode. Also, arguably, the online play is also a lot better of a game. 
 The game is still worth every penny, although, most likely not fit for everyones most liked game. 
 So for those new to the series, you can probably go buy it and enjoy it, but dont risk it, rent 
 it first.
  Thanks for reading; I would appreciate all feedback and criticism. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaosBringer577
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 23, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell: Double Agent is the fourth installment in the Splinter Cell series. Featuring a 
 brand new storyline, revamped multiplayer, and some vast changes over previous games, Double Agent 
 redefines the stealth genre with some fresh gameplay ideas. Splinter Cell: Double Agent is made 
 by the same developer of previous titles, Ubisoft, and appears on all systems, but this review 
 is for the Xbox 360 version.
  
  **Story**
  
  Splinter Cell: Double Agent opens with Sam Fisher and his young apprentice infiltrating a facility 
 in Iceland, both agents trying to disable a missile from firing. When Sams hireling is killed 
 after being spotted, Sam has to finish the job himself. After thwarting the missile launch, he 
 climbs aboard the evacuation helicopter, where Lambert awaits him with some seriously bad news. 
 Sams daughter, Sara Fisher, was killed by a drunk driver, and Sam loses it. He stops doing missions 
 for the NSA, quickly becoming an alcoholic and picking fights with the wrong people. After Lambert 
 sees the trouble Sam is getting in, he quickly offers him one last mission to redeem himself. Sam 
 must infiltrate a rogue terrorist group called the James Brown Army (JBA) and dismantle it from 
 within. Its do or die for Sam Fisher, and hes not willing to die.
  
  **Graphics**
  
  Splinter Cell: Double Agent is easily one of the most impressive looking games on the Xbox 360, 
 and is undoubtedly the best-looking game of the series. However, the first thing you will notice 
 probably wont be the great graphics, but rather the lack of a real HUD. Most of Sams Heads-Up 
 Display has been replaced by a light on his gun and back, giving you a quick way to judge whether 
 or not you are in the safety of the shadows, or in danger of being seen. The light changes from 
 Green (completely hidden) , to Yellow (you can be spotted) , to Red (spotted and being tracked) . 
 Personally, I think it makes the game much more fluid and easier to understand. No more stealth 
 meter, no shadow gauge, just a light, and the game is better for it. Other than the lack of a real 
 HUD though, Splinter Cell: Double Agent looks fantastic. Lighting is a more prevalent part of the 
 game due to the change of pace, and looks very nice, softly illuminating your environments, or 
 harshly beating down on you. The lighting plays an important part of the game, which is about sticking 
 to the shadows and avoiding being seen, and does a great job of recreating accurate shadows. Aside 
 from the lighting, the texturing is well-done, featuring great bump-mapping and impressive reflections. 
 Sam looks great as usual, however the bad guys dont really look up to par, which is somewhat of 
 a disappointment, but hardly damaging. The JBA members look very detailed, and are easily recognizable 
 by their distinct, unique silhouettes. The environments for the most part look amazing, from the 
 cruise ship, to Shanghai, and span over a wide variety of locations, keeping the gameplay relatively 
 fresh. One problem I noticed while playing however was that some of the animations seemed a littleoff. 
 When Sam rolls, it looks a bit fake at times, and sometimes the shading detail is blocky. It doesnt 
 detract too much from the game, but it was noticeable and reoccurring enough to mention. All in 
 all though, Double Agent is a very pretty game.
  
  **Sound**
  
  Splinter Cell: Double Agents sound is great, but not out of the ordinary. Everything you hear 
 in the world is pretty generic, bottles falling, bullets hitting flesh or walls, you name it. The 
 guns, while not pathetic, sound a little underpowered (yes I know theyre silenced) . One thing 
 I noticed was that Ubisoft went ahead and recycled the MP5 firing noise from Far Cry Instincts 
 and slapped it in Splinter Cell: Double Agent. I found this a little unattractive, but a small 
 quip at most. This isnt to say Double Agent sounds BAD, it just doesnt sound incredible. There 
 are some satisfying noises, like when bodies crumple, or when you slice an artery or break a neck, 
 and these are arguably the only important sounds that most gamers care about. Reloading your weapons 
 sounds decent, but it wont wow you. Environment ambience is appropriate however, as snow and wind 
 howls at Sam as he creeps aboard an abandoned tanker, or distant gunfire assaults your senses as 
 you dash through the dirty streets of Congo. Fortunately, the voice acting more than makes up for 
 some of the mediocre sound effects. Michael Ironside returns to voice Sam Fisher, serving up his 
 usual dose of sarcasm and humor, while JBA members do a great job and have their own personalities. 
 The voice acting contributes greatly to the deliverance of the new premise and story, and immerses 
 you in the story a lot more, which was key with the new changes. So while Double Agent serves up 
 a nice dose of great sounds, there are some low points in noticeable areas.
  
  **Gameplay**
  
  In case youve been living under a rock for the past few years, the Splinter 
 Cell series has been constantly hailed as one of the greatest stealth games ever made. This praise 
 certainly was well-deserved, as Splinter Cell features some of the best gameplay the stealth genre 
 has ever seen, and in Double Agent, its even better. The big, big change in Sam Fishers latest 
 outing is the fact that not all of your time will be spent creeping in the dark. In fact, youll 
 be spending a considerable amount of time in plain sight of enemies, under the guise of a rogue 
 operative. But the old game isnt lost, Splinter Cell: Double Agent takes the critically acclaimed 
 stealth gameplay that made it so famous, and adds a new layer of polish and shine, making it even 
 better than previous titles. The real star of the show here, however, is the newly implemented 
 trust system. Youre still working for the NSA, and as such must complete certain tasks for them 
 in order for Lambert and company to continue trusting you. Fail to complete important tasks, and 
 you fail your mission, and must continue from your last checkpoint. Speaking of which, before I 
 continue, Splinter Cell: Double Agent adds a very welcome save-anywhere feature, allowing you to 
 literally, save anywhere. Its a subtle, but extremely useful addition to the Splinter Cell series, 
 eliminating a lot of trial-and-error as well as frustration. Back to the trust system, though. 
 You must balance between JBA trust and NSA trust, choosing certain objectives to complete to increase 
 your trust with either organization. Its an interesting and immersive dynamic that really works 
 in the context in the game. Key moments to determine who trusts you and who doesnt are called 
 Directed Moments where you are given a choice that usually involves something very moral, or 
 right. For instance, your first Directed Moment will be to either kill a young innocent helicopter 
 pilot, or spare his life. Should you put a bullet in his brain, the JBA will instantly trust you 
 a good deal more, giving you a more secure place in their ranks. If you decide to spare his life, 
 Lambert and the NSA will continue to place their trust in you. Its moments like this that really 
 define Double Agent and make it the unique, outstanding achievement that it is.
  
  **Singleplayer**
  
  As mentioned before, Splinter Cells singleplayer game is largely based 
 around the new trust system. Every objective you complete, every decision you make, will effect 
 who trusts you. This addition greatly enhances the singleplayer game of Splinter Cell, and undoubtedly 
 adds a level of immersion and depth weve never seen in the series. Your time in the game will 
 consist of the traditional Splinter Cell missions you know and love, where you creep around in 
 the dark and break bad guys body parts, and then there are your JBA missions, where you walk around 
 in clear sight of your enemies. In the JBA missions, you must complete certain tasks for both the 
 NSA and the JBA organizations. The JBA objectives usually involve doing their dirty work (ex. Assembling 
 mines or disposing of bodies) , while the NSA has you sneaking into restricted areas to retrieve 
 vital information. The catch here is that if you are caught slinking around, the JBA will lose 
 an amount of trust in you, but if you are seen in the act of hacking a computer or using an NSA 
 gadget, your time with the JBA is up, and you fail your mission. This is real stealth, where you 
 are essentially a wolf in sheeps clothing, waiting for the right time to strike. Many of the Directed 
 Moments are very difficult to make, as you get drawn more and more into the story, desperately 
 trying to come to a conclusion while your peers gaze intensely at you and await your decision. 
 The tension while playing the JBA headquarters missions hangs in the air like a poisonous cloud 
 as you frantically try to pick locks, hack laptops, and plant bugs. Your decisions also affect 
 which of the three endings you get, which definitely encourages multiple play-throughs, something 
 that other Splinter Cells severely lacked.. It works incredibly well in the context of the game, 
 and definitely makes Double Agent the most ambitious, if not the best, of the Splinter Cell series. 
 Unfortunately, though, this mode is over all too soon, and will leave you wanting more.
  
  **Multiplayer**
  
  The Splinter Cell series started off as being strictly a singleplayer game, 
 but with the addition of Spies vs. Mercenaries in Pandora Tomorrow, has widely been regarded as 
 one of the most addicting, innovative multiplayer games of our time. When Chaos Theory was released, 
 the online game got even better, featuring some nice changes and enhancements that improved the 
 multiplayer to a point of near perfection. The big issue that blocked many gamers from getting 
 into the online aspect of the Splinter Cell series was the lack of accessibility. Playing against 
 anyone who had a better idea of the map than you did was a recipe for an embarrassing loss. Fortunately, 
 this has been remedied in Double Agent, and now just about anyone can get into the online game 
 with ease. Ubisoft seamlessly teaches newbies by adding silhouettes to the maps that inform you 
 of the paths you can take, and what buttons to press to get there. Youll find yourself learning 
 the maps much faster and more efficiently that keeps you even with your competition. Another smart 
 move that Ubisoft made was the restriction of maps you could play. If you havent achieved a certain 
 amount of kills or time played on a map, you cant unlock more. Let me explain. When you first 
 play the online game, you can only select from 3 multiplayer maps, Blackwing, Boss House, and Dawn 
 Waves. You have to play these maps a good deal before you can unlock more of the maps. This ensures 
 that you get a solid grasp on the basics before you continue, and in the process you learn those 
 three maps by heart. There have also been some significant changes that balance the game out a 
 lot more. Spies no longer have weapons, instead they can select from 1 of 4 gadgets to carry with 
 them: Smoke Grenades, Jammers, Flashbangs, or Syringes. You can use these gadgets at least once 
 during the course of your life, and each one has a very effective usage. Syringes replenish some 
 lost health, Jammers keep Mercenaries from hearing a heartbeat as they near your location, Smoke 
 Grenades conceal your escape, and Flashbangs temporarily blind nearby foes, allowing you to slip 
 into the darkness. Mercenaries also have some cool toys, including a rappel kit that allows you 
 quickly descend onto lower levels of a building and a drone that can navigate small areas where 
 spies may be out of your line of sight. Mercenaries have assault rifles and grenades to kill the 
 spies, whereas the spies must sneak up behind Mercenaries and snap their necks to get their kills. 
 Being a spy is still played in third person perspective, and being a Mercenary is still similar 
 to an FPS. The maps are great, all featuring unique designs and fun layouts. The best part about 
 the online game in Double Agent is the sharp contrast between playing as a Mercenary or a Spy. 
 Spies must being swift and unseen, whereas Mercenaries must work as a team and communicate efficiently. 
 Its almost like two games in one nicely packaged component, and its an absolute joy to play. 
 The teams consist of three players each, and strike a fine balance that works flawlessly. There 
 is also clan support, called SQUADs, and gives the multiplayer even more depth. Splinter Cell: 
 Double Agents revamped online aspect is what the multiplayer was supposed to be from Pandora Tomorrow, 
 and its a shame it took 2 games before Ubisoft finally got it down. But, hey, why complain?
  
  **Conclusion**
  
  Splinter Cell: Double Agent is arguably the best game in the series, 
 thanks in no small part to the outstanding new singleplayer game, and the even better multiplayer 
 mode. Unfortunately, the lackluster sound effects and relatively short singleplayer keep this game 
 from being an even better title. Hopefully, Ubisoft will put a little more effort and add one more 
 layer of polish in Splinter Cell 5 to give us the best stealth game ever. Until then, you wont 
 be disappointed with Splinter Cell: Double Agent.
  
  Written By: Adriaan Noordzij (Ken Adams NSA on XBL)
  
  For more reviews, musings, and other 
 fun stuff, visit http://infamousanarchy. blogspot. com
  
  Feel free to send me a friend request on Live! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent360
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 23, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Sam fisher is back for his 4th instalment for splinter cell and oh my good it is the best in the 
 series wow. lets start out with the fantastic campaign its not a capaign to just blow off its worth 
 your wile by far the playable cut seens are awsome and very imsersful like this one (SPOILER ALTERT 
 ) where you have a chance to kill your head NSA boss lambert of the guy who is forcing you to kill 
 him its totaly bad ass.. the muiltiplayer is fun.. but gets old fast the graphics are good but 
 not up to the 360s power and doesnt even compare to the campaigns.. over all it was worth the wait 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freshcutgrass1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 23, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Plot: Sam Fisher is back in his fourth adventure in which he is a double agent. This gives you 
 the opportunity to be good or bad and opens up more than one ending.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are good and obviously improve upon the previous games, being this is the 
 franchise's first steps into the next generation. The graphics aren't eye popping like the first 
 splinter cell but they measure up against other 360 games. The character models are good as are 
 the environments but the A. I needed some tuning. Sometimes the A. I will see you when they shouldn't 
 and sometimes they don't when they should. The framerate is steady for the most part but you might 
 encounter some little choppy parts every now and then. The multiplayer maps are designed to perfection. 
 Sam's model is the most detailed as it should be because you'll be seeing him the whole game. He 
 has different clothes to match his environmental surroundings. They are suited perfect and give 
 him style. A white suit for snow and a green shirt, camo pant, and sun glasses for a african level. 
 The lighting in the games online and offline are excellent too. Gameplay: The gameplay is easiest 
 said, is the same at its core as in the previous. This game is stealth, patience, trial and error, 
 and repetitive animations, with an opportunity to pull off a move with cinematic flare here and 
 there. On the multiplayer side of the ball, the multiplayer was obviously focused on the most. 
 Multiplayer is comprised of a game of spies versus mercenaries, the spies have to steal data from 
 one of four terminals using gadgets, darkness and sometimes fear to get by the mercenaries. The 
 mercenaries have to kill the spies, simple enough. Each team has gadgets of their own and the mercenaries 
 are armed with heavy duty weaponry. The gameplay is the same but the design is becoming more complex 
 and it's getting slightly more difficult for newcomers to jump right into. Sound: The sounds are 
 excellent, the environmental sounds are realistic. One level located in an african place with a 
 civil war going on around you. The sounds in multiplayer are subtle and real. The voice acting 
 is decent too. The enemy gun sounds seem to be ported directly from the previous games. Value: 
 Double Agent has a single player campaign that will take maybe 8-10 hrs first playthrough, but 
 it has great multiplayer to support the single player. Achievements: The achievements aren't a 
 walk in the park they take time as do alot of games, the achievements include finishing all missions 
 perfect and winning a large amount of online games. Tilt: Double Agents story is much deeper than 
 any of the others, the core gameplay is the same, excluding some minor tweaks, the online is fun, 
 and its A. I isn't very good. The graphics while good, could have been better. Overall Splinter 
 Cell Double Agent takes a risk on the setup of its single player design and improves its online 
 play making it an enjoyable game and fans of the series will still love although the window of 
 opportunity for newcomers is slowly showing closure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolguy222
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 22, 2006 10:34 pm PT
Review:  So i rented this game and thought it would be like the other splinter cell games but it is not. 
 They changed it around to make Sam Fisher balance being a terrorist and a agent. What i liked about 
 the other splinter cell games was the way you had to use stealth to get things done but on this 
 game you can pretty much just run and gun through missions which is not what a stealth game should 
 be like. The graphics are very good and really show off lots of details around the enviroment and 
 on Sam Fisher. You can see the breath in snow areas and the sweat on his forehead in hot places. 
 Multiplayer is fun but the main problem with it is there is only 1 mode in both co-op and deathmatch. 
 Co-op is exactly the same as deathmatch except for the fact that the mercs are controlled by AI. 
 So in closing if you are a fan of splinter cell and want to see a change in the gameplay you should 
 try this game if you hate splinter cell this won't change your opinion at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oscarmayer936
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 22, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Stealth is the ultimute key in tom clancy's latest spinter cell: double agent. It is vitile to 
 your survival to go under the radar while infiltrating enemy bases and terrorist cells. SCDA is 
 one of the best games ive played. I love the alternate endings and the choices you will make throughout 
 the campaign mode. The online play is also very tense. spies versus mercenaires. the spies will 
 use stealth to sneak past enemy mercs. and hack close by terminals. They can destroy lights, hack, 
 use health needles and are great for quick escapes. They can squeez through tiny places that mercs 
 just cant get to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buddycuffs
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 21, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell: Double Agent, to me acted more as an expansion to Chaos Theory than it did an entirely 
 new game.
  
  The graphics were the one thing that really gave it more pizazz than the other Splinter Cell games 
 in the series. This one's gameplay was basically the same as all of the others with puzzles that 
 include no instructions whatsoever, and tactics you use only once to get past a certain point which 
 were more fun than all of the other manuevers we've seen in every other Splinter Cell.
  
  The online was very annoying, with quick matches that barely ever actually went through, forcing 
 me to restart my system just to have the same thing happen to me again, when all of my other games 
 worked perfectly. Another thing about the online was that 90% of the players were veteran Splinter 
 Cell players and annihalated the others. The only redeeming facet was that you could unlock a skin 
 or two. Which weren't that different. Maybe if this game was $40 I'd reccomend it to everyone, 
 but for $60, I'd only say for the hardcore Splinter Cell players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 319ni
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 21, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  well sam fisher is back and this time hes a bit moody, gone off the rails and is now a sneaky rotter 
 infiltrating a terrorist organisation. sounds good eh, no more mister ( sort of ) nice guy. i bought 
 this game and i was skeptical firstly as ive always been an avid avoider of sc games and always 
 thought them a bit samey. but im converted and as soon as the next comes out il be all over it 
 like a cheap suit.
  
  graphically, audio wise its top notch, the storyline is good and the balancing of the trustometer 
 makes for a novel addition so each mission will have a set of usually contradicting objectives 
 so youve gotta decide which you wanna do. each mission has lots of different methods and getting 
 a 100 score for you stealth is pretty tough, the subgame style mission within the jba ( terrorist 
 hq) is also a nice diversion but some of the minor niggles for me occur here. 1st you can run in 
 the jba compound and its damn frustrating, second each time your back their you have the previous 
 mission to do again as well as some other job and it feels a bit rushed for me, second is the weapons. 
 the big guns fun as is the pistol with its side thingy but it gets a bit samey especially as i 
 can only remember shooting about 5 or 6 people deliberately but still got poor stealth score. im 
 nitpicking tho and this is a really great game and well worth playing, im not commenting on the 
 multiplayer cos its good but dull get it you will like it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inapprope
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  I've been a Splinter Cell fan since the first game came out, the stealth action is just unmatched. 
 The graphics have always been phenominal and the gameplay has always been addictive. Also with 
 this game it FINALLY has a story line that I can actually get into.
  
  The stealth has definately taken a small hit in this game as you are not just infiltrating dark 
 buildings and night. You have to be outside during the daytime and also in the enemy headquarters 
 walking around with them trying to blend in while trying to screw them over at the same time. The 
 stealth action is definately still there though in the traditional and not so traditional ways.
 
  
  The graphics look great as usual, the first time the graphics really jumped out at me was on the 
 Cruise ship assignment when Sam is hanging over the edge of a balcony and scaling across the side 
 of the boat. And I play on SDTV so if you have HD then you should be thoroughly impressed.
  
  The story line of being a double agent is really pretty cool and is the first Splinter Cell 
 story line that I actually care about and am able to fully follow. It's cool seeing the darker 
 side of Sam and the personal battles he has to endure, while walking the fine line between terrorists 
 and government. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scstephens
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of the Splinter-Cell franchise and I was welcoming the new breed when 
 I read up on Double-Agent. After playing for several hours, I found the game to be a very similiar 
 game to the other addtions, minus the new story. There were many things I enjoyed, including the 
 adjusted multiplayer. If you're a fan of the Splinter-Cell series, you will not be dissappointed, 
 but do not be expected to be blown away.
  
  One last thing, the load times in this game are unacceptable. After playing a game as graphically 
 intense as Gears of War, which has very acceptable load times, I find it extremely frustrating 
 to wait 30-seconds to 1 -minute in load screens. The programming should have been a lot of tighter 
 then what was finally released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRyOrange_basic
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 19, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Spinter cell 4 continues its trade mark gameplay of high-tech stealth action with a suppose interesting 
 twist of decision making game mechanism. I am particularly impressed with the setting of being 
 a double agent and there are certainly hairy moments where balancing the interests of both sides 
 require some clever thinkings. However, what is interesting is will be the attitudes of gamers; 
 for those looking for more old-school splinter cell gaming of stay in the dark/verypatience wait, 
 are probably gonna find it a bit more difficult (only a bit) to find that Fisher has become more 
 of real life field agent as suppose to the super high tech fictional agent he was. There are day-time 
 operation, missions w/o any goggles or raise any detections. I personally really enjoy this kind 
 of gameplay which make Fisher more believable character- though I know some wouldnt. Great graphics 
 but a somewhat weak story. Overall a solid game and interesting new game direction that i hope 
 will continue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan3669
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 18, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Double Agent is an inovative stealth action game that delivers with a interesting storyline and 
 good graphics. However the game is very short and lacks many new features. It feels more like an 
 expansion of Chaos Theory than another game. Although it does have very good graphics and okay 
 A. I. it's different than before. This one you can shoot your way through levels instead of sneaking 
 around. The multiplayer is great and it gives new and inovative levels and gadgets. It still has 
 the spy verse mercs, but this time you can upgrade your abilities and looks a little. The multiplayer 
 is more advanced and level for all playerws both new and experienced. The achievements are reaitively 
 easy to obtain and just take time. They contain both single player and multiplayer achievements. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIGAKILL
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 18, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is a big step up from the previous splinter cells. The story is awesome. It keeps you 
 thinking throughout the entire game. The acting is great, especially for that of a game, how ofter 
 do you come across even adequate acting in a game? The graphics are very detailed and smooth, however 
 so low fps spots in storymode. The gameplay in storymode however is generally the same in Chaos 
 Theory, except a lot of your sensors are gone, such as, the noise meter, and visibility meter, 
 you really have to think more on your own in this splinter cell, which good because it presents 
 more of a challenge. The multiplayer blew me away. It is very intense, and is a lot more balanced 
 compared to how it was in Chaos Theory. Both merc and spy have some annoying weeknesses and some 
 overwhelming strenghts yet in the end each one is balanced perfectly. The gameplay in multiplayer 
 is much more fluid. It's fast pace and a lot more real. There is only one game type, but the game 
 type is very fun to play. Although I play splinter cell mainly for the multiplayer, I still recommend 
 the campaign, the story is well thought out, and to me, it's worth playing just for the story. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_Fisher
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 18, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Go buy it NOW this game was at first a little hard to get used to alot different then Splinter 
 Cell 3. But once you get the hang of it BAM it ROcks to the extreme. The hardest thing to get used 
 to is the mulitiplayer but once you do you will have many sleepless nights. Beleive me dont waste 
 your money on renting it because you will probably not beat it and even if you do you will be craving 
 the mulitiplayer once you get used to it! The only thing a little messed up is the first level 
 which wasint that great and the camera in some places may get a little to close to Sam to be able 
 to see around him so be careful and keep playing till you get used to then you will have the time 
 of your life. But dont just listen to me go out and see for your self. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyuhakaNinja
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 17, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is all it was cracked up to be. The game play is just great, the storyline is very innovative 
 and has great depth, yet it is simple to get into to and it has a great replay value. Even novice's 
 to the Splinter Cell series can jump right into the series without missing much. Although, it's 
 still a great idea to get the other three games in the series. Graphics wise, it's everything you 
 could expect from the Splinter Cell series who's graphics and lighting capabilities have always 
 been some of the best in any game created. With 360's enhanced graphics engine these effects are 
 almost doubled making this game's environments very crisp and realistic.
  Double Agent is truly a must have for any Splinter Cell fan or even any new gamers entering into 
 the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kungfu_1980
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 16, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a big fan of splinter cell ! I bought the xbox 360 version! I finished it! and 
 here is my feedback! First of all it does have some good graphics but it suffers from really major 
 slow frame rates, this is a big problem that it sometimes kills the game ! For artificial intelligence 
 the enemies are really stupid ! The controls are generally ok ! Gameplay is moderatley fun! The 
 story and voice acting on the other hand are really amazing! like i said before what kills this 
 game is the slow frame rate! some guys can normally dig that but I dont! I liked chaos theory the 
 xbox version most! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midnitereaper
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 15, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell on the 360 playin Sam Fisher, what more!?! I loved the first SC and was impressed 
 with the whole concept and graphics. Well this game swept me away with even better graphics and 
 more stealthy interactive moves. The story was great and the length was perfect! 3 to 4 days to 
 finish the campaign is all good in my book. Online versus is a kick! First time playing online 
 and I had lots of fun with it from both the merc and spy side. The only problem I had with the 
 game (and I am not sure if it entirely the games fault) is online connection. People dropping or 
 not able to hack or no re- spon are all pretty bad glitches in online play. Other than that, I 
 found this game both online and campaign to be well worth purch and play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: milopauljuricek
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 15, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  This time, Sam sits behind bars and he's innocent. He's not going to try to clean his name, as 
 we normally see framed people do, because he is on a mission. His last assignment is more dangerous 
 and deadlier than any other he's taken before: to infiltrate terroristic organization and destroy 
 it from within. And so he got himself locked into jail where, by chance, another terrorist serves 
 his sentence with him. What will you do to gain his trust? The storyline is not entirely original 
 (but what is nowadays) , but it has few twists and three endings, which is something I really appreciate. 
 And also, it's much easier to grasp than the story of Chaos Theory. Some moments are really memorable, 
 especially those, where you have to choose between good or bad in approximately 5 seconds. Tension 
 plays it's part here, and from some points there is no turning back. For example, you'll be confronted 
 with choice to kill innocent pilot. He's done nothing, he only saw more than he needed to. Kill 
 him and gain the trust of terrorists. Hesitate and you'll loose it. Trust is really important, 
 because when you loose too much of it with either organization, it's game over. Ubi-soft really 
 held some of their promises. Atmosphere is dense in every part of this game. Unfortunately, acclaimed 
 direct cooperation with NPC partner did'nt occur that often. More often somebody hacked something 
 or turned something on, which made my path easier, but things we saw in cooperative multiplayer 
 in Chaos Theory did'nt happen. The audio is perfect, Michael Ironside is hoarser, Fisher more cynical 
 and music underlines every situation. As you slowly approach the soldier from behind and as the 
 music escalates with every step closer... If you have 5.1 Surround, you'll be in heaven. Graphics 
 are nice, some details like sweat streams, over-glow on African sun or when exiting water are really 
 great. Models are detailed and only things I hated were the face expressions of enemies. Mostly 
 they don't change their look even if you slice their throat or aim in their head. In comparison 
 to Chaos Theory really poor. Exception is Fisher, who received a serious face lift. The way he 
 frowns when picking the lock or the face he makes when discovered are perfect. Gameplay holds it's 
 standard which Ubi-soft made with previous Splinter Cell games. Some cool moves like split jump 
 are again almost never used, others, like new quick grab from behind corner are on daily schedule. 
 Many missions are played during the day so sometimes you have to hide behind cabinet and circle 
 around to avoid being seen, instead of sitting in shadows. The missions are linear in every sense 
 of word. It makes it easier to play, because there is no possibility of getting lost, but sometimes 
 I would have liked a few sideways like in Chaos Theory. If you complete some unnecessary objectives, 
 you'll unlock new gadgets or upgrade already owned. Overall, Double Agent is much simpler to play, 
 understand and get immersed in. What really makes this game great is the atmosphere and movie feeling 
 you'll get when deciding between pulling the trigger or no. For normal gamers this is surely worth 
 trying, for Splinter Cell fans this is a must own!
  
  P. S.: Since Ubisoft stated that they decided to conquer EA with games that have value and since 
 EA offered only addons to their long drained series, I say buy this game to show your support for 
 innovative games (please ignore the fact that this is 4th game in Splinter Cell series, still nothing 
 against 10-th Need for Speed) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grvdggr272
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  This game has a very cool and very immersive story line. The graphics in this game are some of 
 the best on the 360. The new twist to Sam's character makes this game a must have. One new feature 
 in the game is the trust meter which shows how much trust you have with the NSA and the JBA. If 
 you lose too much trust, you fail the mission. Another cool thing is the interactive cutscenes. 
 The sound is very good. What can I say, everything sounds the way it should. Gameplay is pretty 
 good. The controls are easy to understand, but the game is very hard.
  
  I would recommend this to anyone who is a fan of the Splinter Cell series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travellinghoty
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 14, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  I was happy with this game and very disapoted at the same time. I beat in in a week no problem. the 
 grphics and senmatics are great and a good story line. but it was as thou the game was rushed to 
 be put to gether on time. and this game is soposse to be the best of the splinter cell serices. the 
 xbox 360 vertionwas suppose to have muly player without going on line. it said it on the bqack of 
 the game and online, and back of guild. did they forget to add the engine for it. i was really hoping 
 to play the whole storey with my friends. but it never happend. becuae of false advertising. if they 
 make the next one be sure that it says everything that it is sopoose to do .muly play online is 
 cool but it should be offine too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hg199
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 14, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  I have been a massive fan of splinter cell from the start and the Double Agent keeps me wanting 
 more and more. Each version seems to bring a little more to the table, and while alot of Double 
 Agent, as you would expect, is recycled from previous games.
  
  As soon as I played the first mission and swam in from underneath the ice and popped out onto land 
 while watching the water dry from my screen, I knew it was going to be good.
  
  I am not going to talk about multiplayer but just the original single player mode.
  
  One of 
 my favourite changes is how this game is more 'light'. Alot of the levels (so far) seem to be in 
 broad daylight. I think this is great fun as it ads more skill and for once I can see where I am 
 going!!
  
  I am not very good at writing reviews, but I can say this is the best splinter cell yet. The single 
 player has some fantastic additions, it looks amazing on the Xbox 360, and multiplayer looks awesome!
 
  
  Just make sure you buy it for AUS$70 on ebay instead of $119 at Electronic Boutique!!!
  
  The splinter cell series just keep getting better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadeye012006
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 14, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  im going to start out buy saying splinter cell double agent is proble not the best in the series 
 but still is solid the grafics are sharp and sam fisher once again is well voice acted the story 
 is pritty good on a hole with meny of twists and turns theres allso a lot of replay value you can 
 go thou the game in about 15 hours its not that long but there are 3 endings and a bonus mission 
 to unlock compered to other splinter cell games tho your equipment is much more cooler you have 
 a voice recorder to record the enamy voices wen your under cover a finger print sganer so lets 
 get on to the story the story is starts out with sam in a plane ready to go on a mission with a 
 fellow splinter cell called john on that mission you will leren the bassics but u luckey for poor 
 old john he gets killed being stupid after the mission there a cut seen were lambert tells sam 
 the bad news that sam little girl sarha has died in a car crash and from that point sam gose of 
 the rails drinking to much starting needless fights but one day he takes the most dangers mission 
 of his carrear and thats how he ends up in jayle in jayle he metes jamie a meber of terrorst facshon 
 called the jba and thats the story in a nut shell the gameplay is open ended in some of the missions 
 were you can chose to do mission for the jba or the nsa bewere tho you have a respect meter so 
 every disishon you make has consaqeses but over all splinter cell da is a great game and is still 
 one of the best in the stealth gonra 8.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mhindu
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 14, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I own all of these games and have to say each one blew me away. The multiplayer on this game is 
 breathtaking and the kinda level your character up which is cool cause people love knowing how 
 well their doing in thier games. The single player was amazing except for the JBA headquaters which 
 got annoying due to the lack of speed. I understand the realistic points to it but it was slow. 
 And the map is the worst I have seen since NES.
  In saying these negative things there are way more positive things like the AI which is topnotch 
 and the high the difficulty the better it gets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djkij
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 13, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  It's a great game but theres some flaws the graphics better sam look better then ever. Some parts 
 or not really next-gen the sound is great the music is very good. The story is you daughter dies 
 from a car accident sam almost gives it up. but accept a very difficult mission ever. He does way 
 more this time he swims skie dives and more kills and knock out. He does all theses crazy stunts 
 like never before. you might fill like your playing sc3 in dark levels and thats why they have 
 day missions. The gameplay is different because you dont have your night vision for half the game. 
 Your sniper/machinegun is your new vision which is a little weird. This game is just great if you 
 played other versions of splinter cell you'll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZENOALPHA
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 2, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  I denied myself the privilege of getting this game when it was released. I too was skeptical. I 
 was patient when critics mentioned that this was a step away from the franchise. I read public 
 reviews that indicated that this was not as good as the last (chaos theory) . Too much innovation 
 some said. Not enough change said others. The usual presence of opposite opinions, I suppose. But 
 what is true, I wondered? To put these opinions to the test, I played Chaos Theory and Double Agent 
 at virtually the same time frame. From mission to mission, I attempted to stay as objective as 
 possible. The result? Well lets just say that the next generation served its purpose. Shadows are 
 at times accompanied by something that is a complete polar opposite. The light hits you and for 
 the first time you begin to feel that the vulnerabilities Fisher use to exploit in his enemies, 
 have now been use to slowly defuse him. Pound for pound, Double Agent delivered and believe me 
 when I say that most of the reviews or opinions of the game have everything to do with the gamers 
 themselves. Stealth is stealth and some just cannot see the angle. Great game...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blasko229
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 12, 2006 1:31 am PT
Review:  There are a lot of problems that really irk me about this one which happens to be PC. Half the 
 missions are at the terrorist's base and even though they are exciting, they just seem recycled 
 after doing it. You're given some cool things to do but most of it only busy work to keep you in 
 the game. The PS2 and Nintendo versions contain a train mission while Xbox and PC have a snowstorm 
 mission. I really think they should have all contained both since it turns out to be so short. 
 You'll spend much more time in day light missions with probably on the first mission actually being 
 a night which that is only really a quarter the length a regular mission. It's fun still but it 
 doesn't feel quite as much like a sleek nocturnal hunt anymore. I found the menus very clunky, 
 buggy or unresponsive on my relatively fast PC. X2 3800 overclocked, 2gigs and 7800gt. I tried 
 with one gig of ram and there's basically no way you'll get any performance that way. The graphics 
 aren't really a significant step up over chaos theory which has excellence performance on my pc 
 but this game has signicant slow downs, long loading times and general frustration. The graphics 
 options have an illusion of being customizable but when you enter most options are locked on high. 
 Right now I can't say its worth the 50$ they're charging. I should have torrented it first to give 
 it a go. There is replay value with the alternate endings and one small bonus mission but not nearly 
 the greatness that is Chaos Theory. I could go on and on about what I don't like about Double Agent 
 but it wasn't a total waste and I did have fun. I still would say people are rating the game high 
 out of loyalty from the last one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SCOOTERDUDE
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  It is hard to find problems with Splinter cell double agent but I will. First of all, the game 
 is fun to play and is not overly challenging. But in my opinion it lack in certain parts. Mostly 
 in the graphics department. The graphics are fine and all; they just didnt quite reach what I 
 expected. I must really be picky though. Over all the game was fun and was more than I expected 
 when it came to the game play. It is pretty cool playing as JBA. It is fun to change things around 
 a bit. I also liked the music for this game. It was good. Overall I would give the game a 8.7 out 
 of 10. I would recommend it to most people even if they are not into the splinter cell series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cecx
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell: Double Agent is a great stealth game. It has taken what the previous Splinter Cell 
 games have done well and implemented them in almost the exact same fashion. That being said, that 
 is also why it received the score that I gave it. However, what it lacks in innovation in the singleplayer 
 portion of the game, it more than makes up for with its superior online multiplayer. Without giving 
 away too many spoilers, the singleplayer starts out with Sam in jail. This is not because he broke 
 the law in any fasion or got in trouble, but because he is undercover trying to get into the JBA 
 (John Brown's Army, a terrorist organization) . Once the player is in the JBA they will send you 
 on missions to various locations to plant bombs and whatnot. The NSA will be in contact with you 
 the whole time however which is the basis of the whole game, Sam is a Double Agent (wink) . This 
 sounds pretty good and innovative on paper, but they really failed to deliver an enthralling experience. 
 The Double Agent concept is mainly you trying to keep both sides happy via Trust Meters. Everytime 
 you're caught doing something you shouldn't be they will go down and vice versa. Other than that 
 new addition to the singleplayer, everything else is the same except for the locations.
  
  After beating the campaign, the real fun begins... that is, if you have Xbox Live. The online multiplayer 
 consists of one game mode which pits the Spies vs. The UPSILON forces (aka mercenaries) . In this 
 game mode the Spies objective is to infiltrate various buildings depending on the map and hack 
 into a terminal thereby stealing the files within. The UPSILON force members job is simple, prevent 
 the Spies from achieving that goal. Now, this may sound very simple to you, but throw in the fact 
 that spies have a wide variety of gadgets and moves at their disposal, the multiplayer is taken 
 to a whole new level. In addition to gadgets and moves, the Spies cannot shoot and must take out 
 UPSILON members via stealth. This is hard to do considering the mercenaries have high powered machine 
 guns as well as very sensitive radar that detects when a spy is nearby.
  
  The graphics in the game are so-so. The character models, well Sam's anyway, are very nice and 
 highly realistic. The lighting in the game is also top notch just like previous Splinter Cell games. 
 The part that was very dissapointing to me was the use of repetitive textures everywhere I looked.
 
  
  The gameplay is what you have come to expect from Splinter Cell games. The controls are very responsive 
 and you cannot run and gun your way through this one because you must go to an over-the-shoulder 
 style camera to aim and this cause you to move very slowly.
  
  The sound is good with realistic gun sounds. The grenades also sounds just as they should. The 
 only thing that held this down was the soundtrack as well as the voice acting. Not that I don't 
 like Sam's voice, but they were sometimes talking without their lips moving.
  
  If you like stealth games then you don't have much of a choice on the 360 as of yet, but this game 
 will make a solid addition to your collection if you have Xbox Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXists
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 10, 2006 4:59 am PT
Review:  Two Major issues with this game &gt;
  
  [1] Multi-Platform &gt;&gt; I think making this game multiplatform wasted the dev team's time on 
 quantity v/s quality. Chaos Theory is still the best game in the series. There are new ideas in 
 Double Agent but the execution is average at best. [2] Accessibility &gt;&gt; The effort to make 
 the game more accessible by stripping features that were included in previous installments is plain 
 stupid (See below for details) .
  
  Is Ubisoft turning into another EA? Please don't. I hope the 360 exclusive SC5 will really be next-gen, 
 unfortunately Double Agent falls short.
  
  The Good &gt;
  - It's Splinter Cell
  - Story is the only thing better than previous installments
  - Not always in the dark
  - Good 
 variety of locations
  - Ability to hide under desks and in closets
  - Multiplayer is lots of fun
  - Voice-over is top notch as usual
  - Well balanced Achievements
 
  - Cool new costumes (Snow outfit)
  - Save anywhere is always welcome
  
  The Bad &gt;
  - Overall not as good as Chaos Theory
  - Very Awkward Camera angles in some corners
  - I don't 
 have to use infra-red/heat mode, it's useless in this game when it was so valuable in previous 
 games
  - No detection slidebar / The light on the shoulder sucks!
  - No sound detection slidebar, why remove that one?! Stupid change.
  - It's not the best looking 
 game on the 360 when it should be, 11 months after the 360 is out, come on!
  - Character Animation is not very smooth for next-gen
  - The mini-map (although not really needed) 
 is hard to see and that's on a 42 TV, yellow on white, how dumb is that?!
  - Chaos Theory music/sound way better
  - The hacking in Chaos Theory was harder and more satisfying, 
 in this game it's way too easy!
  - The cool moves do not need any skill to do, how about combos for special moves?!
  - Some places 
 are still inacessible when they should be, see Assassin's Creed :)
  - For some switches you have no freakin clue what they do
  - Still too linear
  - I can't stand 
 time-based objectives
  - Collector's edition is just the extra DVD which is not that great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shalomony
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2006 8:53 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks, it really CAN be summed up in three words. I love the Splinter Cell series, and 
 so trying this game was a MUST. After trying for nearly 3 weeks to rent it, I was FINALLY able 
 to, and Mane was it worth it. The single player game is very nice. I was only able to get through 
 3.5 Levels (meaning I had to return it before I could finish the 4th) but I was SO into it. I tried 
 my hardest on that 3rd Mission to make EVERYONE happy, but action speak louder than words. The 
 trust meter plummeted on the NSA side the first time I played that 3rd mission, but who care about 
 them, RIGHT?
  
  Now, the first thing I actually HAD to do was play in the multi-player. Now, unfortunately there 
 ARE some problems with the Lag on-line, but the game is so intense sometimes. I was actually able 
 to find some people on-line that shared my enthusiasm for the game. We were able to play a total 
 of 8 matches on USS Wisdom, and each time we switched sides. It was all around fun and most of 
 us were able to unlock the USS Wisdom Expert achievement. The Gameplay is evenly matched for both 
 sides, for the most part, and sports some outstanding techniques usable by both sides.
  
  Over all this game is definitely something that should be tried out. Other than some lag issues 
 on-line, there is ALWAYS someone to play with. It IS a little disappointing that they only have 
 the one game type on-line (co-op mission objectives are all the same really) and no offline co-op 
 available. But, the game's single player is definitely something to play around with, with SO many 
 different ways to accomplish the task at hand, it has many reason to play it over again. Also, 
 the multi-player will pull you in and make you wish there wasn't lag so you could fully enjoy your 
 experience.
  
  If you haven't already, you should definitely try this game out. (I'd buy it if I wasn't strapped 
 for cash) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tikimonkey4
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 9, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  I don't know how Ubisoft does it! Four installments in and Splinter Cell is still a great series 
 that hasn't declined at all since the original way back in 2002. Splinter Cell: Double Agent keeps 
 the series fresh by not messing up the same classic gameplay that we know and love and adding a 
 deeper storyline to the mix.
  
  The gameplay consists of the same basic functions present in the last three games. You play as 
 Sam Fisher who is an agent for the NSA and member of the mysterious Third Echelon (an organization 
 which spends taxpayer's dollars to monitor Middle-Eastern men's daily conversations) . This time 
 around, however, Sam has thrown himself right into enemy territory by working as a double agent 
 for the homegrown terrorist group-the John Brown's Army. Throughout the game you will receive objectives 
 from both the NSA and the JBA, completing these objectives will earn your trust from the organization, 
 meanwhile, failure to complete them will lead to a loss of trust . If the trust bar reaches zero 
 it's game over. Certain circumstances will automatically trigger the trust bar to reach zero, such 
 as getting caught spying on the JBA. Also, the light bar, which measures the amount of light Sam 
 is under and thus how detectable he is, is missing from this installment and instead the focus 
 is more on hiding behind objects than in the dark, because of this the AI in the game is much more 
 challenging since enemies will now notice you if you are right next to them even if you are in 
 the dark.
  
  The controls function exactly the same as any other Splinter Cell, with a few minor tweaks in the 
 formatting here and there.
  
  The graphics in this game are gorgeous! In some levels I have spent minutes on end just looking 
 around at the environment with awe. Everything looks so realistic... it's beautiful!
  
  The sound is pretty good, but a lot of it is the same music as the previous Splinter Cell games.
 
  
  The newly revamped online mode seriously extends the life of the game, but still I'm not sure how 
 much longer I'll be playing (I guess it depends on how good Gears of War is) .
  
  Overall, Splinter Cell: Double Agent is a great addition to the Splinter Cell franchise and sets 
 the benchmark for next-gen stealth games. MGS4, it's your move. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Banankraken
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 9, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  I haven't touched multiplayer yet, so this review is strictly for the singleplayer portion of the 
 game.
  
  The last Splinter Cell I played was the first. So since I'm essentially a newb at these games, 
 plus dislike trial and error a bit much, I played the game on the Easy setting. I kinda set up 
 my own goals though for some reason. As in not being spotted, ever. I guess it's because you get 
 rewarded for it by unlocking new gadgets. In some missions you don't, but I remain hidden anyway 
 and start over when an alarm is triggered. It in a way forces me to do trial and error. And for 
 some reason it doesn't really bother me. So kudos to whoever thought this simple little rewardunlocksthingie 
 up. And from my perspective the series has really come a long way. While its generally the same 
 kind of core gameplay, the mechanics surrounding it have greatly evolved in a positive way, ultimately 
 making it a quite different and much better experience. Not to mention more accessible for people 
 like myself. For instance, in Splinter Cell you were quite limited in terms of your offensive moves. 
 You could pretty much shoot dudes, or not shoot dudes. I remember this was quite annoying when 
 a dude would turn around when you snuck up behind him and didnt have a weapon handy. In Double 
 Agent you can run up to him, pull the left trigger and uppercut the sucker in the jaw, or if you 
 really wanna take them out, stab them in the gut by pulling the right trigger. So now you have 
 the option to just beat the crap out of people if they bother you. This makes things a whole lot 
 less irritating, while simultaneously enriching the gameplay by giving you more freedom, and some 
 actual fun. Sam also automatically knocks dudes out if you drop down on top of them. This one time 
 I swear he jumpkicked a guy in the face. It was awesome. Even though there are only about 6 or 
 so of these meleeattacks they all feel very satisfying to pull off.
  
  Much thanks to the dynamic music score. Normally I never really notice the music in games, its 
 something you dont notice until its gone. But in this game the music changes depending on the 
 action. As you try to sneak up behind a guy the volume slowly rises as you get closer. And when 
 you get close enough to grab the poor fellow theres this nice swishy sound effect. Its really 
 tense the first couple of times, but I guess you grow used to it.
  
  The sound design overall is fantastic. Theres all kinds of ambient sounds that I bet you would 
 really notice were gone if they were. They all sound believable too, as in appropriate for what 
 kind of material it is. The sound heightens the sense of being there dramatically.
  
  The way the levels are designed also helps with that. Make no mistake, its not like the game is 
 freeroaming or anything, but theyve managed to create the illusion of freedom. Even though youre 
 walking down linear hallways it doesnt feel like it. The levels are very detailed and just look 
 believable. And in some cases you actually get to choose between multiple ways to get to the same 
 locations. You also get to choose some other stuff in this game. A new meter called Trust has been 
 added to the HUD and pops up as you complete certain tasks. Youre a double agent, which means 
 you need to gain the trust of the bad people (JBA) while keeping the trust of the good people (NSA. 
 During missions you get multiple goals from both factions and you get to choose which ones to achieve. 
 Most of the time you also get secondary objectives, or/and new secondary and primary objectives 
 as the mission evolves. Its quite dynamic and you never really know what to expect. Then you get 
 the occasional moral choices, where you get to do the right thing by disobeying JBA or allow bad 
 things to happen to keep their trust. I dont know if this affects the story in the long run, but 
 there are consequences besides the trust meter dropping.
  
  This helps solve the whole boring, unpersonal thing Splinter Cell had got going on. You feel more 
 involved.
  
  While the gameplay is solid, other parts of the game arent. Its clear that the game was rushed. 
 The framerate is in some cases completely unacceptable. In certain locations it drops to what I 
 estimate to be 10 FPS. Luckily you dont have to do any shooting during this part, but it looks 
 absolutely disgusting. The framerate is generally unstable as well, often dropping to near 20 levels. 
 My other complaints are mostly just some small additionsor removals that I feel wouldve been 
 nice. The 3D Map is unbelievably bull****. Its almost completely useless, impossible to make sense 
 out of. I hate the ****ing thing. Luckily its usually quite straightforward where you have to 
 go. Another thing that bothered me slightly is that you cant use your submachinegun, or grenades 
 around corners, just the pansy little peapistol. Ive also encountered a bug or two, Sam getting 
 stuck in the environment.
  
  Good thing the environment is so purty. I especially wouldnt mind getting stuck on the boat in 
 the Mexico mission. That level is the most visually impressive thing Ive ever seen. The lighting, 
 design of the boat, colors and all the details come together to form something stunning. Theres 
 not a whole lot of games so pretty I just stop and rotate the camera to stare in awe. While the 
 game is generally very nice to look at, this level stood out.
  
  Another thing that stood out which I stared at (but not in awe) was some quite nasty animations. 
 It seems theyve managed to miss a few transition animations or something cause they look all choppy 
 and ugly. The rest of the animations are reused from previous instalments I believe. They look 
 fine though.
  
  Double Agent is a game with some serious audiovisual qualities. The gameplay has grown to become 
 more accessible and entertaining while offering new gameplay mechanics which make the game feel 
 more dynamic and interesting. Its a shame the choppy framerate has to mess things up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pirce
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 9, 2006 9:46 am PT
Review:  Double agent feels kind of rushed. The Shanghai team clearly wanted to try out something new and 
 focused on the story alot more. Pretty much all missions happen in broad daylight, that was ok 
 for most of the time. There are some new things, my favourite being the swimming ability, I think 
 it adds alot more diversity to the game and should be used in later SC games. Things I didnt like 
 was the JBA HQ levels, they just dont have any replay value at all. There are still many great 
 levels like The Oiltanker, Shanghai and Cruise ship. I was abit disappointed that they used the 
 old Unreal 2 engine for the graphics but it still had some nice effects like the ice and Sam lookin 
 great. Hope they switch to Unreal 3 engine for the next SC. And I hope Ubisoft Montreal will be 
 making it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoopDog1027
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 8, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who's played Caose Theory won't even have to do the trianing. (Even though it's worth a 
 few gamer pionts.) The graphics are very worthy of the 360's power and the controls are very comfortable. 
 Everything in this game is well done, but what really stands out is the online multiplayer. It's 
 like a whole new game! They've also given the Spys new abilities like jumping through glass and 
 crawling in fake ceilings where the Upsolons can't get to.
  
  The downfall about the 360 version is the there is no Co-op which I played a lot on Chaose Theory.
 
  
  Still, you need to at least rent this game because I know you'll have a lot of fun with it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhAnToM15X
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 8, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Splinter Cell games since the very beginning. After I played the first Splinter 
 Cell series, I became addicted to the amazing single player experience. However, when Pandora Tomorrow 
 and Chaos Theory were released, I became too addicted to the even more amazing multiplayer that 
 they offered. However, things have changed in the newest installment in the series.
  
  First, I'd like comment on the graphics. My first impression was, Hmmm, not bad, I'd like to see 
 better though. Let me say this: it is one of the best looking game so far on the 360, but I know 
 that it can still do better. Maybe my standards are set too high, but I'm sure we'll see better 
 graphics in the near future. The environments are rich, the lighting is excellent as always, and 
 the dynamic objects that have been around since the first Splinter Cell still seem to be the same, 
 but still awesome.
  
  Now, to steer away from graphics. The gameplay in the single player campaign is excellent. The 
 new elements such as swimming and grabbing a guy while in the water is great. My personal favorite 
 is hiding behind a wall and grabbing a person around the corner. This move proves to be very useful 
 on many occasions. The gameplay combined with a great storyline make for a great single player 
 experience that I have been waiting for since the first Splinter Cell.
  
  When Pandora Tomorrow came out, I immediately became addicted to the multiplayer, and only played 
 a few single player missions. While the multiplayer in Double Agent is still fun, it has changed 
 too much in my opinion, which isn't completely horrible. The learning curve has dropped considerably, 
 so it is much easier for a new player to pick it up and play. But in this game, the single player 
 experience outweighs the still fun and addictive multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BamTino024
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 8, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely a must-buy for the 360. It definitely lives up to all the hype about it. 
 The open ended choose your own adventure style of gameplay is very unique. It makes playing so 
 much more fun because you are not on a linear path shooting everything in your way. In most missions 
 you have enough time and space to plan out your strategy for completing the mission, espeically 
 if you are trying to be super stealthy and not get caught shooting people. The controls work very 
 well, and are easy to get the hang of. The different ways of interacting with the environment via 
 the action button also add to the overall experience of the game. The graphics rock. This is one 
 of the prettiest looking games I have ever played. If you're playing on an HDTV, when you have 
 the camera positioned somewhat close to Sam, you can actually see the sweat glistening on his arms 
 and the disruptions in the pattern of the hair on his head from scars. The game looks ok on stardard-definition 
 TV's, but you won't get the best visual quality unless you use an HDTV (obviously) . The game itself 
 plays very well without any hang-ups, especially in the Kishasha misisons at the end of the game, 
 where there's gunshot and explosions going off left and right all at the same time. The plot of 
 the game is very good, especially since it unfolds based on your actions (which objectives you 
 choose to complete for each side, NSA or JBA) . The ending, although it completed the story well, 
 was somewhat abrupt. There aren't many things to complain about this game, except for a few times 
 where the realism of the game kind of took a nose dive. This always occurred when you'd be creeping 
 around and bad guys wouldn't notice you only because your threat indicator was in the green, however 
 you are out in the open and crouching right in front of them. Oh well. Sucks for them, cuz that 
 just means you can pop up and stab them in the chest! All in all this game is worth playing... especially 
 for the fun of sneaking around choking people out and because the ending depends on your actions... oh 
 and because it's f***ing awesome too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: byron160
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 8, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  i think this game coud be better i felt like i finished it too quickly compared to the number 3 
 in the series but i dont know i already played all the games in the series but i feel like the 
 graphics dont belong to the 360 looks like the chaos theory for xbox but i still enjoy especially 
 the level on the boat looks pretty nice and the jba missions too dificult i mean how many information 
 you gotta get for one side or the other still was a pretty good game buy could be better i havent 
 tried the ps2 o xbox version but for whar i read i think im gonna like the other versions but is 
 still a pretty good games the controll is good like the chaos theory is good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  Once again ubisoft get the job done with another segment of Splinter Cell
  
  story mode - a quick recap from chaos theory up to now, you find your self working with a terrorist 
 group and do some bad things. (no spoilers here play the game) meanwhile you still work for the 
 NSA trying to stop them. your actions will determine what the outcome of the game will be. (very 
 good ending)
  
  online mode - for the first time this game brings a solid 3 on 3 action allowing you to be a spy 
 or a soldier. the spy tries to hack into terminals why the soldiers try to stop you. 3 different 
 settings with a couple maps allow you to play a lot, especially after your done with the story 
 mode so I does have reply value.
  
  overall - this game can be a must by if you wanted and if your looking for achievements, get ready 
 to work but none are really impossible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dtuck
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 8, 2006 12:38 am PT
Review:  The first thing I noticed about Double Agent was the graphics. They are amazing, especially in 
 the well light areas. The character models are fantastic and level of detail is amazing. Splinter 
 Cell is the best looking game on the 360 I've played to date. Very very impressed.
  
  Also new to the franchise is the trust system, as you're a double agent you need to keep both sides 
 happy and there's times in the game where a decision has to be made that will result in a positive 
 for one and negative for the other. When these times occur they're good and time limited which 
 adds to the excitement. I often wondered whether the course of action I'd taken would've have been 
 the one taken in real life as I'd reacted almost instinctively due to the time limit.
  
  The trust also manifests itself in the mission objectives but to be honest I didn't have much trouble 
 playing through each mission and satisfying all objective. I would have preferred for it to be 
 more difficult to do that and force more choices on me.
  
  The story line is okay but there are some strange gaps which is disappointing as the game itself 
 felt too short for me and perhaps there could have been another mission or two to expand the sotry. 
 The length of the game rankled me full stop to be honest, 3 of the missions take place within the 
 JBA HQ which means you really play the same level 3 times just with different objectives. I think 
 that's kind of lazy on the developers part.
  
  The end of the game was also a little lack lustre and adds to feeling that perhaps this game was 
 on a tight development timeline?
  
  Gameplay wise it's ultimately the same game as before and I don't think I did anything that I've 
 not done in previous Splinter Cell games.
  
  Summing up, it's a great looking but short Splinter Cell game. It's hasn't transformed the series, 
 although I would like to see the trust meter or something similar again. I just hope Splinter Cell 
 5 doesn't feel like more of the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mocha360
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 8, 2006 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in SCDA ( SPLINTER CELL DOUBLE AGENT ) is alot alike other games in the series, mostly 
 like chaos theroy but brings alot new to the table. You are more free to use your weapons, but 
 don't take this game as a run and gun shooter it's still a stealth game and a great one at that. 
 The AI is alot smarter, they'll run away and take cover, attack you in groups and what not. The 
 normal difficulty is probobly the best choice, it's not too easy and it's not to hard, it's just 
 right. Graphics:
  The game look fantastic. The player models the lighting, everything looks great. The only thing 
 about the game that isn't that great about the graphics are the animations, they reuse alot of 
 the animations from chaos theroy. One supprising I would like to mention is that almost everysingle 
 one of the levels takes place in the day time, there are almost no missions that take place at 
 night. This makes the game look alot better because you don't have to use the nightvision goggles, 
 in chaos theroy you had to have the night vision turned on all the time which made the game look 
 green.
  
  Sound:
  The game sounds great. The voice acting is hot and sound affects are awesome. But the best part 
 of the sound is the musics that pumps up when your in trouble, it's off the hizzle.
  
  Value:
  The game offers a very good value. The game will take you around 8-10 hours to beat on 
 normal difficulty and then you can go at it again on hard and that's where the real challenge comes 
 into play. The online play is great, it's alot easier to pick up and play than chaos theroy. The 
 only thing that im upset is that they took out the co-op play, I loved it in Chaos Theroy and I 
 was sorely dissapointed to see it go.
  
  Tilt:
  The game is all kinds of fun. Theres an all new story which is very indept and interesting . You 
 work for the NSA like you usually do but this time your working under cover for the JBA which stands 
 for Jon Browns Army. Theres a whole new trust system in the game which means that if you go too 
 deep undercover and give up on the NSA, they'll pull you from the mission and if the JBA finds 
 out that your working for the NSA they'll give you the boot and it's game over.
  
  Overall:
  Overall if you've likes Splinter Cell games in past than you've got to pick this one 
 up and if your new to the series this is a great place to start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheOneDubb
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 7, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  The Splinter Cell single player campaign is adequate and has some replay value although the missions 
 become redundant and predictable. For example, you play 4 NYC headquarter missions with objectives 
 differing with each level. The headquarters are relatively small and do not necessarily blow the 
 mind away with eye candy. You find yourself racing to complete as many objectives as you can with 
 stealth as your only weapon. You are not allowed weapons and cannot engage the enemy in battle 
 (with potentially the exception of the last NYC mission) . Minor infractions gain you only a demand 
 to leave while more serious actions cause lost of all trust and mission over. No fighting? No stealth 
 neck snaps or sleeper hold? Yeah, I know its boring. Other missions that actually allow you to 
 finally put the enemy to sleep are enjoyable. These levels include the Sea of Okhotsk, Cozumel 
 Cruise Ship, and Kinshasa to name a few. The differing endings depending on how you play the 
 game are an added bonus but the game is extremely easy to beat. Even on the hardest difficulty 
 level I found myself flying through each mission. The multi-player is the worst aspect of the game 
 by far. The live game play is weak and lacks some serious variety. At the very least I expected 
 the live play to be comparable to GRAW but I was sadly mistaken. You can create your own online 
 game or join another one. You either choose to play as a spy and download information from data 
 terminals and return them to your base or you play as the UPSILON force where you attempt to prevent 
 this from happening. Thats it. No other real major game play options. UPSILON forces have a single 
 weapon with a grenade launcher attached and a few gadgets. The spies have only their hands as their 
 weapon and a few gadgets of their own.. There are many other weak points in the online play which 
 I will not go into but in a nut shell it is extremely limited. A buy? If you are a die hard Fisher 
 fan then most definately. If not, you should save your funds and rent the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xDarthXboxx
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 7, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Double Agent really is a great game I've paled it 2 times over just to get the different endings, 
 and their is a lot to do on multiplayer too. The campaign on Double Agent is the best yet because 
 of the various objects to complete during missions and also the HQ missions give the game a unique 
 touch. The bad parts of campign are diversity it has a lot of been their done that, it has a really 
 bad ending for the hero ending I would compare it to Halo 2, the lack of after you beat the game 
 you can't go back and play missions over to get better scores, and the story is short, all in all 
 though the multiplayer and good parts of campaign make up for these. The good parts of the campiagn 
 are that the new missions are really quite difficult especially the daylight ones, the good and 
 bad trust system makes it unique, thery're several major choices were you can kill or not kill 
 someone, and many more make this game a great game. The multiplayer on this is excellent there 
 are so many new features and challenges which really make it fun. The multiplayer versus is the 
 same as Chaos Theory only with a few new gadgets for spies and mercenaries. They're new challenge 
 missions to were you can hone you skills. To me this is an all around great game and would suggest 
 to anyone especially if your Splinter Cell fans to go out a get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonovanHill1990
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 7, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  It was a good game but it was to short. I love the game but it was very short in my book, the gameplay 
 was all most the same as the other SC games. The thing I love the most about the game was that 
 you got to choose either the bad or good side in the game, the only thing that was a back draw 
 is that there was not very many parts in the game were you could choose how you wanted to play 
 (Bad or Good) the game and if you did choose the good side or the bad side it did not really affect 
 the gameplay very much. The only thing it would affect is that you would have to get some stuff 
 to cover up your tracks. If I remember correctly there only about five parts in the game were you 
 can choose. It only took me one day to beat it on the hardest level. If you have more questions 
 just email me at DonovanHill@comcast. net 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcetmorgan
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  this game was fun and not bad .and the story was not bad except for the begining middle and end 
 . but he gameplay was great. i liked the entire was the game was presented but it does not leave 
 a lasting impression on me in the slightest way possible . iwould spend 60 once again but i would 
 not have went straight over to gamestop that day but like in two days . so my personal advice is 
 to buy this game if you like action and good graphics but if the story is important to you stay 
 away but because the story is a little important to me i am giving it a 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angelodivita
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 6, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  I'll probably keep this review shorter because I really didn't play this game all too much. I'm 
 not even sure why I bought it ... probably just due to the gaming drought. I say that, because 
 I had a feeling of what to expect when I bought the game, and I knew that it wasn't really going 
 to fit my liking. Maybe I was just exhausted from all the sneaking around I had done in Hitman, 
 I dunno.
  
  The game is definitely a quality game. For any fan of the previous installments in this Tom Clancy 
 series, it should be a no-brainer. I, personally, have not played the previous editions extensively. 
 Writing about this game is hard, hehe. It's like ... writing about a food you don't like ... but 
 is obviously well-prepared and other people seem to enjoy it. I appreciate the steps it will help 
 to help push some games in the right direction (with regards to AI and such) . Maybe you will appreciate 
 the view of someone playing Splinter Cell for the first time. So here it goes:
  
  - I found the controls to be easy to get used to, despite the number of different items and actions 
 in your arsenal.
  
  - I did not find the tutorials very helpful. They offered no instruction on how to actually go 
 about completing the tutorial. I didn't think that was very tutorial-esque! It didn't make it clear 
 if I was supposed to sneak in and complete the mission undetected (by timing movements) or perhaps 
 by knocking out a guard? No guidance in that sense.
  
  - It wasn't made clear what would constitute an undetected path to mission completion. For example, 
 often I would complete a mission and think dang, that was smooth and in the mission score it would 
 say that someone had found a body or something after the fact that I was nowhere around.
  
  - The multi-player was pretty cool. I would say I wasn't too impressed with the limited choices 
 of game modes However, I was impressed with the way it was presented. The menus were in-depth and 
 it was kind of neat to be able to pick between the two sides and to see they each had a completely 
 different style of gameplay.
  
  - Good graphics, but a confining and seemingly linear environment. I mean ... there are a lot of 
 ongoings in the surrounding area, but your path to completion is rather narrow. I guess that can 
 be said about some games similar to it (like Metal Gear) .
  
  - A lot of actions and intricacies to the gameplay that I thought were neat. Actions that might 
 be exclusive to one mission, but still cool to see they were implemented.
  
  Overall, I just would say be wary of the style of game you would be getting into. As I mentioned 
 earlier, I might just have been worn out on sneak games with Hitman. Don't be fooled by some of 
 the level layouts and advertisements, it's still the same style of play from the previous games 
 in the series. If it wasn't, I guess it wouldn't really be Splinter Cell then, eh? hehe But I wouldn't 
 disagree with anyone saying that it is an excellent game ... I just don't want to drink from the 
 same cup. Cheers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcgillmaine01
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 6, 2006 6:52 am PT
Review:  If you played any of the Splinter Cells games, you know it's all about stealth. Being that. You 
 won't see a lot of action say like halo or gears. But not being seen is the point of the game.
 
  
  Game play: I played this on Hard in which they give you no bullets for your gun. So it was mostly 
 sneaking around and not being seen. The game has you working for the NSA and JBA (the bad guys) . 
 So everything you do effects there trust for you. Something new, but it really doesnt have too 
 much effect on the game. Sam Fisher has a bus load of goodies to play around with. From wall mines 
 to shockers, you really won't need ammo to get through this game. What really shines is the AI. 
 Ubisoft took time to make it feel reel. The computer moves and reacts very well when you make sound 
 or get spotted. The story is done really well. But it doesn't give a good back story of why Sam 
 is the way he is now (crazy) . But you get the point.
  
  Graphics: To be next gen, the game looks good. But I remember when ubisoft took leaps and bonds 
 to make the game look sick. The old Xbox versions really hit the mark on graphics. Not saying this 
 one doesn't look good. It does, but it's nothing to brag about. Its next gen but nothing new we 
 havent already seen.
  
  Sound: Tom Clancy's games are the best sounding on the market. And with this game they went with..... 
 Dont fix it, if it not's broken . You hear nothing new here. But with a 5.1 setup. You still get 
 the best like in the old versions.
  
  Value: Other then playing the game over again (to me kinda lame) . If you have Xbox live you and 
 play online with up to 5 other people. It's 3 on 3 spy verses merc. Only thing different this time 
 around is the whole game has been down graded from the last. There's no more fancy gadgets and 
 stuff. You have a weapon/drone/luncher (merc) . And a hacking tool for the spies. But it makes for 
 a better overall game. It makes the spy play a spy and tones down the merc so they won't be as 
 powerful. Then you have co-op which is the same as the verses but with goals (time, ect) .
  
  Not a must buy with all the holidays games soon to come. But if you just love this type of 
 game then its a buy. But over time I think this might get old. Unless they load us with lots and 
 lots of free content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicken_123_pie
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 6, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game from the word go. Not the training but on the first level, the new swimming feature 
 is just truly spectacular.
  This game has so many stunning locales, you can enjoy for months after finishing it, especially 
 with the achievements structure.
  Starting off in Iceland, going to prison in Maryland, heading to the terrorist HQ on US soil in 
 NY, getting on a freight ship in the sea of Orkhotsk, abseiling down 10 stories from 40 stories 
 up in Shanghai, hopping aboard a cruise ship off the coast of Mexico and then going to Congo Africa, 
 Kinshasha before the final showdown back at the JBAHQ and diffusing a bomb aboard a coast guard 
 ship the could have blown up the entire city of NY (let it and watch the video, then load game, 
 it's pretty awesome) , there's just so much to do. Tom Clancy has continued to and will continue 
 in the future of gaming create masterpieces. However, some content, correct me if I'm wrong has 
 been stolen from the best selling author Robert Ludlum. For example, the red mercury sample in 
 Shanghai was also in 'The Prometheus Deception'. Apart from this, I'm sure the rest of the ideas 
 are genuinely original.
  Bring on GRAW2 and R63: LV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: okayhawk
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 5, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  splintern cell is one of the most succesful stealth game there in in the xbox 360 this game i gave 
 it a 8.6 because you have to love the game it leaves you in hard decision like killed this innocent 
 man and lost trust in the terrorist side is very hard to make those decision for a person to make 
 in real life and for me it was hard to make this kind of decision some part of the game are way 
 too dark for regular people like me to go and i often found myself trap some dark place in the 
 jba (johns brown army) headquater this game look good but needs to make this game much better. in 
 the other part the multiplayer is pretty good that i dont have anything bad to say about the multiplayer 
 side. the only problem that i had was the single player some places in the JBA headquater were 
 just too dark to see and complete some mission the that JBA gives you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darrenjohnson
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the Splinter Cell games for a long time, but the last few left me disappointed 
 due to their complicated online game that was hard to get into and play well at. I can only speak 
 to the online version of this game, since I stopped playing the single player missions after my 
 first time playing online. Now, that's all I do. The gameplay is AMAZING. It's easy to learn how 
 to play and easy to understand. The two teams are well-balanced against each other and the whole 
 experience really is the most fun I've had on Xbox Live in a long time. There are a ton of useful, 
 cool gadgets for each class too that add a good level of complexity to the game. And the maps are 
 incredible. Very well made, with tons of secret routes throughout each of them that really make 
 them last a long time without getting boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegameboxfreak
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  this game is great this game is great this game is great this game is great this game is great 
 this game is great this game is great this game is great this game is great this game is great 
 this game is great this game is great this game is great this game is great this game is great 
 this game is great this game is great this game is great this game is great this game is great 
 this game is great this game is great this game is great this game is great this game is great 
 this game is great this game is great this game is great . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: syorks
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 5, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  This game is really fun but it probaly isn't the best in the series. It is really fun but its just 
 a generic story about terrorists who don't really matter. The gameplay is identical to the previous 
 ones and there are a few new moves. There are a lot of fun missions and the JBA missions are actually 
 pretty fun. If u are a fan of the series then u won't be disappointed but u might be angry cuz 
 its so short. The whole thing about keeping the NSA and JBA happy doesn't really effect the game 
 and the only parts that do effect the game are 3 things. Its either letting something blow up or 
 decide to kill or not kill some people. The 3 endings aren't even important other then one ending 
 that gives u another lvl. Its fun but nothing amazing or that will blow your mind 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BK-Sleeper
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 4, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell was always a well known franchise in the Tom Clancey universe. It was always strong 
 in the areas of stealth action, musical score, graphics, and characters. Though, the latest iliteration 
 of Sam Fisher is something that isn't as classic or memorable as the others.
  
  It starts off subtly as a recon mission with a fellow SplinterCell in-training which soon turns 
 into an objective to stop a nuclear missle launch. The story stumbles a bit in the cutscene from 
 the first mission to the second, but it becomes evident that Sam learns that his daughter Sara 
 was killed in a car accident. It is easily noticeable that Sam loses his head a little. He is soon 
 led into a high secruity prison with a Double-Agent sort of mission, hence the name of the game. 
 You break out, earn trust, and continue from there, though the story hits a few jagged rocks before 
 it actually becomes suspenseful in a Splinter-Cell fashion.
  
  The gameplay has changed alot from the Chaos Theory formula, but not much for the better. The health 
 bar is gone, a la Halo 2, which sort of adds a little difficulty to it. The light and sound meter 
 are both gone, which is one of the horrible downsides to the game, forcing you to stay in pitch 
 black areas during night and dark levels. Everything else is straight forward with the same exact 
 style of moves and controls. Though for a reason, it's harder to sneak up behind a person and grab 
 them, for they are more sensitive if you are closer.
  
  The graphics are the same from Chaos Theory, if not for more little details. The water feature 
 is gone, in which when in water, Sam would have a water sheen about him which would gradually dry 
 off. Though as the level progresses, it's easier to see the sweat on Sam's forehead, though only 
 on levels such as Shanghai and the JBA base.
  
  If there's one thing that cannot be denied in the game's forumula. It's the great music. As always, 
 Micheal Ironside delivers the voice top notch as well, and the addition of a guitar to the score 
 is one of the top features as well to the music.
  
  Multiplayer, though, is the strongest point of the game. It's hard to describe, but you have to 
 play it though to believe it.
  
  Splinter Cell: Double Agent retails for $60. It is a must-rent for casual gamers, but a must-buy 
 for hardcore Splinter-Cell fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 4, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Sam Fisher has been around for a while now. First debuting back in 2001, Splinter Cell proved that 
 it could stand with the stealth heavyweights, and rely more on action and story, rather than cutscenes. 
 However, due to past games that were released around the same time and horrible incidents with 
 previous titles in the stealth genre, I never found time to play any of the Splinter Cell games, 
 but Double Agent fulfills my need for a good action title and an incredibly interactive story.
 
  
  Part of the reason why I was never so keen at playing stealth titles is because games like Splinter 
 Cell require a lot of patience. I for one am used to running and gunning, and basically just knocking 
 the crap out of enemies. While in sense you could do this in Splinter Cell, the fun comes in the 
 form of thinking and knowing your surroundings, as not getting caught is the highest priority on 
 any mission that you perform. Double Agent starts out with Sam Fisher going on a simple mission 
 to defuse a bomb with a rookie agent. Although things dont go exactly as planned, Sam Fisher soon 
 finds himself in emotional stress over the death of his daughter in a car accident. To help ease 
 the pain, for some odd reason, the NSA is putting Sam undercover within a terrorist organization 
 that is on the verge of detonating nuclear bombs in the United States.
  
  This is where things gets interesting in Double Agent, simply because throughout the game, a trust 
 meter will be shown on your screen. Basically, your goal is to find out as much as possible about 
 JBA (John Browns Army) , which is the terrorist group, and try to actually fit in with them, all 
 the while performing reconnaissance missions for the NSA. If you do manage to do such an awful 
 job for either side, like for example, if you get caught sneaking around in restricted areas in 
 JBA headquarters, or if you kill people in missions that you arent supposed to, you will lose 
 all trust for either side and ultimately fail the entire game.
  
  Although this concept is a really good idea, forcing the player to make decisions on what he wants 
 to do and doesnt need to do, the trust meter really doesnt play that big of a role in the overall 
 scheme of things. Even though you could easily fail the game for breaking the simplest of rules, 
 it is quite easy to avoid. The missions are broken up into basically three categories. There are 
 your primary objectives, which are required to complete the mission, there are secondary objectives, 
 which gives you more trust towards a certain group if you complete them, and than there are alternative 
 and profile objectives, which basically act as a way to get identification on the JBAs highest 
 members.
  
  The secondary and alternative objectives never really do anything for the storyline, as they dont 
 tie in, however they give you trust points, albeit a very small portion. Not doing these missions 
 will have no effect on the game whatsoever, however doing some of them will net your star objective 
 points, which can unlock new gadgets for you after each mission. The primary objectives are where 
 the whole point of the trust meter comes into play. Some primary objectives will have you choosing 
 between gaining trust for the JBA or NSA, and whichever side you choose, the other side loses a 
 substantial amount of trust. Although you may lose nearly half of your trust for one side, it is 
 never enough to actually fail the game, considering you could easily make it up by doing some secondary 
 and alternate tasks throughout the game.
  
  Part of the fun of Double Agent is how broad and wide the game appears to be. For example, there 
 was one moment when Sam Fisher was hanging off the edge of a sky rise in Shanghai, all the while 
 trying to hide from enemies and run away from a helicopter. Its moments like these, which make 
 the game full of excitement and never have a dull moment. Its also very compatible with newcomers 
 to the stealth genre. For myself, who really never played a Splinter Cell game before, I found 
 it quite easy to mange and navigate through the missions. The game prompts you to use the certain 
 devices you need to, like if you are high on a ledge, it will give you the option to rappel down.
 
  
  Its also always fun to be swimming under a slab of ice in Siberia, and than grabbing enemies from 
 under the ice and pulling them under and eventually killing them. Or hanging on to a rope by your 
 legs, slowly lower yourself down to an unsuspecting guard and snap his neck. Whether the situation 
 there is always a fun and interesting way to dispose of your enemies. Of course, however, since 
 Sam Fisher works for the NSA, killing should be reduced to a minimum, and thats when Sam can whip 
 out his sticky shockers and shock the enemies to sleep, or fire a camera at the wall, make a noise 
 to attract them, and than hit them with nerve gas. Although killing them is much easier (and often 
 causes you to fail some secondary objectives) , it does attract a lot of attention, which is why 
 using your non-lethal weapons, or just basically avoiding everyone is always the best choice. The 
 biggest improvements Ive seen in the Splinter Cell series are the visuals and the overall presentation. 
 The amount of detail in some of the levels is astonishing, and Sam Fisher looks almost entirely 
 real. The locations also have a breath of fresh air to them as well, and some certain levels, such 
 as Shanghai for example, fully capture the power that the Xbox 360 can perform. While some characters 
 and locations lack the same flair and intensity as the said moments, the game itself feels like 
 a complete step-up from its previous past-gen predecessors.
  
  The multiplayer has also been totally revamped to allow much more even-paced gameplay as well as 
 co-op. The same basic premise is the same from the multiplayer that was passed down from Pandora 
 Tomorrow, in that the team of spies must try to locate and activate a set of markers, while the 
 mercs must try to stop them. To make things interesting now, the teams comprise of 3-on-3, making 
 it much more intense and it never seems like a dull moment considering there is always someone 
 within your relative vicinity to engage. Co-op is definitely a cool new highlight in multiplayer, 
 and players can now engage in special acrobatic maneuvers such as giving a player a special boost, 
 destroying cameras simultaneously, or even double-teaming a merc to take him down effectively. 
 The multiplayer itself is one of the new highlights of Double Agent, and games in the series that 
 follow suit should do almost nothing different, as it is near perfection.
  
  Splinter Cell Double Agent is a solid game with an excellent multiplayer and fans of a gripping 
 storyline as well as solid action mixed with moments of tense stealth will no doubt enjoy this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jdawg1003
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 4, 2006 6:33 am PT
Review:  this is a very good game i give this game a 9.5 out of 10 the graphics will blow you away but the 
 camra angle stinks i love the spplnter cell games but i would have to say that tihs is one of the 
 best. not just because the graphics are good but the story line is good. i mean i love to snek 
 around and snap peoples neck; s i would have to say that is one strong point of splinter cell, sitting 
 in the dark wondering who you are going to kill this gurad i tell you what i think im going to 
 go out and buy this game just to se what happens at the end of the game well theres my review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capitancahonas
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 4, 2006 4:34 am PT
Review:  Oh to be Tom Clancy, he must be a multi-millionaire on the back of Splinter cell related sales 
 alone, and is a fairly unique example of celebrity -he used to write books y'know!- sponsored products 
 that on the whole maintain a uniformity in their above average quality. I certainly can't remember 
 playing much dross with his name associated since the first rainbow 6 appeared on PC many moons 
 ago..
  
  Ever the hard man, this latest splinter cell title finds our eponymous anti-hero in the opening 
 two acts, losing his daughter falling out with the agency and finding himself in the slammer. Of 
 course, Sam is (apparently) still on mission and must break himself and a new friend out, thus 
 ingratiating himself further with said friend in the hope that this rather speccy looking fellow 
 will introduce Sam to his other (less speccy) friends at the loony terrorist group for whom he 
 works. This sets up the game nicely as you are quickly required to carry out tasks for both the 
 terrorists and for your substantive employers at the agency. This involves the usual snooping and 
 general cloak and dagger action found throughout the series except that the missions nearly all 
 take place not in dark corridors and offices but in better lit, more open and less obvious locations 
 around the world. In general the single player campaign stands up as a decent challenge-if a litle 
 short- though not offering much new to fans of the franchise, but this certainly doesn't make for 
 a bad game. There are framerate issues, that -at least on the 360- can only be down to slopppy 
 programming. The XB360 is not pushed graphically in any sense though the character models-and Sam 
 himself- on the whole look great. Character and environment lighting are as you would expect spot 
 on, and sound is similarly of a high quality.
  
  The storyline offers constant choices and dilemmas to the player, and you must be sure to keep 
 both of your paymasters happy as your game will end if either one of the two trust bars at the 
 bottom of the screen depletes to zero. This is an interesting plot dynamic that keeps players on 
 their toes, but doesn't prove too difficult at lower difficulty levels. The Online multi-player 
 game differs masively from the main game, and stands out as an (almost) separate game. Teams are 
 made up of mercs and spies, who bear no resemblance to sam at all, and gameplay revolves around 
 the spies trying to download data, whilst the mercs hunt them down. Splinter cell-double agent 
 is a good-if flawed- addition to the series that benefits from a great multiplayer element. Fans 
 of the series will no doubt by this regardless, but there is a lot in there for newcomers also. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkChaoMan75
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is a new frest turn for the Splinter Cell series. It gives it another level of depth 
 to the series that it was lacking. In this review, I'll tell you about the Pros and Cons of the 
 new SC game. So, without further adue, enjoy!
  
  Pros- Some of the Best Multiplayer, New Trust System playes well, Many new intersting environments 
 to be explored, Some levels play and act fantastic
  
  Cons- Frame Rate Problems slow down Action, Many used animations from Chaos Theroy, Short Single 
 Player
  
  I didn't take Sam Fisher long to become a bad ass NSA spy. In every game before this he was a perfect 
 hero with some accasional flaring of trust with the NSA. Well, in orger for the NSA to get inside 
 the terrorist cell known as JBA or John Brown's Army , they make same an Inamte in a prison and 
 then he escapes with the help of a JBA member named Jamie Washington. Just as you get into the 
 game you are put in a room and givin a gun. You are asked to shoot an innicent man. There are not 
 enough of these major decisions in the game and when they occur they are really well done. There 
 are only another 3 times in the game where you have to make these chioces. You are givin a list 
 of objectives and which side they are for. Ubisft made a big deal about how hard it would be to 
 balance these. Well, its really quite easy. The two objectives rarley controdict, making it very 
 easy. While the single player has evolved not much, teh multiplayer has gotten a facelift... for 
 the better. The spies are more nimble and can escape from pursuing mercs. They are pretty balanced 
 because the Spies have many killing moves, bu the mers have a powerful machine gun and grenades. 
 It ballances it out really well. The Graphics and Sound are not bad. The frame rate is pretty bad 
 in some parts of the game. But, some of the levels look very good and can tell that alot of effort 
 was put into them, most noticable the Kinshasa level. The character models look okay and they act 
 pretty realistic. there is one more very impressive level in the Xbox 360 version. Shanghi. They 
 modeled the whole city pretty real like. Another thing that makes the graphics a lttle old is that 
 there are not many new character animations for Sam Fisher. You'll recagnize alot of them from 
 Chaos Theroy. The new ones they did add for Sam when he is swiming look pretty nice. The voice 
 acting isn't bad. In fact, it is very good. Micheal Ironside does the voice of Sam and it still 
 sounds good. The voicing of the other characters are very good and match each one of thier personalities 
 great! The Music is good and changes from moment to moment in the action. This game has some of 
 the best sound on the Xbox 360. The value in this game comes mainly from the multiplayer. The single 
 player takes a devoted 3-4 days to beat. If you spring for the collecters version you do get some 
 cool docmenties to watch and give you insite on how the game was made. The multiplayer, you will 
 be playing it a year from now. The spies have to download files and get them out of the area and 
 the mercs have to get and kill them. There is a level system that you can progress on and get better 
 at. There are concept art, vids and skins to unlock as you play more. The game shiped with about 
 9 levels to play on. All of which a balanced and do-able for both teams. There are a bunch of achievements 
 to keep you playing. I still think achievments distract you from enjoying the game. In the end 
 this is a good game. No doubt but it still has some problems. They really don't leave much of a 
 cliffhanger at the end so there is no real big clue to what we will get from number 5. The big 
 thing that needs to be fixed is the frame rate. Other than that, it is pretty good. A definate 
 rent and maybe a buy if you like to play online.... ALOT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  8.5- Great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llama1987
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 3, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell Double Agent is the fourth incarnation of the Sam Fisher spy adventure. However this 
 is his first on the next generation console Xbox 360. And what a great entrance he makes onto the 
 scene. Splinter Cell games (excluding first) are reknown for their revolutionary multiplayer, so 
 for the basis of this review i will seperate single player campaign and multiplayer.
  
  Firstly single player. Out of al the previous splinter cells, Double Agent has the best storyline. 
 Branching away from the generic terrorist attack you stop them routine that we got used to, this 
 one throughs you directly into the mix as an undercover agent. This sparks great new gameplay elements 
 such as playing undercover to avoid suspiscion from the terrorist organisation. This allows the 
 player to choose whether to sway to one side more than the other. Trust can be arnt from completing 
 specific secondary and primary objectives, and most of the time doing all of them will directly 
 increase both the NSA and the terrorists (JBA) . However there are some exceptions in scripted events 
 such as shooting an innocent civilian excution style or blowing up a ship, where one outcome will 
 improve your rep with one faction but decrease rep for the other. This trust system is a brilliant 
 breath of fresh air to single player that was necessary to shake up what was becoming a very strict 
 and predictable set up. The minigame type scenarios such as the lock picking are ever present with 
 some new appearences most of all the new safe cracking game.
  
  Graphically, well you'll be hard pressed to see much difference between this and its previous 'old 
 gen' predecessors. It is still very nice looking and very impressive but when looking at it you 
 can't help but feel that it didn't achieve all of which the hardware can offer. There are only 
 a couple moments when the graphical differences are obvious. For example the Shangai level and the 
 sweat on Sam's face. On the matter of the sweat, it looks really good but it is even there on the 
 ice levels so it shame the sweat isn't real time. other than that a very nice looking game but 
 could have achieved much more.
  
  The sound is amazing as always. The animation seems to be the same as in previous installments 
 with only a few new ones. Which all together make this a very visually pleasing game to play. One 
 criticism that is a big let down is the fact that now you are completly visible. You can see Sam 
 even in the darkest areas even when the AI can't. This takes away the realism factor of what would 
 be a very realistic game to look at. Other than that this is a very strong rounded campaign.
  
  Now for the multiplayer. Double Agent's multiplayer has had some very dramatic changes that 
 affect how it is played. Starting off with the spys, gone now is the shocker gun and punches, no 
 more sticky cameras and no more long range smoke grenades. This time spies must be stealthy, no 
 way around it... which i personally think is for the better. The mercs have lost their sound meter 
 but have gained a new heart beat monitor, which means no more surprise attacks, which makes the 
 spies mre stealthy. Mercs can now rapel off banisters and have also a new toy, the drone. The drone 
 is remote control bomb that you can send into vents e. t. c to flush out any spies. With these big 
 changes, versus mode is i feel much better.
  
  One flaw with online is that it uses halo 2's matchmaking style of finding games but you cant go 
 in with friends. This means that finding a game for you and your friends is a bit of trouble but 
 nonetheless can be done. Co-op has changed also from Chaos Theory. This time, rather than a story 
 to follow you now play a versus game with merc bots... This is now more than a mission based co-op 
 to a challenge style of gameplay with medals to be awarded. Co-op is either a love it or hate it 
 to be honest so your pick. Multiplayer has changed for the better and all is needed is a bit more 
 focus on set up and community for the next game.
  
  Splinter Cell Double Agent is a great game with a ton of things to do, it looks great, sounds great 
 and plays great and should be a welcomed addition to your xbox 360 game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: o_sausage
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 3, 2006 6:04 am PT
Review:  Singleplayer
  
  Singleplayer for this game is awesome. It has gorgous graphics, good level design, tons of new 
 moves, and a decet storyline that still manages to beat previous Splinter Cell stories. Basically 
 Sam's daughter dies and he becomes badass crazy and asks Lambert for the most dangerous mission 
 he could come up with. Lambert tells him about a newly formed terrorist organization that needs 
 to be shutdown... from the inside. So you befriend the terrorists and have dul objectives throughout 
 the game something that never really affects the game story or gameplay at all. I remember being 
 promised that people that have more JBA than NSA trust get different weapons and the decissions 
 you make make the game unfold differently. The only real difference working for the JBA instead 
 of the NSA may do is weather or not you will see 1 or 2 lguys walking around the JBA missions if 
 you chose to let them live. Also the JBA missions should of been alot better than what they are 
 sure they are innovative but also they get boring fast. Also the game is short me being a splinter 
 cell vet beat it in around 7 hours on normal. Really what went wrong in te singleplayer is that 
 they promised tons of gadgets and stuff that were not in the final cut of this game. It leaves 
 me very dissapointed and crying for more Splinter Cell than what your $60 (or my $70) got me.
 
  
  Multiplayer
  
  Multiplayer in this game is ASTONISHING. Now the spys have less health move faster and have only 
 1 gadget at a time forcing stealth instead of argo or rambo spys like the previous two games had. 
 But of course there are still people who have already went back to throw down flashbang, run behind 
 merc, hit A technique but now it's a smaller populatioin of people that use the game. Also the 
 spys now have a arm hack thing that disables lights, hacks terminals and mercs, and breaks windows. 
 Sure i love the new multiplayer but this also got boring after around 10 hours. Unlike Chaos Theory's 
 or Pandora Tommorow's multiplayer this has no depth. Spy doesn't even use all the buttons on the 
 360 controller including L which could of been an active camo the spys always were or something. 
 Merc plays same as before except only with grenades and motion tracker is always on. Also you have 
 a proximity detector and drones to chase the spys with. Really all Double Agent neeeded more devolopment 
 time and play testers that new all the promisses Ubisoft ad laid out for the game and it would 
 of been perfect but the way it is right now it falls short of my expectaitions.
  8.7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irate_Hobbit
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 18, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  If you are a Splinter Cell fan and appreciate the complexity of SC: CT multiplayer, you should probably 
 rent this one first to see how it simplistic change sits with you. The single player is your typical 
 Splinter Cell - as immersive as that much trial and error gameplay can get .
  
  Gameplay - this one introduces the trust meter. All this means is is either one gets too low the 
 mission restarts. Like the alarms in some of the previous games. Its fairly easy to manipulate 
 early on. As things get more difficult later on, it is not. Even though the game bares Tom Clancy's 
 name, we all know the guy is on a toilet, in his mansion, reading a magazine, and firing off a 
 few ideas to Ubisoft off the top of his head. IF that! Without getting into detail... well, the 
 plot on this game left out alot of details. Look for some better moves and gadgets from Sam. There 
 are so many the game adopts pretty much your standard FPS how does one carry all these weapons 
 ammo belt. The gameplay is typical good Splinter Cell. Though, it feels its getting a little offtrack 
 of the realism, and the holes in the plot, inventory, Sams current background, and overall feel 
 of the missions make it probably the worst SC single player. That said, bad Splinter Cell is still 
 a good game. Graphics - Mediocre on single player. Flashy lights don't mask the age of the engine. 
 It seems while the the 360 allowed for more detail and effect with the same engine, its still an 
 engine that was used on the Xbox. You can see it plainly. The multiplayer looks like a port right 
 from Xbox. The lack of texture filtering and anti-aliasing makes it look very poor. I guess everyone 
 is still so used to seeing Splinter Cell look amazing on the Xbox, they don't realise its low quality 
 for $60 on a next gen console. Sound is fairly decent. The voicework is alright but the typical 
 Fisher and Lambert conversations you enjoyed are gone as Sam is under cover. The music is alright. 
 Multiplayer is very easy to get into this time. If you've played previous Splinter Cell games it 
 will take not 15 minutes to learn. Its also accesable to more people this way but runs the risk 
 of becoming a bore pretty soon. The Co-op is now just versus mode maps with bots. Bye bye mission 
 co-op from SCCT. But the ease of use makes the competition better and more people are enjoying 
 it. Complaints aside, this is still a good Splinter Cell game and it may be worth your money. But 
 some might save his/herself the $60 and rent it to find out it doesn't come close to the quality 
 of Choas Theory. If none of what I mentioned bothers you or sets off an alarm... buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_U_M_E_G
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 2, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Single player rocks, the environments are beautiful! Working as a bad guy is really cool and playing 
 on both sides of the law is a great concept. The execution was slightly off because most of the 
 time when you lose trust its not that much and really won't affect the game. Rather it is the cutscenes 
 where you hold someone else's life in the balance where the game gets good. How far will you go 
 to stay undercover? The variety in levels is what really sets this game apart from the other ones 
 in the series. The gameplay has not changed (which is a good thing imo) . Multi-player is really 
 the best part about the game. It can be very fast-paced and heart-pounding at certain times or 
 it can be slow, quiet, and tense. The game is at least worth a rent, you won't be disappointed. 
 Any stealth-action fans would do well to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redfoxagent
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 2, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is without a doubt one of the best games I've played in my life. what separates this 
 game from the other Splinter Cell's, is the story. most of the others do have a story but it's 
 not on this level. this one dives into Sam Fisher's personality and puts you right in his shoes. 
 the whole choices thing gives this game some major points. I played more of the bad side, while 
 my buddy know around here as Ryeferd played his game parallel to mine in the correct approach of 
 the game. It was actually hard for me to make the anti-hero type of choice at the end of the game. 
 but it felt so good to get my payback. the storyline involving character in all it's greatness, 
 is merely a complament to the games AMAZING graphics. this game has the best graphics ever made. 
 they went into so much detail as to put hair on his arm and differences of sweat depending on the 
 situation. it's absolutely stunning. but this game falls short to the problems all Splinter Cell 
 game have. the fact that some enemie's can hear your whistle and the ones you want to hear it don't. 
 the fact that in total darkness, you fire your SILENCED weapon and they instantly exactly where 
 you are. this and the little Sudoku mini game are annoying and really get under your skin when 
 you play the game. it sheds off some points, but the game gets a little more because you can drop 
 the enemie's over the side of a building and see them hit the ground. god that is satisfying.
 
  
  9.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rent-Boy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 2, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  The Splinter Cell Series are the most fun to play because you have to think about everything from 
 your surroundings, when to kill an enemy to when not to kill. You really have to be smart about 
 your decisions or mission failed. The graphics are simply amazing nice and shiny and very detailed. 
 The environments in the missions of the game are a different in there own unique way. Not one is 
 the same. Of course you have your wide variety of cool gadgets and weapons. I think Ubisoft did 
 an excellent job of changing it up a bit going with the Double Agent route. You see a different 
 side of Sam Fisher. You also see his job is his life. By far the best gameplay game out there and 
 the online play i dont want to get into that thats a different review in its own. Three words. 
 Cant get Enough. I highly recommend this game to anyone wanting something more out of a game then 
 just aim and shoot. It may take some time getting though each mission but in the end it was a hell 
 of a ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red47
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 2, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the splinter cell series since the first game, and let me tell you that i 
 loved every minute of it. Like the first one says, it redefined the stealth genre. The newest edition 
 called double agent, still has all the stealth action there, except you have some daytime misisons. 
 You still have your trusty knife and most your other gadgets with a few new ones. You have a couple 
 new moves too which are pretty cool. Most of the single player is the same gameplay from the previous 
 games but with a few small differences including the trust system. The trust system is nothing 
 huge in the lower difficulties but something you want to keep an eye on unless you want to see 
 a game over. The most noteable difference is the morale choices you make, like in one part you 
 are given a pistol and thrown into first person, then told to kill an inocient man. The morale 
 choices can be difficult but whatever you do effects either the NSA or the JBA. The other is the 
 JBA headquarters. You are in the JBA headquarters and are given tasks by both factions and have 
 a certain amount of time to do it, you usually have enough time but i played very little on hard 
 so i dont know if it changes. The NSA ones involve sneaking around in restricted areas, if you 
 are caught int the restricted areas, you lose some JBA trust. It is pretty much the same game with 
 a few new twist. It is an average length, about 10 to 15 hours of singleplayer. The multiplayer 
 portion is great. It is the same spy vs mercs with 3 vs 3 instead of 2 vs 2, for more action. The 
 spys only have 4 gadets including health needles but they have no shocker gun or any gun for that 
 matter. They can still snaps necks though which is alway fun. The mercs have just one gun which 
 is the assualt rifle with a scope on it for sniper shots. You have unlimited ammo but still have 
 to reload when you are out of ammo in the clip. Also you have grenades which are limited to 3 but 
 you can always reload at your spawn, and you have 2 drones which have a self destruct mode manually 
 or when you get close enough to a spy with them, you can now follow them up in vents but they are 
 slow and have a limited range so it is not to powerfull. Also you cant put the drone in spy spawn 
 points so dont worry about spawn camping with them. Also bots can fill in the mercs team but not 
 the spys. The bots are pretty good even on the lower difficulties. The objectives are the same 
 as other SC games, but spys can now download from far away with a little hacking device on the 
 wrist. The further away you are the longer the download take, you have a limited range but you 
 dont have to be right there like the other SC games. Also you can start it at one terminal and 
 continue at a different one. Spys are a little faster now and they have sweet acrobatic moves by 
 pressing the right bumper in certain areas. These are perfect for escaping a mercs gun. Some of 
 them include diving out of a window, doing a flip up in a whole in the celling, and others. Multiplayer 
 is the best and will keep you playing for months to come. There is a whole lot more in the game 
 that i did not mention but you can buy the game or rent it to find out. This is still a great game 
 and a must buy for splinter cell fans or stealth fanatics. but this is not halo so dont expect 
 a run and gun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Digital_XTC
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 1, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Okay now being a huge! fan of Splinter Cell I kinda had mixed opinions on this one. I guess my 
 biggest beef with the game is all the undercover busy work they make you do. For me I felt that 
 just as I was starting to get back into the game they throw these repetative filler missions at 
 you. I felt like I was doing the same things over and over again sometimes. Too much of it was 
 in broad daylight which kinda took away from the whole stealthy feeling of the game. Dont get me 
 wrong you still need to keep from getting spotted, its just that it was definitly an odd feeling 
 comming from a Splinter Cell game.
  
  Second was the fact that this game cost me 65 dollars with tax and it kinda felt like a cut down 
 version of the one for the original XBOX with better graphics. Wheres the split screen Co-Op! Why 
 does the original XBOX game play diffrently. To me it seems like ubisoft was just trying to nikel 
 and dime me by making me want both versions of the game just to make a complete package.
  
  Now for the good stuff.
  
  First the Single player portion of the game kept me intreasted and 
 they did some really great ideas with these kinda cinamatic seneraios when you have to make VERY 
 important choices between gaining trust in JBA or loosing it by following the NSA orders, Very 
 cool! I just felt that there werent enough of them. Theres never really a sence of danger when 
 your amongst the enemies trying to keep from blowing your cover.
  
  Multiplayer.
  
  Rocks! thats all I can say. If youve got XBOX Live you need to be playing this game online. But 
 where is the split screen Co-Op!?!
  
  Graphicly its nothing to write home about. It looks very sharp but Its just not quite the same 
 feeling I got when I played Chaos Theory the first time and my jaw dropped to the floor.
  
  Conclusion.
  
  If your not into online multiplayer Id say this is a rental. You could easily 
 beat this game in 3 days as I did. I didnt play all day Id say I put in about 3-4 hours a day. 
 On the other hand If your all about playing the game taking multiple paths to accomplish your mission 
 obviously youd need at 3 times that time to do so. and of course the Live multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spike3oOo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 3, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  The Splinter Cell franchise is one of my favorite series, on the Xbox. And Now the fourth game 
 has arrived on the 360, read on to find out if it lives up to the name!
  
  Graphically wow the Shanghai team went to great lengths to improve upon the graphics in every way 
 possible. Not only is there a lot more detail in the games enviorments and charecter details.
 
  
  But there is also a lot more things happening on screen at once, the game is extremly atmospheric, 
 filled with more enemies on screen at one time, and much better lighting bump mapping, partical 
 effects, and the nightvision, and other visions look a whole lot better than in pervious versions. 
 Overall the game is easily one of the best looking 360 games yet!
  
  The Gameplay is even more improved upon than the graphics. The tired and true stealth formula still 
 plays just as good as it did from day one, but there is a lot more to the game than just hiding 
 in the shadowns. The mission structure is really solid and has a lot more depth to it this time, 
 with 2 different sets of objectives from the NSA and the JBA, as well as primary objectives, secondary 
 and objectives like beat the level without setting off the alarm.
  
  The levels themselvs are also improved upon, with amazing amounts of details, multiple paths, and 
 certain missions that are open ended and allow you to accept missions in the order that you want. 
 The idea of playing a double agent is translated wonderfully and the whole concept is very intriging. 
 This is easily the best story out of all the Splinter Cells and I appricate the fact that almost 
 all the cinemas are in game as well! This blends the action sequences in between cinematics perfectly 
 with the gameplay
  
  The Multiplayer is also improved upon, with an amazing a fresh style of gameplay. That moves fast, 
 and the new hacking mechanism from a distance is a brilliant idea. Overall the game is nearly perfect 
 in everyway, it has an awesome story, amazing graphics, and superb multiplayer making this the 
 best Splinter Cell to date! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: banunn1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 1, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell : Double Agent, for the Xbox 360, brings Sam Fisher back in an incredible story that 
 rivals any season of 24.
  
  Gameplay: If it isn't broke... don't fix it! This is certainly the case in SCDA, The game play 
 mechanics have not been changed all that much since Chaos Theory, and this proves to be a good 
 thing. Most of the control mapping will be familiar to the SC veteran, and also easy to learn for 
 a rookie player. The add-on for this iteration is a dual value system between the terrorist organization 
 (JBA) you are working for, and the NSA, as you will be competing tasks in each mission that will 
 please or anger a respective organization.
  
  Graphics: SCDA takes a step forward by taking the game into several views; all of witch are beautiful. 
 A 1st person view for sniping, a (Cliffy B) 2nd person view for utility shooting, and a 3rd person 
 view, for moving around in general. All views add an immersive feel to the brilliant gameplay. 
 The textures and overall lighting in SCDA is amazing, a nice addition, moving away from the dark 
 days of Chaos Theory. Sound: Guns sound real, (rumble adds alot to the sound of grenades) . The 
 voice acting in near perfect, with the exception of some hokey voice actors playing the parts of 
 the grunts. However the character acting is FLAWLESS... adding a really immersive quality to the 
 game. Value: Never buy a game that you cannot come back to in a year and still have fun! In my 
 opinion, value is added within the incredible online play. It is a must try at least, and highly 
 ADDICTIVE at best. Tilt: I tilted this game towards 10 because I really enjoyed it. I was drawn 
 in by the story, and intrigued by the multiplayer. SCDA is like playing through a season of 24... 
 an emotional roller coaster, that makes you make choice that you wish you didn't have to. Who's 
 Side will you end up on? I don't know, your the Double Agent! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtouchprod
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 1, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  Not only is this the worst splinter cell game, it's the worst stealth game I've ever played. And 
 I say that as a huge fan of the series who has played every SC game to death and had this pre-ordered 
 as soon as it was announced.
  
  I'm so frustrated that I can't even be bothered to write a real review, but here are the highlights:
 
  
  Half of the game is spent in the terrorist headquarters where you can't really sneak, have none 
 of your spy gear, and have to accomplish a series of timed missions with running disabled. You 
 have to rush around the complex trying to beat the clock, while walking at a sedate pace. It's 
 impossible to imagine how something so completely un-fun made it into a game at all.
  
  Also in the HQ you have to play a series of mini-games, to help the terrorists build bombs or beat 
 the high score in a half-assed target practice game. None of these mini-objectives are fun, they 
 all REEK of busy-work.
  
  Much of the non-HQ missions are done in broad daylight and outdoors. There are very few areas of 
 the game where you can hide in a shadow. Instead you hide behind boxes or avoid the line of sight 
 of the guards. Since I didn't give a crap about any of the Scoring in the game, I finished it in 
 about 8 hours.
  
  Of that, less than 1 hour was spent having fun. I haven't tried the multi-player because I'm so 
 turned off by the game in general that I'm just returning it.
  
  What my ratings mean: Gameplay: I should give it a 1, but the few stealth sequences that actually 
 took place were as good as the real SC games of the past.
  
  Graphics: The one thing they got right
  
  Sound: unimpressive and barely noticeable. I could 
 just as easily give it a 4, but the score was so low that I had to give them credit somewhere.
 
  
  Value: If you're into the multi-player it might have greater value, but if you're just a fan of 
 Splinter Cell like me, drop it to a 1 or 2.
  
  Reviewers tilt: Ubisoft can kiss my ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herohunter
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 1, 2006 6:17 am PT
Review:  Splinter cell double agent is the forth and best game in the popular stealth-franchise.
  It takes place in 2007, not long after the end of Chaos Theory.
  The first mission is a routine 
 splinter cell mission with another agent, which also works as the games tutorial.
  After that mission though, things go wrong.
  Sams daughter Sarah dies in a car accident. This 
 makes Sam brake and, for six months he goes through a trauma.
  The story behind the game is that when he finally gets back there, he takes on his most dangerous 
 mission yet. Sam has to go undercover in a terrorist group called JBA (Jon Brows Army)
  To do this Sam has to go to prison to free one of the members. If you do this right, you are in.
 
  
  Double agent starts new things that Splinter cell have never seen before.
  One of the new features is choices. When you are on a mission, you have objectives both from the 
 JBA and the NSA. How you finish you mission has an outcome on your trust with both groups. This 
 may sound phenomenal, but has not too much of a part in the game.
  But, there are some choices that decide what ending the game will have, and if you do it right, 
 you will get a bonus mission.
  Another thing in the game is the JBA HQ missions, which there are four of totally. These are quite 
 cool, and here you have to be one of the bad guys but also sneak around finding fingerprints and 
 find background information on the members.
  A downside of these missions thought is that it becomes more of a fail and try again mode and it 
 makes the game much shorter.
  The game has 10 missions and four of them are JBA HQ missions which are a little irritating.
 
  
  It is also some twists in the multiplayer. This time, it is 3 vs. 3 and when you start online games, 
 open slots is filled in with bots.
  Spies do not have their gun anymore, and can only have one type of grenade at a time.
  The mercenaries 
 still have their gun, and have some new moves as well. They also have a drone that they can send 
 into air vents and things like that.
  
  The graphics in the game are great, and Sam looks a lot better then before, at least in some of 
 the missions. It is said that the game should look a lot better on a HD TV, and because I dont 
 have one, I can only imagine what that is like.
  The sound in the game is great, as it always have been. And Michael Ironside still is Sam Fisher 
 and makes him the most alive game character I know.
  The gameplay is still solid. It is 5 or 6 new moves and the overall experience is maybe a little 
 more tense. The game is also much harder than before.
  
  Overall, double agent is a great game and a lot of replay value with the multiple endings and the 
 exiting online, and it takes the franchise a big step ahead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viedric
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 8, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell: Double Agent is the first Splinter Cell game to appear on the Xbox 360 and it has 
 a lot to prove.
  
  First off, the single player follows Sam Fisher as he infiltrates a terrorist group calling themselves 
 John Brown's Army (JBA) . Most of the missions will have two sets of objectives the player will 
 have to complete. Some for the JBA and others for the NSA. Doing JBA objectives will increase your 
 trust with them, and vice versa. While most of these are easy to complete, the game sometimes forces 
 you to make a choice to choose one side or the other, but these are not numerous. Keeping your 
 trust up with boths sides is relatively easy, and the player usually doesn't have to worry about 
 the trust system much.
  
  The missions are challenging but not extremely hard to complete on normal. They are set in many 
 different locales with a variety of objectives for the player complete, and the levels are fun 
 enough to play at least twice as there are usually more than one way to complete the objectives. 
 Many of the missions break the norm of Splinter Cell games. Most of them take place in daylight 
 where the player will not even need the night vision goggles. There are some missions that take 
 place in the JBA headquarters. Here, the JBA higher ups will give you some trivial work to do and 
 go off and leave you to complete it. The NSA will also have some objectives for you to complete, 
 usually hacking into something or placing a listening device. The player will only have a limited 
 amount of time to complete the work the JBA gives him and the objectives for the NSA. These missions 
 are fun, and sneaking around in the restricted areas of the base is interesting.
  
  The only thing bad about the single player is the same old clunky controls and its short length. 
 The controls are basically the same as all the previous installments, except for this new radar 
 that only works when the player is sitting completely still. The single player is a pretty short. 
 It can be completed in around 10 hours on the normal difficulty. Thankfully, its fun enough to 
 complete at least twice.
  
  The multiplayer is where this game really shines. It composes of two teams of three players. One 
 team are spies, which control a lot like Sam, except they are much easier to move around and are 
 much faster. Their mission is to infiltrate the the base and hack two files out of one of the four 
 terminals located throughout the map. They have no weapons, and their only means of defensive is 
 flash and smoke grenades and few other gadgets. Their only means of harming a enemy team is sneaking 
 up behind them and snapping their neck or jumping on top of their heads. The other team are armed 
 guards named the upsilon force. They have a machine gun with infinite ammo with grenades and remote 
 controlled flying robots that can detonate near enemies hiding in hard to reach places. It is their 
 job to stop the spies from hacking into the terminals.
  
  These matches are usually quite fun, and it is entertaining to play as either side. Each side plays 
 completely different from the other, so when you play as a spy on a map, it feels like a completely 
 different experience than when you play as an upsilon on the same map.
  
  The only problems with the multiplayer is the lag and the lack of other game variants. Hosts are 
 chosen randomly, and the game seems to choose the laggiest people as hosts. This ruins the match 
 as the game is almost impossible to play with the lag. The only multiplayer game type is the spy 
 versus upsilon, and thats it. This is quite enough, considering how fun the game is, but one cannot 
 help but ask for more variation.
  
  The graphics on both the multiplayer and singleplayer live up to the next-gen quality expected, 
 but the Splinter Cell series on the original Xbox was known for some of the best graphics on the 
 Xbox. Double Agent doesn't quite live up to that legacy.
  
  The sound is great. The guns sound believable and the grenade blasts pack a good boom, which I 
 appreciate in an action game. The music in the single player is adequate, and gives little spikes 
 of sound whenever the player is about do something dangerous or is spotted by an enemy. Another 
 interesting thing the music does is that it gets louder the closer you get to an enemy. So when 
 the player is slowly creeping up on an enemy to back stab him, the music is slowly getting louder 
 and more dramatic.
  
  Overall, the game is great, and it is a worthy addition to the Splinter Cell series. The single 
 player may be short, but it makes up for it with its replayability. The multiplayer is extremely 
 enjoyable and should provide hours and hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insanewolfninja
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 31, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  splinter cell has been a seris that has been a redifining peak in tealth games. when sam fisher 
 made his debut back in 2002 with splinter cell stealth and action gamers were tooking by suprise 
 with it! they thought the only good epic stealth game out there was metal gear solid well they 
 were wrong............ kinda until now. The story. sam fisher is on a missioin ready to stop a 
 missle from launching! when he gets done with the missioin it's sad to find out that his daugther 
 dies in a car accident or does she??? no she really does. so on the most sam is now in jail embarking 
 on the most dangerous missin in his life. he is now a double agent for nsa and JBA a terriorst 
 organization that same has to join to get intel on.
  
  The gameplay. it's splinter cell but with less stealth, it's in my opoinoin mutch mutch more tougher 
 to pull off stealth attacks and now that there is no meter that shows how hidden you are. as mutch 
 as they try to change they kinda fail in the progress, my problem is it's just too mutch the same 
 game for it to be called with a different name. they want to change but they cant the whole trust 
 meter how mutch each orangization has trust for u doesent work out that mutch and has barley any 
 effect on the game. and they took away some cool stuff like the ability to cut tents, why take 
 that stuff out, it doesent make mutch sense, but it's still overall pretty fun with some new moves, 
 but you dont have to always do out with the old in with the new. I say out with new in with chaos 
 theory.
  
  The graphics. The graphics are beautiful and shiny. the game is so dong gon gorguesus u could probally 
 spend more timing looking at the water then actually playing this game. though wityh some framerate 
 problems some it's not most smoothest game around and wheres the blood come on if your stabbing 
 somebody there should be blood. I mean it's rated M you need to go all out. well not neccesarily 
 that. overall the graaphics are pretty dang nice. defintly next gen.
  
  The sound. all right Iam pretty mad here what the heck is it with the how randomnly the music pops 
 up???? the voiceovers are always over the top hollywood. but the randomnly poping up music and 
 the always lame sound of the SC 20K and the pistol with the not so great music that splinter cell 
 used to be really known for in my opinoin makes the musi soundtrack good at average.
  
  The value. If you wanna play splinter cell play chaos theroy theres no difference except really 
 truly it's better. though the online mode Iam sure is good this a single player review.
  
  Bottom line. As big of a fan of the seris Iam this isint all that great but it's still good and 
 you'll still have fun.................... for 5 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aliens1234
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 30, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  So Fisher is back for the fourth time, this time on the 360. The game brings something new to a 
 framework used in Chaos Theory, while totally overhauling the multiplayer aspect.
  
  Firstly, the graphics. They are very good. While it is still based on the Unreal 2 engine, and 
 uses some animations from CT, it has been given a fresh coat of next-gen paint - making full use 
 of HDR lighting and great textures. Fishers character model, while moving in the same way as CT, 
 has a face that actually doesn't look like plastic. Facial expressions are all the more clear and 
 all character models in general look great - I just want Sam to grow his hair back though! The 
 game's visuals peak in the Kinshasa levels, where the 360's hardware is fully used to create a 
 real conflict going on between factions in the Congo. The game runs smoothly and is playable throughout.
 
  
  Double Agent takes the series into uncharted territory with its story, following Sam after entering 
 a depression following his daughters death and his subsequent entry into a terrorist organisation 
 as a double agent. The most obvious change is the JBA HQ missions which give a totally new aspect 
 to the series. You have no weapons, you are one of the terrorists - yet you are working for the 
 NSA and need to spy from within the network. It provides a higher level of tension, as do the moments 
 in the game where you decide to either kill an innocent/CIA agent/can't tell you and your actions 
 will have a detrimental effect on the overall outcome of the game. All decisions affect the trust 
 meters and some even affect how the game ends. Playing the double agent gives you a greater sense 
 of freedom in deciding how far from the rail you are willing to go to complete your mission while 
 not blowing your cover.
  
  The story has much more depth to it - but it seems a little more development time could have prevented 
 things flying passed you while you say wtf? This was most notable when we learn that Sarah is 
 dead and Sam gets depressed - but from there the story picks itself up.
  
  Sam has some new kit, but most of it doesn't seem all that new - just obvious. The notable exception 
 to this being the explosive sticky-cam, does exactly what it says and can be unlocked by completing 
 certain objectives. Unfortunately - Sam's goggles seem to have been degraded. The thermal vision 
 isn't half as useful as it was before and the night vision is a shade of ghastly lime green. It 
 also seems to take longer for Sam to switch between vision modes and put on/off his goggles. - 
 Little things like that can have an effect when you use them all the time.
  
  It seems as Fisher gets older he learns knew moves, the best by far is the ability to wait at doorways/cover 
 and grab the unsuspecting enemy as he passes through. A quick chop to the neck brings the scumbag 
 down with a pathetic whimper and have the choice of either knocking him out, or breaking his neck 
 in the most graphic way; the sound effects see to that. Sam can now shoot round corners again, 
 which he could do ever since the first SC, yet that was missing from CT.
  
  Many other sounds, like animations have been recycled - and while there was nothing particularly 
 wrong with them, it doesn't allow Double Agent to stand apart from CT as CT did from PT. For someone 
 who played Chaos Theory a number of times - it doesn't do much for me when I hear Sam give the 
 exact same yelp as he gets shot in the leg.
  
  The music and ambient sounds however, are fantastic. The music is dynamic depending on Sams level 
 of detection and proximity to enemies and this can come in handy for knowing when to stop searching 
 that cabinet at the JBA HQ. In the Kinshasa levels, the sound of bullets whizzing, shells dropping 
 and ordinance give a great level of intensity.
  
  The AI has definitely improved - and extremely tough on the hardest setting. They call to other 
 members and search with more vigour, and even send men to flank you round the behind - making getting 
 out of a situation all the more intense and exciting; not to mention tough.
  
  The multiplayer in both Pandora Tomorrow and Chaos Theory is some of the greatest I have experienced. 
 Double Agent attempts to take the concept and make it more user friendly . I can admit it does 
 make the online more fun, but the level of tension just isn't the same as it was before. Seasoned 
 vets of the previous instalments may look at this as some kind of child's playground - where you 
 are led by the hand.
  
  That said - the MP is different and is fantastic in most areas, and those who learn the levels 
 and work as a team (now up to 3 players each) will prevail. The Mercs are still in first-person 
 and still carry the big guns, now spies have no weapon at all but are more agile in their actions 
 and the levels seem more balanced.
  
  Double Agent's single player is wonderful; it has most of what Chaos Theory had and adds new perspectives 
 to a now 3-Dimensional character, once again played by Ironside (thank God) . The multiplayer is 
 great, and looks good too - but to some may seem less hardcore .
  
  To any Splinter Cell fan - Double Agent is a must-have - but don't expect the leap Chaos Theory 
 made from Pandora Tomorrow. To those who are new to the series - expect a steep learning curve 
 in the single player - but a nice easy-to-get-to-grips-with multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CradleXX
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 30, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Sam Fisher's daughter dies in a drunk-driving accident (I winder if the Don't Drink and drive foundation 
 had anything to do with this) and goes on a mission to take down a terrorist group from the inside. 
 Now you will be doing some missions in pure daylight taking you from places like Iceland, Africa, 
 and Shanghai (A lot of the game was made in Shanghai so it's modeled nicely. The graphics are using 
 the unreal engine 2.5 and it looks pretty nice. the details on Sam are great which is a good thing 
 since on some levels the camera gets a little too close for comfort. The sound is pretty good as 
 well making nice sounding effects and excellent voice acting. The gameplay (especially multiplayer 
 ) is great. As a suy in multiplayer your moves are smooth and easy to perform. This is a Stealth 
 game so you'll need some patience but it's worth it. Value: With more than one ending and different 
 available actions you will come back to this game. And with it's multiplayer you will have something 
 to do. Multiplayer: Probably the best thing about this game is it's 3 on 3 mercs vs. spies multiplayer. 
 The spies are in 3rd person while the mercs are in 1st. The spies are trying to hack information 
 while the mercs are trying to stop them. Bad things: There is no co-op like in Chaos Theory (The 
 xbox version of DA has co-op) .
  The merc's grenades are over-powered.
  All in all this is an excellent game.
  Rent or Buy
  Buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjcarrington
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 30, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell: Double Agent offers gamers a whole lot to like in a slick package that includes 
 full-fledged multiplayer and single player campaigns. Being the fourth title in the series, the 
 huge question remains how Ubisoft has improved the stealth-action genre in both single player and 
 multiplayer. The single player of Splinter Cell: Double Agent features about 10 missions, a few 
 of them being inside the JBA or terrorist organization headquarters. Three difficulty levels are 
 also included for each level, with your enemies becoming progressively more lethal while reducing 
 your arsenal. JBA headquarter levels aside, the goals in most missions are quite direct. Luckily, 
 after a few missions Sam Fisher is outfitted with numerous lethal and non-lethal techniques for 
 dealing with the enemy. Furthermore, meeting specific goals on missions always unlocks new items 
 and weaponry which come in handy as you progress. As is the case with most stealth-action titles, 
 Double Agent relies heavily on a trial and error formula, which can at times be a real irritation. 
 Single player features an extremely simplistic decision-making process at select parts of the story, 
 but the game really boils down to striking a balance between the goals of the good and evil organizations. 
 Having said that, there is no real ending in the game, only a bonus mission if certain goals 
 are met through the course of the single player campaign. In a lot of ways, being a double agent 
 and balancing good and evil decisions falls entirely flat in Splinter Cell because your choices 
 barely effect the story progression. Furthermore, Ubisofts apathetic approach to story-telling 
 and characterization really delude the entire experience. Splinter Cell: Double Agent could have 
 easily portrayed the hellish experience of loss with Sam Fisher, but instead skimped on the meaningful 
 dialogue and cut scenes. What remains is a bare skeleton of a story and a handful of one dimensional 
 characters.
  
  One of the greatest strengths of Splinter Cell: Double Agent is the multiplayer section. Ubisoft 
 really aimed for an experience of continuity when playing as both spies and mercenaries. The underlying 
 goal of the match is always quite simple, either hack the terminal and escape with data as a spy 
 or protect the terminals as a mercenary. As a spy, you play from a third-person perspective and 
 have a lot of tools at your disposal, namely your hacking device which allows you to connect to 
 terminals and turn off lights. As a mercenary, you play from a first-person perspective and have 
 lethal weaponry to eliminate the spies. Regardless of either role, you constantly unlock bonus 
 features, new outfits, and most importantly, new levels to experience. Splinter Cell does an excellent 
 job of keeping track of your activity during the match and as you gain experience with new tools 
 and techniques, you will rank up which triggers the unlocking of new items. You are really left 
 with either two options for multiplayer, either co-op play against computer-controlled mercenaries 
 or versus play. The co-op section of the game has about 18 missions where you and two friends can 
 team up as spies to defeat computer-controlled mercenaries. The goal of the match is always a variation 
 of hacking computers, you are just scored on different aspects depending on the specific challenge. 
 The versus mode is a similar experience, three spies and three mercenaries (either human or computer-controlled) 
 each play on a map, either trying to protect or steal data. While the options offered for multiplayer 
 initially seem limited, the experience itself is really good and really reinforces the importance 
 of teamwork.
  
  The only real issue with Splinter Cells multiplayer is the initial complexity of the game play 
 along with connectivity issues. Complexity has always been an inherit aspect of the Splinter Cell 
 titles; the addition of a real tutorial for both spies and mercenaries in the multiplayer would 
 have really helped new players. As it currently stands, the basic controls are given during the 
 loading screen before the match and the underlying goal of the match is given during a brief cinematic. 
 Despite a recent patch for Splinter Cell: Double Agent, connectivity can be a real problem. Expect 
 to get stuck at loading screens while searching for a game an awful lot, since there is no way 
 to cancel your search. Besides that, the whole concept of having a player host a game for six people 
 is problematic, since the host is the deciding factor in your entire experience. If the hosts connection 
 is poor the game lags and if they decide to quit, the match ends automatically. For the experienced 
 player or one who is willing to spend the time learning, Splinter Cell: Double Agent is a great 
 example how multiplayer can be freed from the restrictions of the single player. On the other hand, 
 for those who want a pick-up and play experience, expect a rough learning curve with online players 
 who are unlikely to be understanding of your predicament. Graphically, Splinter Cell: Double Agent 
 is a relatively impressive experience. The models and textures look excellent, all of the main 
 characters look convincing. Likewise, the animations and level designs are also top-notch. As is 
 the case with all Splinter Cell titles, the lighting and shadow effects are pristine. Splinter 
 Cell: DA is hardly the prettiest game for the XBOX 360 but still features an array of particle 
 and visual effects, making for an eye-pleasing title. Having said all that, the graphics do look 
 similar in a lot of ways to previous generation efforts and the frame rate can be quite erratic 
 during the single player missions. All and all, the game cannot be faulted for looking bad, snapping 
 necks and shooting unsuspecting victims has never looked quite this good before.
  
  The aural experience of Splinter Cell is as good as ever. The sound separation on a surround sound 
 setup is particularly moving. The explosions and weapons sound convincing and the various death 
 noises are great. The musical score of Double Agent is also quite good and becomes louder and more 
 dramatic during key points. The dynamic use of music actually works quite well due to the type 
 and pacing of this game. The voice acting is also passable, using either hollywood or professional 
 voice actors for the characters. When really looking at Splinter Cell: Double Agent as a full package, 
 you get an extreme amount of entertainment for $50 or $60. The single player, despite being on 
 the short side, will still take a fair amount of time to progress through in entirety. After finishing 
 the main campaign, the player always has the option of replaying missions on a higher difficulty 
 level. The multiplayer is probably the best aspect of this title, since you have a fair amount 
 options initially available along with the promise of unlocking more levels later. Assuming you 
 can find a good host, the experience as a spy or mercenary is intense and exhilarating. Furthermore, 
 the levels in both the single player and multiplayer are varied and quite detailed. Experienced 
 Splinter Cell fans have an easy decision to make on the title but new fans may want to play the 
 demo before making a purchase. Splinter Cell: Double Agent does nothing to capture the interest 
 of those who passed on the earlier games in the series, instead opting for incremental improvements 
 on a solid stealth-action formula. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mutejjmb
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  the story line is just insane but the online game play is a little boring rush they should have 
 just kept it like choas theory !!!!! in my opinion if you play chaos trheory ull no wat i mean 
 :) dont let this put u off cus i picki about campaing's but this one each min get better more thing 
 to to more supprises its fabbb u get hooked i advise u buy it the first mission i well very goot 
 sky diving scuba the lot but after the first mission it all changes dont just do the fist mish 
 do at least 3, 4 me lol DO NOT RENT if u do u wont have enuf time rember the more you play the 
 better it gets !!!!! and Question email me @ wssjherrera@rgfl. org Skype name = xCGx Mut3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pieman_III
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 30, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game. At first I was a tad worried that the game had gone to far from sneaking 
 and become far to action-esque but I was pleasantly surprised when I played.
  
  The graphics and the sound were done very well I think with sounds fading as you got father away 
 and faced away from the source and the shadows and lighting looked superb as expected from a Splinter 
 Cell Game
  
  The gameplay was a bit tedious at times where it seems there are no shadows but it simply adds 
 to the fun finding out new ways to stay hidden such as swimming under the ice or simply staying 
 behind certain objects. I've heard some complaining about these levels but frankly to me it seems 
 for the most part these are just people whom can't figure out theres more then one way to hide.
 
  
  The story was a very interesting one at many points giving you a lot of choice in what you do, 
 but having benefits and consequences for your actions as well. The characters were quite interesting 
 and I found infiltrating the terrorists headquarters always enjoyable in progressing the story. 
 I also really liked the many moral choices it sets you up with which can change your trust on either 
 side dramatically.
  
  The multi-player was also done fairly well but not as well as i had hoped. It seems to have become 
 far to fast paced and instead of sneaking around, sticking to shadows and stalking your enemy, 
 you tend to be jogging, jumping and flipping all over with little regard to actually staying hidden. 
 Not to say its all the spies fault however because with the Mercs new proximity censor it is hard 
 to actually hide, as little thought was required. Just following the beeps and looking to the nearest 
 hiding spot seems to always lead you to the enemy.
  
  Not to say that the multi-player was horrible. I found it fun to motor around as a spy pulling 
 off amazing acrobatic moves while evading the Mercs, and it does add a fun element while tracking 
 down the spies who can be nearly anywhere. The new gadgets as well were fun to use, as I love sending 
 my drone up to a spy and ending him with an explosion. The spies wrist hacking thing is also fun 
 as you can knock out lights, or even the power of the mercs suits just to mess with their heads. 
 The new stat system adds a new element showing you which areas you can improve on and making you 
 strive to do better in the game. Unlocking new suits is also fun as they give you new abilities 
 and strength some of the time it seems.
  
  I had a few buggy things happen in both single and multiplayer, such as at one point while wandering 
 around I managed to walk right through a bed, and another time I jumped at a ladder, missed completely, 
 yet still began to climb until I was actually on it. The multi-player seems to lag sometimes but 
 I was surprised at how little I actually got. However, I encounter one problem I at first blamed 
 on my Xbox or my connection until I heard that several of my friends also noted having it happened. 
 The problem was that often it would disconnect me mid game (and usually while I was winning, but 
 that was just coincidence and bad luck for me) .
  
  All in all I enjoyed this game, and recommend it for anyone looking for a solid single player and 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benny_is_here
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 30, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Ubisoft's fourth entry in the Splinter Cell franchise proves that there's still life in the old 
 guy. The Splinter Cell franchise remains robust and satisfying, but some changes have been made 
 for the worse.
  
  As you begin playing you'll notice three options. These are introduced by the voice of a woman, 
 which is a first in the series. Special Features is nothing special (Credits and the E3 Trailer 
 for Rainbow Six Vegas) , but the other two, Single Player and Multiplayer, are definitely noteworthy.
 
  
  The Singleplayer menu is presented with good old green. It's basically just different shades of 
 green, some fancy character animations and environment fly-bys that works as pointers to what you 
 can expect later in the game. The thing I noticed first was the option called TRAINING. I hopped 
 into that one first, and was greeted to an interesting video while the game was loading. It had 
 no sound, but you saw Sam Fisher waking up in a bed behind guarded doors. This could mean many 
 things, but it has later proven to really mean nothing. The training level seems more like a dream 
 level , so maybe he just had a dream while being tested or something. When the training begins, 
 a female voice tells you what you need to do. The level is whiter than Michael Jackson, and everything 
 shines with a marvelous glow. Your mission is to reach a photo of your late daughter Sarah. Some 
 camera jamming and rappelling from a pipe later, not to mention an Achievement worth 10 points, 
 you'll get to Part B of the Training. Here it's a little more interesting, and there'll actually 
 be humans involved. There's a hostage situation at large, but with only three people to worry about. 
 This is the training level after all. You'll finish this quickly, and get another 40 gamerscore 
 points. The training level wasn't just good for the achievements though. I for one loved the clean 
 colors!
  
  Training is fun and all that, but what about actually getting into some Double Agent singleplayer 
 action???
  Well, Double Agent features pretty much the same gameplay as in Chaos Theory, but (as should be 
 expected) with some additions. The animations are very fluid, sneaking around is enjoyable, graphics 
 are great and the AI is clever.
  On the very first mission, which takes place in Iceland, you begin underwater. It's not much underwater 
 action in this level, but another level, which takes you to a Lost Planet-like environment, features 
 a lot more swimming underground. A new way of taking out enemies is by braking the ice underneath 
 the enemy and pulling him under, followed by stabbing him in the chest. This is awesome, just like 
 snapping people while hanging in a pipe was in Chaos Theory. However, there's just not enough opportunities 
 to do this. You can do the trick maybe 3-4 times. One of the new moves introduced in Chaos Theory, 
 the ability to jump up and pull the enemy under while shimmying, can be done maybe 4 times. The 
 manual says that you can split jump and do the neck split while holding on a pipe, but I played 
 through the whole singleplayer game without even having the chance of doing this. Seems as Ubisoft 
 didn't feel the urge to show off Sam's array of moves as much as in previous Splinter Cell games. 
 A new move I really love is the ability to attack an enemy about to bypass the wall you're leaning 
 against. A symbol will appear, and pressing A will make Sam chop the unsuspecting enemies throat, 
 throw the enemy into the wall and get him into a hold. The hold is the same as in Chaos Theory, 
 where Sam press his army knife against the enemy's throat (Sam held his pistol against the enemy's 
 head in the first two games) and holds up the enemy's right hand. If you're leaning into a wall 
 where throwing someone into it is not suitable, like an oddly shaped or too short wall, Sam will 
 throw his enemy on the ground, with Sam on top. This is not the beginning of a freaky sex scene, 
 but a brand new hold. Sure, Sam can't move, but it's cool to see the enemy's neck being pushed 
 to the limit by Sam's bicep... Sam might be 50 years old by now, but shows no signs of getting 
 sloppy. It's also fun too look at Sam as he interrogates the enemy. As always, some of the enemies 
 actually know something, whether it's security codes ( these can also be found in computers or 
 simply hacked) , the location of an objective or whatever reason they have to work for the bad guys. 
 Instead of just pressing a little extra on the enemy's throat like in the standard hold, Sam will 
 simply knock on the enemy's head. The LT and RT buttons work the same as in Chaos Theory, where 
 RT kills and LT knocks out. In the standard hold, LT will choke the enemy to unconsciousness and 
 RT will send Sam's knee into the enemy's spine. In the new hold, LT will let Sam do an elegant 
 chop at the enemy's throat and RT will brake the enemy's neck.
  I'm the kind of player that wants to go through the game unspotted, and without having to kill 
 anyone. I don't want to run through the game like Steve Nash , if I may quote Twista. The thought 
 of eliminating unsuspecting guards, and them living to know it, appeals to me. If you're NOT like 
 me, you can easily go on a killing spree. This will usually get the NSA pissed off, not to mention 
 lower the scores you get after each level, like in Chaos Theory. There are some times you're forced 
 to kill in order to defend yourself, however. On the other hand, you have a lot of non-lethal gadgets 
 on your disposal, like gas and stun grenades, flash wall mines and the numerous add-ons for the 
 SC20K. SC20K is the silenced machine gun rifle Sam uses. The rifle hasn't changed much. The scope 
 is different, with a smaller scope that only display a laser spot as crosshair. A nice touch is 
 how the scope is away from Sam's eye, and you'll be more aware of your surroundings as you try 
 and nail that headshot. A bigger change however, is the compatibility with different gadgets. You 
 have the familiar Sticky Shocker (launchable tazer) and Air Ringfold Round (launchable object that 
 knocks the target out for a couple of seconds) , but also new gadgets like the Shotgun extension, 
 several grenades, Sticky Cam (the Sticky Cam has the same functions as the old Diversion Cam, with 
 the added function of blowing the sucker up) and more.
  As you can see, Sam has a lot of gadgets. These can be unlocked by doing some of the secondary 
 objectives. These are usually of the 
  Sam himself, however, also has a a lot of moves. You'll be climbing up pipes, going through little 
 holes and interacting with machines.
  The level designs are great as always, with several different environments. Strangely, though, 
 the focus seems to have been shifted from darkness to more of a lit up environment. There's actually 
 a lot less cases where you need to use any of the goggle visions. This is probably why the sound 
 and light meters have been cut In stead, you'll only have three colored dots. Green means your 
 in a dark environment and safe from spotting, unless you start jumping around, yellow means your 
 lit up and might be spotted and red means you've been spotted.
  Graphics-vise, Double Agent doesn't disappoint. Some of the environments are spectacular and the 
 graphics hold the standard. However, it doesn't exceed them like the previous games did. If you 
 liked how the rain dropped on Sam in his leather suit as he was creeping in almost complete darkness, 
 you might get a little disappointed in Double Agent. The graphics are showed off in other ways 
 however, very nice sun effects and realistic water. I missed the emphasis on shadows the previous 
 game shad, though.
  
  Sound disappoints a little. The voicework is good, but the voices are too low compared to the rest 
 of the game, and there's no subtitles. You'll turn up the TV, but then turn it down the minute 
 someone starts firing a weapon. The soundtrack is nice, but not the best in the series.
  
  Double Agent is called Double Agent for a reason. Sam is infiltrating a terrorist group, the JBA, 
 to stop them from destroying parts of the U. S. The terrorists are U. S., but are under the impression 
 that the country is run by the wrong guys. This isn't really original whatsoever, but there's some 
 interesting new features. Notably, the Trust system. As a Double Agent, you have to please both 
 the NSA and the JBA, but sometimes the two contradicts each other. You'll have to make some important 
 choices, but not really enough. There's maybe 5 of these choices through the entire game. At the 
 end of the game, I had the feeling that the game wasn't as big as the previous game's, but as I 
 started playing the game again on Hard, I liked it even more. The game isn't shorter than previous 
 Splinter Cell games, but not really longer either. The presentation is at its best at the beginning, 
 with some impressive CGI. The later cutscenes are not CG, but with mo-capped in-game animations.
 
  
  Multiplayer is also an enjoyable feature. The standard match allows a maximum of six players; three 
 guards and three spies. The spies are pretty much young versions of Sam. They move a lot faster 
 and have some crazy athletic moves. They have a device on their forearms that sends out signals 
 that will break glass, interrupt the guards' weapon systems and destroy lights. The guards are 
 controlled in first-person (unlike the spies and Sam who are controlled in third-person) and have 
 a big-ass weapon with unlimited ammo and grenade launcher. On every map, there's four color-coded 
 computers. The Spies' goal is to download a file from one of the computers with the forearm-device 
 and return to the starting point. The guards goal is of course to stop the spies. Downloading the 
 files take a lot of time, especially when you're pushing the 10 feet connection limit, but you 
 can stop and continue the download. Although a guard is not to mess with, it seems to me like the 
 spies are superior. The maps are laid out so that spies have a lot of room to move where the guards 
 can't. Pretty much the only athletical moves the guards have is jumping and lowering down from 
 heights with ropes. The spies are also extremely fast, and they tend to have enough life to avoid 
 encounters. Guards also don't have the motion detector anymore either. There's other things to do 
 in the multiplayer, however. There's the coop challenges, where you can play with a group of people 
 to achieve more specific objectives. Unfortunately, there's no longer the more intimate coop that 
 was featured in Chaos Theory. It's more about competing than working together, and there's no specific 
 coop levels.
  There's also a big bonus system, with stuff like new skins and videos.
  
  Double Agent is an entry in the series that's highly enjoyable, yet some changes have been made 
 for the worse. I loved the light and sound meters and co-op gameplay in Chaos Theory, but this 
 have been altered for the worse. The game is also a lot less about darkness, and this is also where 
 it might disappoint. Only fans that have played the whole series will recognize them, however, 
 and newbies can easily get into it. Splinter Cell remains a lot of fun for people who wants to 
 infiltrate, eliminate and pwn :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkside3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  When you are playing Splinter Cell: DA you will find that it has a great story line and definitely 
 is nothing like the older Splinter Cells in the sense of the game play. In parts when going for 
 certain objectives you will find it tedious unless you don't mind doing the same thing over and 
 over. The AI in it is also improved and when sneaking you have to be more careful. I bought Chaos 
 theory and lost interest quite quickly finding it wasn't my type of game, even though I still went 
 out and purchased this one and after an hour or so of gaming I was totally addicted. The online 
 gaming on this can be a little confusing the first time you play it, after the first game or two 
 you easily get the hang of it. Being successful in the online mode means knowing the map in question 
 from both perspectives. While playing this game it is easy to gain achievements and you seem to 
 get more gamer points than you should for the activity you have done to get them. Overall it is 
 a great game and will bring you hours of enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WillGDeska
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2006 6:47 am PT
Review:  I absolutely love this series. This game has disappointed me, becuase of the repetitiveness from 
 the former games. Very few new animations, same guards (who are telepathic on hard mode) and bad 
 lighting (I want to have to actually use my signature goggles) . Gameplay gets a nine because well, 
 it's splinter cell, great gameplay. Graphics, pshah, not up to par, Ubisoft can make graw look 
 amazing, but not Splinter Cell? A game this famous deserves to be 360/PS3 exclusive. Sound is good, 
 they could afford to have a few more things for the guards to say, being that this game revolves 
 around guards, the sounds were recycled from the last games. The value for this single-player portion 
 of the game is low. I started friday and finished sunday. I have no want to replay this portion 
 of the game. The multiplayer on the other hand is FANTASTIC. My tilt is low. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjovang
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 30, 2006 3:35 am PT
Review:  Its not been long since I got my 360 and Ive spent a few hours playing TD: U and PGR3, but I haven't 
 really been lost in front of the TV before I got SC: DA last friday.
  
  this game keeps me thinking about how I can solve the mission when im at work, or in the shower, 
 or lying in bed trying to sleep. Everything from the setting to the animations of Sam Fisher is 
 great.
  
  Definitely a game you should run and buy (if you like the genre you're gonna love this one) . If 
 you're not a fan then it's basicly something wrong with you ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: METALgearJES
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 9, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  The Splinter Cell series has always provided gamers a great dose of stealth action. Double Agent 
 is the series first dip into the next-gen and it does not disappoint
  
  
  
  The game play is what makes this series shine. No other game truly makes you feel like a real spy. 
 This game has all the gadgets and moves from the previous installments and a couple of cool moves. 
 Some of the moves are just awesome to do time and time again.
  
  
  
  The single player portion of the game is a different from the previous games. You play as a double 
 agent. So you are playing two sides. It is up to you to infiltrate a terrorist organization and 
 take them down but at the same time keep their trust. You must maintain trust for both parties. 
 So split decisions are key function in this game. Should you shoot an innocent person to raise 
 your trust with the terrorist? Or should you not and lose their trust but stay okay with the good 
 guys? In the end, the premise of the double agent feels tacked on. In reality, many of these 
 decisions are not as major as they seem to be and they are too far in between. The missions are 
 good but nothing we have not seen before. In DD, there are missions we take place within the terrorist 
 organization. In these levels you must walk around, talk to some people, and try to find as much 
 information as you can to bring the organization down. Sounds cool, but they are poorly executed. 
 These levels limit your moves; all you can do is walk and nothing more. Despite their cool premise, 
 these levels brake up the flow of the game in a negative way. The graphics are great. Sam Fisher 
 is greatly detailed and so are the levels. But for the most part the games graphics to reach 
 the potential of the 360. The levels provide much more variety this time around. The multi-player 
 is once again here. This time around it is more user friendly. The game still provides a challenge 
 but it is easier to pick up and play. The multi-player now features 3 vs. 3. The multi-player, 
 despite its easier accessibility, feels unbalanced on some levels. If you want a good, but at times 
 boring, single player game, great graphics, and good multi-player, look no further. However, this 
 game fails to be as good as Chaos Theory. Hardcore fans may love it because they are just fans, 
 but also hardcore fans may hate it because it fails to distance itself from the previous installments. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentDeath777
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Here we are Splinter Cell fans, the first Next Gen Splinter Cell game, Double Agent .Sam Fisher 
 is back and this time, he must play both sides. Will he be able to pull it off? So what is new 
 about this Sam Fisher adventure that we haven't seen before. Well gone is the light/dark bar that 
 let you how hidden you are, Now we have a little box on Sam's shoulders that changes to three different 
 colors. Green is normal, Yellow is caution and Red means your spotted and need to hide fast. The 
 Graphics are amazing, Shanghai looks so life like, I thought I was home again. The voice overs 
 are top notch, some of the best ever done for a game. Most of your favorite weapons are back, along 
 with new ones to unlock. The game can get hard if your new to the world of Splinter Cell. For new 
 comers, just don't rush into everything. You will need to take your time. There is a great story 
 to be had here along with three different endings. The Double Agent comes into play because you 
 must keep both sides happy. If you lose all the trust in either side, the game is over. I would 
 say start on easy and learn what you will need to do. Because on harder settings, the games is 
 less forgiving. So with so many good things to be said about this game, what could be wrong with 
 it? Well I can find only one. The online is love or hate. I might of liked it better if the people 
 I was playing with would play fair and not log out. Well make that two things. People who played 
 the game know what I am taking about when I say 3D MAP. It's worthless, you will not know where 
 you are or what to do. You really don't need it anyway, trust me, I beat the game without using 
 it. For some reason they took out the co op story that was very fun in Chaos Theory , but I guess 
 it would be hard to make a story line for that, so I forgive them. When all is said and done, this 
 is one of the best games on the Xbox 360.
  
  If your a Tom Clancy fan, Splinter Cell fan, or stealth/action fan, Double Agent is a treat for 
 yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M00N-CAT
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 29, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  First off i would like to say good job developers in making a beutiful game that is very addicting 
 more adiccting than grand theft auto!
  The graphics are amazing they look realistic and the multiplayer online is stupendus! The voice 
 acting was very good A+ cast and very good on trying new things when you go on the building and 
 the fireworks are going off! This now my favorite 360 game besides Saints Row. This time around sma 
 fisher has defected from the nsa and as joined foices with Terrorists's and he has to try and balance 
 the relationships that in the end will determine your fate! You travel from all over the world from 
 america to to cold russian based missions! Very good enviorments and other stuff acheivements are 
 very easy to get.. well because when you beat a mission you unlock acheivements i think i unlocked 
 almost all of them. i'll give this game a 9.3 for satisfying my sneaking needs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: houli252
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 30, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Many of the other Splinter Cell games required you to just stay in the shadows and sneak by and 
 accomplish your mission. That is not that case with Splinter Cell: Double Agent. You play as Sam 
 Fisher again, this time however, hes going undercover to complete his mission. The beauty of this 
 game is that it's not much like the other Splinter Cells, yet it grasps the things that make it 
 Splinter Cell. You'll find yourself looking for cover, when really there isn't any cover that can 
 keep you hidden. Which will keep you worried and having to actual keep out of the sight of enemies 
 or distracting them away from instead of simply staying completely hidden until you can move. The 
 shadow bar that has been used in the other three is no longer in this game. It's much more simple 
 now. There is a indicator on Sam (back and front and even on his weapons) that says: Green=hidden, 
 Yellow=Not hidden, Red=spotted by someone. No more of this sort of hidden or well hidden, it's 
 either you're hidden or you are not hidden.
  Weapons will be more vital to you this time around since its more difficult to simply walk up behind 
 someone in the dark and grab them. You will, however, have more unique weapons that will help you 
 along the way. One of the new weapons is a Ultrasonic Emitter which if you want to sneak up on 
 an enemy or simply sneak past, you can point this to any point and fire and will cause a noise 
 and that will distract the guard. Also for completing certain missions you'll unlock weapons or 
 upgrade certain weapons. Some upgrades will be of great help for certain situations.
  The most significant difference in this game than the others is the Trust System . Since you're 
 undercover you will need to accomplish missions for both factions to please them both. If either 
 trust bar is fully vanquished then the game will end, so you will need to take some risks in order 
 to keep the game going. Certain objectives will have little or great consequences depending on 
 what you choose. This alone offers some great replay value. The one thing that seemed to differ 
 from the other version was the variety of levels in this one. There is one in the snow that is 
 gorgeous looking, and also there is one on a cruise and just looking out at the sea is quite a 
 sight. It will drop your jaw and how great it looks.
  The multi-player is quite possibly the best part of this game. The way they changed it from the 
 other two is different but for the much much better! The graphics, I think, have been greatly improved 
 and the gameplay is simply just more fun and more enjoyable. The co-op missions are also great. 
 You'll have a lot of fun accomplishing them and trying to outwit the superb AI that is always looking 
 for you.
  This Splinter Cell is much different than the others many are used to but that is NOT a bad thing 
 at all. If you're really into Splinter Cell games, than I highly recommend you get this game and 
 experience the shear awesomeness this game has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  PROS:
  Sharp character models and environments
  Alot of content to unlock
  Multiplayer rules
  Achievements are well thought out
  At points you get to decide the outcome 
 of the game ...
  
  CONS:
  ... but this only happens three times (only two of which really matter)
  Gameplay is mostly cut 
 from Chaos Theory
  The series' sound problems persist once again
  
  We have been waiting for this game for a long time now, but not as much as you may think, as this 
 game, in no way, ties in with Chaos Theory's story. Basically, the series starts a new saga, of 
 revenge. Sam's daughter, Sarah, is killed, and he loses the will to live and takes on a dangerous 
 assignment to infiltrate the JBA (John Brown's Army) and first he must infiltrate their ranks by 
 befriending one of their officers who is incarcerated in Ellsworth State Prison.
  After the jailbreak you take part in many ,somehow repetitive, missions that involve reaking terrorist 
 acts upon the world. The story does end up being some kind of a clich&eacute;, but I shalln't spoil 
 it for anyone, but it does involve a bomb and suicide ...
  The multiplayer focus of the game is very fun to play, in classic Spy vs. UPSILON style play. The 
 graphics and gameplay borrow heavily from previous Splinter Cell games, but if you've enjoyed the 
 series so far, you will be happy to play thorugh the same again, except for certain sequences like 
 piloting a helicopter, parachuting and hostage situations, the game does kind of improve on it's 
 predecessor's, but it's basically the same game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f8al13
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is indeed a very fun game wiht very good graphics and awesome gameplay but it almost 
 seems it is to short. The xbox 360 controller seems perfect for this type of game. I would not 
 recommend this game to anyone who does not have online for it appeared to be way to short with 
 less then 8 hours of gameplay. Luckily this game has fun online that is very addictive and saves 
 it from the shortness of the game. This game does tend to stick out from the other Splinter Cell 
 games though with many missions leaving you in bright daylight where you can easily hide in the 
 shadows like the other splinter cell games. Once again a very fun but short game I recomend renting 
 the game rather then buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingSigy
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 24, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell has proven to be an extremely popular series since its inception back in 2002. While 
 the first game proved a touch cookie to crack, it was mostly due to the relative new style that 
 was introduced. Add to that the super scripted events and ridiculous damage modeling, and Splinter 
 Cell definitely wasn't a game everyone could hop into. Flash forward 4 years later to Double Agent, 
 Ubi's latest effort at bringing the Splinter Cell series to new audiences, and keeping old followers 
 satisfied with Next Gen visuals. Double Agent hits a lot of things right, but its mostly just a 
 marginal upgrade to what was previously seen with Chaos Theory. Chaos Theory introduced Sam's knife 
 for quick take downs, and Double Agent retains that. This proves to make a lot of encounters simple, 
 but Double Agent makes up for it in difficulty. The difficulty of the game takes a steep hit when 
 put on Hard, but on anything less it becomes a cakewalk. The enemies still have horrid AI, but 
 their shots do tremendous damage on Hard, making stealth a requirement. The level design has changed 
 for the better, with Sam infiltrating into fully lit areas instead of the dark corridors he use 
 to loath. This provides for very tense moments of action, though the AI may ruin it for some. The 
 story tries to bring Sam into a realm of humanity not seen in the past games, but it falls flat. 
 It's still the generic neo nazi Tom Clancy we've always seen. The trust system is mostly cosmetic, 
 and choices given to you are few and far between. Overall, the single player is basically an upgrade 
 of Chaos Theory, much like Pandora Tomorrow was an upgrade to Splinter Cell. The multiplayer is 
 where this game really shines. Though lacking the coop from Chaos Theory, the new Adversarial gameplay 
 is fantastic. Everything has been reworked for more balance, and the gamepace quickened to help 
 speed matches along. Spies have no guns, but are agile to the point of olympic runners, while Mercs 
 have infinite ammo and auto motion tracking. It may seem unfair, but in practice, it boils down 
 to a fair game. There are still some horrid points (The Mercs spin and charge attack is completely 
 unbalanced with everything else) , but the multiplayer has taken a turn for the better. In conclusion, 
 Double Agent may not have been all that the hype made it out to be, but its still a very good game 
 that should be experienced by all fans of Tom Clancy and stealth action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arcthaman
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 29, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  I don't really even know where to begin. I have been a die-hard fan of Splinter Cell since the 
 first one. I bought all of them on their release dates without renting or playing any demos, because 
 I knew I would fall in love with this type of game. The idea of completing stealth missions at 
 night that require you to sneak around in the shadows and take out guards using high-tech equipment 
 just fascinated me. With that said, I personally think Chaos Theory was the absolute best game 
 in the series so far. Here's why I feel that way:
  
  - This is an xbox 360 game, and it boasts better (shiny) graphics and more detailed environments. 
 The problem with this is that the game suffers framerate issues, screen tearing, broken audio, 
 and numerous other glitches. This is not why I spent $400-plus dollars on a new system. It should 
 be able to support better graphics and larger environments without sacrificing quality of performance.
 
  
  - The moves are almost identical to Chaos Theory. They have added a couple of new mechanics (like 
 hiding under tables and desks) , but for the most part the animations are current-gen while the 
 graphics are somewhat next-gen, which just makes the game look odd in places. - The light/dark 
 meter has been replaced with a small light, which is green when you're in the dark, yellow when 
 you're in the light, and red when you have been spotted by guards. There is no in-between, you're 
 either completely in the dark or completely in the light. There are many times when you don't really 
 know whether you're in the dark or not, unless you pay close attention to the green/yellow light. 
 The shadows are almost non-existent in DA. The previous games used EXCELLENT shadowing and it was 
 very obvious which areas were dark. In DA, even the dark areas don't look very dark at all. You 
 HAVE to rely on the green light to tell you when you're well hidden, and many times you just find 
 yourself running around dodging fire until the light turns green again, which has absolutely nothing 
 to do with skill.
  
  - There is no noise or ambient noise meter. That would be fine if whole noise factor wasn't completely 
 ruined in this game. For example, I was sneaking up behind a guard who was in the middle of a gunfight. 
 It was SO NOISY in the room, but for some reason he could hear my footsteps and he turned around 
 and shot me (keep in mind that he was STILL being shot at by someone across the room) . This is 
 completely unrealistic and very frustrating.
  
  - The daylight missions are okay (and VERY gorgeous) , but that's not what made Splinter Cell a 
 hit. The game was originally designed for sneaking around in the shadows at night, and the game 
 engine should have been adjusted accordingly for daylight missions. It is almost impossible NOT 
 to be spotted by guards during these missions, so most of the time they turn into run and gun missions, 
 and we all know that the shooting portion of SC is not exactly it's strong point. Once again, that's 
 not why I fell in love with SC to begin with. I personally enjoyed nighttime missions that required 
 you to sneak around in the shadows - it just made more sense. If you hated the trail and error 
 aspect of the previous games, then this game will frustrate you beyond belief. - If you're spotted 
 by one guard, they all start shooting at you. They don't even have to radio for backup anymore. 
 It's like they are all psychic and automatically know when one of their buddies has seen you. It's 
 crazy because sometimes you don't have a clue who's shooting at you or why they are shooting at 
 all. Basically, if your light-meter turns red, you're screwed. Everyone in the room turns and opens 
 fire without hesitation when that light turns red. Everything else is okay, but these problems 
 honestly ruined the experience for me. The trust meter is kinda cool, and the graphics and envvironments 
 are really nice to look at, but the rest just feels like a failed attempt to completely change 
 the Splinter Cell franchise. I can't believe that the original xbox and ps2 owners got a true follow-up 
 to the excellent Chaos Theory. Ubisoft Shanghai shouldn't have tried to change the mechanics of 
 an excellent game. They basically ruined some of the best aspects of the game. I honestly had the 
 game for about 1 week before I just couldn't stand it anymore. The guy at GameStop thought I was 
 crazy for returning it and buying a copy of Chaos Theory instead (possibly the same copy that I 
 traded one week earlier) , but I really was disappointed by this effort. I have never been disappointed 
 with a SC game (I honestly loved Pandora Tomorrow, especially the environments, and I don't see 
 why so many people bash it) , but this one didn't have me instantly hooked like the previous entries. 
 Like the old saying goes.... if it ain't broke, don't fix it.
  
  Please feel free to agree or disagree in an intelligent, non-flaming way. Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabbit_pie
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 29, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  The good: the sound, the graphics (to an extent) and the online gameplay isnt bad.
  the Bad: everything else!
  
  This game is completely and utterly appauling, ubisoft has completely 
 destroyed the point of splinter cell by releasing this game. Sam fisher, the master of shadows 
 is now working in the day?!?! what the hell. The first 2 missions are ok, not completely upto previous 
 splinter cell titles standards, but still not bad, as soon as you get past these its all downhill.
 
  
  In my opinion the graphics havnt improved a great deal since chaos theory as chaos theory's graphics 
 were very impressive for the xbox. But ill put the graphics aside for now because there is much 
 worse aspects to this game. To start, the enemy A. I., the enemy's general reaction to you remains 
 pretty much the same, stand still and shoot at you, with the occasional few that seek cover. The 
 thing that has changed is the fact that the enemies have gained a special ability... the ability 
 to see through walls, see you at very long distances away where you have to use thermal vision 
 just to be able to see their heads and the ability to look at you but not recognise that you are 
 an intruder???, on many occasions i have been on a level where i am hugging a wall and the guard 
 walks past, looks right at me, keeps walking whilst looking at me and doesnt start the alarm... plain 
 and utterly retarded. Secondly is the levels, 2 things about the levels, one, very little to no 
 shadows to hide in at all, leaving you very vunerable to been seen, as the snow/blizzards and dust 
 flying around doesnt do anything to hide you. the levels are bright and therefore take the fun 
 of stealth away from them making it virtually impossible to stalk your enemy from the shadows. 
 Secondly is more to do with the storyline, you go from one exotic location to the other without 
 a real link between them, such as going from the antartic to africa... very different locations 
 and your not told what they have in common. The HQ levels are also complete garbage, its liek the 
 game prisoner of war but far worse, you have to sneak into restricted areas of the HQ and do certain 
 tasks for both organisations. And if im right, theres 4 missions where you must do this... ive seen 
 mission recycling in games before but this takes the biscuit. Now what really pis. sed me off about 
 this game is that you arent a double agent, you dont get to pick what organisation to work for, 
 you must work for both, and the trust metre makes sure of this, because if you lose to much trust 
 for either organisation then missions over, and i actually got to the point in the game, where 
 i had very low trust for both organisations and i had to kill or let this guy live, and either 
 way, it failed me due to what ever i did one of the organisations failed me... so let me make it 
 clear, YOU ARE NOT A DOUBLE AGENT, YOU ARE JUST UNDER-COVER!, your still working for the dam NSA!
 
  
  The storyline is well, quite simply, very poor, their is little character development making some 
 of the moral decisions quite easy, as you dont really get involved with the character to an extent 
 you dont want to kill them off.
  
  Also, not much has really been added to the game, theres the pulling the guards down from beneath 
 the ice moves, and a few new gadgets like the microphone gun thing that shoots sound to a place 
 of your choice, but other than that, nothing has been added.
  
  Lastly is Sam himself, now he has become very slow and well, old. this is shown simply by the way 
 he runs, it looks like a guy puffed out with a wedgy or something. Hes become less agile, less 
 stealthy and well, i personally think its time for him to retire, and after this poor excuse for 
 a game, i wish he would.
  
  There is only 2 good thing i can think of for this game, one is the sound, the voice's and sound 
 effects sound great. And lastly the online gameplay in my opinion has improved, playing as the 
 spy has become alot more fun as where your supposed to go is more clearly marked out and you are 
 alot more acrobatic.
  
  In conclusion, this game may be good to those who have never played splinter cell before or didnt 
 like the previous titles. To all true splinter cell fans out there, dont bother playing this game, 
 it will hurt to much, at the most rent it for a day, trust me, you will make your judgement in 
 alot less time than that. So to any true splinter cell fan, i give it 4.1 out of 10, to the others, 
 i give it 6/7 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaperMaster
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 29, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  I was always a big fan of the splinter cell series and just a fan of stealth games in general, 
 this game is pretty much the same as any stealth game out there, it's got it's stealth guns and 
 EMP's and ways to stealthily sneak through the levels but on some levels you can just run through 
 guns a blazing with little consequences. I do admit the choices to pick between good and evil are 
 fun and all but it doesn't happen much. I did enjoy the game for the most part but what really 
 disappointed me was the length of the levels, in previous splinter cell games I found the levels 
 took me longer and were for the most part funner. As for co-op I didn't much care for it, I mean 
 it was fun in Chaos Theory where there was some sort of story but now it's just hack as much as 
 you can and you win. Overall the game was pretty fun as I find all of them are but if you're not 
 that in to stealth games just save your money for a better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gordon404
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 29, 2006 6:03 am PT
Review:  In this latest instalment in the Splinter Cell series, you get to play as a double agent, which 
 leads to undoubtable fun gameplay, because of such a twist. Various missions see you doing a variety 
 of tasks, either performing for the NSA or for the JBA (the underground terrorist group you have 
 been sent to infiltrate) . This adds excitment to the game, as it lets you make some important decisions 
 that you would never have to make in a game with some straight forward objectives. The gameplay 
 is awesome with many different interactive objects, and the amount of different attacks you can 
 make on enemies is larger than any other game. The stealth element adds some fun to the game, making 
 it a bit harder for you to pull of the mission without a hitch. The graphics are fab, and are well 
 accompanied by the sound and gameplay. You will spend a long time trying to pull of the missions 
 well, as they can be challenging for the player. Overall, a great game, with some fantastic new, 
 innovative ideas. Thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Abandon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 29, 2006 12:13 am PT
Review:  I played thought the 1st few levels so far and this is a great game. I like the fact where u can 
 do mission both for the good and for the bad . The Graphis are amazing in my opion. the storyline 
 seems good so far and sam has never looked cooler. If u liked the pervious Splinter Cells then 
 u should like this one. and as for newcomers, this is a game that is a must play, or should i say 
 a must rent. The Goods: Features Splinter Cell's innovative multiplayer mode, the campaign's trust 
 system is great, stealth action gameplay still offers complexity and variety, high amount of replay 
 value overall.
  
  The Bad: Campaign recycles a lot of the same graphics, sound, and gameplay from before; some frame 
 rate problems bog down the visuals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewpock1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 28, 2006 9:32 pm PT
Review:  There are tons of gadgets to choose from (EMP Grenade, Smokes, Sticky Cameras and much more) . But 
 a lot of the gadgets are recycled from the first one and the game does not offer any gadget that 
 is mind-blowing and cool.
  
  But Sam still snaps necks, and in Double Agent he finds a lot of ways to do it. From forcing and 
 enemy down into the ocean to breaking them through ice, Sam will find a way.
  
  But that being said the moves do get old after a while as well the whole single player, which feels 
 almost like a diversion to the incredible multi player.
  
  In multi you can now face bot Mercenaries with a friend (s) . This adds value, and is great for practicing 
 for those Squad matches. And to top it off it is now three Mercenaries VS. three Spies, which makes 
 it more interesting and faster than two on two. The spies are fast and the Mercenaries are strong, the 
 spies need to quickly hack units with there hacking unit which looks like a power glove, but the 
 Mercenaries are going to do all they can to kill them with the big guns. The game is very exciting 
 here and never gets old.
  
  The game looks like Chaos Theory, which is good but it seems we could expect something better from 
 a next-gen console. There is a lot of detail but there is some annoying screen-tearing in the single 
 player.
  
  Ironside does Sam again. And he does a great job and is a good reason why this game sound so superb, every 
 little creak and slam this game makes sounds really realistic and accurate to the games pace.
 
  
  With single player and multi player thats really good, there is tons to keep you busy in Double 
 Agent, so if you loved Pandora and Chaos, you are truly going to love this one to, and its pretty 
 much a must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xbox_Fiend
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 28, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  The Splinter Cell series has always been one of my two favorite series. The first was groundbreaking. 
 Pandora Tomorrow took the first splinter cells mechanics and added them to an emotionally evoking 
 story. Chaos Theory blew me away with its superb graphics and great new mechanics. Though its story 
 confused me at first, I figured it out later. Now, if you'll forgive me ranting, we have Double 
 Agent. I think that 3 or 4 missions actually let you hide in the shadows. That's it. Everything 
 else is in broad daylight or you simply aren't hidden in shadows. The missions in the JBA headquarters 
 are pretty cool, I guess. The JBA's story isn't well played out and feel very isolated from each 
 other. The trust system... well, I think it's stupid. If Sam's been working for Third Echelon for 
 several years, I don't think they'll just say Oh, you didn't save the civilians from the terrorist. 
 Now we don't trust you anymore. My overall thoughts on Double Agent are feelings of being underwhelmed 
 and dissapointed. But, I guess that's what you get for letting Ubisoft Shanghai develop a game 
 that should be left to the big boys (Ubisoft Montreal) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: napster89
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 28, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell was a revolutionary title when it had been created in 2003. Pandora Tomorrow was 
 more of the same and Chaos Theory Was a very good game but probably the worse of the first trilogy 
 because it was not spectacular. Now Double Agent will continue the story with a dark atmosphere. 
 Sam Fisher is not the same man, now he is an asassian and an terrorist... For me it is the best 
 splinter cell ever made, is the best stealt game ever made and the most important is that we don't 
 have more of the same. Ubisoft has been able to create a innovative game without limiting itself 
 to copy his predecessors.
  The story is amazing, the graphics are realistics and the sound is REAL. Double Agents is one of 
 the games of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxLordGxx
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 28, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  After finally beating the game, I have to say that this si the worst game in the Splinter Cell 
 group. It's still a terrific game, but I've bought and loved the previous Splinter Cell games because 
 of its stealth and how it required you to stick to the darkness. The original Splinter Cell had 
 the slogan stealth action redefined , Double Agent turns it into action redifined . A small handful 
 of the game's levels actually happen at night. Most of the day levels simply require you to have 
 good timing and luck about the guards not seeing you. The graphics are terrific, sound is, as usual 
 amazing, and the gameplay is still solid. The unique multiplayer has been simplified for the masses 
 now I'm guessing. Anyways, Double Agent is a terrific game by itself, but under the Splinter Cell 
 umbrella, this simply falls short because it lacks why the series is famous, stealth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenjaminhoppe
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 28, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell Double Agent should have been a whole new game, but it turns out is just like the 
 ones before with a few tweaks. The trust meter that should have been the center of the game, turns 
 out to be a half baked idea. It's never really hard to keep the trust meter where you want it and 
 you don't really feel the impact of your actions other than the three different endings. The JBA 
 HQ missions are really clever and fun, but the rest of the levels took a step back from the prior 
 games in terms of design. You tend to be restricted and not have as many choices, but it is still 
 fun. Multiplayer has been balanced out and made more accessable and has now been made 3 vs 3. The 
 maps are very well made and should make up for any flaws in the single player. So, to recap, the 
 single player takes a few steps back in level design, but tries to do a few new things and the 
 multiplayer is the best yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joecool_666
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 28, 2006 8:12 am PT
Review:  For starters now that i have beaten this game i was dissapointed at the length of the game. You 
 can beat this game easily in one day if all you did was play it. Having said that the game does 
 great visuals buildings and terrain are very realistic. Character models are well done but you 
 will probably see a character who looks exactly like the last one you took out in the same mission 
 more often then you like. The music and sound effects are boring and repetitive. Sounds exactly 
 the same from the last splinter cell games. Gone are the sound visibility meters which is a very 
 good change IMO since it makes the more realistic since you have to judge for yourself how noisy 
 or how well hidden you are. You now have two trust meters in the left corner of your screen, one 
 for the jba and for the nsa. If one runs out you lose and reload from last save or checkpoint. 
 This new gameplay mechanic is well done and is welcome change. There are times in the game where 
 you will have to choose between doing something for the nsa or doing it for the jba. These moments 
 are very intense and you will have to carefullly decide based on how much trust you will win or 
 lose. I wish there were more of these moments because you can count the number of them on one hand. 
 The campaign was fun while it lasted but definitely feels like you are doing the same thing over 
 again. The multiplayer however is better then ever. The matches are fast paced and wildly exciting. 
 Pick this game up for the multiplayer alone you will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kwijiibo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  The 4th Splinter Cell in 4 years. All of the original games had small problems: 1st Splinter Cell: 
 Always had to do non-lethal missons, no multiplayer, limited equpment, uninteresting story. As 
 for Chaos Theroy and Pandora Tommorow, they had a superb multiplayer but a bad story. Now Double 
 Agent expands everything!
  
  + Better Gameplay , more moves
  + 3-on-3 multiplayer that is just too fun!
  + Storyline is very fun with the new trust meter
 
  + The best part is the consequencial choices that the player must make.
  
  - No wall hugging
  - Pretty hard to win as a merc.
  - Online A. I. is stupid, much rather have 
 humans
  - When you are at the terrorists base, you can only walk and you walk around for like 30 minutes 
 doing some objectives but none of them are that exciting. Even with flaws, SC: DA is the best game 
 in the series and is one of the top 3 games on the 360 as of now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macman1978
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 10, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  sam fisher is truly a pimp in this game. he is one bad dude that has had a run of tough luck lately 
 and takes it out on the bad guys (if you so chose) . he go's into his missions with nothing to lose. 
 anyone who considers themselves as a gamer would love to control a bad ass like sam in this game. 
 as far as the game it's self the graphics are great, the story line is captivating, and the game 
 control is easy to pick up. everything about this game is about as perfect as a hyped 360 game 
 should be. hope to see more splinter cells in the future like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rennie1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 27, 2006 11:51 pm PT
Review:  The graphics, controls, sound, everything is great except for that one ingredient that even Id 
 software confesses is a low point for many game designers and especially Ubisoft - game engine 
 - aka gameplay.
  
  The game engine again delivers amazingly weak gameplay - interaction with AI is over in half a 
 second A. I. is unrealistic and never misses - gunfights are over as quick as trigger thanks to 
 weak AI - either they shoot you in two seconds or you shoot them - but the only sure bet is the 
 fun is over as quick as a blink of an eye.
  
  Save your money for anything else - even Rainbow Vegas has enemies that last more than half a second 
 and seem intelligent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vugundam
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 27, 2006 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell has been known to push the envelope when it comes to sound, graphics and realism 
 in gaming. This game attempts to bring the dilemas of life as a double agent but serves it half-baked. 
 Most of this shortcomming can be contributed to poor character development. I did not feel the 
 sadness and anger Sam Fisher felt when he lived with the fact that his daughter, Sarah, was killed. 
 I did not come to know or admire the terrorists who I worked with, making it too easy to kill them 
 in the end. Also, there were not a whole lot of situations where double-agent dillema presented 
 itself.
  
  However, the fact that there is a trust system and the stretch to put the player in the shoes of 
 a Double Agent is commendable because this game is the first to do that.
  
  The innovative Spies vs. Mercs Multiplayer is better than ever as it now has a much faster pace 
 and keeps players to their main goals; spies are stripped of their weapons and are given higher 
 athletic capabilities which focuses them to infiltrate, steal, and run and Mercernaries are given 
 less of a need to use a whole arsenal of gadgets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Millhouser
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 27, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Really Sweet Game!
  
  The Graphics are very spectacular, and the gameplay is really fun. The Single Player mode replays 
 a little bit of the same stuff we have seen in Chaos Theory, there isnt too much more new stuff 
 in this game, but there are a few really good looking and cool moves. But the real gem of this 
 is the new multiplayer mode, its unbelieveable, very intense, and fun. There are many different 
 maps to play, as they each offer great fun for both the spies, and the mercenaries alike. I would 
 have to say this is the best Splinter Cell yet!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treesquirrel11
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 27, 2006 7:02 pm PT
Review:  i haven't finished the game yet (shanghai) but its really fun so far. the choises can be hard to 
 make like which side you will choose. the stealth in the light is weird too. you have to observe 
 a persons route and then run or sneak paast or else your gig with the bad guys is over. the puzzle 
 (IE: safe cracking, hacking)
  have been revamped since chaos theory safes you open like a real com (think a locker at school) 
 but you have to be super precisae or you have to spin the whole thing again. hacking you just have 
 to find the still numbers in the code.
  while i haven't tried mutiplayer yet ive heard good things about it. I will wrte the full reveiew 
 when i beat story and played mutiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidSnake1810
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 27, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of the metal gear series, always have been, but when SC DA came out I knew i should 
 give it a chance. This is the first game that I have played on my 360 that really does feel next 
 gen, and not just a juiced up version. The graphics are great, gameplay is fun and sometimes frustrating. 
 To make it short If you like stealth games at all pick this up. If you are unsure spend 6 bucks 
 and rent it you'll be glad you did. I had never been a big fan of SC but now I am :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkyBluNightWolf
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Ok i liked the other splinter cells but i wasn't very good at them so that kind of swayed my judgement. 
 The reason basically was that i am not very good at being sneaky lol. This time around sam fisher 
 has to play a double agent basically he has to choose at certan times to be good or bad. This means 
 multiple endings and such. One of the scenarios is that you are trying to gain a bad groups trust 
 but they want you to shoot an innocent man. This puts the game into 1st person view and has you 
 holing a pistol. It is then your choice. This is one of the fun parts of the game. By far though 
 the best feature is the multy-player online. Two groups of 3 fight. Not fight like Halo but close. 
 There are 2 types of people to be. Upsilon, is the group which plays in 1st person. They are equipped 
 with a machine gun with grenade-launcher attachment. Also a floating bot thing that you cant remotly 
 controle. It shows you was it sees and takes you out of body. You can detonate it at eny time. 
 There is more but the list is to long. Now the other group is my favorite. Playing as a Spy will 
 put you into 3rd person. You of course are acrobatic and quick. You have access slid on a slip 
 line thingy. The main gadget is on your forearm. It is a little mini hacking device. You can break 
 glass, disable lights and hack the information from the devices. This is the main objective online. 
 Spy tries to get 100% of the info. and the other guys try to stop you. Once you get it you have 
 to take it back to your insertion point. Depending on the game type is how much info you will have 
 to get. Some of the other Spy gadgets are things like smoke and flash grenades. Of course Team-Work 
 is implied but you my be better solo. This game has great graphics and awesome online. Also great 
 AI...... almost to good. This game is almost worth buying just for its online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nico4
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 27, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  On the PS2, Splinter Cell has never won over Metal Gear Solid. On Xbox however, it&acute; s the 
 best stealth game there is. Now Splinter Cell has finally moved to the next-generation, namely 
 the Xbox 360, and it&acute; s more than just a game with next-gen graphics.
  
  The story starts in Iceland where Sam is infiltrating a base, along with juinor, a rookie. However 
 it turns out, that the base has a missile solo and the missile is about to launch. After that mission, 
 Sam get&acute; s told, that his daughter Sara, has been killed in a car accident. Soon after, he&acute; s 
 in prison where he must escape along with Jamie, a member of JBA (John Brown&acute; s Army) , Sam 
 must infiltrate, and eliminate them from within the group. The story is interesting, and the end 
 is quite good. However you only find out that Sam has been imprisoned and nothing else, there&acute; s 
 a blown chance here Ubi Soft!
  
  The single-player campaign is similar to the previous Splinter Cell games, and in terms of gameplay, 
 there&acute; s almost nothing new, besides the trust-system. Since your working undercover for JBA, 
 you need to complete objectives for both the JBA and the NSA (the good guys) Evey objective let&acute; s 
 you earn trust for each faction. And it really get&acute; s interesting, when your asked to blow 
 up a ship for example, because you can choose to blow it up, or mess around woth the datenation 
 code, so it dosen&acute; t explode. Or when your at the JBA HQ, the JBA gives you some simple orders, 
 like completing some traning missions, or assemble mines. At the same time, you must find some 
 info on evey member of the JBA and that invovles sneaking into restricted areas, if your seen though 
 you&acute; ll only lose some trust, by get caught while searching for profiles and it&acute; s game 
 over Also there&acute; s times where your asked to kill a civillan. If you kill the civillan, you&acute; ll 
 lose trust at NSA and gain trust at JBA, or vice versa if you don&acute; t kill the civillan, these 
 siturations are quite good, and exciting because you&acute; ll don&acute; t if you want to kill. 
 However these siturations are few and far between, and that&acute; s a shame. Otherwise Sam has 
 the same moves, the same animations and even some sound is recycled, so it hasen&acute; t really 
 evovled much, but it&acute; s still at good single player game nevertheless.
  
  The multiplayer has evovled far quicker than the single-player. There&acute; s still the option 
 to play the same mode (spy vs. mercs) however, the spies is faster and have more moves than Sam, 
 also it&acute; s possible to play up to 6 players. The multiplayer is a fun as ever, however for 
 the most part, the mercs wins (at least that&acute; s always happen to me)
  
  The game is about 8-10 hours long, the single player has 3 endings (all worth getting) , then there&acute; s 
 multiplayer, and (of course) achivements. There&acute; s an achivement for completing the tranning 
 missions (10-40 points) completing the main game&acute; s levels (30 points each) , complete a level 
 without rasing an alarm (20 points) , the hardst achivemets are for completing the game on hard 
 (40 points) , and completing challanges (online) with a gold trophy (50 points) . The graphics are 
 amazing (Tom Clancy style) , it shows how next-gen graphics should be, however, the frame-rate does 
 drop sometimes, however it&acute; s not some big drops.
  
  Music is as good as ever, and the voice acting continues to be very good (Michael Ironside and 
 Dennis Haysbert once again returns) , however sound effects is recycled (mentioned before) and that 
 drags down a bit.
  
  The game is out for the Xbox 360, with a PC, PS2, Xbox, GameCube and Wii. However the PC, PS2 and 
 Xbox version is released the 24th October, with the GC version the 26th and the PC version on 7th 
 November. I heard rumors that some levels are only found on PS2 and Xbox, but so far i recommend 
 the Xbox 360 version.
  
  Splinter Cell Double Agent, really gives the feel of how to be an undercover agent, so you&acute; ll 
 soon understand what kind of pressure the undercover guys in the movies is under. And with excellent 
 graphics, Splinter Cell Double Agent on Xbox 360 is a must for evey Xbox 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeWii60
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 27, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  ok I've just finished the cruise ship level on DA on Xbox 360 around level 6 I think. My take on 
 the game so far. (Single player short review)
  
  The graphics are a mixed bag. There is slight screen tearing and the animations look like they've 
 been ported over from Chaos Theory, as do some of the voice overs.
  
  Some levels look REALLY good, like the cruise ship, and the level before that where you're repelling 
 down the side of a hotel at night in Hong Kong I think. Really nice levels. But some look a bit 
 bland, like the JSA levels in New york where you're forced to get things done in a 25 minute time 
 frame and all these missions take place in the same building. They're not bad to play but I would 
 have preferred only one JSA mission.
  
  And I also wasn't to impressed with the levels that feature snow, like the first two levels and 
 the tanker level, they look kinda bland, not up to par with some of the other missions.
  
  Another gripe is there is less interrogating of guards this time, they just don't have as much 
 to say as in Chaos Theory, which had more humour as well.
  
  But saying all that I still like the game, it's not as good as Chaos Theory imo but it's very close. 
 It has more goodies to unlock like bonus weapons for doing certain missions and a few different 
 endings, there is replay value here if you want it. I haven't played online yet so won't comment 
 but everyone says it's solid and a lot of fun. Before I forget, this game is quite hard on the 
 normal difficulty setting, without a sound and light meter it makes things a little harder, I died 
 quite a lot in this game so far, more so than any previous Splinter cell game. Save often.
  
  Overall 9.0/10 a good Splinter cell game, one of the best 360 games I've bought. Should you 
 buy it?, if you can only afford one game I would wait and see how Rainbow Six Vegas turns out, 
 the demo was impressive and it might be better than this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7540
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 27, 2006 6:14 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell: Double Agent is Ubisoft's latest and not greatest. The series has been running for 
 a long time, but why does it have to end here? I honestly have to say I didn't like this game until 
 I played Double Agent and changed the way I thought about stealth games. Sam Fisher is the guy 
 you play as, but has two roles; one who works for the FBI or something like that and another who 
 works for the bad dudes. It isn't a hard game if you've played games like Just Cause or Saint's 
 Row, but not too stealthy about anything here. Just pure action going for gold. If you thought 
 bad about the Splinter Cell series, you should play Double Agent and reconsider. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomMooreBox
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 26, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that as excited as I was for Double Agent I just don't really feel like I give a 
 hoot about the story. Which doesn't inspire me to play the game. Chaos Theory on the other hand, 
 I must have played it about 10 times. HMMMM ubisoft shanghai..... not so much. Pandora tomorrow.... not 
 so much. They just don't implement the cool things they create very well. they never feel like 
 true Splinter Cell games. I mean they have all the elements. It just like if you had spielberg 
 direct a movie kubrick should have made. It's still good but it could have been a classic. Cmon 
 this game is not as good as it should be... boohooo life is so terrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phenix_down
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  I was amazed by this game from the moment I dropped it into the disc drive. This really shows the 
 power of next generation gaming.... HD TV a must. The world of Sam fisher is filled with twists 
 and turns and a new element of decisions making, finds its way into a tried and true system of 
 splinter cell games. for the first time you have to make choices at various intervals of the game 
 that can change the ending of the story and really make you think carefully about some of the decisions 
 you make, do I shoot or not? . you know that if you play your cards right then the mission will 
 be a success... its all up to you though. Next up we have the spectacular graphics at one point 
 of the game, you start out on a cruise ship, for a split second I swore I thought that I had changed 
 the channel. I noticed the extreme detail of the sweat running down the back of sam and the wonderful 
 lighting filling the room with a tropical touch. looking out side from the balcony of my room, 
 I was blown away by the motions of the sea and almost endless sky, I knew that the $60 to purchase 
 this game was well worth it at that point. I wish this was a perfect game but alas no game can 
 be, occasionally the frame rate can drop and quite noticeably, which slightly takes away from the 
 gorgeous graphics, many gamers may not even notice this slight change and it really didn't really 
 bother me too much. Also the load times are a little long, but once in the level, there are none 
 (ten seconds for twenty five minuets seems like a fair trade)
  
  Now lets look at the multi player aspect. Still the game holds strong in this area as well, playing 
 with only five other people at one time may seem like a bummer to some but it is still truly enjoyable, 
 the game features different modes such as Co-op, though not nearly the same caliber as the past 
 splinter cell game, and verses where you can either play as a spy or the opposition. very fun and 
 also very simple.
  
  If you are a fan of stealth games, this one is a must. Overall a great experience that is well 
 worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cisco13
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 26, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  I am gonna get straight to the point, it is a great game! I'll start with the single player. The 
 single Player game is graphically outstanding. The thing that amazes me is how they made the ice 
 (especially the thin parts) look. The game play is very well made too. Swimming is a big bonus 
 (at least for me) and the animations are a delight. Grappling a bad guy from around a corner is 
 very satisfying. The if you have surround sound, and the audio sometimes gets messed up. Mind you, 
 these are rare occasions. Now on to the Multiplayer, this game is very fun and can be played alone. 
 Not just exploring maps, but having complete objectives with bot controlled enemies running around. 
 The online gameplay is very fun and can be enjoyed by n00bs and experts alike. In conclusion this 
 game is a definite buy, for longtime fans and people just now taking interest of the series. I 
 highly recommend getting the Limited edition but if you are not a longtime fan, go for the normal 
 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dkypang
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  We all have been waiting for this! Now it's here! The game could have been done better but who 
 gives a damn! What can I say about this? All I can say is Ubisoft designed for so long to make 
 it the Splinter Cell game ever! Don't you agree? I played it. Two very big thumbs up!!!!!!! To 
 the Splinter Cell fans: play SPLINTER CELL: DOUBLE AGENT! It might be the game you are waiting 
 to play! I am proud of Ubisoft for creating a kick-ass game! This is what I wanted to do: make 
 hard descisions to find out what will happen! ENJOY, EVERYONE!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Woozy_Gem
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 26, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  The multiplayer is great. The single-player is great. THe whole gaME is geat. There are a few missing 
 things that I really liked that were on Chaos Theory. The multiplayer is really addicting. There 
 are a few things I can't get done though. Lock picking took me a while to get done in chaos theory 
 and double agent. THe multiplayer is sooooooo addicting. I havent finished the game yet, and I 
 really want to get all the endings. I'm trying to get all the achievments. Sometimes it is hard, 
 sometimes it isnt. This makes the difficulty just right. This game is really awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vonkemp
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 26, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Ive played all the Splinter cells, but the third one was the first one I actually finished. I wasnt 
 a fan of the kill someone you lose objectives. Thats probibly why I liked this entry so much. First 
 theres any easy mode for people who really just want to have fun. Of course many would argue the 
 harder it is the more fun it is. Second like the third entry you can pretty much always run and 
 gun. This brings us to the trust meter. You have to balance trust in two different organizations 
 basically good and bad. Its not a huge deal, but in the later levals I really had to watch it. 
 The new JBA levels are actually very fun even when theyre frusterating. Some of the levels dont 
 look all that amazing, though no current gen could pull them off. The Africa level on the other 
 hand is simply beautiful. The sound in my opinion is as good as ever as well as the voices. Good 
 old Sam Fishers voice. Of course the controls havent really changed but thats because theyve always 
 been rock solid. Overall if you like any sort of stealth game you have to pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sisitki
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 26, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  I agree with the reviews that say that this is the same SC formula, but this version has immersion 
 value that the others have recently lacked. The game brings along very slick, clean graphics. The 
 game also moves along very smoothly, all the movements are fluid. The environments are varied and 
 don't give that 'one way sign' feeling. Finally the story brings the character in like never before. 
 I had always found myself skipping cutscenes in the past versions just to get to the gameplay, 
 but this time the cutscenes are kept to a minimum and the story is developed while playing. I was 
 hesitant to spend 60 clams for this after reading the reviews, but I'm very pleased. This is the 
 kind of depth I enjoy in a sneak/shooter game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fox3586
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 26, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  I admit I was outraged to see that gamespot gave SC: DA a somewhat demeaning 8.5. This is a series 
 that has been consistly topping itself by making ever more perfect engaging games. I had high hopes 
 and a 'tisk tisk' face towards Gamespot. In the end I was somewhat disappointed in ubisoft and 
 renewed in faith to the editors of GS.
  
  Gameplay: 6
  Could have been better. I have 3 complaints about gameplay. First, half of the levels feel exactly 
 the same. You actually repeat the JBA building 4 times!!! Not to mention 3 boat levels. It just 
 gets a little old after a while. Second, I love the levels from Choas theory. Darkness is key in 
 Splinter Cell games, so when most of the game is spent in daylight hours, I get a little turned 
 off. I miss sneaking up on the unsuspecting. Now the NPC's simply look at you and shoot your brains 
 out in a second flat. I sure miss hearing Sam chuckle to himself, 'Darkness'. Finally multiplayer 
 is a lie. I heard for a long time about the new coop mode. I didn't mind that they changed it to 
 challenge mode because it meant added replay value. What upset me, is that the took out splitscreen. 
 I looked everywhere for it, and I promise you it is gone! It is even promised on the back of the 
 gamebox: Players 1-3. That can only mean splitscreen to me (ubisoft will be receiving a letter 
 shortly) . I can't play with my own brother without throwing down 450 bucks for another system. 
 And if I do that, we still have to play in separate rooms on headsets. Thats sick! Is it to much 
 to ask to SEE the players you are playing with from time to time? Does everything really need to 
 be online these days? Graphics: 10
  Top notch. Splintercell takes normally levels and brings them to life with vibrant lighting effects. 
 As always lighting is the focus in this game, but daylight is often more impressive then darkness.
 
  
  Sound: 8
  Same old greatness. GS is right, sounds were recycled here from previous games. But honestly, did 
 they really need to change anything? The only real downside to the sound is the tink noise the 
 Spies here when Mercs are close in multiplay. Wow is that annoying!
  
  Value: 9 Multiplayer is worth it for Live owners. I don't have Xbox live, but if I did, this game 
 would be incredible. The replay value is awesome. Single player is only worth one go unless you 
 really want to try hard mode. Overall: 10
  Get this game! Especially if you have Live, SC: DA will not disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wooddc
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 26, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  This game is great dont get me wrong but on the game levels i do think Chaos Theorys levels was 
 more fun than this game, Since there is alot of daytime levels and terrorist HQ levels which can 
 be slow and quite boring at times. Graphics are amazing on this game though on the Xbox 360 they 
 did make a good job on that gameplay is pretty much the same as Chaos Theory although there is 
 a few new gadgets etc to use on Double Agent than Chaos Theory, and different in game experiences 
 like cracking safes, and putting mines together etc. I also recieved some bad FPS issues on 1 or 
 2 occasions. Multiplayer on DA was a dissapointment Chaos Theory definatelly beat Double Agent 
 for MP gaming. The agents suits are shiney the missions are repetitive gets boring quite quick. 
 The co-op modes and online missions are great though as the graphics and gameplay is great.
  
  I would definatelly recommend to buy or at least rent this game i agree with GameSpot with 
 the review ratings on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hammondman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 26, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  I havnt had this game long and havnt yet completed it, but i am very happy i havnt wasted my money. 
 The story is basically about a broken down sam fisher coping with an undercover mission after his 
 daughter was killed by a drunk driver whilst he was on a mission in iceland (which is the first 
 mission you play) . You then take on a series of mission workin for both JBA and NSA (which sam 
 originally worked for) , sam is undercover spying on the JBA but through choosing your actions throughout 
 the game it is possible to betray the NSA and turn to the JBA. Its kinda confusing but when you 
 play it you will be very impressed with the storyline and the use of control you are given, to 
 determine sams destiny. It is basically like the other splinter cell games in terms of gameplay 
 but with newly added stealth moves. the graphics are tramendous with much added detail, realistic 
 A. I and Sam even sweats wen hes nervous, such as defusing a bomb or picking a lock. The game can 
 be quite annoying because you have to do alot of objectives on every mission, some you dont have 
 to, you get two kinds of objectives, ones for the JBA and ones for the NSA, you also get a trust 
 meter for the two groups, and either of them reach the 0 point because of your stupid actions during 
 missions, they will abandon you and they wont trust you any more, that means game over.
  
  I have to state though, Online gameplay is much better than solo mode with tonnes to do, and you 
 get to choose again, you can play as a spy or as a mercenary (spy is my personal favourate) and 
 both have ther own aims and objectives during gameplay. I recommend you get this game as quick 
 as possible if you want to see a great improvment and of course if you want a great game, this 
 game is a real kick in the teeth for the upcoming PS3.... GET it quick and play it LIVE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylemarkovich
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 25, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  The Double agent single player campaign was very well done in my opinion now that ive gone through 
 it on easy and normal. the missions in the JBA's headquaters add a different and nice new challenge 
 to the game. all of the missions in the game are fun and are worth playing over and over again. 
 however the multiplayer isnt as in-depth as the last installment Chaos Theory. it is faster pased 
 but its lacking the strategy that i loved about Chaos Theory's multiplayer and it difficult to 
 find a game since there isnt a place where u can just create a game yourself if you want play against 
 random people. other than that the game is ver enjoyable 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZimpanX
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Finally a story to care about, the trust mechanic forces you even more to think before you act, 
 fun and addictive multiplayer, great graphics and sound especially the voice acting
  
  The Bad:
  Some minor framerate issues, Sam seems to have forgot some acrobatic movements over 
 the years, a singleplayer co-op mode certainly would not have hurt this game
  
  The Review:
  So once again Sam is back in another Splinter Cell game, who would have thought?, 
 though this time after hearing about that his daughter has died in a car accident he takes on his 
 most dangerous assignment yet by infiltrating the terrorist group called JBA (John Brown's Army) 
 by being sent to prison to gain trust from one of the terrorist members. When you succeed (witch 
 you hopefully will) you will be doing mission objectives for both JBA and your agency NSA to gain 
 trust from both the groups though certain actions also makes you lose theit trust, witch forces 
 you even to think before you act than the previous games in the series has, so you will better 
 try to keep your eyes on the trust meter at all times keeping it as balanced as possible. But you 
 wil also ge forced to make some really tough decisions trough the game, eventually until you don't 
 even know what's right and wrong anymore. These decisions also affects how the game will progress 
 and for example witch level you will be playing next, the game even has multiple endings because 
 of this.
  All of this combines into a story that's actually pretty good and interesting, witch is something 
 the other Splinter Cell games have lacked so far, until now.
  
  The overall gameplay is pretty simular of what you gotten used to if you played the other games, 
 you will sneak up on people, kill them, disable them, interrogate them and also climb walls, stay 
 hidden in the shadows and all of that that the previous games had, but hey why hurt something that 
 isn't broken? though there are some new things to encounter for example some of the mission you 
 will be doing are in pure daylight, witch forces you to use other skills them just to simply hide 
 in the shadows, and you also get some new gadgets to try out and play around with. Though it's 
 just not all good as some movements seem to have been forgotten, for example being able to jump 
 from wall to wall or jump up in a thight room standing with one legs on each wall, witch was pretty 
 usefull to surprise enemies from above, thankfully though because of the level design of this game 
 it's not really that missed but it would still be nice to have.
  
  The multiplayer is quite reminding from what you saw in Chaos Theory, though this time you can 
 play 3 vs 3, and the mode is alot more balanced as the spies now are spies anf not some dominating 
 super ninjas. In this mode the spies objective is to download informations from the terminals that 
 are spread around the level using this gadget on your arm, you can stand as far away as 10 meters 
 away from the terminal when doing this though the further away you are the slower your download 
 speeds will be. But this gadgets is also usefull for other things, such as breaking windows, open 
 doors etc. But lets not forget the other team, the mercenaries. As a merc you objective is pretty 
 simple, just take out every spy that comes in your way, simple yet fun as the rest of the mode 
 as it is easy to get in to and really fun and addictive and could keep you busy for hours. There 
 is also the the possibility to play co-op via muliplayer where you play up to 3 spies or merc against 
 and A. I. team, not as challenging as the the normal mode, but the bots are often up for a good 
 fight making the mode really fun aswell. Unfortunally there is no singlplayer co-op mode to be 
 found witch would have added value to the game even futher, something that will be hopefully implemented 
 for the next installment.
  
  The visuals of the game are from time to time jaw dropping and it's easy to tell that this couldn't 
 be done on any previous console, though such things as recycled animations from the previous games 
 and some minor framerate issues keeps it from being the most impressive visuals the Xbox 360 has 
 to offer as this time.
  
  The sound is great such as good music. great sound effect and awesome voice acting. Micheal Ironside 
 that makes the voice of Sam Fisher makes you think that he hasn't done anyything else during his 
 career, yep I tell you it's that good!
  
  So overall for Splinter Cell fans this is a absolute must buy, there are too many good things about 
 this game for one to ignore, as for others that are interested in stealth games or are in need 
 of a new game for their Xbox 360 should defianlty give Splinter Cell: Double Agent a try.
  //ZimpanX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 25, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Spinter Cell first came out years ago for the PC, Xbox, PS2, and Gamcube, and it was simply one 
 of the best games in the genre. Now, yeras later, they came up with a new Splinter Cell game, this 
 time, the game is different.
  
  Usually in the Splinter Cell games, you work for the NSA and undertake certain missions that are 
 in very dark areas and in the nighttime. You could shoot out lights, attract a guards attention, 
 then knowck them out or kill them. All that has changed here, for now Splinter Cell 4 takes place 
 in the daylight, which will involve much more strategy twards being stealthy. At first, I thought, 
 and maybe others, that this would be a somewhat run-and-gun type game, but intead, you just need 
 more thought to you plans for stealth. But back to what i daid earlier, that now you are infiltrating 
 another organization, JRA or something like that, and are to act as a terrorist to find out what 
 they're doing and to wreak havoc by turning on them. When playing for them, you can decide whether 
 or not to do a certain thing, but you lose trust, and if you lose all of your trust for the NSA, 
 game over, starting at your last sayve, SO SAVE WISELY.
  
  The graphics are simply one of the best on the Xbox 360, looking touched up and like other SC games, 
 but better looking. Not only do environments look great, but you can litterally see the sweat on 
 Sam's face, whcih is a great touch, and clothes move greatly, and aren't like the Godfather's hidious 
 clothe detail.
  
  Sound is pretty much the same, same voice work and gun soundeffects. It's still pretty good though, 
 and sounds smoothe. Voicework seems a bit different but its still great, no crappy Dynasty Warriors 
 style voicework.
  
  WIth a great new Single Player, its also got a great new multiplayer. Its 3 on 3, and two sides, 
 spys, and mercenaries. Jobs are to do a certain objective to beat he opposing team. I ve never 
 played it myself since I don't have Xbox Live, but all of it sounds good. I don't think theres 
 online co-op though....... shame shame if there isn't.
  
  So over all, Splinter Cell: Double Agent is a great sequel to the best stealth game series around. 
 It is simply amazing, from both looks and gameplay, and a new multiplayer suite.
  
  A 9.2 out of 10.............. WORTH THE WAIT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robi1kenobi
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 25, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Only up to the fifth level so far but it's all good. New moves like pulling enemies through holes 
 in the ice and lashing out from behind a wall to hit someone in the throat then drag them to the 
 ground to break their neck make this game more striking than any of it's predecessors. Beautiful 
 graphics and a compelling multiplayer make this my favourite so far. My only complaint would be 
 that you are marked down for knocking out enemies whereas my favourite thing to do is to make my 
 way through levels picking each enemy off one by one and leaving a pile of bodies in the darkest 
 corners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emaus
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 25, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  I was playing a mission in the JBA headquarters where they have Lambert in the interigation room 
 wondering what was going to happen next, then a funny thing happened when I completed it. The game 
 was over. After the credits there is a bonus mission which adds about 9 minutes. So as you can 
 tell it's short, really short. I mean episode 1 of half live costs half as much and is basically 
 the same amount of time playing it. Dawn of war dark crusade is half the price and will probably 
 giver more time playing. So for value I'm not sure if this game is worth it.
  
  Gameplay is very good however it is a blast to sneak around and disable enemies in various ways. 
 You can corner grab them, throw them off ledges, drag them under the ice and knife them in the 
 heart, there a numerous fun ways to deal with the unsuspecting guard that are very satisfying. 
 It's mildly annoying when you blow it a little bit but manage to knock the guy out without him 
 saying anything but it still triggers an instant, and I mean instant alert and everone in the area 
 seems to know where you are. The stealth system has been drastically altered. Gamespot's own guide 
 even states it will be all but impossible to get 100% on most levels. You shoot out a light, it 
 costs you, you knock out an enemy it costs you. Very difficult to get 100%. This all in all isn't 
 bad, but what really would be cool if you are going to do this is to record the highest scores 
 / shortes times to be put up in lights on live. Throw in a replay and you have greatness. Without 
 that, who cares.
  
  The story is thin at first. You open the game with a mission with another agent who I guess you 
 are supposed to be attached to. You wouldn't know it though as when he gets shot Sam's words are 
 basically didn't have to happen, and that's it. Couple that with the guy is actually annoying as 
 hell to you when you have to cut the power to the fence and I found myself totally unattached and 
 not caring at all when he buys it. From there Sams daughter dies and he has trouble with his life 
 and goes on this deep undercover mission where he has to become a double agent to compensate. The 
 story holds better once you break out of prison and have to do various missions for the JBA terrorist 
 organization. On the missions NSA will give you side missions for them which has more immersion 
 to it as you have a choice what to do. This is done better with the JBA headquarters missions because 
 they give you a time limit to do things, so it's actually more difficult to do them both. The missions 
 go JBA headquarters mission, field mission, JBA headquarters mission, field mission, repeat. It's 
 ok, but seems a little mechanicle, bo biggie though.
  
  So gameplay is good to great. You operate in full daylight allot which adds a nice twist. The graphics 
 are good, the sound effects are good, I had difficulty hearing the voices at times and no adjustments 
 to be found. Value is where this game stinks for all but the hardcore who will play all difficulties 
 over and over to get good stealth scores. It would be nice to see the pros replays online with 
 top scores factoring in time and things. Multiplayer may kick it up a notch too, but compared to 
 other games for much less money with multiplayer it is not a good value.
  
  That being said, the missions are fun, challenging, and enjoyable. It's hard to get your bearings 
 at times, but it all works out in the end. The brief time you play the single player will be enjoyable.
 
  
  Most memorable Good Times:
  The various ways to disable enemies. Sneaking up to a corner, saying oh crap a guard is coming 
 right there, then corner grabbing him chocking him out.
  Most memorable Bad Times:
  Man the guard turned around and saw me but I quickly knocked him out before he says anything, yet 
 I still get the alert and people in other rooms are running in. Where am I supposed to go know, 
 this map sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 25, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  Fisher returns however this time you have more control over him throughout the game. When I say 
 this, I'm referring to his choices. In the beginning of the game you do a standard operation that 
 your used to (sneak into the compound etc.) , when you complete the mission however, you are told 
 some terrible news; your daughter has been killed. So now with Sam having no true reason to live 
 anymore, you take on the biggest and most daring mission of your life; to join the JBA. The JBA 
 is a terrorist group bent on blowing up the US government becuase in their eyes the government 
 is corrupt. But to get into the JBA you need to get to one of its members. Heres where the second 
 stage rolls in where you are sent to prison for a staged robbery. You are in there so you can bust 
 out with a guy named Jamie Washington, your ticket into the JBA. After this is done, you start 
 really getting into the choices matter. You have a meter that states how much each oganization 
 trusts you. There are times when you are given choices to execute certain individuals, and doing 
 so will gain you trust within the JBA, but you'll lose trust in the NSA. Or to blow up a cruiseship 
 or to remotely stop it? Its all up to you. This probably has the most moving and strongest story 
 outta all the Splinter Cell's. The missions themselves are extremely well crafted and each of which 
 are different than the last, especially the last field mission; Kinshasa. This mission not only 
 looks the best, but its also the longest, the most fun, and most challenging. Simply put, theres 
 alot of variety in levels. However, though there is technically only ten levels, and they are easy 
 to fly through if you played SC before, you still feel the need to return to each of them. After 
 I beat the game, I had the urge to play through the whole thing again. So thats what I'm doing. 
 Another thing the SC series has always offered with all the games are beautiful graphics, and Double 
 Agent delivers on that part as well. Sam has never looked so real, you literally see sweat dripping 
 down his face, and certain muscles moving in his arms when he does something. Its great eye candy. 
 Multiplayer returns and offers you the great Spy vs. Merc and its still as good as it has always 
 been. Theres also the coop as well, but to me, I didn't care for it. I would've preferred a coop 
 in the whole campaign. And yes, there is occasional lag in the MP.
  
  SC: DA is another great Tom Clancy/Ubisoft game that offers you realistic weapons and settings. 
 Its another great addition to the franchise as well as to the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackiechan124
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 25, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  So far Splinter Cell Double agent is probably my Favorite one yet. The gameplay and story line 
 is awesome and keeps you addicted to the game, also keeps you wanting to know whats going to happen 
 next. The graphics are really good. It is amazing at some of the new stuff that Sam can do with 
 all his New moves and stuff. And the new gadgets and stuff are really awesome to. If you havent 
 got it then get it. Cause multiplayer is even better than the campain. Its amazing online. I hope 
 this Review has made you want to go get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 25, 2006 3:55 am PT
Review:  These are actually quotes from just a few reviews that gave this game at least a 9 or higher. The 
 only downside is that I think they should have had more of this and no  doesn't live up to the 
 hype .. but it raises a few questions... One major disappointment for me was .
  
  A great game, but a little more would have put it over the top ... The single player campain doesnt 
 really shine as much as it did in Chaos Theory in my opinion .
  
  We can always hope for downloadable content on the marketplace ..
  
  Lets call a spade a 
 spade. its a booooring game!!!!
  
  Why all the great high scores if everyone has problems with it. To receive a 9 or better this game 
 should be almost perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer_10001
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 24, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell: Double Agent delivers on everything you would expect from Splinter Cell. You sneak 
 around, as undetected as possible, stealth kill enemies, and hang on ledges. Double Agent throws 
 you into prison to allow you to infiltrate the terrorist group known as John Browns Army (JBA) . 
 The Gameplay of Double Agent is top-notch. When playing through most of the levels you have many 
 options, you can avoid all guards/enemies, or you can kill them all. The levels are long and are 
 never repetitive. Actually thats not entirely true, there are a few levels inside the JBA compound 
 where you sneak around basically the same areas over and over again to eventually get to a short 
 new restricted area. If you are seen in a restricted area you are told to leave, or you will eventually 
 be thrown out of the JBA and lose. Also, youll only have your goggles about half the time and 
 when you do, you dont need them, which is somewhat disappointing. One of the most important features 
 of Double Agent is the trust system, which is displayed as two bars. You are given objectives from 
 the JBA and the Nation Security Agency (NSA) , some of these objectives contradict each other [i. e. 
 kill said character (JBA) , dont kill said character (NSA) ] , and whichever one you choose will 
 result in a loss of trust on one side and gain on the other. When youre not in the JBA compound 
 you can kill anyone you wish. Just sneaking up behind an enemy will give you the options of grabbing 
 them, then killing them, knocking them out, or interrogating them. Then right when you may be getting 
 tired of all the sneaking around you skydive out of a plain, jumping around on the outside of a 
 skyscraper, or enter an action packed Africa level during a rebel attack. Several mini-games are 
 also present which include: mine assembly, hacking, email decrypting (done as a 3D sodoku puzzle) , 
 lock picking, and bomb disarming (similar to mine assembly) . Last the AI is good not great, sometimes 
 it should easily see you and it doesnt, other times it sees you when it should have no idea your 
 even there.
  
  Graphics: Like all Splinter Cells, this one looks exceptional. There are very few frame rate drops 
 (not significant ones to boot) , all the characters are highly detailed, and the lighting is fabulous. 
 All the levels look amazing and are very atmospheric and involving. Everything has good textures; 
 nothing looks like it was quickly hacked together to get it done by the release date. There just 
 isnt much more to say when the graphics are to this quality.
  
  Sound: The overall sound is good, but the voice action is great. You can hear the emotion in the 
 voices of all the characters. The silenced gunshots sound like they should, but sometimes when 
 firing your machine gun (especially when others are firing on you) the sound just drops off, and 
 wont come back until some of the other sounds have died away. Everything else sounds basically 
 as it should.
  
  Value: The game will take you about 10-12 hours to get through on normal difficulty. It has a high 
 single player replay value, and features a revamped multiplayer mode. (**NOTE: I can not go into 
 detail with multiplayer as I lack Xbox Live at the moment, and cannot comment on its quality or 
 value, I may edit this review and put it in later**)
  
  There are flaws, but they are unimportant and should not affect your decision much at all to buy 
 this game. The gameplay is great, the graphics are amazing, the sound is good, and it will last 
 you for quite a while. Splinter Cell has delivered in quality every time and Double Agent is no 
 exception. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2deluxe
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 24, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  The Splinter Cell series of games have been named the best stealth orriented action games for good 
 reason. The game's focus on zen-like prcesicion and photo realistic visuals have made Splinter 
 Cell and hero San Fisher video game icons. For the past four years, Ubisoft has released a new 
 Splinter Cell game every year with each installment improving on the original's revolutionary formula. 
 Of course this series is only worth talking about its accolades if you're to describe its Xbox, 
 PC, and now Xbox 360. The PS2, mobile, PSP, Gamecube, and GBA/DS versions of the series are nothing 
 more but fund raisers to fund the good versions of the game.
  
  The latest version of Spliner Cell has an interesting premise that works out quite fine. Sam Fisher, 
 now in his early fifties, must now play a double life in order to achieve his goal. The game starts 
 out with Sam and another Splinter Cell named John in Iceland trying to stop a generic terrorist 
 organization from launching a missle. John ends up dying and Sam survives only to find out that 
 his daughter have been killed. Distrought and consumed by his inner demons, Sam completely losses 
 it and is sent to prison. Of course his buddy Lambert over at the NSA sees Sam's incarceration 
 an oppurtunity to save his life, as well as bring down another generic terrorist organization. 
 An agent from the terrorist organization called JBA (John Brown's Army) happens to be a prisoner 
 in the same prison as Sam is in. The two device a plot to create a prison riot as some form of 
 distraction for their escape. Upon escape, the game introduces you to the trust system that pretty 
 much dictates your success in the game. As an agent to both the NSA and JBA, it is your job to 
 ensure that these two firms have your trust. Doing missions in the field yields trust points that 
 can give trust to one firm while lossing trust on the other or just simply give one firm a boost 
 of trust not affecting the other. To prevent player confussion, the game tells you the gain or 
 loss of trust beforehand to make your decision an easier bet. Missions on the JBA headquarters 
 are timmed and this is where you play your double agent life to full extent. You usually have 24 
 minutes to do major tasks as well as do side missions for trust boost. These JBA missions don't 
 usually deal with violence but provide some of the most intense gameplay in the series. One mission 
 requires Sam to sneak into the head honcho's office to scan blueprints from his safe. There are 
 areas in the JBA HQ where you must tresspass and hide from guards. If your are caught tresspassing, 
 you lose trust but don't get a Game Over. However, if you are acaught hacking, or using any NSA 
 tools in HQ, you automatically lose all trust and its Game Over.
  
  Passing critical missions gives you star points which unlock upgrades to your gear. These upgrades 
 range from improved Night Vision quality to new weapon attachments. Subtle they are but it does 
 make the effort of passing missions worth reaching for. Other than that this is still the same 
 great Splinter Cell sequel you've come to expect. The gameplay may not have taken a huge jump next 
 gen but quite frankly if it ain't broke, why fix it? The serie's fun trial and error system is 
 just as forgiving here if not more than the last game before Chaos Theory. Being spotted no longer 
 gives you the three alarm rule. The focus also has been more on killing. One mission on a supertanker 
 requires you to kill atleast 15 guards in one area. The mission locales now feature daytime areas 
 that fit quite well with the series. Finding dark areas here is just as easy as the dark levels 
 from the past games. The scope of these stages are also very massive and impressive. In the Shanghai 
 Hotel stage, you'll be dangling in the hotel's exterior tyring to avoid being spotted by a helicopter 
 amidst the Shanghai cityscape during the Chinese New Year celebrations with fire works going on 
 the city's downtown sector. That feeling of suspense with the game's creative stage designs is 
 what keeps this safe jaunt a well worth play.
  
  The multiplayer portion is much more robust than ever before. The Spys are far more agile and they 
 even have this new grapple like apparatus a la Tenchu. I don't like to play as the mercs as the 
 spys have the most fun.
  
  The graphics on the Xbox 360 certainly look great but to be honest, I think it could have looked 
 way better. The overall look is an enhanced version of the Xbox version of Chaos Theory. However, 
 Sam really looks quite sexy with the nice boost of polygon count and his sexy new outfits. You 
 will encounter frequent bouts of slowdown as well as as glitches like a dead guard staying up or 
 a trapdoor failing to open. These complaints are not a real big issue, but for a game on the new 
 Xbox 360 hardware, this is dissapointing.
  
  The sound is good but not the star of the show. A sound cue is played if you're on the danger light 
 zone. The voice over problems of the past have been fully fixed. The coherency problem is not here 
 at all. Guards speak in the proper tounge. If they are of Middle Eastern descent they speak in 
 Arabic and will have an accent if they break out in English. Unfortunately, Ubisoft didn't even 
 bother to fix the lipsynching in the game.
  
  Overall expect another great Splinter Cell title here. It may not be a full fledge jump but that 
 can be overcommed by just how well made this game is. From the new features such as the double 
 agent system to the facelifted multiplayer game, this is yet another great Splinter Cell to own 
 and enjoy. Do also check up on an upcoming review for the Xbox version of this game within a few 
 months to see what I think of that version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalDeath101
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 24, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  This game tops my charts as the best game currently available for the Xbox 360. Granted it is a 
 multi-platform game, I still stand by it as my personal best. The graphics on it are outstanding, 
 far better than current games on the system. The detail is down to the sweat on a characters body, 
 (not that I'm into that kind of thing) . Sound effects are superb on my 5.1 Dolby Surround sound 
 system, really makes me feel like I am immersed in the game.
  
  I only have one minor flaw that prevented me from giving it a perfect 10. They removed the ability 
 to hug walls! Curses!
  
  9.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: for_the_horde
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 24, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  In the age of September 11 paranoia, an era that has engendered TV hits like 24 and created political 
 and religious forces to separate and clash, Ubisoft may have found a strange conduit into the core 
 of it all. Ubisoft's Shanghai Studio felt its five-year-old stealth game should explore the moral 
 ambiguity of the professional spy and, by giving Sam Fisher a dual role as a mole in a radical 
 organization while still serving the National Security Agency (NSA) , it's changed the course of 
 the long-standing Tom Clancy-themed series.
  
  
  The game design is still familiar on the surface. Double Agent is still by and large a traditional 
 stealth game. You'll sneak around, break necks, stab thugs in the chest, snipe, explode, pummel, 
 and beat them. It's all in a good day's work for Sam Fisher. But by giving gamers choices eventually 
 leading to multiple outcomes in a branching story, not only does Ubisoft solve the biggest problem 
 embedded in all previous Splinter Cell games -- which was its empty, worthless stories -- it went 
 one better. Double Agent digs down into the very role of duality by giving gamers hard choices 
 to make. Whether that means confronting the option of nuking innocents on a cruise ship or betraying 
 Fisher's associates with a gunshot to the head, it's now possible. Splinter Cell forges a path 
 into the messy core of managing two extreme organizations without losing the trust of either one 
 and the results are subtle and complex, engaging and even a little thought provoking. Not only 
 that, but the multiplayer will leave you breaking necks forever, as you gain ranks and unlock achievements. 
 There is plenty to unlock, with new maps, skins and videos to show off to your friends.
  
  Splinter cell Double Agent is by far my favourite xbox 360 game and deserves a well earned 9.5. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_x5
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 24, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  the only missing thing is the GAMEPLAY is not perfect its average but overall its quite IMPRESSIVE 
 GAME to have , i liked the new story line about being a terrorist and agent in the same time , 
 fisher is more realistic and more stealthier than before , i didnt like pandoras tomorrow because 
 the game story is all but FOLLOW SODANO and thats it. this time its completely different than before 
 . and bu the way i didnt play much just only 8 to 10 hours , i didnt try multiplayer online , and 
 that could be more fun than playing story as i read from other writers and reviewers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: farid2001
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 24, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  The latest entry in Splinter cell series is a great game. Before going further, it's worth mentioning 
 that this series has come a long way sicne it's birth. From first Splinter cell on the xbox all 
 the way to Double Agent, Both Sam Fisher and Gameplay have matured considerably. Although basics 
 of the game are still pretty much the same, it adds enough substance to make it exciting for either 
 new or returning players. In my opinion however, DA doesn't live up to the hype. Graphics are great 
 but that not revolutionary (GRAW still looks a bit better) , Audio is superb (Michael Ironside anyone?) 
 and the gameplay as mentioned is also solid. It's definitely worth purchasing and playing through 
 many times but I hope they give Sam Fisher at least 2 years of relaxing time before bringing him 
 back for another adventure. I hope it gives them enough time to add some more revolutionary features. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joecwright
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 24, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  This is a great game I loved it, the graphics are amazing and gameplay good. I especially like 
 the choices element, where you have to do the good thing or the bad thing. The only downside is 
 that I think they should have had more of this and no only that but more of your minor actions 
 affect your trust position. Also it does annoy me in all the splinter cells that sometimes the 
 obivious route isn't avaible, like I need to get up there, oh I can't go and climb this bit the 
 game wants me to take a different route. Once this is done then the splinter cell series will rule!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apoc112
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 24, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  Let me preface this review by saying that i've ALWAYS loved Ubi's games, and this is no different. 
 It makes me a little bias, but i won't say that this game lived up to every expectation...
  
  Gameplay
  If you're a Splinter Cell vet, this one will feel right at home. with more gadgets 
 than ever and more ways to be a bada** motherf***er, this one is sure to please anyone that took 
 pleasure in palmstrikes to the face and slashing the throats of sleeping soldiers. the addition 
 of mines and explosive sticky cams (unlockable) are more than welcome and add a few more violent 
 options when the situation calls for it.
  
  the optional mission objectives also make it feel more realistic when you're unable to acheive 
 everything you're asked to do, but still complete a mission. there is a strong sense of a customizable 
 experience, as i can sit and watch my friend play through every single mission in a much different 
 way than i did.
  
  Graphics
  Don't get me wrong here... this is one of the best looking games yet, but it is exactly what's 
 expected of Splinter Cell. Dynamic lighting and texture mapping make for VERY few flaws. One graphical 
 disappointment is the quality of shadows cast on very close objects. They look great stretched 
 out across the floor or on a distant wall, but your own shadow up against a nearby door will look 
 very ugly and pixelated.
  
  Overall, the graphics make only small improvements on Chaos Theory in most instances, but once 
 in a while, you'll just have to stop and admire Ubi's work here.
  
  Sound
  Seemingly infallible, they do it again... the dynamic sound in this game will alert you to the 
 location and distance of every sentry guard, camera, spy, mercenary, or funny background conversation 
 you'll encounter. The voice acting is on-par with the other SC games, coming through with proper 
 emotions and funny dialogs that create a real sense of human in the characters and the story. Plus, 
 Emile's cajun accent is kickass.
  
  Multiplayer
  Oh. My. God. This is the kind of multiplayer you can just keep coming back to for more. Splitting 
 time between free-running (parkur style) tactical espionage and futuristic FPS gameplay, there's 
 fun abound for most players. Personally, I see a lot of bias to the spy side when joining games, 
 but i'm totally impartial. You'll read lots about this multliplayer gamplay in any other review 
 or rant about the games qualities, so i'll spare you in this one.
  
  One major disappointment for me was the exclusion of a co-op mission mode in this SC. I don't think 
 it's very nice to be giving us great features in one game and taking them out of the next. I personally 
 had a ton of fun with a friend in CT... many friday nights starting with a 12 pack and ending at 
 7am with the completion of the 6 missions. I thought there could have been a lot of great interactions 
 with the double agent gameplay and i hope they had a good reason for leaving it out.
  
  I highly recommend this game to anyone that has been a fan of the series in the past. If you're 
 new to the series, this is an intensely fun experience, both single and multiplayer. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkRaven_basic
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 24, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  The gameplay in Splinter Cell Double Agent is the best I've ever played but one of the worst I've 
 every played at the sametime. Meaning the multiplayer is the most fun out of any game I've every 
 played. Even Halo 2 cant messure up to this highly addictive multiplayer. It will take you forever 
 to learn each and every map, there're so many little nooks and cranies you will keep on finding 
 new ways to confuse your enemy everytime you play a level. There may only be eight multiplayer 
 maps but they each have their own stragies to them to make them great. The gameplay for the single 
 player is a different story though im affraid. If you make one little sound, shoot your gun, anything, 
 everyone in the level pretty much is after you. This can make it very annoying having to start 
 the mission over 100 times. The only reason to play the campaign is not for the gameplay but for 
 the story line, what happens to Sam Fisher?
  
  The graphics are great everything you would expect out of a xbox 360 title.
  
  Sound as a mentioned 
 earlier is where the game falls in my opinion. You could say this makes it more realistic seems 
 as if the AI is smarter but thats not the case, you can stand right infront of them all most and 
 they will probable walk right by you. Then when you try to sneak up on them they will hear you 
 more then likely and turn and shoot you. Sound on multiplayer is fine.
  
  The value of this game is great, you have the single player that some may enjoy plus you get a 
 new achevement after beating each level and a couple secret ones in there too, that can be fun. 
 You have the co-op which is not like the co-op in Chaos Theory which i was kind of disapointed 
 in, but its still a lot of fun more achevements there too. Finally you have the amazingly great 
 multiplayer.
  
  Now my main grumble about the game is all the freakin glitches. In the multiplayer it seems like 
 it almost always lags a little bit, most of the time its not to bad but it will atleast lag once 
 a game. Sometimes if it lags so much as a spy you cant hack at all, and as a merc you cant shoot 
 or run or shoot g-nades, it can get really annoying and you may have to kill yourself which will 
 lose you points. Other times you may be in a squad match win it, then the other team quits and 
 your team loses exp. My squad the Shadow Stalkers were number two in the world, we could beat just 
 about anyone at Blackwing, we all lagged out we dropped to 50, then the other team quit after we 
 beat them we dropped to 11000 something, you tell me theres not something wrong with that. Splinter 
 Cell Double Agent could have easly been a 10 but with all the **** and the annoying single player 
 it drops down to a 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsosmooth
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 24, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  The multiplayer was something to get used to at first, because it is different than the previous 
 games. However, it did not take long for me to get sucked in. It seems to be more balanced, so 
 the replayability is there.
  Only complaint is the controls on-line can be kind of finicky. Your spy can grab on to any interactive 
 environment. Many interactive objects are close together.
  So some times you go to grab onto a ledge to swing up and you grab a pipe, etc instead.
  The 
 single player is obviously perfect, always has been and always will be (that is if they don't screw 
 it up by trying to do too much) .
  
  Overall, great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicagocub_101
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 24, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  Late last year, UBI announced that they were making a 4th instalment of the Splinter Cell franchise, 
 and that it was to be called Double Agent. This idea had me sceptical, for one, how could awesome 
 super spy Sam Fisher possibaly be a double agent, and second, how in the heck will this work out? 
 But Ubisoft did it.
  Lets Start with the multiplayer, this is where the game really shines. The pulse pounding action 
 keeps me coming back for more and more each and every day. As a spy your objective is to download 
 100% of a file containing information on double agents. As an Upsilon Merc your job is to thwart 
 this from happening. As I have played as both numerous ammounts of times and found my self to be 
 quite good at both. I find great action and suspense in this cat and mouse filled exitement of 
 the verses mode of double agent.
  The single player campain doesnt really shine as much as it did in Chaos Theory in my opinion. 
 However, it is still one of the best things i have ever played. At first you start off in iceland, 
 on a training mission if you will. Your partner gets killed, you disarm a nuclear war head, and 
 barely escape before the plant blows sky high! Sound kinda cool to you? Thats just another day 
 in the life of Sam Fisher. He later finds out that his daughter had been killed in a car accident 
 and is put in an undercover assignment to try and figure out exactly what this JBA is doing and 
 why. Sam's missions will take him from skydiving in Russia, to a hotel in Shanghai, to a cruise 
 ship in Cozumel, to a civil war in Kinisha. But no matter where you are, there is always a tough 
 disision to be made that could deside the fate of your single player experiance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXHackettXx
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 24, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  This is a perfect new edition to the Splinter Cell series, introducing new ways and ideas to stealth 
 gameplay. The single player is solid with a great story line and very immersive and believable 
 characters and sounds. The music kicks in at the perfect times, to make you feel that extra bit 
 of tension of being caught. The choice system really adds to the series and throws a lot of twists 
 into the story. Although the trial and error gameplay can cause you to repeat the same part of 
 a level many times, it adds a bit more of a challenge to the game. The graphics really help you 
 get into the game, and you start to really care about the decisions that Sam will have to make. 
 Overall this is definitely the best Splinter Cell game in the series for single player.
  
  The multiplayer is highly addictive with many multiplayer options to choose from. Its a lot easier 
 to get into then before, and will always keep you going back for more. Only complete about the 
 multiplayer is where is the coop!?!? My favorite part of Chaos Theory was their amazing coop levels 
 and all the cool spy moves you could do with your friend. It added so much to the game and without 
 it, it really takes away from the overall quality of this game.
  
  This is still a must have game for any Xbox 360 owner, but would have gotten such a higher score 
 if they introduced new coop missions. We can always hope for downloadable content on the marketplace, 
 but Im not looking forward to buying something that should have came with my game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wayne2k7
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 24, 2006 1:50 am PT
Review:  The long awaited sequel to chaos theory, double agent will not disappoint fans of the Splinter 
 Cell series of games.
  The first thing you notice, as with all Splinter Cell games is the absolutely stunning visuals 
 the game holds. Its like the cut-scene graphics of many games a year or so ago but your actually 
 playing.
  Behind all the prettiness of Splinter Cell lies a very gripping storyline where Sam goes off the 
 rails after losing his family and undertakes the very dangerous mission of exposing and eliminating 
 the enemies from the belly-of-the-beast, from within.
  Throughout the game there are multiple choices which the user can take to gain the terrorists trust, 
 but usually by doing so, loses the NSAs trust. You have to balance this out throughout the game 
 to keep both trust levels up. If the terrorists trust level is depleted, game over!
  As with all Splinter Cells the gameplay is great. Lots of actions to do all over the environment, 
 as well as the satisfaction of sneaking up behind the enemy and grabbing them for interorgation.
 
  Also to note is the very movie-like soundtrack to the game. As u approach the enemy or if the 
 see something in the shadows, there is a sharp, tense style of music being played which gets the 
 heart pumping that little bit more. I found this a very diverse and awesome aspect of the game.
 
  Lots of fun for Splinter Cell fans and should draw some new fans in to this awesome epic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgmkyle
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 1, 2007 3:09 am PT
Review:  Sam Fisher is now on his next boring journey. He plays the role of good and bad guy at the same 
 time. The single player experience often results in annoying choppy game play, that gets really old 
 when you get over Sam's awesome moves.
  
  There are tons of gadgets to choose from (EMP Grenade, Smokes, Sticky Cameras and much more) . But 
 a lot of the gadgets are recycled from the first one and the game does not offer any gadget that 
 is mind-blowing and cool.
  
  But Sam still snaps necks, and in Double Agent he finds a lot of ways to do it. From forcing and 
 enemy down into the ocean to breaking them through ice, Sam will find a way.
  
  But that being said the moves do get old after a while as well the whole single player, which feels 
 almost like a diversion to the incredible multi player.
  
  In multi you can now face bot Mercenaries with a friend (s) . This adds value, and is great for practicing 
 for those Squad matches. And to top it off it is now three Mercenaries VS. three Spies, which makes 
 it more interesting and faster than two on two. The spies are fast and the Mercenaries are strong, the 
 spies need to quickly hack units with there hacking unit which looks like a power glove, but the 
 Mercenaries are going to do all they can to kill them with the big guns. The game is very exciting 
 here and never gets old.
  
  The game looks like Chaos Theory, which is good but it seems we could expect something better from 
 a next-gen console. There is a lot of detail but there is some annoying screen-tearing in the single 
 player.
  
  Ironside does Sam again. And he does a great job and is a good reason why this game sound so superb, every 
 little creak and slam this game makes sounds really realistic and accurate to the games pace.
 
  
  With single player and multi player thats really good, there is tons to keep you busy in Double 
 Agent, so if you loved Pandora and Chaos, you are truly going to love this one to, and its pretty 
 much a must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackle2071
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 23, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  tho i love Splinter Cell rite from its intduction way back on the Xbox. Dubble Agent has a Fun 
 Singal player with some great eye candy but falls just a little short of my exspectations. Rite 
 from the moment when the singal player starts up you know your in a splinter cell game its all 
 the same stelth action you have come to exspect from the game with just some mild new game play 
 elements. The new turst micanic in the game really is not as ground breaking as one would thought 
 no i dont feel like im really changing the path of the story varry much but there are some moments 
 where you really do see your choices effect the game and its out come. one thing that i do think 
 is new to the splinter cell franchices is, there are alot of bugs and glitches in this game. really 
 you notice them when your hideing up against a wall and all of a suden your stuck to it and cant 
 move. this does happen more then once in the corse of the game and can really suck if you have 
 to restart from your last save just becuase some one at ubi soft fell asleep and didt do there 
 job. the under watter parts of the game too share some bugs here and there. but the big thing about 
 under watter is it can be a bit wired swimming for the first time. all in all tho i do recomend 
 this game to any one who loves splinter cell or just wants to try there hand at a sam fisher exspirence! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royalpierre
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 23, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  For stealthy games that require you to think, what else is there on the 360 other than Splinter 
 Cell. The game is quality and the story is pretty good. The graphics are definitely a step up and 
 the sound is great. You know nothing feels better than to creep up on somebody from behind and 
 stab them right in the back and then carry their body to a dark spot. It doesn't get much cooler 
 than that. This is just an all around fun game because of the skill involved in completing the 
 missions. Plus the achievements alone leave you wanting to play more to achieve them all.
  
  The multi-player can get pretty addicting because you are taking on actual people and that's 
 really where your skill comes into play because the human opponent is unpredictable. Some faults 
 include in solo mode Sam Fisher tends to get stuck in some corners and needs some time getting 
 out which could screw up your gameplan when it comes time to attack.
  
  I suggest getting this game because it's the only one of its kind and it's just flat out a good 
 game to add to your collection. And the preview in Splinter Cell for Ghost Recan Vegas is pretty 
 sweet but you can get that anywhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattLTJ18
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 23, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  When playing Splinter Cell this reviewer has a slight problem... I can never restrain myself from 
 just running through with my gun blazing. Splinter Cell Double Agent has finally cured me of my 
 problem that has hindered me from enjoying this series in the past and it does it in two ways, 
 one is more my deal the second is just brilliance on Ubisoft's part. First off, the achievements, 
 Now I'll admit I really am not a big achievement guy, but i always go through before playing a 
 game and look to see which ones i can get with minimum effort, splinter cell has a ton. Most of 
 the achievements revolve around simply finishing the levele but then others have you go through 
 a mission without detection, or turning out twenty lights. These things may seem smile but in striving 
 for them I actually trained myself not to just run through the levels and waste the game. Now the 
 large incentive to play the game stealthily are the gadgets, at the beginning of the mission you'll 
 recieve secondary objectives which most always revolve around not triggering an alarm, if you can 
 manage not to trigger an alarm at the end of the level you'll get great equipment enhancements 
 which help a great deal in gameplay. Now for the multiplayer, I'm having big problems with being 
 dropped and with lag, but I think thats more the peer to peer manner of Live than it is Ubisoft's 
 fault. The multiplayer also offers unlockabes, which as I've said before every mutliplayer system 
 should, be it ranks or be it slight equipment bonuses any sort of unlockables in multiplayer is 
 a great way to get people to stick with it and have something to strive for besides most frags 
 at the end of a round. Splinter cell allows you to unlock new levels and costumes for the spy as 
 well as the mercenary. Over all the game is a lot of the same old stuff, but it's great stuff, 
 all of it. Keep it coming Ubisoft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AirborneAce
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 23, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  This review is JUST on the multiplayer component: look elsewhere for SP info
  
  DA takes a step back from the awesome multiplayer element of Chaos Theory in this installment. 
 Gone are the Shadownet Spies and ARGUS Mercenaries, replacing them are the generic 'spies' and 
 UPSILON forces.
  
  The main menu might look a little impressive but that's where it ends. The rest of the menus within 
 multiplayer look as if some high school computer whiz crafted them in his spare time with some 
 of the images for the unlockable items looking like they were taken with a 15 dollar webcam. Not 
 very impressive to say the least.
  
  If you want to focus soley on graphics then you'll probably be dissapointed. Personally I think 
 the levels in Chaos Theory looked MUCH better. The levels and characters in this game have an almost 
 'cartoony' look and feel to them with some objects in the game disproportionately sized (a prime 
 example being the private bar in boss house that is nearly taller than your character) .
  
  A lot of elements introduced in CT are now gone.
  
  First off, I'll describe the MOST ANNOYING 
 thing about the Multiplayer.... everytime you load a map a voice tells you the controls as if you 
 were a half-retarded pre-schooler (X is for reload!) ..... you also have to sit through a 'mini-cutscene' 
 of a robot projecticing a video onto a wall of your objectives 'stop the spies/hack the files' 
 with no way to skip through it. There is no option anywhere to turn off these 'tutorials' and you 
 have to suffer through them every time you play.
  
  Mercs The Mercs are stuck with their one, generic Assault Rifle. No more shotgun or Machine Pistol. 
 IT has a decent rate of fire that seems a little higher than in CT. It also has a scope with multiple 
 zoom levels but restricts you to painfully slow Semi-Auto shots. The Merc only has one alternate 
 vision now (the electric visison) which is only useful if you are standing completely still.... it 
 even takes a second to 'clear up' if you come to a stop after running. Your motin tracking box 
 around the spies is always on now and you also have a 'spy detector' that doesnt show you where 
 the spies are, but it vibrates your controller and puts a symbol on the screen to let you know 
 a spy is close, even if they are standing still. You have your trusty flashlight as well and you 
 can even adjust the size of the beam on it. As for gadgets, the Merc gets just two: the Drone and 
 Grenades. Grenades are self explanatory.... they're launched from your rifle (but now they have 
 a different indicator than the 'charge up shot' in CT) . The drone is just a little robot with an 
 orange flashlight (or the electric vision) and if you spot a spy you can initiate a 3-second self-destruct. 
 Drones can not be picked back up and your body is completely vulnerable is you use one. The berserk 
 ability is still here and you can also run fast by holding one of the bumper buttons. A useless 
 jump ability is there too.
  
  Spies
  
  Spies have no shocker gun anymore, or any gun for that matter. They have an arm tool that can disable 
 lights, bust windows and hack merc's suits. They also can carry 1 of 4 gadgets..... smoke bombs, 
 jammers, syringes ( health) , and flash bangs. Most are self-explanatory except the Jammer which 
 is not clearly described in the manual and in the forums players have debated just what exactly 
 it does. Spies have no real offensive capabilities, but they are crack-addict fast and can zip 
 arround very quickly. They retain their ability to snap a Merc's neck but lost their ability to 
 jump on your head and kill you.
  
  Overall the multiplayer is fun, but people who loved CT will definately miss its features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrzyOz300
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 23, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  The single player seems to have give a little more life to Sam Fisher than before. They give the 
 fealing like he's actually a human not just some soldier. The single player is not that hard you 
 just have to be smart that's all. As for the multiplayer they seem to have done some changes good 
 and bad. One change there is no gun for the spy which isn't bad but it's not good either. The spys 
 have less health which is good since they had a little to much health in Chaos Theory. This forces 
 you to be more stealthy but the part that doesn't make sence is that they now have a sensor that 
 beeps as you get closer which makes no sences since if your supposed to go behind an enemy and 
 kill him with stealth how are you going to do it when they know when your close to him. They got 
 rid of motion tracking to something more cheap. Now if move you get outlined if your within 10 
 meters so now they have a constant motion tracking. They got rid of alot of gadgets for both sides. 
 The mercs have Drones that fly anywhere spys can go and blow up so now no place is safe. from vents 
 to roof tops. They made spys facter and with more moves which is much better. Mercs still have 
 berserk. Spys can't kill by jumping on top of mercs anymore. They can't even do damage to them 
 anymore by that. The spys have a new device on their hand that hacks doors the items you need to 
 win the game and even turn out lights a hand device and a worthy replacement to the shocking gun. 
 There is only one game mode which is like story mode which is fine but i enjoyed meesing around 
 on deathmatch and thinking of new games to play on Deathmatch like tag where on man was the merc 
 and the others were spys and the first spy to die was going to be the next merc. You can't make 
 games by simply going to create match you have to look for a custom match and if there is no game 
 availble then it'll make you host of your own match this is not a bad idea but it's to complecated. 
 You should just be able to make a game if you want. If you pick private party then you'll host 
 a game but then only your friends can oin which is fien but if you want to host a game where other 
 people can join the it's more comlplicated. As you play and rank up you get new skins for your 
 character which isn't that much of a difference but it is fun. The game is fun but it deffinitly 
 has taken a fall in different ways. I say rent before you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alcoholado
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 23, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  A stealth game is about patterns. You need to be patience and learn your enemies patterns. MGS 
 is the daddy of this genre. I&acute; m not a big fan of stealth games but i can appreciate a good 
 game, no matter is a RPG or a FPS. So SC: DA sadly is not as the same level of MGS games. Along 
 Hitman, the 360 has a lack of these kind of games, so problably people is hungry.
  Let me explain: with this game you have all the ingredients to have a super game, but IMO it lacks 
 passion and soul. Graphically looks OK, but the graphic engine is an old one: the Unreal 2.5, the 
 same of Chaos Theory!!!, tweaked of course (you can see the logo on the credits) . So in HD, the 
 resolution is not the same of Oblivion, or GRAW (same developers) . Everyone is talking about the 
 great graphics of SC , but is not true. The frame rate in some chapters has problems, and some 
 times run below 30fps. You have a lot of scree tearing too. Just move the camera in chapter 2.
 
  The best part of graphics is the Fischer&acute; s bald. That is a true next-gen scalp. In some 
 close-ups you can see his face sweating. But the rest of the environments dont have the feeling 
 of next-gen. Some chapters look better than others (Shangai) .
  The story is not the BIG story, and some decisions you need to take in the game aren&acute; t very 
 importants at the end on the game plot. It is a standard script. Every chapter feels separate from 
 the others.
  This is not an easy game, specially if you want to have a high stealth %. But if you want you can 
 play this game as a FPS killing everyone and receiving a -230% of stealth (seriously) . Few weapons, 
 few unlockables, and the gadgets dont feel useful. Sound is mediocre. You cant hear well the instructions 
 that the central HQ gives to Sam
  The fun factor is around 8, because despite the weak points every level is challenging enough to 
 keep you playing. SC series needed this time a new blood, some refreshing stuff on sole mode, but 
 IMO Ubisoft worked this game in a very conservative way, avoiding a revolution of the genre.
  Multiplayer has some new things, and playing spies against mercs is fun.
  Sometimes you will 
 find lag issues, and host problems, but you probably will return more to the multiplayer than to 
 improve your stealth % in solo mode.
  SC: DA is a solid game that will maintain you playing it for hours... until GoW, FEAR, and CoD3 
 could show us a true gen experience , in gameplay, multiplayer and graphics (i hope that) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tbonesteak87105
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 23, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is another great Splinter Cell game. With the great same single player action, many new 
 things are added to make the experience more enjoyable; such as playable cut-scenes, hiding under 
 desks, lockers, etc, and the new trust bar. One thing that struck me when i first played it, was 
 how much better the AI was in this game. The hardest difficulty on Chaos Theory was just not as 
 hard as a wanted it to be, setting D. A to normal was plenty hard. Almost every single player level 
 has some memorable moments in it, whether its breaking out of prison, boarding an icy tanker, scaling 
 a giant skyscraper in China, or sneaking around in deserted African outposts, there were many moments 
 in the game that just made me smile. Some hardcore fans may not like the new steps the multiplayer 
 has taken. I personally think that it does a great job of giving mercs more power, and no longer 
 having people always wanting to be spys. The spy's new emp disruptor on thier formarm is really 
 the spies only deterrant to the merc's overpowering arsenal. The multiplayer experience as a whole 
 is much faster paced than the single player portion of the game. The new coop on-line mode is one 
 of my favorites as it adds a new experience all together. Some things that i was dissapointed about 
 this game was the non-existant split-screen coop play. This was one of my favorite aspects of Chaos 
 Theory and seeing it gone in this game didn't make me too happy. I was also expecting better graphics. 
 Not to say that the graphics are bad, but i was just expecting some more jaw dropping stuff. Alot 
 of the same animations are used when holding sombody with your kinfe, or stabbing them in the back, 
 but all in all these are just minor issues. Splinter Cell D. A is a great game if you are a fan 
 of the Splinter Cell series and alot of fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captialpee
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 23, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  I THINK THIS IS THE BEST OUT OF THE SERIES. I COULDNT FEEL CHAOS THEORY. WHAT I DONT UNDERSTAND 
 IS THAT WHEN YOU KILL PEOPLE WHERES THE BLOOD AND ITS BEEN LIKE THAT FOR ALL CLANCY GAMES. ITS 
 WEIRD. I KNO WHEN SOMEONE IS HURT BLOOD COMES OUT UNLESS TOM IS IN A DIFFERENT TIME WHERE WEN YOU 
 GET HURT NO BLOOD. BUT OVERALL A GREAT GAME. WORTH TO PLAYING. ONE OF THE BEST STEALTH GAMES EVER. 
 THERES NOTHING ELSE OUT THERE TO BUY MIGHT AS WELL PICK THIS ONE UP. ITS WORTH IT. OR YOU COULD 
 WAIT FOR FEAR OR PREY TO COME OUT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StormiestBUCK
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 23, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell Double Agent is so far the best in the series. With improved gadgets and stealth 
 it has it all. I would have liked to see it be a little more realistic as far as when you kill 
 some one you would actually see them being stabbed instead of just seeing them fall over dead. 
 I really love though the atmosphere in this one where you take your stealth to the day light... 
 i thought that this was pretty cool and challenging. It is a little difficult to do some of the 
 things in the missions and maintain a enough trust from both sides and continue the missions... 
 this i find to be a bit challenging. Other than that i think this splinter cell was very well put 
 together. I can't wait to see what they will put together just for the XBOX 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drgonzo619
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  I love to play splinter cell online and this years version is the best yet.
  
  I have yet to even play part of the single player missions on any of the splinter cell releases. 
 I have always been to busy playing online...
  
  great game for online play.
  
  The levels are big and you get rewarded with new skins as your skills progress. i can't wait until 
 they give us new maps. but it will be a while until i get the current maps down.
  
  The server is sometimes slow and its hard to check if people in your room have good connection, 
 but if you find a good group to play with, the game will be really addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolmankris
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 28, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  Summary:
  
  After a great success with its predecessor, and after waiting a little over a year, it's time to 
 don those night vision goggles again. But this time, the series makes its debut on next-gen systems, 
 as well as current-gen. Almost immediately after starting, you realize things are going to be a 
 bit different this time. The very first thing you'll notice is that Double Agent, unlike the other 
 SC games, actually has a great storyline. In previous SC games, the plots were mostly boring and 
 uninteresting. But this time, you'll feel yourself pulled in right away. Aside from the story, 
 there are several other significant changes here. The first (and possibly most important) change 
 is that you'll be working with the NSA AND a terrorist group, known as the JBA. It's your job to 
 infiltrate the terrorist organization, gather information, and destroy it from the inside. And 
 while all this is going on, you have to be very careful not to blow your cover. At some points, 
 you will be given multiple objectives that conflict with eachother, so it's up to you to make the 
 right decision. Because of this, there are 3 different endings. You get your ending depending on 
 how well you do, who you help, and so on. For example, one ending has Sam Fisher as a hero, while 
 the other one has Sam as a terorrist&gt; Your other ending is neutral, meaning you aren't really 
 working exclusively for one group or the other. Because of the alternate endings, this makes for 
 some serious replay value. Graphics: 9.5
  As you'd expect, the graphics look stunning, for the most part. We see plenty of blooming and HDR, 
 and some great effects. Most characters look alright, but Sam is so amazingly life-like. Lighting 
 all looks really awesome as well, and the textures and reflections are brilliant.
  
  Sound: 9.5
  Sound is pretty important here, because you'll wanna hear any nearby guards. The 
 voice acting is also very dramatic and well done. Micheal Ironside once again lends his eerie tough 
 guy voice and does a great job. Other sound is very clear (AMAZING on surround sound) . The guns 
 and explosions are especially great sound effects.
  
  Gameplay: 9.8
  The core gameplay still emphasizes heavily on stealth, which is not a bad thing at all. In fact, 
 the game even improves on this by adding some new components, as well as upping the difficulty. 
 As in Chaos Theory, you are given a little more freedom on how you get the job done. And while 
 Chaos Theory gave us a more open-ended experience, Double Agent raises the bar even higher. In 
 the earlier games, getting caught too many times, or setting off too many alerts was a big no-no, 
 and almost always resulted in a failed mission. Because of this, players were literally forced 
 to play with a very linear trial and error strategy. This wasn't very fun or exciting.
  In Double Agent, you are still encouraged to use stealth, but it isn't mandatory for the most part. 
 If you'd like to run around shooting everyone, the game allows it, although you could miss out 
 on some special things. Stealthy players that complete special objectives are rewarded with unlockable 
 equipment, as well as some upgrades. And while it may be easier to shoot your way through, and 
 skip these objectives, they're well-worth the trouble. You'll start the game with a rather limited 
 inventory with things like sticky shockers, airfoil rounds, sticky cameras, and flash grenades. 
 However, people that take the time to finish these special objectives are rewarded with some nice 
 new equipment. These include new grenades, both for the SC20K rifle, as well as the thrown variety. 
 These grenades include gas grenades (puts enemies to sleep) , sonic grenades (confuses and stuns 
 enemies temporarily) , smoke grenades (used to hide the player's movements, and distract enemies) , 
 and EMP grenades (disables certain electronic equipment) . Unlike Chaos Theory, the SC20K uses a 
 universal launcher, which can be used with things like grenades, as WELL as the shotgun shell. 
 You'll also unlock a cool item called an ultrasonic emitter. It fires a small projectile which 
 emits noise. It's great for luring enemies, as well as distracting them. This is a double-edged 
 sword, because you don't need to stop and switch back and forth like you did in Chaos Theory. However, 
 you no longer have the foregrip attachment to steady your aim, and the sniper rifle attachment 
 is gone too, which is a shame.
  The upgrades also include enhanced night-vision, an automatic lockpick, and a sticky camera with 
 an explosive charge, to name a few. You'll sometimes be in the middle of a difficult mission. The 
 good news is, you can always go back to missions you already completed, and unlock the stuff you 
 missed. This can make some of the more difficult missions a little easier. That, and the unlockables 
 are just damn cool.
  Lastly, one thing to note is that the developers hit the nail on the head when it comes to the 
 enemy AI (artificial intelligence) . This is some of the most realistic AI I've ever seen. Enemies 
 follow a certain pattern, and patrol back and forth. Some enemies even carry around flashlights, 
 which makes it much more difficult to stay hidden or sneak up on the character. Because of this, 
 players need to carefully strategize their next move to avoid being spotted. However, some enemies 
 have been known to wander off their route and patrol randomly. And while this can be frustrating, 
 the AI is pretty unpredictable whick keeps things exciting. And if you should happen to set off 
 an alert, enemies will work together to find you and eliminate you. They'll call in their buddies 
 and try and surround you, lay suppressive fire to make Sam keep his head down (and fire back at 
 the enemy) , and I think I've even seen them use grenades to force players out of hiding (Don't 
 quote me though however, because I'm not ENTIRELY sure and could be wrong) . The last (but far from 
 least) significant change is the difficulty. Even some parts on the Easy difficulty can be tough. 
 On the easy setting, if you know the mission well, you should get a %100 stealth rating. However, 
 on Normal and Hard, this is almost impossible. For example, on easy mode, there are no penalties 
 for killing enemies. Just make sure the bodies aren't discovered by other enemies, or else points 
 will be deducted from your final score. However, in hard mode, getting a kill, or even a KO will 
 lower your final score drastically. For some reason, even destroying lights lowers the score. Fortunately, 
 you can disable these nuisances (temporarily) with the pistol's EMP device, without losing points. 
 On Hard Mode , even the most experienced experts will find the game incredibly difficult to finish 
 every mission with a 100% stealth rating, let alone survive. This means that it's nearly impossible 
 for most gamers, (for both noobs and pros) . The final and possibly the biggest change to difficulty 
 is that several missions take place in broad daylight. You'd think this isn't a significant change, 
 but it adds a whole new dimension to stealth. You'll need to make a big change to your strategy. 
 Since there aren't many shadows to hide in (some missions don't have this at all) , you'll need 
 to stay low, and use things in the environment for cover and hiding, such as crates, wreckage, 
 and you can even hide in lockers (a la Metal Gear Solid) . An enemy can spot you from a relatively 
 long range, which is all the more reason to take each mission slowly and cautiously.
  
  Multiplayer: 8.5
  The multiplayer game returns again, but it's pretty different from the previous 
 games. It seems to be more fast-paced than the older multiplayer modes, which doesn't really feel 
 right. The developers redesigned the game to be more balanced. Before, spies and mercenaries were 
 given 4 different items in their inventory. Not only that, but if the player didn't know the map 
 too well, they'd get their butt kicked big time. Mercenaries could set all sorts of traps, such 
 as laser/proximity mines, use motion tracking vision, use a very powerful assault rifle, and fire 
 grenades. Spies had a non-lethal gun that fired tazers, different types of grenades, and destroy 
 certain equipment, such as mines or lights. While all this was fun, it just didn't feel evenly 
 matched. This time, each player only receives one item of their choice, including different types 
 of grenades (like smoke or flash grenades) or a health injection. Spies no longer have their gun, 
 but instead have a special hacking device in their suit, which can be used to hack computers from 
 a distance, as well as turn lights off, and break windows, all without touching them. Taking mercs 
 head-on usually ends badly for spies, but they seem a little more stealthy and athletic, which 
 makes up for this. One of the biggest disappointments is that there's still a co-op mode, except 
 it's not as good as in Chaos Theory. Co-op missions are simple go get this and bring it back here 
 scenarios, where you have to work together with someone else while avoiding mercs. It isn't bad 
 playing it with a friend but it just isn't as fun as Chaos Theory's co-op campaign was.
  That isn't to say the multiplayer is horrible, it just feels watered down.
  And while it isn't 
 bad, if you're looking for an awesome online mode, you'll probably enjoy CT's online experience 
 the most.
  
  Closing Comments:
  Whether you're new to the series, or you're an SC veteran, you'll probably go nuts for the main 
 campaign mode, which (IMO) tops the last 3 by quite alot. Because of the long list of unlockables, 
 all the extra objectives on the side, alternate endings, and the challenging hard-mode, the game 
 is loaded with replayability, and has a pretty long life-span for a Splinter Cell game. Despite 
 the mediocre online mode, the game is still worth the price and is one of the best games available 
 on the Xbox360. And even though I love this game, I can't help but wonder how the developers will 
 top this one for the next game, if they decide to do one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mirkar
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 23, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  This is a classic splinter cell game that can be more. More single player mode and more multi-player 
 mode.
  Although the game is brilliant in design, concept and story this being a next gen title there should 
 have been more. I am not sure what is missing maybe more weapons of choice or unlockables. I just 
 can't help but think that if this is the best Ubisoft can do then maybe they should get new people 
 to work on it.
  Other than the more of something the story is great although I do wonder why can't Sam just kill 
 the JBA one at a time in their hideout then go after the other bad guys out there? The sound I 
 found sometimes is hard to hear what the other characters are saying when there is background noise 
 in the game unless you face a certain way, which by the way does not necessarly mean face them!!!
 
  The graphics are very nice but some levels are hard to really see what went into them because 
 it is so dark, although that is where Sam Fisher lives.
  The game play in and of itself is Spinter Cell love it or hate it. Why change something that good? 
 Love the fact that once you start playing the original Splinter Cell you can pick up any Splinter 
 Cell game and play without the real learning curve/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marolia
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 8, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  This game is super ! I am splinter cell fan now for years.. and this one is one of the best i ever 
 played in a console system
  when i started the game i knew this is the BEST game the graphic are awesome and the gameplay has 
 changed. There are some new stealth moves and all.
  but this game has something which others dont .....
  when u start playing its just like in movies 
 whats gonna happen next......
  
  Anyways the sounds are really good in this game too.
  From what i see this game is a must have for every splinter cell Fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axes03
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 23, 2006 3:41 am PT
Review:  whats the point, I screamed a alot when chaostheory got a 8 something, when clearly it was a 9+ 
 game. heck xbox magazine even gave it a 9.9 and said it is THE BEST GAME ON XBOX EVER (YES EVEN 
 BETTER THAN BOTH OF THE HALOS) why? for one thing i would gladly PAY to play the co-op one that 
 game. i think we lost the meaning of co-op, which splinter brought back. the amazing multiplayer, great 
 SP, which was far more streamlined for newcomers and for the first time openendedness. it was an 
 amazing game and sold great too. AND HERE WE ARE AGAIN!!!!!!! double agent is out IT IS AMAZING!!!!!!!!! 
 probably the best game on the 360 right now. and the score is...... again 8.5. thats sad. but who 
 cares, the game is stil selling great, and it will for a long time to come.
  
  now for the game itself............. i have to say this as much as i love it, IT IS NOT BETTER THAN 
 CHAOS THEORY. the single player is amazing with the double agent storyline, but its ALOT, YES ALOT 
 HARDER. you cant just shoot and stab ur self out of a level ( which was an option in chaostheory) 
 the game seems to taken a path that forces u to plan your approch. it kinda felt like MGS. but 
 its still great. but the SADDEST PART IS THE CO-OP IS GONE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! its now the multiplayer 
 game with just BOTS................. im so sad i dont even wanna rant about it. just leave it there 
 and end the misery. the MP on live on the other hand is a much more evolved version. it supports 
 six instead of 4 player, and its a lot more balanced.
  
  so in the end its a GREAT GAME THAT SURPASSES THE COMPETITION BY MILES!!!!!!!! but since this is 
 made by ubisoft shangai, i really hope the next game will be made by ubisoft montreal who made 
 the amazing CHAOS THEORY, which was probably one of the best GAMES EVER MADE!!!!! and as for this 
 game if u played any of the old splinter cell games and liked it, get it. it is an evolution for 
 the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VooDoo1144
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 23, 2006 2:08 am PT
Review:  I am a big Splinter Cell fan... Sam Fisher is one of those really cool characters that bleeds interesting 
 and cool. I have owned every single Splinter Cell game that was released for the Xbox and bought 
 the first two with the system. I will admit... I like the last two more than the first... Chaos thoery 
 came off as more of a military game and less of a spy technothriller the Clancy is good at... Sam 
 was more haggered and ready to get the job done... and he had a lot of really witty banter with 
 Lambert. Splinter Cell Double Agent puts us in the shoes of Sam once again and right off I feel 
 this game should have been kept under wraps a bit... at first we saw this mug shot and some info 
 but were left wondering why Sam was in jail and did he really snap?... As the Ads started picking 
 up and the hounds on the internet picked up the scent we find that he really did not snap he is 
 just sad and has nothing to lose ... so the NSA uses him as a likely disgruntled soldier to infiltrate 
 the terrorist group John Browns Army . When we know this right off it really softens the impact 
 of it when we finally slap the disc in our consoles.... Overall I just think we should have been 
 told less before the release... it would have made for more depth while we play. Overall gameplay.... 
 The Gameplay and general feel of te game is slightly different from the last few... everything is 
 both easier and more difficult at the same time, The levels are smaller in scope for the most part... everything 
 seems more confined and less open than chaos thoery... but you also have less cover and have to 
 really watch where your enemies are looking and what route they use. The weapons have hardly changed... though 
 I am sad to see the use of the gadgets somewhat lessened... you really only need your knife, brain 
 and shadows. Your enemies have more in the noggin this time... we see more awareness among the targets... though 
 if you reload a save... you will see the very tight scripting that sometimes makes the game a bit 
 easy to figure out. The levels are really nice... I love Africa but I thought the shanghai level 
 was really overhyped as you really never got the feeling that you were in anything more than a 
 generic skyscraper level. The HQ missions go from the range of genius to really conventional... I 
 can understand not having any clearence to enter restricted areas on your first stay there... but 
 there is no reason why you are the only one who does the legwork but can't go into restricted areas 
 alone... it is foolish. I also would have expected to see more story in the HQ levels... it just 
 seemed like you were in another mission where everyone around you is a enemy... I never got the 
 impression that they trusted me at all so I never felt like I was part of the JBA... they were just 
 more badguys. I like the whole sadistic choice thing... it is a neat idea that can really make you 
 stop and think... going anymore into that will ruin it more than the commercials do. The sound is 
 fantastic overall... the voice acting is pretty spot on and rarely ever fumbles (but it does) . The 
 effects are great... when you get to Africa you will see what I mean. The graphics are really really 
 nice but not amazing... Sam looks great and not really plasticky (a common issue with the 360) ... the 
 animations are great and so are the models... but the texture work is pretty substandard and I was 
 a bit letdown by that.... after seeing GRAW is all it's slendor we see a slight stepdown in graphics 
 for this game. The multiplay.... Here is where I ding it pretty hard... I just don't feel it at 
 all... it seems like they had a great idea but really did not get to the end result with much success... the 
 whole thing feels really dated and plays like a old first person shooter... except you rarely see 
 your enemy. The merc side is really just twitch based tactics but can be great with teamwork (little 
 kiddies need not apply) . The spys are really just hackers with no real weapons... this can get frusterating 
 because you should have at least one offesive weapon even if it does low damage... once you are 
 spotted you might as well just stop playing... you will get eaten up by machine gun fire. I am not 
 whining about losing though... I really just think balance was the key and they misssed it. Overall... 
 I like this game... I think it is great that it came out in october so we could all remember why 
 we bought a 360... to have new games that we actually want to play. Buy it and give it at least 
 two good playthroughs at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j2johnson
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2006 1:50 am PT
Review:  Let me start by recapping ... Ubisoft's previous (and third) installment of Splinter Cell (Chaos 
 Theory) genuinely blew us all away! The new graphics and lighting effects were like nothing we 
 had ever seen before on the previous-generation Xbox. Not to mention the incredible gameplay and 
 well developed storylines. Chaos Theory was, to many of us, a grand-slam homerun to win the World 
 Series, a last second 3 pointer to win the NBA Championship, a touchdown on the last play of the 
 game to win the Super Bowl ... that is to say that Chaos Theory was going to be extremely hard to 
 top in all of our hearts and minds.
  
  This is why I don't think Ubisoft really tried to top it with Splinter Cell Double Agent. Instead, 
 they bravely dove head-first into a whole new world with our favorite shadow-op super-star, Sam 
 Fisher.
  
  Now I was hesitant to get too excited about SC: Double Agent. I thought that four exponential leaps 
 in a row would be entirely too much to ask for. The Splinter Cell Series just seemed long overdue 
 for a flop. I mean, it seemed inevitable, didn't it? I could not have been more wrong. This game 
 is AMAZING! * PLEASE NOTE * Just to clarify, I'm basing my opinion on next-gen criteria. I'm fortunate 
 enough to be playing this game on an Xbox 360 which is plugged into a 42 widescreen plasma HD TV, 
 which I've had for about a year now.
  
  Anyway, like I was saying ... This game is AMAZING! Truly AMAZING! One of the many improvements 
 that stands out to me is all the characters you encounter throughout the game. They're ALL DIFFERENT!!! 
 They all have different clothing, and more amazing different faces. REALLY different faces. And 
 Sam's face is a lot more expressive now. And there are a few new moves like the corner grab that 
 are just awesome. The storylines throughout are in true Splinter Cell fashion. Sam is constantly 
 being challenged with intense obstacles, heroic opportunities, and split second decisions throughout 
 the entire game.
  
  I will acknowledge, however, that this new level of technology is not quite perfect yet. But hey, 
 it's Splinter Cell's first time out with the new Xbox 360. So keep in mind that SCDA is really 
 the technological equivalent of the 1st Splinter Cell for the original Xbox. My Advice: Stop reading 
 this and go get it. You won't regret it. Oh, and save often while you play, you won't regret that 
 either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaziechameleon
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 22, 2006 11:01 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD
  great level design, cool moments of chioce, good multiplayer improvements, solid gameplay, great 
 level design, great AI, fantastic double agent aspect. THE BAD
  single player ultimately takes a step backward presentation wise, the lack of continuity and presentation 
 issues, like loading times in the menues are just annoying, THIS IS MY MAD RANTINGS IF UNINTERESTED 
 SKIP TO THE END, WHERE I RAP IT UP.
  
  with another splinter cell game being pumped out every year the franchise is now more like tony 
 hawk, full of minor improvements. Chaos theory was great in the fact that it added alot to single 
 player, and a fiar enough amount to multiplayer. this game however seems to step forward in some 
 areas and back in others. in the single player we've long contested the story telling and the chopsuey 
 nature of the different levels, in other words the games never flowed, they seemed to pick you 
 up and put you down in different areas all around the world, alright, good enough for one game, 
 maybe two, but four. the last iteration (chaos theory) tried to tie levels together with cinematics 
 and the like, double agent however reverts back, to far back, in splinter cell history, it tends 
 to leave out cutscenes all together, ok fine, but it doesn't supliment, ultimately this makes the 
 game feel far more cut and paste than should be allowed, especially with all the long loading screens. 
 they have three sequences in the game where you choose what happens and the consequences kinda 
 change the game, a little. the levels them selves aren't different and you end up playing80-90 
 percent of the same stuff no matter what chioce you make, the feeling during these moments is great 
 but without good story telling, aka cutscenes or something, to tie the levels together they really 
 just end up feeling piontless, now if the game could create a cohesive experience then there might 
 be some emotional perogative to care about these cool instances, but aside from the good presentation, 
 the chioces ultimately do nothing for gameplay or for story, since basically there is no real story 
 of importance, sams daughter died, ok, they told us that in a 30 sec montage at the begining of 
 the game, other wise you don't really see that reflected in the game. really this is just a poorly 
 presented game with another year it might have had fluid story telling that would have made it 
 more of a neccessary purchase. but as it stands right now i can't tell anyone this is a must buy, 
 run out and dishout 60 dollars, kinda game. i beat the singleplayer in a single day, and can tell 
 you it has a conclusion, as well as a cliffhanger of sorts, but i really don't care, that's the 
 problem, i never felt compelled by the story telling, i just always ended up feeling indiferent. 
 every time i'd start to get into the game a level would end or something and i'd be hit by a long 
 loading screen with a voice over, and then be dropped into a whole new level without and feeling 
 that i really belonged. they've added a nice first person mode for walking around the villianous 
 hideout, and this feels really cool very imersive. i like the levels everyone has a great unique 
 feeling and they all pull you in you forget that there is a story line and just jump into them 
 face first, but then you are pulled out of them by anoting loading screens, and other rouff transitions, 
 ok the first level starts with no cutscene, after wards your hit with a loading screen and then 
 a, opps the only, cinematic in the game (a whole 30 seconds long) , then another loading screen, 
 then you are dumped into the game, well the cinematic wasn't good enough to warent watching and 
 the loading undid the immersion factor any way. if only they could just inte twine the briefings 
 of sorts into a cutscene or something so they didn't break up the action. personally i hate the 
 mission evaluation screens the first time i play through the game i don't care at all, only after 
 finishing a single player story line do i really want to go back and prefect each mission, maybe 
 they should try and do that, it wouldn't be very hard at all would it. ninja giaden black did it, 
 you finish the single player game and unlock the mission mode. replay most of the best battles, 
 yeah. i just see the seems of this game and it bothers me greatly why couldn't they for once just 
 go all the way with a darn tom clancy game. i don't know if any one saw the departed, well if you 
 like this game you deffinately should, that movie conveys what the game couldn't about the double 
 life a Canary must lead. i gotta tell ya this game anger me because it's missing something that 
 they should have perfected after the first game. i really like this game, and in no way regret 
 buying it, but i just want ubi soft to make a game with a story, every game they make could have 
 the greatest gameplay ever, but i've noticed that all there flagship titles are loose in the single 
 player depertment these last few years. when a non game designer can sit there and see where things 
 could have been easily improved that is a testiment to the short comings of the game, hey why doesn't 
 ubisoft look at kanomi, or capcom for help, the resident evil and metal gear solid games should 
 be great insparation to all single player games. i'm so frustrated that they couldn't go the extra 
 mile with the game. ubi soft is getting closer and closer to EA in it's defelopement principles, 
 i'll be darned if they make games the same way valve, or relic, or monolith do. those companies 
 push the boundries. ok enough compliants, this game has some greatness to it, the levels are amazing, 
 so what if the tech is not up to snuff they still make the game look great using unreal 2.5, i 
 don't care really, it looks good enough for me. i simply love the fact that three of the four major 
 levels are during day time, that is awsome, do i miss the night, yeah i think we could have benefited 
 from a good rural, aka jungle night time setting, i simply love fisher in the elements. but he 
 gets it on in the othe levels, the AI is greatly improved and the levels allow for that, so there 
 are still the occasional silly they shouldn't have, or should have seen you instances, but on the 
 whole this games AI is better, especially in combat, try a gun fight in a casino agianst four gaurds, 
 they try to flank you, and you can flank them, it's good fun, they don't cheat any more, and if 
 you effectively use cover you can flank and kill, the weapons are the same old, there isn't really 
 any major benefit of not killing guys in this game, so i find the knife a little handier. they've 
 also added levels where you sneak around your own terrorist complex, in all there are three, and 
 they are good, it fills out the feeling your part of something, and i like that, just wish that 
 the game had a real story line. theres this girl you hook up with, and if you mess up the boss 
 kills her, and if not she's there to give you a little helping hand if you know what i mean, at 
 the end of the game. but ultimately, curtasy of the boring story line, and lack of any decent dialogue 
 between these two, you don't care about here for any other reason than because she's the only girl 
 in the game now that sams girl is dead. the opening level for the game is pretty boring, i didn't 
 like it like i loved the opener for chaos theory, i just found it to be a clumbsy cumbersum experience, 
 that may also have been me adjusting to splinter cell on a gamepad for the first time. there is 
 a awsome level ina war torn african city and you are on no ones side so you slip between the gunfire, 
 dispatching anyone, if they are to much trouble you kill them, if not you simply nock em out. hear 
 is another problem i have with the game, they need to creat a smooth fire/cover system, ala, R6 
 vegas, and GRAW, the enemies get to do the cool using cover thing, i can only use a pistol. i really 
 like the interface in this game, it's kind golden eyeish and it works real well. i'd like to see 
 more of a selection of weapons in the single player mode, ala a sandbag shot gun, or something 
 sweat, kinda swatish. they did recycle 99 percent of the audio and animations that they could, 
 so alot of the animaion sliding and clipping from chaos theory returns. there is a level on a cruise 
 ship, and i siad screw the alarms they were already onto you when you arived, so i just went nuts 
 with melee, nonleathal melee. it was glorious. i just wish that they made the action role easier 
 to execute on the console, i find it combersum, and many a times i wanted to do that and didn't, 
 or i did something else. because of the lack of darkness they did away with the visability meter. 
 and now visability is more line of site. um, i miss the sweat ending to chaos theory, this games 
 conclusion is kinda flat, though it ties up most knots and leaves alot for a expansion/sequal. 
 i would expect them to make anoth quick sequel/expanion in this game engine before a true sequel 
 arrises now. I like this game, and am happy i got it, but i can't recommend it to non splinter 
 cell crazies whole heartedly. i say wiat for it to hit fourty bucks then get it if you aren't sure.
 
  
  THE BREAK DOWN
  
  GAMEPLAY
  the gameplay is solid and time tested, and the levels are good, but the interactive cutscenes, 
 ala chioces you get to make feel wasted with the lack of story telling, also the double agent stuff 
 is sweat but is also lost without the story telling. i really like this game, its original, and 
 a first, no other game has tried to tell a story or even create such a setting, the chioces couldn't 
 have been more appropriate for a game about a double agent, but the story of the double agent isn't 
 there and since i know i'll have to wiat for another five-ten years for a game that tries this 
 setting agian, i'm angry. unlike shooters where every setting has been done over ten times so if 
 a game sucks you just wiat a year or two, this game and setting are unique, that is why the imperfections 
 bother me, because i probably won't see them rectified any time soon. i would personaly like it 
 if they made a whole seperate, series of games about undercover agents or something this game intriqued 
 me that much.
  8
  GRAPHICS
  they are what is to be expected, since this game is playable on all consoles it looks like a excellent 
 xbox game on higher res.
  8
  SOUND
  the sound would have been better if i hadn't hit some horrible audio glitches in the snow storm 
 level, or if they had wtitten better dialogue, like in chaos theory and pandora tommorrow. the 
 villians fall flat, and the heroes do to, i'm saddened by this, but, on the bright side every other 
 aspect is fantastic so it still gets a 9
  VALUE
  at 60 dollars i expect next generation perfection, so any game that doesn't floor me is gonna get 
 hit hard in this department if i payed 60 for it. and i payed 70 for the limited edition. i did 
 enjoy the brief MTV making of video, but it had nothing ont he G4 making ofs. i don't know if it 
 was really worth the 70, but i figured if i'm payin 60 mine as well get the full package. i enjoy 
 the game, but don't really find it to be a 60 -70 dollar game, so i recomend that most gamers wiat 
 and speak with their dollars, pay for it what it's worth, 40-50. or just get the pc version witch 
 is i believe 50 dollars. this game did come with a solid multiplayer, and single player so i give 
 it a 8
  REVIEWR'S TILT
  i'm a huge splinter cell fan, i have every game, i log countless hours in the multiplayer, and 
 replayed each game atleast once, and as much as a fanboy as i am i won't lie, i find this entertianing 
 game a little lacking, but also as of the time of my purchase it was the only game that had interested 
 me since episode one, so i feel that this game came at the end of a dry spell so i really appreciate 
 it, and as such it recieves a
  9
  
  OVERALL
  8.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tischla
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  This is the absolue perfect splinter cell. The single player is so muc more challenging now, is 
 not just about being in the dark, is also about being able to be stealthy in every kind of environment. 
 the sbtracted hud has actually made the game easier to play. i much more simple. the missions are 
 as usual, quite long and satisfying. Multiplayer is a blast. it is so much more of what i wanted 
 chaos theory to be like. the spies cannot be trying to kill the mercs all the time because thats 
 not what spies do, and they will get killed if they try. The objective of the game is a one way 
 type of capture that flag that is just fantastic. it gives a reason to actually kill now and avoid 
 being seen by the mercs. getting a kill as a spy is so much more satisfying now because it is so 
 much more difficult but its so evenly done. this is a game everyone should at least try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattthegreat123
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 22, 2006 8:12 pm PT
Review:  when i got this game i was very excited and started palying it, after 3 or 4 days later i realized 
 the game was over and i didnt go on a gaming spree. i probably played only an hour a day or so. 
 I was shocked that i wasted 60 bucks on such a short game. However multiplayer is the feature that 
 will keep you playing the game. its very fast paced and fun. so all in all this game is very fun 
 but if you dont have online capabilities, think hard about buying the game since its short. And 
 im not saying this game is horrible so dont think im a splinter cell hater. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iasfdglai
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 22, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  This is strictly a multiplayer review, the single player portion of the game is superb to say the 
 least.
  
  Gameplay - Simply put the gameplay works really well. You will have to get over the fact that the 
 spies have been nerfed and can't attack anymore but this is just to equal them out with the Mercs. 
 There is a bit of a learning curve on the spies and you'll find that you will loss many of your 
 first matches as a spy, but after you play for a while it becomes relatively even between spies 
 and mercs. The Mercs are easy to play and alot of fun, personally I like them more than the spies. 
 The problem I have with the gameplay is, if you don't have a very good team of spies, and just 
 adverage mercs, the mercs will most likely win. Also the gamplay is extremely fast paced and strays 
 from what Splinter Cell truly is, a stealth game.. Don't expect sneaking around with the mercs 
 proximity detector.
  
  Graphics: Not spectacular but nothing to complain about, excellent draw distance, not much more 
 to say
  
  Sound: Like most Tom Clancy games the sound is great and is very important.
  
  Value: If you enjoy it, the verses mode will keep you interested for a long long time. The 
 15 min games fly by like they were only 5 min long.
  
  Tilt: IF YOUR GOING TO READ ANYTHING READ THIS
  
  The tilt is for the most part bad. The game 
 has many problems. You can't host your own public game, you have to get lucky. The learning curve 
 on the spies can get old. The co op in the game in boring, basically you can just find a glitch 
 and smart out the bots, there is no split screen.. damn.., There are only bots for the mercs not 
 spies.. sucks.. Some of the levels lean towards the spies and some the mercs.
  
  If your looking for something original the Multiplayer is worth giving a try, I personally think 
 it's great. It's more of a bonus to the great single player rather than the focus of them game. 
 If you were going to buy this game for the multiplayer, rent it first before you but it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 10, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  I came into the game with high expectations, but not all were met. The online play lags way too 
 much. Before people jump on me and say it's my connection, I have played tons of other games online 
 and don't experience the consistant lag that I get. With that being said, the game is still pretty 
 damn good. The story mode is very intricate but also very simple and actually quite short from 
 what I have seen, which can add to the game. Games like this that take too long can be real monotonous, 
 but this kinda curtails that early. Hitman had the problem of taking way too long in certain aspects, 
 but scda completely avoids that.
  
  The graphics are awesome. The fact that this site only gave it an 8/10 on graphics is ridiculous 
 and makes me wonder if they even played the game. The cut scenes are amazing enough, but the in 
 game graphics aren't far off from it at all. The details on the face, head, body of the characters 
 is excellent. The realism of the surrounding levels is equally awesome.
  
  The sound... I was generous and gave it a 9. I didnt think it was quite as low as an 8, but the 
 characters in the iceland level all sounded like corny rip off voices from Blazing Angels so it 
 left a bad taste in my mouth. No complaints on sound outside of that.
  
  The gameplay isn't as good as I expected. The view using the right analog stick zooms in and out 
 at times when I need it to do the exact opposite. There are certain points when Im getting shot 
 sevral times, my character will still be verticle but I could get shot one time by a security guards 
 handgun (through stairs nonetheless) and ill die instantly.... I do like the fact that the game 
 is very strategic, yet basic and keeps it to the point. It is by no means a bad game at all, but 
 I think it could use some minor improvements to bring it to the level that GRAW is at. I know they 
 are two completely seperate types of games, but I am talking in comparison of Tom Clancy games.
 
  
  In comparing stealth games, Id say it has it's sports that are both better and worse when comparing 
 to the original 360 stealth game, hitman, and it has it's own unique traights that give it it's 
 own feel, but the game's replay value it only average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_of_Dark
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 22, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun. I'm sure if you are reading this you have already played a Splinter Cell game 
 before. Of course you haven't played this one. There are many differences in the way the game feels 
 and plays in this causing the player to make desicions that affect his standing with the 2 factions, 
 The JBA and the NSA. Depending on the routes you choose, you will be rewarded and punished for 
 the certain consequences. This is a great new addition to the gameplay, allowing for interesting 
 dialogue and story twists along the way. One of the best parts of this game is the multiplayer 
 mode. It has not been toned down to much, but the spies and mercs have some new abilities at their 
 disposal. In the case of the spies, they can no longer use weapons or any sort of killing device 
 unless they grab another player and snap their neck. They are more acrobatic, kind of like ninjas 
 in a sense, but the coolest thing is the hacking arm. They can use this device to mess with their 
 opponents, hack the terminals and even disable lights, switches, and glass panels. The mercs have 
 not had many upgrades except for a drone that they can use to track and self-destruct on the spies, 
 and they also have a new vision that allows them to see emp/radio waves moving in the air so they 
 can track the spies who are hacking. These additions make for very entertaining online experiences. 
 One more thing before the verdict. There are day missions this time, thats right, I said Day missions. 
 Since these take place then, this makes Sam easier to find and detect, so these missions add a 
 certain level of difficulty, but also add a new layer of suspense and fun. Overall, as a Splinter 
 Cell fan and an experienced gamer, this game really stunned me, because usually a franchise that 
 has more than 4 games tends to get old and repetitive. But since there are som many new and exciting 
 changes, this is highly recommendable for any action/stealth fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Turtle_Tad
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 22, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Splinter cell is an excellent game with extremely good graphics the AI in the game was amazing 
 but sometimes a little too smart if your looking for a challenging game this is definetely it i 
 found myself attempting the same level several times at the medium difficulty settings that got 
 a little frusterating but in the end made for a better game experience the double agent setting 
 is good but i think they should have just stuck with the regular old spy game the controlls havnt 
 been totally changed but it is a little bit confusing at the begging if you dont pay direct attention 
 to the little blipps on the screen like when you sneak behing someone you dont always get that 
 little green box in the right corner like the old game saying grab character and then interrigate 
 this allows you to get more into the game and have a sense of connection but it also makes it hard 
 to just jump in and be really confident on your control the multiplayer wasnt what i would have 
 expected from a splinter cell game i mean xbox live has been totally redone and that is great except 
 that they removed the shocker gun from the spies but alowed them to break lights and glass with 
 the hi tech arm gadget but by removing the 2player co-op this game just doesnt shine overall this 
 game is a great game tom clancy is a great name and the single player is good a little hard at 
 first but good the multiplayer is totally redone i think for the better mostly but i cant stress 
 enough how taking 2 player coop out of this game destroyed it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JasonLin
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 22, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  The developers at Ubisoft Shanghai finally showed that they are one of the best game developers 
 in the world. SCDA is a quality game with best graphic so far on next-gen system, typical SC gameplay 
 with some improvements, double agent element, and a great fun multiplayer mode.
  
  The best thing about this game is the graphic. It might not be very impressive at the first 3 levels 
 of the game, but as you get to level 4 and so on, the game starts to blow your mind with never-seen-before 
 graphic effects. A great thing about the SC series is showing off the graphic power of a console 
 ( alright, the xbox ) , and this time SCDA proved that XBOX 360 is the one with the most power, 
 not even any current PS3 screenshots can look this good. This is next gen, no need to wait for 
 PS3.
  
  As for the gameplay, no big innovative here, which means it's basically the same as previous SC 
 games. It can be good and bad. People who are expecting new style of gameplays will be disappointed. 
 However there are new changes, Sam Fisher is now spending a decent amount of time in the daylight, 
 and upgradable weapons and the double agent elements do make the game feel new and more interesting. 
 The bottom line is if you are a SC fan, you will definitely love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firedragonghost
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  well seeing i havent played any splinter cell games i decided to play this one and wow is it fun. 
 i havent been able to put it down yet i mean its so fun to sneak around corners and kill the people 
 and go thru things to avoid being seen. i rlly like the story mode because i think it has plenty 
 to do and it is rlly fun to play even if u beat the lvl alrdy or are even bored of it. but when 
 i tried multiplayer wow was it fun. I think its pretty fun to play with the modes and stuff they 
 have and the way u can be spy or a guy hunting a spy and u get a gun. i rlly was impressed because 
 i never bothered with the splinter cell series but i have been missing alot because its rlly fun. 
 I would say this has alot of positive things about it. i would say theres nothing negative about 
 this game and if u have a 360 u need to get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teens
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 22, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  This is definataly the best splinter cell game in the series, the graphics are smooth and eye catching 
 and the game has an overall 'attractive' appearance and gameplay style. The trust system is very 
 clever and gives the game a bit more of a kick. and the detail in the shanghai level is simply 
 astounding (play it and youll see what i mean) . character AI has been vastly improved since chaos 
 theory and the game is now has a bigger mix of stealth and action.
  
  now for the negatives...
  
  i found the first few levels fairly confusing as you do not get 
 a proper idea of controls until after the first few levels, its like you are just dropped in the 
 game from nowhere with little explanation as to whats going on.
  also there is a recognisable drop in framerate in parts of the game and there are a few other minor 
 glitches ie. you can walk through some characters once they are dead and you can see the white 
 outline of the enviroment in some places.
  
  
  but dont let this put you off, no game is perfect , and in my opinion this has to be in the top 
 5 xbox 360 games released so far.......
  
  comes strongly recommended.... Buy it now!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JinxSTL
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 22, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to the Splinter Cell franchise, I've never really been disappointed. The games have 
 ALWAYS looked GREAT, and the gameplay has always been a lot of fun. I'm not very good at Stealth 
 games, but I always enjoy playing Chaos Theory and Pandora Tomorrow.
  
  Splinter Cell: Double Agent is in many ways like it's predecessors, however there are certainly 
 some changes. Some good, some bad.
  
  The GAMEPLAY is pretty much the same as it's always been. At least to me it seems that way. The 
 game can be VERY DIFFICULT at times, but when you beat the mission you feel like you've really 
 accomplished something. Even if you don't get 100% Stealth. Some Gadgets and Moves have been taken 
 out of the game, but new ones have been added to keep the appeal. The GRAPHICS are amazing, as 
 always. It has a very sleek style, and the backdrops are pretty nice. Now and then, when you see 
 someone's face, they look very confused, but nothing is perfect, right?
  
  The SOUND is okay, I guess. I mean, there's not a whole lot to say about SOUND with games like 
 Splinter Cell. The scores are very well done, as well as the SOUND EFFECTS. Also, it's always cool 
 to sit back and listen to two guards talk about stuff. If you listen carefully, you'll hear some 
 VERY INTERESTING CONVERSATIONS.
  
  All-in-all, it's certainly a game you'd want in your XBOX 260 collection. It's fun, addictive and 
 looks great. My girlfriend HATES most video games, but she actually ASKED ME TO PLAY THIS THE OTHER 
 NIGHT b/c she liked watching the game, and all the cool moves and gadgets you can use. It's also 
 very intense. I often find myself holding my breath through many missions afraid that the guards 
 will hear me. Then I realize what I'm doing and feel stupid. Anyway, this is a great buy and I 
 highly recommend it.
  
  -JiNX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moradel100
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 22, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  The single player have the same problems as the old one, you cannot enjoy the graphics because is 
 too dark. The multi-player SUCKS!!. It is the same game with different levels THAT'S ALL!!. I was 
 a splinter cell fan but not anymore. THe only different is that the character looks polish because 
 of the small amount of upgrades they have made. The game play is the same. I'll stick with the 
 last splinter cell for the regular xbox. Ill call this game a lost fo abertising, materials, overpaid 
 montreal ubisoft designers and artiest, Please do not messed up rainbow six vega. I loved rainbow 
 6 and black arrow. Try to do the best you guys can please 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zonage007
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  Double Agent holds the role of the infamous Sam Fisher. But this time around Sam Fisher has experienced 
 traumatic things that he cant get over. The death of his daughter. So Sam is as ruthless as ever. 
 And the only thing thats stopping him from blowing up the place is the trust he has with two agencies. 
 Double Agent proves that this genre of game isn't going anywhere. The action, suspense, and pure 
 adrenaline of it all will have you second guessing what moves you should use to evade or take down 
 the enemy. The game is everything you got out of the previous Splinter Cells. the graphics are 
 better than ever and textures look amazing. The sound is tested but passes in the game. Not all 
 the missions are quiet and dark and lots of sound effects are all over the place. I'd say that 
 if you enjoy Splinter Cell games or even are interested in playing them. Buy this game. Its worth 
 every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendofYaslint
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 22, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  While Double Agent has all the ingredients of a blockbuster title, such as amazing gameplay, great 
 minigames, stunning graphics, suberb voice acting, and immersive environments, it still falls a 
 little short of expectations due to it not making any real marked improvements over the last game. 
 The real next gen leap we get to see hear is the graphics. And while they do look good, sadly Double 
 Agent isn't on a level almost all it's own as the first game was for the xbox. Besides looks, the 
 best improvement added depth to the game's story. In previous titles story was more of an afterthought 
 tacked on for to give you a reason to be there. In Double Agent, you actually make important decisions 
 that alter the course of the story and the characters' lives around you. While this is great, these 
 sequences are also quite short and thus the story elements end just as they seem to be getting 
 good. If they had used more drawn out cutscenes to let you get a better grasp on all these characters, 
 the game's story could have easily been high AAA material. The standout aspect is the moral delimas 
 of how many innocents is one justified in letting die for the greater good? Or are you just as 
 evil as long as you take innocent life as well, no matter what the circumstances? With more attention 
 to detail, these elements could have taken the game to the next level of greatness. The voice acting 
 is very well done and the atmosphere, especially in the Africa levels, is simply outstanding. The 
 music gets tense in all the right spots and is perfect for this style of game. Like already mentioned, 
 the only downside is how little to get to really know each of these great characters. As for the 
 multiplayer, it's still amazing and even better than before. It has better gameplay, little to 
 no lag, and looks great. The modes are great and it has the perfect number of people per team. 
 It's fun hours on end and you'll never get tired of shooting a grenade into a spy infested vent 
 or snapping the neck of a merc after sneaking up from behind. Good stuff....
  
  My only gripe is that the game is a little short and the story seems rushed since the cutscenes 
 used to tell the most important parts move so quick and only tell you the core information, without 
 elaborating on things to flesh out the characters and situations more. That and after the third 
 time, sneaking around the JBA base began to feel a little tired, as if tacked on just to create 
 a longer game.
  
  If you liked Chaos Theory and the direction it was taking, then you will almost surely love Double 
 Agent. While not perfect, it now has a better story, better visuals of course, and has the same 
 old tried and true gameplay we all have come to love. The MP portion is very fun and the story 
 mode branches out so you can play the game more than once with a slightly different outcome. Overall, 
 I'd say it's a must for fans of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3eyedrazorback
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 22, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  this game is truly amazing. the graphics are completely stunning! where shall i begin?
  
  Multiplayer: the multiplayer has been revamped and put rooms holding up to 6 players. now that 
 may sound fun... wait, it is! it's not all about stealth in the multiplayer anymore and there's 
 not just deathmatch or just story. it's like a mixture of both. now i was a hardcore Chaos Theory 
 fan, so when i opened the game up, i just expected there to be 3 spies and 3 mercs going at it 
 on Deathmatch. needless to say, i was wrong. i don't like it a whole lot, but don't get me wrong, 
 i'll spend countless hours playing online. overall i'll give the multiplayer a solid 9/10.
  
  Singleplayer: MAN!!! amazing! the story line rocks my face off! i read some reviews about a 
 good storyline and what-not, but i didn't expect it to be so... in depth! the graphics are just 
 stunning as well. on the snow mission in Siberia... i think it's number 3 if i'm not mistaken... it 
 leaves foot prints! foot prints! for crying out loud! the game's not all about stealth any more 
 either. you can set off alarms and not have to worry about losing a mission. but on the other hand, 
 you don't wanna set any off because you lose trust of the people sending you on the mission. aka, 
 NSA and JBA. Single player gets a solid 10/10 from me.
  
  all in all, GREAT game! MUST HAVE! go get it if you don't have it and are contemplating getting 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hussein_nahidh
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 22, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  splinter cell double agent is now the fifth in series coming after splinter cell 1, pandora tommorow, 
 Chaos Theory &amp; Essensials, it takes the player in an emotional interfears, showing more than 
 one ending and more than one way to finish the game,,,,,,, great job ubisoft !!
  
  it is quite hard to describe everything cool and bad in the game, but the main advantage of the 
 game is it's great multiplayer which crushed MGS in all it's series, Jolian seemed that he had 
 concentrated on the multiplayer mode and left the singal player with just some new moves !!!
  
  levels in the game are great ! absolutely well described and amazingly made, some mistakes 
 might be found in the graphics, but the game's sounds were save ! the story is solid ! , but the 
 value of the game is not, in the end :
  
  I HIGHLY RECOMMEND U TO BUY THIS GAME AND TRY IT, EVEN THOUGHT U DID NOT PLAY ANY PART OF IT BEFORE, 
 IT'S OK ! U WILL LEARN EVERYTHING FROM DOUBLE AGENT !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aromon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 22, 2006 12:48 am PT
Review:  Sam Fisher is a tired, worn down old man. In his fifties, he is truly too old for his work. Or 
 is he. Double Agent provides plenty of new moves that Chaos Theory was missing, and some that are 
 just down right awesome. You can pull guys in the water, snap their neck, or stab them in the heart. 
 You can throw people over the rail when your hanging below them. You can stand between two walls 
 above the ground and then land feet-to-the-face-first on an enemy. So much awesome gameplay here, 
 it's really impressive. Speaking of impressive, what about the graphics? When you play the Chinese 
 hotel level, right at the start, look at the tile on the fllor by the helicopter pad. It's raining, 
 and the tile looks like real freaking tile. I could not believe my eyes! These visuals are unbelievable 
 at times. You'll love it, I guarantee it! Other that, the story is great as well as the online 
 multiplayer. Epsilon forces VS. Spies. Pretty fun, not much lag, and it doesn't get repetitive. 
 Have doubts, rent it, and then kick yourself for buying it at wasting your money on a rental. This 
 game is a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MsgtBush
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell: Double Agent, is a new take on the stealth action genre, though it has retained the 
 stealth gameplay of the rest of the series, it encompasses new experiences. Unlike its predecessors, 
 Double Agent includes unlockable equipment and multiple outcomes to the story. The plot is darker 
 and more personel than that of the other Splinter Cell's, and more relevant to sam. The game spans 
 ten missions that take sam from the arctic, to china, and even to africa. They also include terrorist 
 headquarters missions in which sam has a limited amount of time to complete as many objectives 
 as possible. Each mission (HQ, or field) includes objectives for both the terrorists and the NSA. 
 A new implement in the game is Trust, in order to continue the game, sam must keep his trust levels 
 with both factions up, performing objectives for each group will earn sam trust, while failing 
 to do them will lose trust. Much like chaos theory, Double Agent includes a stealth rating depending 
 on your performance in each mission. The multiplayer is rarely unentertaining, and includes both 
 online and system link gameplay. The online play feature a squad system that allows you and two 
 friends to challenge another group. The online play also has unlcokable content, including new 
 skins for your avatar. Multiplayer has eight maps to choose fom, including warehouses, ship yards 
 and hotels. In the end Double agent is another among the few stealth action games out there and 
 is definetly the best of the Splinter Cell series. I highly recommend buying it instead of just 
 renting it, as after the story mode has lost its draw, the multiplayer is addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KyleMcintosh
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 21, 2006 11:08 pm PT
Review:  The Splinter Cell series continues. The 4th instalment of this series is the best one to date. 
 The same great gameplay from Chaos is back and in some cases improved upon. The games graphics are 
 also amasing, the detail of the characters is like anything you have seen. The environments are 
 also nice but could be a bit better. The sound quality is great, except for a few times when you 
 dont hear and gun shots. The differnt choices you have to make for the JBA or NSA add a great twist 
 and increase replay value a lot. The multiplayer is also great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xS3phir0thx
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 21, 2006 10:23 pm PT
Review:  ok, lets start off with the single player. This single player is definitly the best that has came 
 out yet. First off, you don't spend the whole game in a dark room, this time you have daylight 
 levels that are really challenging to not get alerts considering you can't shoot the sun out and 
 they can see you really easily. The single player also offers 3 different endings, which is always 
 cool. You can take the path of a hero, a terrorist, or a little of both. though you have to do 
 the hero route if you want to get some achievements, because there are none for the terrorist route. 
 It also features cool undercover levels, that require you to sneak around the JBA Base (the terrorists 
 that you go undercover as) and have to get info with out them getting too suspicious.
  
  ok, now the disapointing multiplayer... WTF happened to the Co-op? they killed it and threw it in 
 the lake. with these new Co-op Challenges you can play multiplayer... get this... with bots... who's 
 idea was this? now the regular multiplayer mode is only fun if you have like 2 spys vs. 3 mercs 
 because the spys are extremely nerfed in this game. The mercs only have one real added thing that 
 helps them not get owned so bad, its the radar, but most of the time even if you know they are 
 near you your flashlight doesn't go far enough to be able to see the guys if they are high above 
 you.
  
  Also, i forgot to mention this game looks really good, just thought i should let you know for you 
 graphic whores out there. also alot of people say there are frame rate problems, even gamespot 
 but i have only had one occurance of the time i have played this game and it only lasted for like 
 15-20 secs.
  
  Advice: Rent it first... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: De3emon
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 21, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  I can't understand why people aren't liking the singly player part of this amazing game. It has 
 the best storyline of the series and its fun. Its like reading a really good book but also being 
 able to be a part of it.
  
  It is incredibly fun to try and keep both sides trust while trying to get the little bonuses in 
 each mission. You also get a new type of gameplay with the switch from night to day where taking 
 cover around obstacles is your new darkness. And with this, you get to see the great graphics as 
 they were meant to be seen, not through night vision, and with that, the graphics are simply amazing. 
 (Gets me lookin forward more to Rainbow Six Vegas!)
  
  The multiplayer is a huge step up from the past two they have made. It is more even for both sides 
 and its is simply alot faster and more fun. Its almost the opposite of singleplayer with the speed 
 of the gameplay. Kudos to Ubisoft for thinking of such of an amazing gadget to help you, its actually 
 almost your only gadget, and that is the hacking device on your arm.
  
  I suggest you buy this game if you want to see what it is like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dodgerdawg
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 21, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  I became a fan of splinter cell the day i saw a trailer for the first game. Stealth has always 
 been cool and i have lived and died by the series since then.
  
  
  Now ubisoft sends the game back to where Pandora Tommorow came from, and... they did the same mistakes 
 again!!!!
  
  
  Pandora tommorow had the amazing multiplayer in it, but they skrewed the singleplayer up badly. 
 And... well... they did it again. They hardly did anything to improve the singlepayer game. its 
 basically a continuation of the amazing chaos theory game. which is awsome and all, but i expected 
 a lot more u know? And the missions are more openended, which is usually great, and it IS great 
 for the most part, but it leads to a lot of confusion sometimes. And i feel like the graphics could 
 have beeen so much better
  
  
  
  But they piled on so much extra stuff that makes the multiplayer game amazing once again. After 
 a glitchy yet amazing multiplayer game in Chaos theory, we are treated to a smooth playing, almost 
 lag free experience.
  
  
  
  Every in multiplayer works, and is easily worth the 60 dollar admission alone. Unlike last time 
 (where singleplayer was the main focus, and the multiplayer was an awsome addition) it beautifully 
 twisted around. Multiplayer is better then great, its close to PERFECT!!! Nothing could get better 
 and i really look forward to seeing what they could possibly add on in the next installment.
  
  
  
  The ONLY let down for the entire game was the graphics. they arent amazing, but they 
 are great. I just expected more. and multiplayer graphics are nothing special either
  
  
  
  What they should do from now on:
  -Let UBISOFT montreal do the complete singleplayer game
 
  -Then send it on over the shanghai who will construct a great multiplayer game.
  
  the wait would be longer, the the finished product would be soooo much sweeter!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmy343
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 21, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  First of all, this game is almost like a completely new splinter cell game. People new to the game 
 can jump into it right away without a problem for the most part. Many of the hardcore splinter 
 cell players dont like it, but i do because it gives the game a broader audience. The graffics 
 for single player look very good and everything is much more detailed then past versions. Multiplayer 
 looks good but not as great, but is definatly the key part of buying this game. Play as a merc 
 is finally fun and spys are just as fun as ever before. The sound is great, you hear the creaking 
 of pillars, footsteps, items falling on the great, its all great. Single player seems to have a 
 very good lenth concidering im about 10 hours in and still not nearly done with it. Theres also 
 plenty of ways to play it, you can go around killing everyone, or be a perfect agent and sneak 
 around everything. Overall this game can be considered noob friendly and is definatly a great game 
 to pick up even with all the great titles coming out next month. The one bad thing is, the camera 
 in single player tends to get to up close when in tight spaces and gets hard to see. Another negative 
 is if your playing online, you pretty much need good team mates to win, this is a team based game 
 and cannot even be scratched without communication and good team work. This game is a must buy 
 for any SC fan and at least a rental for other gamers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbunnell
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 21, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  I was very excited to read about Double Agent back about a year ago, thinking it was going to be 
 the first next generation Splinter Cell game that perhaps would have some major changes....... I 
 was wrong. Although it's not bad, there is really nothing much different here. I think the main 
 problem I have with this game is the difficulty. When the 360 was coming out last year, Microsoft 
 made it a point to state how the games for their next generation console would be different, meaning 
 anyone could just pick up and play, casual gamers in other words. One of their big concerns was 
 coming out with games for the casual gamer. I have always thought that a game should be easy to 
 play on the easy difficulty level, then gets progressively harder if the player chooses to change 
 the difficulty. Just for the record, I have played the previous three Splinter Cell games numerous 
 times so I am no stranger to the series, but I just think this game is too difficult to play for 
 someone who has never experienced the series before. This game is for hardcore fans only, no casual 
 gaming here which concerns me. As far as the graphics, they are decent but not what I thought. 
 Not quite the jump that we experienced from Pandora Tomorrow to Chaos Theory. The audio is decent. 
 I have not played the multiplayer portion yet so I cannot comment on that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IKKF
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 21, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  Sam Fisher is back, but he's got some new tricks up his sleeves. He works as a Double Agent. Well, 
 the story is pretty complicated, You have to juggle mission objectives from the JBA and the NSA. 
 Good=NSA, Bad=JBA. If you want to go good, that's going to be harder than you think, and same with 
 bad. I will use the 3rd mission as an example. The bad leader wants you to go through a training 
 course. And if you don't finish in time, he get's pissed off, and he will give you 30 more seconds. 
 If you can't do that you lose your trust, and you will need a good amount of trust, from both them 
 and the NSA. Graphics are awesome and the controls haven't changed much from the previous games. 
 I personally like Chaos Theory more than this, because the environments are more dark and believable, 
 but give this one a chance because it's a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekey
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 21, 2006 7:49 am PT
Review:  This game is how can I put it................ AWSOME. Its everything we expect a Splinter cell 
 game should be, but then again it's not what it should be. But that is totally not a bad thing 
 it's just that this franchise is going in a slightly different direction. So far there's not a 
 lot of shadows to hide in. So a lot of times your out in broad day light. But this just shows that 
 Sam Fisher is not just a hide and seek kind of hero, but that he's a well trained skilled warrior 
 as well as a man with nothing to loose, at this point in the Splinter cell story. (Which you all 
 out there that's playing know what I'm talking about./ No spoilers from me.) This is a great story 
 and it just amerces you to want to keep playing it, and do it a different way each time you play 
 the levels. Great job Ubisoft, I look forward to the next splinter cell! Here it goes.
  
  Gameplay: Great gameplay, it's just like Chaos theory........ But then again its not like chaos 
 theory . There's alot more day light in this one, there is how ever some issues with the AI at 
 times like, Some of the enemies don't see you when you are clearly in sight, and some of them can 
 hear you 90 feet away, but that does not hurt the game in any way, being that doesnot happen often, 
 The multiplay is just straight fun, its great, you can spend thousands of hours a month with it 
 if you have the time.
  
  Graphics: TOP OF THE LINE!!! Thats all I have to say.
  
  Sound: sounds great.
  
  Value: totaly totaly replayable, especially the multiplayer. There's 
 just so many ways to complete you objectives in the single player mode, there's no end to what 
 you can do.
  
  In closing all I have to say is if you have a 360 and you like stealth PICK THIS ONE UP!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hello465
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2006 5:28 am PT
Review:  The new Sam Fisher has greatly changed from before and all the things I have seen and played has 
 been simply amazing another Ubisoft work of art and a perfect one at that will keep me busy for 
 100s of hours yet getting everything that can be done on the game done to perfection. I rate this 
 game as perfect the gameplay is smooth and makes the player feel like they are right there in the 
 action and ecspecially in the emotional choices piece of the game. The graphics is simply magnificent 
 and perfect and artistically brilliant. The sound is of great quality and helps create the affects 
 needed and it is inkeeping with the other games like it should do. The Value for money needs no 
 words. The gamespot reviewers are idiots for putting this down to be honest.
  
  A work of art. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrebuiltKiller
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  The good things about the game is that the amazing online play that they have out so far. But also 
 what i like about the game is that i love how stealthy they make the online play for the spys. And 
 also the second best part about the game is the storyline that it has because you are a double 
 agent and that makes the game way more awesome. And the bad things about the game is that you have 
 to keep the two teams in the right track. Also another badthing is that you have to keep working 
 for the two teams you cannot chose in the agents you want to work for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deathwillcome
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 20, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  -----------Gameplay:
  
  For singleplayer, all I ear about this game is that no one seem to beleive that offers new gameplay 
 or at least new ideas. I actually disagree at this.
  
  Advantage:
  - You can choose your path (JBA or NSA) or if you want (Bad vs Good) while still given the idea 
 that you are part of both associations (the whole idea behind the word double agent)
  - The AI seems to be alot more better then previous versions, they are alot more aware of their 
 environment, which makes the game ALOT harder.
  
  Slight Disavatange:
  - The game still seems to be straight forward, meaning a linear way of getting to a location instead 
 of multi directions. Some mission still offers exploring around the area (HQ missions, four missions 
 in total) but doesn't offer the hype expected.
  
  For multiplayer, what can I say! Simply amazing. It's so well done, that even if spies seem to 
 be better compared to the Upsilon forces for the moment, or vice versa, people will adapt and this 
 will force the other party to adapt as well making both forces even.
  
  Advantage:
  - The game offers adaptive gameplay
  - Wide maps with many different tactics for both Spies and 
 Upsilon
  
  Disavantage:
  - Some maps can make the spy rather untouchable even while hacking. And yet, I did say that the 
 multiplayer offers adaptive gameplay, we'll eventually find a way to kick their butts.
  
  -------------Graphics
  
  Both singleplayer and multiplayer have great effects while not over 
 charging the capacities of the XBox 360. Characters look REAL! Water is realistic and the snow 
 effect has well.
  
  --------------Sound
  
  Sounds are evenly adjusted to make the feeling more realistic. The character voices are awesome, 
 actually some of their lines are hilarious.
  
  
  A DEFENITIVE MUST BUY! I still do hope that they use more innovation in their future games. Lets 
 hope Splinter Cell 5 will hit the jackpot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exgamer4life
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  this game is one awesome spy game like its series u have to kill the main bad guy and pick lock 
 doors and snipe the guards ,the graphics are mind blowing ,the sound is pretty tight, the controls 
 are easy to understand until u get to the hand to hand combat ,the blowin up parts are so cool 
 u can see the parts flying in the air, and in this game u are a double agent workin for a another 
 group of people, the spy parts are the trickiest cuz u have to hide and not get realized by enemie 
 people, dun dun dun dun dun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funny_bunch71
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 20, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Amazing graphics, outstanding gameplay single player and multiplayer, Storey line is great 
 and it has a huge replay value whether your playing the single player or the multiplayer portion.
 
  
  Cons: Very Minor Frame rate studder but it was there Only once though , Load times can be somewhat 
 teadious whether your switching from single player to multiplayer or just loading a map in the 
 single player campaign.
  
  All in all I did not expect Splinter cell to be as fun as it currently is and this will be a game 
 I play for along time and show off to my friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Turmolt
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 20, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  As I have spent less than 2 hours on the game, I'm already hooked.
  
  The single player makes you think, but isn't too hard. Trying different ways to get past a single 
 person without killing them is great.
  
  The multiplayer, wow. It is by far the best thing I've played in a while. The feel of sneaking 
 around, finding hiding spots and running away is such a rush. And when you want to play some FPS, 
 you can always be a merc. Finding the spy may be hard, but it never loses it's fun.
  
  The Co-op missions are great. But, if I could change one thing, it would allow two players to play 
 the Solo missions, but it doesn't matter too much to me.
  
  In my opinion, this game was well worth the wait, and is amazing fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jrrock009
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 20, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell is a long awaited game and had a lot of reputation to withhold with the Splinter 
 Cell fans and the overall gaming community. That being said I really do not believe it lived up 
 to all the hype. The single player game was really well done, I enjoyed all the twists and turns 
 the story took and how it felt like your decisions effected how the story was told. The few moments 
 where you had to choose either JBA or NSA were very well done in my opinion. None of the missions 
 felt like you were on a set path and it indeed felt like it was truly open. This was very evident 
 in the Kinshasa level. The graphics were amazing the game felt real on multiple occasions every 
 little detail of Fishers face blew me away, if you zoom in on his face you can even see that his 
 eyes move and his lips move. The physics are great I loved the cloth physics seen mostly in the 
 cruise ship casino. The single player was very short though, I finished the game on normal difficulty 
 in 6-8 hours of playtime. They could have made it a bit longer in my opinion, compared to past 
 Splinter Cell games this one doesnt even compare in length. Multiplayer, they need to change the 
 name of the multiplayer component to Joining a session please wait , The host has left the session, 
 I have successfully made it into one game and got the play the whole round in the last two days. 
 That may be part of the Xbox live update not sure but it is still a little spotty. But if you can 
 actually get into a game it is hands down the best Splinter Cell multiplayer action seen yet. I 
 love the balance between the two, spies move very fast and really can not be aggressive in this 
 game like past games, and Mercs have to be smart and play the stealth game themselves. I hated 
 the fact that you had to unlock multiplayer levels that is easily one of the dumbest things they 
 could have done. I like the unlocking of the new spy and Merc skins, and the stat tracking this 
 was a welcome addition. The co-op challenges were very bad and dont really do anything for you. 
 They should have done a co-op story mode like in Chaos Theory. In the end this game is a great 
 game and everyone that owns a Xbox 360 needs to check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makedonija77
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  What can I say???
  
  The graphics are just beautiful. The enviroments are visually stunning. The storyline is very unique. 
 The gameplay has been polished up alot from the original to make the game better than it already 
 is.
  
  The sound is great. The missions are always changing --- typical in the Splinter Cell games, but 
 get you excited seeing that almost everything is unexcpected...
  
  A breathtaking game, that requires some alot of patiance for those who spent most of they're time 
 playing fast paced first person shooting games, and the perfect game for those who like the style 
 --- aka the espionage/stealth genre, like the Metal Gear Solid and Splinter Cell franchises (I think 
 the Splinter Cell franchise is the better one) . Unreal Engine 3 is currently the best, and from 
 this game it's one step closer to video realism...
  
  The perfect game of the genre... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donalbane
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 24, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  While checking out the trailer for Double Agent months before the game was eventually released, 
 I was a little concerned when I saw Sam Fisher, the master of gadgets, remove his trademark night 
 vision goggles and toss them into the sea. I asked myself, How can Sam lose the goggles? They're 
 the source of much of his power. 
  
  As it turns out, Double Agent's single player game does frequently strip Sam of his wonderful toys, 
 requiring players to rely more on the environment in order to evade detection. Although this limitation 
 takes the series in a new direction, I can't help but feel like Ubisoft Shanghai tried to fix that 
 which was not broken just for the sake of being innovative. Chaos Theory was the pinnacle of stealth 
 action, and instead of building upon the pedigree, Ubisoft Shanghai chose to tear it down by crippling 
 the player somewhat, at least in the single player department. The trade off is that players are 
 now allowed to kick it with his enemies like a good double agent should, and the resulting moral 
 ambiguity adds some flavor to a series traditionally weak in the story department.
  
  Players are given objectives from both the NSA and the terrorists, (called John Brown's Army,) 
 and the player is tasked with maintaining the trust of both of his masters. The player is given 
 some freedom to choose which side's orders to follow, but is penalized via the game's new trust 
 meter for failure to comply. Loose the trust of either the NSA or JBA, and it's game over, man. 
 Double Agent is a balancing act, as Sam attempts to navigate the numerous, occasionally conflicting 
 orders in an effort to remain a trusted operative and keep up the appearance that he is in fact 
 working for the bad guys. Although players have the option of ignoring some of the requests of 
 either side, the true challenge lies in completing all the objectives.
  
  While he is chillin' at the JBA's crib, agent Fisher has practically none of his tried and true 
 tools. He can't even run or crouch much of the time! The developers compensate for these restrictions 
 by allowing him to hide in lockers and under desks, and he does have his hacking and lockpicking 
 gadgets throughout the entire game, even at the JBA HQ, but it is a drastic change for the series, 
 and conveys a sense of powerlessness in a series which traditionally instills players with feelings 
 of power.
  
  Sam gets access to unlockable equipment for playing missions stealthily, and many of these unlockables 
 are new and rather powerful (like the new sticky cam that's loaded with explosives instead of gas,) 
 but they are only available some of the time and are largely just slight twists on the old mainstays. 
 A new favorite gadget is a gun that emits a whistle on any surface Sam can see and shoot. This 
 item is essential for completing some of the tougher NSA missions while surrounded by JBA terrorists, 
 and is the most welcome edition to his array of tools.
  
  Double Agents developer, Ubisoft Shanghai, was the team responsible for the revolutionary multi 
 player component found in the past 3 Splinter Cell games, whereas team Montreal has always displayed 
 a talent for pushing the limits of the single player experience. Given Ubisoft Shanghai's track 
 record, these changes to the campaign should come as no surprise. With Pandora tomorrow, the team 
 created some of the best multi player around while offering up a 'more of the same' single player 
 experience that felt more like an expansion than a true sequel. It appears that the developer was 
 conscious of their shortcoming regarding the single player experience in their last game, and I 
 applaud them for attempting to innovate in an area that they have had trouble with in the past. 
 They succeeded to an extent, but failed in other ways... kind of a 'two steps forward and one step 
 back' affair. So although Double Agent's story has become significantly more interesting than past 
 games in the series, this radical improvement to the narrative experience is at the expense of 
 the single player gameplay. The story satisfies, and humanizes agent Fisher in ways unimaginable 
 in earlier Splinter Cell games.
  
  From a graphical standpoint, Double Agent is pretty and brings many welcome next-gen enhancements 
 to the series, but much like Pandora Tomorrow, Double Agent isn't as breathtaking as the Ubisoft 
 Montreal titles. The fact that much of the game takes place in the daytime is interesting and often 
 beautiful, but the JBA HQ portions of the game are unattractive at times and nowhere near as impressive 
 as some of the other titles available on the system. This is noteworthy only because of the fact 
 that Chaos Theory was possibly the best looking game on Microsoft's last console, and players hoping 
 to have that next-gen sense of awe and wonder may be slightly disappointed. Not an ugly game, just 
 not the best the 360 has to offer.
  
  Audio is solid, as always is the case for Splinter Cell games. The music adapts to the action perfectly, 
 informing players when their cover is about to become compromised, the voice acting is exceptional 
 throughout, and the sound effects convey a sense of muted power as the master of shadows takes 
 down unaware guards on patrol. One glaring omission from Double Agent is the absence of the sound 
 meter prevelent in the previous title. I found myself wishing on more than one occasion that the 
 feature hadn't been omitted, as I inadvertetly alerted guards to my presence with the sound of 
 Sam's foot falls numerous times, forcing a reload. This omission cleans up the HUD, which is almost 
 completely bare this time around, but without a visible indicator of sound, Double Agent's beefed 
 up AI (the guards seem to hear a lot better than ever before,) will detect veterans of the series 
 with almost superhuman auditory prowess.
  
  AI is critical in stealth games, and as mentioned above, the AI seems more robust in Double Agent. 
 This is not a bad thing... next-gen console owners expect a more realistic portrayal of patrolling 
 guards, and Double Agent delivers in this respect. The result is a more challenging single player 
 experience that will probably only frustrate newcomers to the genre. Thankfully, the game's 'Save 
 Anywhere' feature takes the sting off of this difficult aspect of gameplay.
  
  Now that just leaves us with Double Agent's multi player mode. As mentioned earlier, if it's one 
 thing Ubisoft Shanghai understands, it's innovative multiplay. And just as with the single player 
 portion of Double Agent, the Shanghai team stripped down the new multi player offering. However 
 unlike the single player portion, this simplification dramatically improves upon an already amazing 
 foundation resulting in some of the best console online play to date. The strength of the multi 
 player game (which has increasingly become it's own, separate experience almost entirely independent 
 of the single player portion) comes from the contrast between the two teams: spies and mercenaries.
 
  
  The spies are fast, stealthy, have some defensive maneuvers and tools, and are capable of accessing 
 parts of the maps that their merc opposition cannot enter. The mercs conversely are offensive, 
 yet slow. Gone are many of the gadgets afforded to both spies and mercs in earlier Splinter Cell 
 multi player modes. What's left is a purer form of the original gameplay that is more accessible 
 and player friendly. Each side plays totally differently; spies attempt to (slowly) hack one of 
 the data terminals using their wrist mounted hacking devices, leaving them vulnerable, and mercs 
 use their machine guns, grenades, and drones to hunt them as they attempt to flee the scene with 
 data in hand. Player number is kept small... 3 on 3 maximum, and the well designed maps reflect 
 this intimacy. This is an experience not to be missed, as FPS fans will feel right at home with 
 the mercs, whereas stealth action fans will appreciate the finesse style of play granted to the 
 spies.
  
  There is a co-op mode, but it seems tacked on and simplistic. The vs mode is where this game truly 
 shines. Both mercs and spies will give players very different, yet uniformly satisfying online 
 experiences. So in the end, Double Agent reminds me of Halo 2. In an effort to innovate (Arbiter, 
 I'm looking at you) the single player game, Double Agent breaks some of the rules it so successfully 
 concretised in the past, resulting in a solid, yet somewhat underwhelming experience.
  
  Double Agent's single player component is the most challenging outing yet, (Hard settings prohibit 
 Sam from entering missions with any ammo!) which is either good or bad depending on your familiarity 
 with the conventions of the series. As was the case with Halo 2, the real reason to play this game 
 is not for the twists and turns offered by the new single player mode, but rather the amazing multi 
 player component that truly highlights the online strengths of the Xbox 360. This is the kind of 
 multi player game one keeps in their collection throughout the entire life of the console. It's 
 just that good. Players hoping to have their minds blown in the single player department will unfortunately 
 have to wait till Ubisoft Montreal serves up another genre defining outing for Microsoft's stealth 
 action's poster child, but if it's unique online play you are looking for, Double Agent has your 
 back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackson84
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  I haven't beatin the game yet but the game exceeded all my prediction. The game looks and feels 
 great. The best of the serious. Only thing missing is that there is hardly any blood in the game, 
 i guess it being a stealth type of game you wouldn't see that much blood. I also like when when 
 you choke someone their eyes close. I never seen that in the other games. And my favorite weapon 
 is the riot shotgun I wish you can use it anywhere in the game. Anyway the game is great no compliants 
 here, can't wait for the next one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 20, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  I got to play this for a few hours and I have to say... this game is really good. The visuals will 
 impress anyone that has an HD TV. I do not know how this game looks on a regular television, but 
 would think it holds it's own. The over-all story and gameplay will keep you going for hours if 
 you let it. The controls for this makes a good feel for the game and goes really nice with the 
 environment. On to the multi-player.... The game ups the anti to 3 on 3 while getting into games 
 with BOTS lets you start out quick. There are alot more positives than negatives to go along with 
 SPLINTER CELL: DOUBLE AGENT.... comming from a person that wants to get play for the money spent.... this 
 game does it. If you are someone that does not like to buy... THIS GAME IS A MUST RENT then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therabidfrog
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 20, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  Some small improvements over the last game, for instance super spy and trained goverment killer 
 can now..... hold a gun steady when snipping!!!!! I think this may be the first of any game to 
 do that! Graphics are improved. Also this is the first splinter cell game to give to spy like moves 
 (snapping peoples necks, pulling them off of stuff, ect.) that you get to use those moves more 
 than once in the whole game. The enviroments are large, and there's more side missions that in 
 any of the other games. But for me it's all about running up behind some one and stabbing them 
 in the neck! STAAAAABBBBB!!!!!! Oh sniznap to the miznax! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derugs
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 20, 2006 1:32 am PT
Review:  This game seemed interesting from its conception. The demo gave an excellent taste of what the 
 game would be like with a few suprises. I was sold since I played the demo. The game did did start 
 sort of abrubtly and may seem frustrating at first but it comes together beautifully. The camera 
 does create a struggle at first not allowing you to view some areas around Fisher that you would 
 like to but its bearable. As your game experience improves it exposes the game in a whole new light 
 and you find doing things much easier. I appreciate this game and the thought that went into its 
 development. Like I mentioned earlier, if you have the patience to play a game undetected this 
 is a a game for you. If your the run and gun type its still worth a try. You won't go wrong if 
 you purchase this game. be EZ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dylan_94
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 20, 2006 12:25 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell: Double Agent, is probably the best spy game ever made, and also the best in its 
 series. Definitely worth buying if you are a big fan of the Splinter Cell series. 60 Dollars well 
 spent, definitely not a waist if you would have ask me, but you probably will not. There are many 
 different areas in the game that made me think I would be so Closter phobic in that vent, or I 
 hope that guy doesn't turn around and see me. So go out and buy it, it is money well spent! Splinter 
 Cell will never get old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coneman1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 20, 2006 12:00 am PT
Review:  Great Well thought out Story line, and it's awesome to see Sam in real life mode (without the mask 
 ) This Game lets the 360 stretch it's legs some. I really like how this games using lighting and 
 shadowing to make this game excel so much. The graphics are a welcome sight and you should see 
 this game on a HD set up it's overwhelming, and with a 7.1 surround sound home theater it's Tops! 
 I almost forgot, the second disc has some really good extra goodies about the development of the 
 game and some extra features as well. Everyone should go out and purchase this game, I highly recommend 
 it, but your spouse or girlfriend may not like it to well. (for playing so much) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesseandnikki
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  The graphics in both singleplayer and multiplayer are the best I've seen on the 360 by far. The 
 hair on Sam's head, and the sweat beads rolling down his face is just beautiful. The environments 
 look fantastic and some of the character models look better than ever. I can't think of one thing 
 wrong with the graphics in this game.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is good... the gun clatter sounds the same from previous Splinter Cells... but how is an 
 AK going to sound different than before anyways, right? The voice acting is, as it always has been, 
 awesome, and it really gives Sam life; knowing he has emotion. Ambient noises, of course, sone 
 really good... but that's expected coming from a game that bascially depends on it to play correctly.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  The cinematic gameplay makes this game the best Splinter Cell yet to release. The emotion and storydriven 
 gameplay mechanics are really fun... and the interactive cutscenes play nicely as well. Moral dilemmas 
 and lots of choices make this game the next killer app 360 title.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Multiplayer, in my opinion, feels rushed. The lack of storydriven co-op (a la Chaos Theory) and 
 the lack of a team deathmatch mode really seem to take away a lot of the fun I had in Chaos Theory's 
 multiplayer. However, I really liked the look and feel of the spies; very agile, and cat-like movements 
 make it funner than ever in a game of cat-and-mouse such as this one. The Mercs are also a lot 
 easier to control as well, and don't seem like they're floating or ice skating when they walk like 
 in Chaos Theory or Pandora Tomorrow. The one bummer thing taken from the spies was the shocking 
 gun that you use in Chaos Theory, which means the spies are pretty much defensless when face to 
 face with a merc.
  
  Overall:
  A must have. I used to hate stealth action games until Chaos Theory... so I'm sure if you at least 
 a fan of shooters, that is definatley worth the rent. Others should just go out and buy it now... it's 
 purley amazing and 100% next-gen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 19, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  There are many reasons why yes or no previous games should be in/ex cluded. The only thing i will 
 mention is that the character has remained the same. You can make long winded stories about the 
 graphics, gameplays and all the other parts of joystick Nirvana. I see this as a modern version 
 of Thief. A game with the challenge of remaining unseen. A game that is more then a simple puzzle. 
 Something that keeps in mind the joy of gaming. All this is achieved here. On the 360, it is graphically 
 very cool to see, and play. movements are smooth, looks are clear and it is just way too much fun 
 to get in and get out. The goals can be a little hard playing as an expert, but that is the good 
 part. It is decent challenging for the newbies, and rewarding for the hardcore players. By itself 
 i will judge it a very decent achievement. For now, at the end of my gaming time i do admit that 
 this game just fires the passion i still have for Thief. Both have a similarity of stealth that 
 i find appealing. Halo like running and blasting is too unreal and dooms us to be trigger happy. 
 This game is more then that. Splinter cell delivers more then Hitman could promise. That in itself 
 is a more then a good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pygmeae
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 19, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  I beat the game (solo mode) with preview build, there are 1~10 level (some levels have sub-level) , 
 and if you did the RIGHT choices, you could play the level 11, so called the [best ending] .
  
  The ambitious designs mix classic SC mission and new-add HQ mission may push away some SC mission 
 lover, because the HQ mission more like traditional adventure. It is ok to me; I am the one who 
 love traditional adventure games. The problem is, in spite of the great graphics, the HQ mission 
 need more persuasive digital characters which is already seen at many other games (Fahrenheit... etc.)
 
  
  Sam is not the good storyteller so far, but we could still feel the extreme exciting at his great 
 stealth action.
  
  For my opinion, SC: DA is not perfect game, I expect more from the Dark Side of Sam Fisher, the 
 story with depth, fun with CO-OP. etc. No, there is not.
  But if you ask me if the SC: DA could excite stealth-style player, YES!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnKnownViper
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 19, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  The good: Great Graphics, character models are spectacular, great new gadgets and mission objectives. 
 Great multiplayer changed for the better, good lag free 6 players online. Game has plenty of challenging 
 but not impossible achievements that will keep you busy for a while.
  
  The Bad: The games single player feels a lot like the old Choas Theory except with a few new things 
 and great graphics. When you alert people they say a lot of the same things from Chaos Theory. 
 Game engine hasnt really been updated... you still see players moving up an down stairs very strangly 
 and you see there feet slide when they turn.
  
  The Ugly: No co-op. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TiberiusJones
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 19, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Bear in mind I had low expectations for this game. Even as a Splinter Cell fan, I just was underwhelmed 
 by everything I had seen and read about the game prior to release. The first thing I want to comment 
 on is the graphics. In the Russian snowy level, when I was swimming through the icy waters and 
 rose up to the surface, wading towards the shore. I was struck by the sheer realism of the moment. 
 Sam's character model, so richly detailed and textured, as well as the beautiful water effects 
 and the shiny, thick ice (I have never seen ice rendered so realistically in any game) of the shoreline, 
 combined with fantastic lighting all came together in that moment to create that rare instance 
 of gaming Zen that we jaded gamers so rarely experience anymore.
  
  If you buy this game, make sure to play to level three (not counting your initial training with 
 the JBA) before making any judgments on the game. The first two levels are relatively bland and 
 act as more of a refresher course for CS vets, and a training ground for noobs.
  
  But level three changes everything. Action-packed opening - multiple paths to victory, and a tough 
 (frustratingly so for some?) ending. When you finish this level, you will feel a sense of accomplishment, 
 and have to decide whether to move on or just go back and play it again, its that good.
  
  So, a synopsis of the game... great graphics!! It's Splinter Cell. Yes, the framerate does drop 
 once in a great while, but overall, I found the framerate to be solid. Lighting is EXCELLENT! Story 
 is the best of any Splinter Cell game yet (although they could have easily taken this aspect even 
 farther) and the voice acting is top notch. (Why didn't Michael Ironside do the voice of Sam FIsher 
 for the TV commercials?)
  
  I give it a 9.6 out of 10. It's not a 10, but only just barely. My only gripes are things that 
 are inherent with Splinter Cell games. A couple levels, especially the first one, are SO dark, 
 it is difficult to figure out where you should go. The AI is still somewhat inconsistent, though 
 better than 95% of games currently on the market. Sometimes you'll feel genuinely challenged by 
 the AI, other times, you'll snicker at a foe who was holding a rifle, saw you coming, and never 
 flinched as you killed him. It's as if he thought you were running up to him to offer a kind word 
 and a handshake instead of the broken neck that ended his life . Moments like these make you shake 
 your head, but they are the exception rather than the rule, thankfully.
  
  Overall, a great game, and a must-own for any Xbox360 owner. Happy I bought it. I had switched 
 my preorder to Tiger Woods, but at the last second decided to buy it anyway along with Tiger, rather 
 than instead of.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8ball2494
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 19, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  The game design is still familiar on the surface. Double Agent is still by and large a traditional 
 stealth game. You'll sneak around, break necks, stab thugs in the chest, snipe, explode, pummel, 
 and beat them. It's all in a good day's work for Sam Fisher. But by giving gamers choices eventually 
 leading to multiple outcomes in a branching story, not only does Ubisoft solve the biggest problem 
 embedded in all previous Splinter Cell games -- which was its empty, worthless stories -- it went 
 one better. Double Agent digs down into the very role of duality by giving gamers hard choices 
 to make. Whether that means confronting the option of nuking innocents on a cruise ship or betraying 
 Fisher's associates with a gunshot to the head, it's now possible. Splinter Cell forges a path 
 into the messy core of managing two extreme organizations without losing the trust of either one 
 and the results are subtle and complex, engaging and even a little thought provoking. First Time 
 For Everything
  Unlike all other Tom Clancy games (save Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter) , Splinter Cell: Double 
 Agent follows a story that's more than a series of random missions strung together. The Shanghai 
 studio has brought to life the newly angst-ridden Sam Fisher with great voice acting by Michael 
 Ironside, telling cinematics directed by Andy Davis, and an edgy soundtrack by Michael McCann. 
 The first mission, essentially a trial run/training mission, quickly fills you in with all the 
 crucial details: Sam loses his young hireling in Iceland, then loses his daughter in a car accident. 
 It all sends him spiraling to rock bottom. The first two levels are really set-up missions, established 
 to prep the stage. You're hurled into prison because there is little left to live for and you befriend 
 Jamie Washington. The young rebel belongs to John Brown's Army, a homegrown American terrorist 
 organization with powerful allies and Red Mercury-powered weaponry. Once you break out of jail, 
 you've started down the dark path of the JBA. You arrive at the JBA's headquarters and are given 
 a series of tests, which, throughout the game, help leader Emile to decide how trustworthy you 
 really are.
  
  For a guy who loves stealth games (Metal Gear Solid, Tenchu, and Hitman to name a few) , I felt 
 the first two levels, the Finland and Prison missions, kicked off with little fanfare. The game 
 doesn't really start getting good until the third and fourth levels. But the first levels explain 
 Sam's dual role and set up the premise that is fleshed out through the remaining eight levels. 
 What compels you to like or dislike the characters? What reels you in?
  
  Choices do. Double Agent comprises six traditional levels and four very different, JBA-style missions. 
 Every two levels or so you find yourself hanging out with the other working class radicals in the 
 six-story JBA HQ. These are open-designed levels comprising a handful of primary, secondary and 
 tertiary goals, the first of which need to be completed to progress, while the others are gravy. 
 You're given tasks: complete a training course, crack a safe, build mines, or hack encrypted emails. 
 You're given a time limit, which always exceeds the amount of time necessary to complete the task, 
 and you're left alone to explore. What should you do first? The first task is to pass through a 
 training course and crack a safe. With time left over you can train in the shooting range, sneak 
 into offices and complete tertiary tasks by gaining intel, or wander around to get a feel for the 
 environment. All you have to do is return to the original spot before the timer is up. The trick 
 here is that you have no weapons, gadgets, nor tools, and you can't attack or hurt JBA members. 
 Otherwise you'd blow your cover. It's real stealth -- hiding, timing your moves, and sneaking -- 
 and it's solid.
  
  The first time you're in the JBA HQ, you'll generally have enough time to beat the missions. Each 
 succeeding time you return, the old missions return along with new ones tagged on. Also, each new 
 visit you'll explore more of the territory because you'll gain access to new levels of security. 
 Not only are these levels interesting because they're new to the series, they're intriguing on 
 their own. They're intelligence gathering missions that compel you to explore, test boundaries 
 and form relationships with the other JBA characters, be they good, bad or disingenuous. You'll 
 get to listen to Moss, the JBA's strongman, and hear Jamie Washington sound like a little weasel 
 . You'll get to ogle the smart and sassy Erica, and watch the shrewd Emile run his operation. And 
 if you play your cards right, you may find yourself in a very close encounter with Erica. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drumerdude361
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 19, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  This game soars beyond the limit if games. Before this game I wasnt even a huge fan if splinter 
 cell, but now I am hooked. It has many good points and only a few bad. I was skeptical before the 
 game came out b/c I had heard that there werent gunna be many guns. But, after playing the game 
 A, there are so many other cool gadgets and thing to use that you can really can go through the 
 games doing other things w/o guns if u want . B, there are actually more guns a cool attachments 
 to the guns, and C, the guns that you do have give u enough fun already. The good cop bad cop scenes 
 are so cool. Practically endless replay value to this game. Also, I dont understand why people 
 arent going nuts over the graphics. They are practially better than Graw (: 0) in my opinion. Maybe 
 the people judging this game dont have hdtvs. Its quite amazing.
  
  But like I said there is the small bad points. Once in a while, the camera angles can get set in 
 an annoying angle. Not all that much though. Also, the ai is really intelligent and you dont want 
 to loose trust and you find yourself being compelled to load the last checkpoint and it can take 
 a while. Thats if youre picky like me and there again thats part of the replay value anyway. And 
 also the storyline in the beginning doesnt explain itself much.
  
  So in conclusion if you have a 360 you should definately get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azshorty2003
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 19, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell has always been one of my favorite series. I've loved them since i started playing 
 the 1st game and I've been addicted ever since. Thats why when i found out a 4th installment in 
 the series was coming out, I had to jump on it. So far the game is great. I really like the story 
 so far. I was a little disappointed to find out the the time you spent in prison was only 1 short 
 level. I was hoping for a more elaborate and in depth sequence of events in which it takes to break 
 out of jail.
  
  My biggest gripe about the game so far, is one of my only gripes, is the controls. In this version 
 of Splinter Cell some of the controls have changes in the single player, as well as they've added 
 some new moves and features. Sam now has the ability to swim in the water, not very well I might 
 add. You use the Y button to go up in the water and the B button to descend. The problem in the 
 Y button doesn't always want to make Sam ascend in the water. At one point I couldn't get him to 
 go up at all, when I pressed Y he started swimming forward. The other control issue to the newly 
 added feature is when you break the ice and try to pull someone under. Icons appear on the screen 
 when Sam has the ability to do one of his special tricks, turn off the power, pick something up, 
 etc. This replaces the little menu like icons formerly in the upper corner of the screen. when 
 you have the ability to break the ice the icon appears and you press A , then when an enemy is 
 near the surface you swim to the top of the hole you just made and when the icon appears for you 
 to grab him and pull him in you again press A . The problem is it is very hard to get the icon 
 to appear for you to grab him, you have to be very close to the edge to do it. By the time you 
 do see the icon, the enemy sees you and is already shooting at you. This problem in conjunction 
 with the fact that swimming is a royal pain makes this technique extremely difficult.
  
  Now there is much good in the game, aside from a few control issues. This version of Splinter Cell 
 is all about choices. You will have mission objectives for the NSA, the people who you work for 
 and you will have missions for the TSA, the terrorist organization you are infiltrating. The choices 
 you make and which objectives you complete effect the level of trust each organization has toward 
 you. One point in the game has you decide the fate of an innocent mans life. The TSA wants you 
 to kill him, and the NSA wants you to spare him. S you have to decide, do you spare him and possibly 
 blow your cover, or do you kill and innocent man to gain the trust of the terrorist members.
  
  There are some new weapons and gadgets and many returning ones from previous instalments. My 
 favorite is the EMP Device attached to the pistol from Chaos Theory. This little gadget allows 
 you to disable lights, computers, or any other electronics temporarily using EMP. So unlike the 
 first two instalments where you had to shoot out lights to disable them, this can be done with 
 zero noise and without waisting bullets.
  
  The graphics generally are pretty good. Unfortunately I still don't see the full potential of the 
 360 being used in this game, but it still looks pretty damn good. Lighting is, as always in a Splinter 
 Cell game, amazing. With the exception of a few frame rate issues the game runs smoothly.
  
  Double Agent is a great addition to the Splinter Cell series and a great addition to anyone's 
 360 collection. I recommend picking it up. It's definitely worth more then just a cheap rental, 
 this is a game to own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kungfuchaos
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Though I have only spent around 3 hours with this game so far, I can already tell that this is 
 the Splinter Cell that we all have been waiting for. Everything that the series has always done 
 right is done even more right here. The controls are precise. The graphics are easily the best 
 to date on the 360 and the sounds are very immersive!!! Multiplayer is really just an added bonus 
 to this games greatness. Sure a full blown Co-Op mode would have been nice, but we cant have everything 
 we want!! Overall, this game is an absolute must have for any 360 owner. Buy it now!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TraXxX
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 19, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  WOW, all I can say is wow. I'm one of the biggest fans of Splinter Cell series if not the biggest 
 fan and I have to say this game exceeds far beyond what I expected! The game is absolutely amazing. 
 The graphics and tge sounds are mind blowing. The gameplay is much better than the previous Splinter 
 Cell's. The game has only one issue and that is the map. I think the map is really confusing and 
 it doesn't help you get around that much. But other than that the game is perfect. This game is 
 simply one of the most good looking games on 360 and I expected a much higher score from gamespot, 
 I thought it was going to beat Chaos Theory's score. If you liked the previous Splinter Cell's, 
 you're gonna love this one. But if you're not into stealthy games, you're gonna have a hard time 
 trying to get the hang of it. This game is worth every penny and it's the best 360 game out right 
 now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Murpheus007
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 19, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  My first impressions of Splinter Cell Double Agent are that it is an outstanding addition to the 
 franchise. I've seen complaints that it is just another Splinter Cell game, but I beg to differ. 
 This game presents a whole new dynamic to the series. How do I do this without becoming a bad guy? 
 The controls haven't changed a bit. In case you were wondering, that is a good thing. There are 
 alot more gadgets than before, and that adds to the overall play of the game. Every Splinter Cell 
 game has done a good job of allowing you to find multiple ways of doing things, but Double Agent 
 does the best job of it, by far. With literally a dozen different ways to complete most objectives, 
 it allows you to play a mission numerous times without the play being identical every time. One 
 major change that I totally agree with is the elimination of the HUD. 90% of the time the only 
 other thing on the screen with Mr. Fisher is an objective bar. The only other time other things 
 invade the screen is when you select a gadget, or a pre-animated sequence is available to you (ie 
 hacking, opening doors, safe cracking.) Only having played it on the 360, I can't say enough about 
 the graphics. They are phenonmenal. Very few games have made the environment such a huge obstacle, 
 but when you in the middle of a blizzard in this game, you have to watch yourself hardcore. Along 
 with the elimination of the HUD, you no longer have a light meter, or a sound meter. In alot of 
 ways you have to draw on your experience from other SC games to determine how visible and/or audible 
 you are. You do have a light on your front and back (even in jail) that allows you to know if you 
 are being noticed or not, but honestly speaking the difference in color between the green (not 
 noticed) , and the yelllow (vaguely noticed) is almost indiscernable, so trial and error will be 
 your only sure fire way of telling the difference. While the AI is not groundbreaking, it is very 
 solid. They notice lights turned off, they notice when something is remotely activated, and they 
 even notice your footprints. The reactions from your terrorist buddies when they catch you in a 
 well guarded restricted area is a bit understated, but they do have a trust penalty attached to 
 it, so it's not too easy. The way that the music is incorporated into the game is amazing. This 
 the #1 way you are going to know your in trouble. As long as the music is ambient noise, then your 
 okay, the moment you get a sharp metallic zing, something you've done has been noticed. Either 
 a body has been found, or you're standing under a spotlight. I have not gotten to play this online 
 so I can't give any kind of review on that aspect of it, but if it's anything like the previous 
 installments, it alone is worth the purchase. An outstanding game, it's just too bad we won't see 
 Mr. Fisher on the PS3 after this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sergiosissylala
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 19, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  I just got the new Splinter Cell Double Agent yesterday. Nedless to say after much doubt of the 
 game when first looking at it a few months ago I am quite impressed. I like the story line of the 
 game its really in depth and sort of emotional. It's like seeing a side of Fisher you havent seen. 
 Also the fact about infiltrating the prison in breaking out, that was unique. One very interesting 
 feature in the game is working with the Terrorist cell and the NSA at the same time trying to keep 
 both of them happy. For instance one part in the game where the terrorist leader hands you a gun 
 and tells you to kill the News Helicopter Pilot you're kinda like, What the hell? It's interesting, 
 it's fun and it's definately a little more difficult thatn the rest of the previous games. Definately 
 a must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrMatta
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 19, 2006 8:43 am PT
Review:  When i got it from the store yesterday, thinking the game would be great fun,
  i was still afraid it would somewhat be a big rehash of Chaos Theory.
  And while it's somehow 
 true, it had some new things which amazed me.
  
  Starting with the graphics; it uses the same (Unreal) engine. So while the graphics look overly 
 familiar, it ain't a big problem, since Chaos Theory was ahead of its time. Few HDR touches worked 
 up just fine.
  Only problem notable was that the framerate got jitty in some levels with alot
  of detail, which 
 is a shame, since the console should be powerfull enough.
  
  As for the musical score, Amon Tobin (CT) ; great as usual.
  The Alternative music brings the 
 (sneaking) enviroment alive.
  Both music and effects match every situation you encounter, whether
  it's the underwater ambience, 
 or the frantic sky-diving sequences.
  The chime when an enemy spots you is very cool aswel.
  
  The controls are standard Splinter 
 Cell, only the multiplayer is faster
  paced then usual, which make up for the log singleplayer sometimes.
  Splinter Cell games, while 
 amazing, have 1 notable weakness; the length.
  The campaign, is shorter than the other Splinter Cell's, but actually
  it makes up with all the 
 Co-op challenges, so actually i don't know what i'm
  whining about.
  
  Splinter Cell still outmatches other (most) stealth games in alot of ways.
  From silly humor 
 to fancy gadgets, you should just get this one if you like
  stealth games, and don't forget to check for 1,2 and 3 at your local bargain bin while you're at 
 it. (And no, i'm not a Ubisoft employee) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oh-really
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  i love the game i thought i wasnt going to like it but as soon as i poped it in i loved it. He 
 got cool moves and cool gadjets and the levels are well made. The graphics are beutiful. I didnt 
 see much jaggies or hiccups anywhere. Gamespot reviews was wrong the deserves to be a AAA. The first 
 splinter cell game and im really loving it. Cant wait till more splinter cell games come out. i recomednd 
 this game to high splinter cell fans or new splinter cell fans because this game is the best game 
 in the word... instant classic right here. If your not sire about this game.. then listen to me this 
 game is a must buy!!!! Buy it immedtly!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: y2gambino
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  There hasn't been 1 of these games that anyone here can say sucked because these games are made 
 just right and the way games should be played.. What else more can we all say can't wait to see 
 more in the further one again a A+ for the makers Good Job Guys! This game will wake some up and 
 *Say I gotta buy the First Three Non Stop Action!* So for those of you who haven't play any of 
 em except this one get out to the nearest game store near you and buy the rest.. 100% Non-Stop 
 Game Play! What else do you want me to say just get out and get the game... And if this 100 words 
 text thing don't go away by the end of my typing this I'm gonna be upset! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polo457
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2006 5:30 am PT
Review:  this game has every thing from good sound to a good story. clearly who ever gave this game an 8.5 
 . is a person that does not play 360 games. sure their are problems with the loading times and 
 such but this is still a great game in it, s own genre. it is a game that you look foward to playing.
 
  it is a game that i can, t put down because you coul go so many ways with it you have the option 
 of what you want to do within the game. so please do a better job rating the games because a think 
 that the real gamers know a good game when ever thy play one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 23, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - The single player mode is exactly the same as chaos theory with a couple added things 
 , the feeling that you work for both sides dosen't really ever make it seem like there actually 
 2 sides , it just feels like another added difficulty to the game. Also , the framerate is really 
 slow - it feels like your moving in slow motion through the entire thing . It only supports widescreen 
 as well .
  
  Graphics - Top notch graphics , probably the best on the 360 so far. Sound - Hard to understand 
 what people are saying without having your volume all the way up - there are subtitles either .
 
  
  sound - voices are hard to understand - no subtitles
  
  Value - The true fun of the game is the multiplayer , the spies play more like ninjas now and mostly 
 do jumping and running. The mercs are more balanced out now - so both sides have nearly an equal 
 chance of winning.
  
  Good tilt - the only stealth game on 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Memep6
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2006 4:17 am PT
Review:  When I've put my hands on this game I was ecstatic. It was the game that I expected all the year. 
 Great graphic, great sound, amazing concept, perfect gameplay. I've played multiplayer with my 
 friend until we got exhausted. Is perfect and can keep you to play all day. I don't understand 
 why you gave it only 8.5 when he is a 10 game. Hope all the player will see that this is one of 
 the best games ever. I appreciated the motion of the character and the entire difference move that 
 a spy can do. It easy to learn to play this game and have a god difficulty progress. I must say 
 that the multiplayer is the one that made me say all this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kimsteffan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 19, 2006 3:47 am PT
Review:  i must say i did have some small doubts about this game.. dunno why but i did, Boy was i wrong 
 , this game is extremely good. The single player mode is challenging and i like that they stick 
 to those things that has made this series cool before. so im not going too say so much about the 
 singleplayer other than that it rocks! But the multiplayer..... Oh my god i havent had so much 
 fun with ANY of the other 360 games yet!! its so cool to play as a spy (havent tried epsilon yet) 
 i really dont know how to stress this game enough just the multiplayer is worth the price. And 
 it also seems like this is more of a adult game, almost everyone i have teamed up with online are 
 competent and LISTEN to each other. an example: (this is something me and another guy did) we were 
 just by a server for downloading, there were two guards running around and searching for us, i 
 blasted the glass in an office, destroyed the ligthsources in there and then just as planned the 
 epsilon guys come running with guns drawn. Searching for us, we agreed on eliminating the one guy 
 who is desperately searching for us he stands in a corner lokking with his flashligth, i approach 
 him sllowwly on the rigth and my buddy goes on the left, i started a distraction, epsilon runs 
 after me, before he can take two steps my buddy snaps his neck!! and i started downloading like 
 crazy and we MADE it wooohooo!! Extremely satisfying!! BUY this game i HIGHLY recommend it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timothyt
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2006 12:49 am PT
Review:  Not to disagree with the reviewer, but this game is just one of the best console games out right 
 now. It's almost too bad that Gears of War is so hot on its heels because this will probably never 
 get played after that comes out (at least by me!) . For now, though, it's the pinnacle of graphics, 
 multi-player and FPS, although I can see where the stealth aspect of the game might be too slow 
 for die-hard Halo and Unreal Tournament fans...
  
  If I have to find a flaw in the game, it's in the camera control under water, which is sometimes 
 a little confusing under the ice. Not too major a concern, especially since swimming under ice 
 may well be disconcerting (I hope I never find out!!) This game is just rock solid. Ubisoft Shanghai 
 did a fantastic job here and I'm anxious to see what they do next! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojamba
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2006 11:24 pm PT
Review:  this game is absolutely an amazing game - the reviews for this game are absolutely appauling - 
 who in the world gave this an 8.5 - Gamespot is letting me down! it deserves at least a 9.4! The 
 gameplay is wonderfully submersive and the graphics are absolutely amazing - i am utterly shocked 
 at the review - really dissapointed that the pointed doing the judging are jaded and many times 
 dont give a game its proper dues - I have all Splinter Cell games and this one is definitely the 
 best one - wonderful story line - highly addicitve gameplay - PLEASE BUY!!!!! UBISOFT ROCKS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Michael5076
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 18, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Its much better than the other splinter cell games. In the other games at times it was hard to see 
 even with the night vision. In this one the night vision works to perfection... the best night vision 
 out of all the games ive played. iYour also working for the bad guys and the good guys, a new twist 
 to tha gaming world. But if your trust goes down to far for either side you loose the game so you 
 have to make sure to do objectives for both of your sides. i deff recommnd this game to anyone 
 who likes shooter games as long as you have the patience for the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shotgun4292
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 18, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Splinter cell double agent is now so far my favorite game on the 360. I love games with a challenge 
 and yea!!! this game is a challenge a real hard challenge. The Graphics are out of this world. 
 The stry is a great one actually one of the best and detailed. Multiplayer is once again a great 
 part of this game and probbly the best part. Every good game lacks something. I miss the ols Sam 
 Fisher you know the one creeping in the dark and grabbing people from behind. I cant complain though 
 this game is a twist from the normal Splinter cell and hay that isn't a bad thing. I only wish 
 some of the old splinter cell things were in the game. Other then that this game is probbably the 
 best in the franchise and man dose it waist time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fox101101
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 18, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  I was soo hyped up for this game, although not at all a letdown it has its strengths and weaknesses. I 
 love the story and more in depth feeling you get from it. However the day time missions are.. different 
 still stealth and tension but not the same as the splinter cell usually feels. The new direction 
 does make it worth while. For die hard fans you will want to play it no matter what. Chaos Theory 
 was amazing but this will be too. Multiplayer is awesome too. Not dumbed down but is easy and innovative, easy 
 to play harder to be good at. The game has awesome sound, splinter never fails to play the music 
 just right. The graphics are not as good as say, GRAW but it is definitatly a great game in the spots 
 in needs to be. I'm a big fan of the series and its a sick game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacksteen
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 18, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  This version is a bit more confusing in its level design. Being open-ended isn't always a good 
 thing. It looks great, but it still doesn't look like a 360 title. There's a few more textures 
 and what not, but it feels a lot like Chaos Theory. The multi-player is fun and different, but 
 I'm not sure if I'm liking it yet. I expected Chaos Theory 360 style, and this is not it. But that's 
 okay. New is better. Over all, its more like Splinter Cell 3.5 rather than 4. If you remembered 
 how Splinter Cell 1 and Pandora Tomorrow knocked your socks off, you won't have that feeling here. 
 But you'll still have your moments that will make you smile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 19, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  The game finally lands on the Next gen. This is actually my second Splinter Cell game. Even thou 
 I never got to finish Chaos Theory I decided to buy this game anyway. If you're new to the whole 
 splinter cell series like I am you'll have a hard time trying to play this game. It's You have 
 2 training courses and even thou they show you what to do it still requires you to do a lot of 
 thinking and also you have to figure out how to do each task on your own. So if you're looking 
 to play this game and be able to just jump into it you'll have a hard time. But if someone that's 
 played all previous games than you'll have no problem trying to figure out what to do. The game 
 looks great not that big of a jump from Chaos theory because that game looked great on the xbox. 
 But the climate and scenes look great. The controllers are simple and I guess are the same from 
 previous splinter cell with all new gadgets. If you're a fan of the series you should definitely 
 check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xphoenixtheory
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  this is a great damn game its gonna be hard to top this for a xbox 360 i love it i loved all the 
 splinter cell series and this is he best one to come out for the system but i still love chaos 
 theoryi loved this f*&amp;^%$ game But he's never faced an enemy like this before. To stop a devastating 
 attack, he must infiltrate a vicious terrorist group and destroy it from within. For the first 
 time ever, experience the relentless tension and gut-wrenching dilemmas of life as a double agent. 
 As you infiltrate a terrorist organization in its American headquarters, you must carefully weigh 
 the consequences of your actions. Kill too many criminals and you'll blow your cover. Hesitate 
 too long and millions will die. Do whatever it takes to complete your mission, but get out alive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarksjeiK
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 18, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  First things first: Splinter Cell Double Agent is an outstanding title well worth picking up even 
 in these upcoming times of multiple AAA releases.
  
  There are so many great titles coming out I (like many others) have to make a choice of which ones 
 to pick up first. If the stealth genre remotely appeals to you make sure to get this game regardless 
 of upcoming other titles. It really is that good
  
  Graphics:
  As good as it gets on 360 it is arguably the best looking game out right now, it even surpasses 
 other eyecandy heavyweights like GRAW. The first storymission is guaranteed to drop your jaw. There's 
 so many effects: water/smoke/lighting/shadowing going on at the same time it's ridiculous. This 
 is one of those games that actually looks as good as the screenshots.
  
  Sound:
  Soundeffects are as good as you would expect of a SC game, dolby digital in a game like this never 
 gets old.
  
  Gameplay: Now this is where things get interesting. As you would expect the gameplay is rocksolid 
 and deeply involving but unfortunately not completely without flaw. Splinter Cell vets will notice 
 that grabbing someone from behind has gotten way harder !! In previous games if you were in a 180degree 
 circle behind your enemy you would be able to grab him no worries. This is no longer the case. 
 The game asks you to be straight and I do mean STRAIGHT behind your enemy and to be litterally 
 almost stepping on his ankles. Grabbing a moving enemy is now more than ever a sweaty palms affair. 
 You WILL suffer a lot of annoying misses/allerts when trying to grab someone.
  
  Also the AI can be questionable at times. I've been in situations where I would be no more than 
 3 feet away from an enemy in plain sight and he would not see me. The opposite is also true sometimes 
 you'll be hiding behind an object and the enemy will be alerted eventhough you are sure you are 
 out of his direct line of sight.
  
  Or you will take someone out with a single silenced shot to the head and his buddy who is more 
 than 30 feet away on the other side of a big tent/staircase/bunker or what have you will be magically 
 allerted to your action eventhough it was humanly impossible to notice
  
  These things don't ruin the game but in all fairness they do sometimes hurt your immersion in the 
 game...
  
  To put it very bluntly, SC4 has true next gen graphics combined with last gens AI
  
  The thing 
 is with all these hyperrealistic graphics these days, flaws like these become more and more apparent. 
 Nobody cared about dodgy AI back in the ps1 days. But now people want their hyperrealistic looking 
 virtual cars to drive hyperrealistic, they want their hyperrealistic looking enemies to behave 
 hyperrealistic. And this is what next gen should also focus on in the years to come.
  
  If Ubisoft can crank up the AI to be as next gen as the graphics for Splinter Cell 5 than we could 
 be looking at the perfect 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilshadwgamer
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2006 1:48 am PT
Review:  this game is one of Tom Clancy's best yet this game has the same feel as ghost re con stunning 
 graphics great ai and the stories great . in this game you have to be sneaky this game is a game 
 that forces you to make hard choices, use tons of stealth, and actually have an awesome multiplayer. 
 The multiplayer really spices things up (especially with its achievements) with its new game mode, 
 Spy v. s. Mercs, which lets you use a lot of stealth to achieve your goal, which is to extract data 
 from a terminal. When playing as a spy, you need some sort of tactic. If you play as a merc, use 
 your cool high tech gadgets to try and seek out the spy.
  You will never regret spending your well earned 50 on this game. It's a revolutionary game to come 
 into the Tom Clancy world, and it pretty much takes all that was good in the first games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lumpacidshadow
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 17, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Ubisoft, you guys have really done it this time. You've made a game that forces you to make hard 
 choices, use tons of stealth, and actually have an awesome multiplayer. Everything is good, from 
 graphics, to gameplay design. The multiplayer really spices things up (especially with its achievements) 
 with its new game mode, Spy v. s. Mercs, which lets you use a lot of stealth to achieve your goal, 
 which is to extract data from a terminal. When playing as a spy, you need some sort of tactic. 
 If you play as a merc, use your cool high tech gadgets to try and seek out the spy.
  You will never regret spending your well earned 50 on this game. It's a revolutionary game to come 
 into the Tom Clancy world, and it pretty much takes all that was good in the first games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_gamer_god_X
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Thi is such an amazing game, once again Splinter cell has blown me away . Now some missions take 
 place in the daytime, graphics are even better than before, and you have a choice on the game. 
 You can choose whether you want to be evil or good, [sorry i can't explain it that well] and your 
 game will end differently depending on your choices. It is reall hard, since you are in day rime 
 missions and all, you are easily seen. But once again, if you aren't in to stealthy type games 
 i would rent/download the demo of this game and try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killer_Prey
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell: Double Agent is the best game out of the whole Splinter Cell series!! First, The 
 gameplay is rock solid, its almost have the same controls like Chaos Theory. At certain parts of 
 the game, you can take control of sam in a cut sense like the parachute drop, or when a certain 
 part comes you are told you kill an News chopper pilot, you have an decison to kill him or not!!! The 
 Graphics are amazing. Plus, might think that Michael Ironside is not doing the voice over in the 
 commercial!!! Don't Worry, his still doing the vocie over for Sam!!! I really recommend picking 
 up this game to add your collection!!! So this is the best out if the series!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joker7733
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 17, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that I never thought that any Xbox 360 game would be better than Oblivion (until 
 Halo 3) This game beats it. It has the great stealth theme that made 1-3 great BUT with more action 
 so you don't die in like 4 minutes and then easily learn how get by em'. And the emotional options 
 they offer are great. You really feel that YOU are effecting the plot and its not on a rail. So 
 overall a great game. Not to easy (like most 360 games now a days) and a GREAT fusion of stealth 
 and action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Efwarrior
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 17, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Are you kidding me, the new multyplayer in this game is so sweet. It's not like Chaos Theory with 
 a prettier version of that. No, the new multyplayer is built from scratch, it flows amazingly and 
 doesnt feel clunky. Being able to hack with out being right next to the terminal just to get hit 
 by a grenade for spy's is a huge plus. Finally the game feels balanced between spy's and mercs. 
 Oh right, this game has a single player as well. The new story mode where what you do determines 
 the outcome gives a great think before you act notion to the game. Finally Ubisoft hit the money 
 with splinter cell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil709
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 17, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Once again a Tom Clancy game wows us with its unparalleled graphics and shows what the Xbox 360 
 is truly capable of. In this addition (and addiction) to the Splinter Cell series, you once again 
 step in the shoes of Sam Fisher, this time, as a double agent who must once again defeat terrorist 
 organizations... by himself. *spoilers* He is depressed because his daughter met an untimely death 
 and what better way to harness his anger than to eliminate some baddies?
  Usually, Splinter Cell games take place during nighttime in dark atmospheres but in this one, you 
 take on evil in broad day light. Not to worry though, you will get the help of some awesome gadgets 
 and weapons.
  Just to tell you how much detail is in this game, you can choose for Sam Fisher to put on sun glasses 
 if it is too bright for you to see. But that is just one of the many amazing features found in 
 this game.
  In the end, Splinter Cell Double Agent is another amazing Tom Clancy game that you should in no 
 circumstance go by. Rent it or buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brent330
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 17, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  Well I have to say this is one amazing game ! The demo was a bit misleading but all the problems 
 in the demo are NOT in the full game. The game play is the splinter cell gameplay we love but this 
 time Sam has some new tricks, I dont want to give to much away but like all the other splinter 
 cells you can go through the whole game without fireing a shot if you wanted to. I didnt spend 
 to much time on the multiplayer but that also has been revampt to make it more balenced. Well long 
 story short if you want a great game (most likely game of the year) get this game the story is 
 top noch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meatwad9094
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  I got the game yesterday from my local game store its a small store with is also a cellphone store. So 
 i got the game and brang it home knowing it was gonna be good since i played the demo with a couple 
 of friends for about 2 days straight. This game has amazing graphics .The story line is also very 
 well done better then the other ones. True that they took out many features for the spies on multiplayer 
 but it made it harder and more fun. This game truly is amazing and very well done. If you gave this 
 game a low scor eyou probably havent played it yet so please try it at least im 100% sure you will 
 like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mostafarr
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 17, 2006 7:03 am PT
Review:  hello;
  this game is excellent. just buy it and enjoy!
  I think it is the best game of the year. I hope that you play it. It is a very strange game play. Just 
 play it. I waiting for next version from today!!!
  Music of the this game is very amazing. If you are notice the details of the sound you can hear 
 the all of area sounds. Texture of this game is very better than old versions, and I can say it is 
 better than other games that poblished yet.
  The story of this game is so difficult and you shoud notice to all part of the scence to realize 
 the meaning of gamestory.
  In some situation you can not choose the best choise, always you dont know certain that your choice 
 is best. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
