-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/rainbowsixvegas/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Intense tactical action that requires you to use cover realistically.
 Fast rope off of helicopters, rappel down buildings, and smash through windows like a real commando.
 Beautiful visuals that let you battle in a glittering first-world setting.
 Impressive multiplayer suite supports a wide range of cooperative and competitive games.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Story features some standard plot devices and lacks a satisfying ending.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 8.9, 79 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 13,467 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date: Nov 20, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Rainbow Six is reinvented and reinvigorated for a new age thanks to beautiful visuals and top-notch 
 tactical shooting action. 

  It's pretty easy to imagine that plenty of eyes rolled when Ubisoft revealed that the next game 
 in the Rainbow Six franchise was going to be set in Las Vegas. It sounded like a move that only 
 the creatively bankrupt would undertake, and the Rainbow franchise is certainly getting up there 
 in terms of years. It also seemed kind of fitting, since Vegas is where all the washed up entertainers 
 eventually wind up. Well, any such notions are a big mistake, because this new Rainbow Six is like 
 the new Las Vegas. It's refreshed, reinvented, and ready to take on the world, and it's also one 
 of the best tactical shooters on the Xbox 360 to date.  

          You'll go from the slums of Mexico to the glittering casinos of Las Vegas in this intense 
 tactical shooter.     

  In Rainbow Six Vegas, you play as Logan Keller, the leader of one of Rainbow's elite three-man 
 counterterrorist assault teams who is called into action after an operation in Mexico goes bad 
 and, for some reason, the terrorists strike the casinos and high-rise hotels of Las Vegas. Your 
 job is to stop them and ascertain their intentions, which involves the standard McGuffin device 
 that will kill millions and a secret military base hidden inside a massive hydroelectric dam. The 
 story borrows a few too many plot twists seen in other Ubisoft games, namely Ghost Recon Advanced 
 Warfighter, and the lack of a satisfying resolution also makes the plot feel like a paper-thin 
 reason to battle an army of terrorists in Las Vegas of all places, but it's easy to overlook because 
 the combat in Rainbow Six Vegas is simply excellent.  

  What elevates this chapter of Rainbow Six is the cutthroat tactical combat, which is far above 
 anything seen in the series. The combat elevates the action for shooters in general, but Rainbow 
 Six Vegas happens to arrive on the heels of the superb Gears of War, and it's eerie just how similar 
 the combat systems in both games are. It's hard to say that one cribbed from the other, since both 
 games were in development at the same time, but it's easy to get the feeling that the maturation 
 of tactical combat is an idea whose time has finally come, and the result is a lot of intense action 
 as you scramble for cover from all the bullets headed your way.  

  In Rainbow Six Vegas, just like in Gears of War, slabs of concrete are your best friend, along 
 with the edges of doorways, slot machines, the side of an SUV, and pretty much anything else solid 
 that you can put between yourself and the enemy. By moving up to those objects and holding down 
 the left trigger, you can "hug" the cover and then poke your body out from the sides or the top 
 to shoot at the enemy before ducking down again. Or, if you're under heavy fire, you can poke your 
 rifle around the corner and fire blindly to keep the bad guys at bay. The game seamlessly transitions 
 from first-person to third-person perspective when you do get behind cover, so you get a very cinematic 
 effect of watching yourself huddle while bullets impact around you.  

          If you're in trouble you can blind fire around corners to keep the bad guys at bay.    

  You don't fight alone in Rainbow Six Vegas, either; you're usually accompanied by your two teammates. 
 The artificial intelligence does a great job of controlling these agents as they follow you. Pathfinding, 
 for instance, is very rarely a problem, as they can navigate the cluttered environment effectively, 
 and they use cover just as well as you do. Controlling your teammates is simple, too. By simply 
 pointing at a spot on the ground and tapping the A button, you can tell them to move to that position. 
 Point at a door and hit A, and they'll "stack up" to it, or get into position to clear the room. 
 Hitting down on the D pad tells them to either hold place or fall in behind you. In fact, the controls 
 for the game in general are pretty intuitive and simple, and we found it effortless to do complex 
 tasks, such as snaking a flexible camera under a door, calling out the targets inside to our team, 
 and then executing a simultaneous takedown from two different angles.  

  What also promotes Rainbow Six Vegas over its predecessors is the sensation that you're really 
 playing as an elite commando. For instance, these new Rainbow agents borrow a page or two from 
 Splinter Cell's Sam Fisher, and you can play in a highly mobile and agile manner. You can quickly 
 rope out of a helicopter onto the top floor of a skyscraper, run over to the side, and leap over 
 the edge on a rappel line, all in a few seconds. While on the rappel line you can hang upside down, 
 lower yourself far enough to see into the target room, then call out the location of the terrorists 
 inside. Then, on your command, your team will burst through the window and clear the room. This 
 isn't just a mere gimmick, either, as the levels are designed so that most rooms have multiple 
 points of entry, so you can determine your takedown strategy for each one. Admittedly, one of the 
 contrivances in the game is that bad guys in a neighboring room seem unaware of all the gunfire 
 and explosions going on down the hall, but at least this lets you execute textbook takedown after 
 takedown throughout a level.  

  On the normal difficulty level, Rainbow Six Vegas is a moderately challenging game, though it's 
 fairly forgiving thanks to the fact that you can absorb a fair amount of damage before you die. 
 Rainbow Six Vegas uses the same kind of health system found in Gears of War and other shooters, 
 so there are no health packs or health meters to worry about. Instead, when you take damage your 
 vision begins to blur, and if you take too much damage you die. However, if you manage to find 
 cover and avoid getting shot for a few seconds, your vision begins to clear and you'll be back 
 at full health. This lowers the frustration level considerably, as you don't have to worry about 
 rationing the health meter like you did in this year's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter.  

          Another cool element is the feeling that you're a highly mobile commando, capable of rappelling 
 into danger on a moment's notice.     

  However, if you ratchet up the difficulty setting to "realistic," Rainbow Six Vegas becomes an 
 incredibly tense and difficult experience -- in a good way. In realistic mode, the amount of damage 
 you can absorb before you die is much lower than in normal mode, and this makes you really rely 
 on using real-world tactics and playing a lot more conservatively (and, well, realistically) . For 
 instance, instead of charging across an open area like you might on normal difficulty, you'll probably 
 want to pop a smoke grenade to provide concealment; otherwise, you'll get cut down before you get 
 halfway to your destination. Realistic mode will result in you dying a lot, but when you do, you'll 
 realize more often than not that it's because you did something stupid, which means you get to 
 learn from your mistakes and be smarter for it.     

   

  Speaking of dying, the game uses a checkpoint save system, so when you do die, you'll get a chance 
 to start back at the latest checkpoint. While you can quickly heal fallen teammates in single-player 
 by injecting them with the magic medical serum if you get to them in time, if you fall your teammates 
 won't be able to save you in the similar manner, so it's back to the checkpoint. At least the checkpoints 
 are reasonably spaced, and there's usually one before ever major set-piece battle, which is helpful. 
 Most of these larger battles are fairly scripted, but they're pretty intense nonetheless. Bad guys 
 come rappelling down from above, and the AI in general is good about using cover and grenades as 
 effectively as you do. There's nothing quite as eye-opening as seeing a frag grenade land right 
 next to your character, or as frantic as trying to get away and behind cover before it explodes. 

          Your AI teammates are smart and capable of storming and clearing a room without you.   
   

  The single-player campaign in Rainbow Six Vegas isn't quite as lengthy as in many other realistic 
 shooters, but the game compensates for this by having such interesting and repayable tactical battles. 
 You can go back again and tackle the game in realistic mode, or you can experiment with different 
 approaches. And there's plenty of replay value to be found in the extensive multiplayer suite. 
 The single-player campaign can be played cooperatively on Xbox Live, both in story mode and in 
 terrorist hunt, which pits you and your buddies against a bunch of randomly placed terrorists. 
 You can also play with up to four players cooperatively, which is an interesting number since the 
 single-player campaign features only three Rainbow agents at a time. Still, realistic difficulty 
 is tough enough that you can really use effective team tactics to tackle some of the harder missions, 
 and there's something very cool about being able to strategize with your buddies while in the middle 
 of a fight. The only setback to co-op mode is that instead of automatically loading the next level 
 in the chain when playing in story mode, the game recycles the existing map. You have to set up 
 the server ahead of time to advance to the next level in the story, or load it manually.  

  In addition to co-op, Rainbow Six Vegas features a number of fun competitive modes with support 
 for up to 16 players. Retrieval is a particularly good one, modeling itself after the typical capture 
 the flag-style game, and featuring respawns so you don't have to sit out if you get killed. There 
 are a number of modes that feature no respawns, if you want the "authentic" Rainbow Six experience 
 of no second chances. The levels themselves are adapted either from the single-player campaign 
 or created specifically for multiplayer, such as a university library that's alluded to in the 
 story. The action in multiplayer is just as intense as in the single-player game, especially since 
 you can use the same cover tactics that you used in the campaign.  

          You can use thermal or night vision to cut through smoke or darkness, and it's helpful 
 for spotting terrorists before you enter a room.     

  What's also interesting about multiplayer is the persistent character that you can customize over 
 time by unlocking new weapons, armor, and accessories. For instance, you can unlock tougher body 
 armor, though the downside is that it lowers your mobility. Body armor comes in various pieces, 
 such as the torso, shoulder pads, and legs. The weapons in multiplayer are all taken from single-player, 
 and there's a healthy assortment of real-world and prototypical military gear in here, divided 
 into shotguns, submachine guns, light machine guns, assault rifles, and sniper rifles. Each weapon 
 can be customized individually with various scopes or sights, and there are various grenade types 
 that you'd expect, like fragmentation, smoke, and flashbang. Rainbow Six Vegas also supports face 
 mapping. If you have the Xbox Live Vision camera, you can scan your face onto the model, creating 
 a unique, if slightly creepy, version of yourself in the game. Finally, many of the achievement 
 points in Rainbow Six Vegas are tied in multiplayer, which is further incentive to get down and 
 dirty online. You get points for racking up kills with various weapons, accomplishing multiplayer 
 missions within a certain amount of time, and even mapping your face into the game.  

  Rainbow Six Vegas sports some excellent graphics, and they're on par with this year's superb Ghost 
 Recon. In fact, these are a bit better, because instead of run-down slums and industrial areas, 
 you finally get to fight it out in a first-world setting. The amount of detail on everything is 
 impressive, but it's almost photo-realistic when it comes to your Rainbow troopers, as you can 
 admire all the high-tech gear these commandos bring into a fight. The beautiful visuals, which 
 still look good on a standard definition display, certainly bring the diverse Vegas casinos to 
 life. They're all fictional, of course, as no real-world casino would want to have its virtual 
 counterpart shot up in a game such as this. However, if we do have one lament, it's that that the 
 game doesn't really make the most of its Las Vegas setting. Sure, you're fighting it out inside 
 casinos full of slot machines and card tables, but you get the feeling that the game could have 
 been set anywhere else and it wouldn't have made much of a difference. But if you're going to set 
 a game in Las Vegas, then set a game in Las Vegas with an Elvis song or two, or at the very least 
 a Wayne Newton tune. Las Vegas is an over-the-top and surreal experience, which is something that 
 Rainbow Six Vegas doesn't quite capture.  

          Rainbow Six Vegas packs a ton of replay in its single-player and vast multiplayer suite. 
     

  The voice acting in the game varies, with the lead character sounding a lot like an angry version 
 of the executive officer from  Star Trek: Enterprise , but for the most part it's all about the 
 evil terrorists making evil threats and the good guys spouting all sorts of hoo-ha. There are helpful 
 voice cues, such as when your teammates yell out that they're swapping magazines, which means you 
 need to provide cover while they're otherwise unable to fire. And the bad guys are pretty helpful 
 about yelling out their tactics to one another, though the game's premise has many of them being 
 ex-Special Forces, which is an awfully rookie mistake. The sound of guns firing is pretty authentic, 
 though at this point every realistic shooter has the same level of effects. Still, the game sounds 
 as good as you'd expect.  

  Rainbow Six Vegas breaks the rules for the series and rewrites them for a new age, which is fitting, 
 as this is the first Rainbow Six game for the Xbox 360. And thankfully, Rainbow Six Vegas ignores 
 the city's official motto; if everything that happened in Vegas stayed in Vegas, then we might 
 have been deprived of this excellent, immersive tactical shooter.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (961 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jercioh
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2009 9:38 am PT
Review:  why is it that the first games in the series are always better. take note this game 2 and ghost 
 recon aw 2. same as on wikipedia, but i wrote this on wikipedia. my fav game.
  
  
  The player begins the game as newly appointed Rainbow team leader Logan Keller, with two squad 
 mates, Gabriel Nowak and Kan Akahashi, on a mission in a Mexican border town called San Joshua 
 del Mosquiera in the year 2010. Joanna Torres, Rainbow's intelligence officer, briefs them on their 
 mission; their objective is to arrest Irena Morales, a terrorist ringleader. As the team reaches 
 its landing zone in a helicopter, Logan fast-ropes down first, but the helicopter and the rest 
 of the team is forced to retreat as a rocket-propelled grenade barely misses them.
  
  Separated from his squad, Logan fights his way through the terrorist-infested streets and meets 
 up with Gabriel and Kan at an old Spanish church, their alternate landing zone. After infiltrating 
 a train yard and freeing a group of hostages, Rainbow eventually makes their way to a mine where 
 Irena is hiding. After eliminating Irena's guards, one of whom is the infamous Marcelo, they attempt 
 to arrest her; however, Irena triggers a set of hidden explosives, caving in the roof and burying 
 Logan under a pile of rubble. Gabriel and Kan are overwhelmed and captured by terrorist reinforcements.
 
  
  As Logan regains consciousness, he finds most of his equipment missing (including his goggles, 
 primary weapons, and grenades) . Alone, and armed only with his handgun and snake cam at first, 
 Logan fights his way through an abandoned factory, eventually escaping with Joanna in Rainbow's 
 helicopter.
  
  Domingo Chavez has a conversation with the new team leader about the incident, instructing him 
 to handle a new crisis in Las Vegas. Logan objects, insisting that he search for his lost squad 
 mates instead; Chavez, however, surmises that the Las Vegas incident and Irena's activity may be 
 too closely related to be a simple coincidence.
  
  Upon reaching Las Vegas, Logan is taken outside of the terrorist-controlled Calypso Casino where 
 he meets with his new team: Michael Walters, a British demolitions expert specializing in heavy 
 weapons, and Jung Park, a Korean reconnaissance and electronics expert. The team infiltrates the 
 Calypso Casino, clearing out the terrorists and rescuing a group of hostages from being executed 
 on camera. Once they clear out the Casino, they must rescue Doctor Philip Smythe, a NATO weapons 
 researcher. After a brief gun battle, Rainbow extracts with Doctor Smythe, who tells waiting FBI 
 agents that another weapons researcher, Dr. Williams, has also been captured. Rainbow takes on 
 the case.
  
  Rainbow is taken to the Red Lotus, a Chinese restaurant, in order to rescue reporter Trish Gracy, 
 who was held hostage after an interview went wrong. Once the team clears out the restaurant and 
 rescues Trish, she informs them that the terrorists are using a news van as a communications hub. 
 Rainbow makes their way down Fremont Street and eventually reaches the van. Jung hacks into the 
 system while Logan and Michael fend off a wave of attacking terrorists. Afterwards, Michael places 
 a demolition charge on the van, destroying the hub. The team is then extracted via helicopter and 
 taken to rescue Dr. Williams.
  
  Rainbow is dropped on the Vertigo Spire, a luxury hotel along the likes of the Stratosphere. The 
 team finds and rescues Dr. Williams from the terrorists, and he informs the team of two bombs; 
 a conventional explosive which destroys the top floors of a building across the way, and the other 
 a highly destructive micro-pulse bomb that was placed in the Vertigo, which Michael disarms after 
 the team searches a few floors down from where Dr. Williams was rescued. Rainbow is then extracted 
 to locate Gabriel and Kan.
  
  The team is dispatched to Dante's Casino which is still under construction. Logan's team lands 
 on the roof and clears it. While clearing the roof, a bell in the tower falls, causing tremendous 
 damage and a fire in the lower floors. In Dante's Arcade, the team finds and frees Gabriel, who 
 is extracted despite his insistence that he fights alongside the squad. While searching the construction 
 area, Rainbow finds Kan engaged in a firefight, who is fatally shot in an attempt to warn the team 
 about an ambush before the team can reach him. Dying, Kan reveals that the attack in Las Vegas 
 is a distraction, and Irena's terrorists are planning a far bigger attack. Although Logan and his 
 team attempt to save him, Kan dies.
  
  The team proceeds to the theater to hack a terrorist server. Irena's target is revealed to be the 
 Nevada Dam (very similar to the Hoover Dam) , a hydroelectric dam on the Colorado River. Rainbow 
 then heads to the roof and extracts.
  
  Rainbow descends onto a bridge in front of the dam where an officer informs Logan of the terrorists' 
 bomb on the bridge in the tourist center. The team makes their way to the second story of the bridge 
 where Michael defuses the bomb with three seconds remaining. They then fast-rope via safety cables 
 to the bottom of the dam and enter the dam to save a hostage who informs them that the dam will 
 buckle under the pressure of the lake. He tells them that they can relieve the pressure by using 
 an emergency release valve. Once the dam pressure crisis is resolved, the team proceeds further 
 into the dam and finds that it is a weapons research lab, where Doctors Smythe and Williams inform 
 the team the terrorists have a micro-pulse missile on top of the dam.
  
  Logan presses forward, confronting Irena Morales herself and fatally wounding her. With her last 
 breath, Irena taunts Logan; while she may die, her partner will continue the fight against Rainbow. 
 She then proves she has classified information on Rainbow, providing the names of some of the highest 
 ranking Rainbow operatives and claiming "We know who you are". Finally, the team heads to the top 
 of the dam and plants a charge on the missile to detonate it in mid-air, without triggering the 
 micro-pulse payload.
  
  Logan receives a transmission from Gabriel, who tells him that he is Irena's mole. Furious, Logan 
 rushes to the chopper to see Jo and Brody Lukin, the pilot, kicked out of the helicopter, Brody 
 unconscious. The team must protect Jo and Brody from a small group of terrorists.
  
  As Logan, Michael and Jung rush to their fallen comrades, Gabriel attempts to escape with an enemy 
 pilot. Logan can let Gabriel escape or he can fire a few shots at the helicopter from a mounted 
 machine gun, which eventually causes it to crash. Logan explains the situation, and the team is 
 sent out to find the organization behind Irena's and Gabriel's terrorist activity. When the mission 
 completes, the words "To Be Continued" appear on the screen, implying a sequel. The credits roll 
 while news is broadcast about the situation. A news clip states that a helicopter had crashed in 
 the lake, but indicated that only the pilot, and not Gabriel, was found.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soggywaffleman
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2009 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow six vegas, takes unsurprisingly in Las Vegas. You follow a terrorist group to Las Vegas 
 who are doing some shenanigans, as a member of an international anti-terrorist group u go in stop 
 it. I found the story to be good enough to keep me engage, while however not particularly epic, 
 and not the attraction of the game.
  
  Now the game play is realistic, intense, fun. With a cover system nearly identical to Gears of 
 War (and works just as well, in fact I liked it more. And in Vegas cover is the name of the game, 
 with out it u will not survive very long at all, it is essential to survival (especial on realistic, 
 where one shot just about does it) . Your squad mates follow your commands very well and can definately 
 be life savers in a fire fight, especially on realistic. The commands are very simple but effective 
 and incredibly easy to pull off, much like that of star wars commando for those who hav played 
 that game. 
  
  Your range of weapons is incredibly vast with ur smgs, assault rifles, shotguns, pistols, and sniper 
 rifles and more. They're all very fun and have their own unique feel and u definately can feel 
 the difference between them (especially on multiplayer) . 
  
  Maybe the best part about vegas is all of the different things it as u doing, whether its sliding 
 dont ropes into hot zones, repelling down walls, hacking computers and more. All of these things 
 are great full to pull off and the animations look very nice.
  
  The graphics are very nice, especially all of the lighting affects in the casinos, the level design 
 is incredible as one might expect, and the character models look pretty good too (bare in mind 
 tho the graphics might not hold up as well compared to more recent games) There aren't many noticeable 
 frame rate drops if any.
  
  The co-op in rainbow six is a blast, coordinating with a friend is great fun and the fights just 
 get awesome. However the game does something odd because wen playing co-op it takes out all narration 
 and story elements, other then your objectives, which is kind of odd, tho the story isn't vegas's 
 forte anyways it's still a little weird.
  
  The multiplayer is great fun and will have u engaged for hours with an experience and reward system 
 like COD4 Modes include attack and defend, which is kind of like one flag, from halo, also death 
 match, survivor, and more. The maps are all great particularly the Calypso Casino map for attack 
 and defend.
  
  So basically if your looking for a fps or just a shooter in general vegas is ur answer, and even 
 if your not a big shooter fan give vegas a try, it is loads of fun and will keep you on the edge 
 of your seat wanting more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwekane
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Finally a game with a cover system and a good one at that. Rainbow Six Vegas is an awesome FPS 
 and i love it because of the wall covering, the guns are awsome and you can customize them like 
 add a scope on a P90, and the storyline is really fun but it was really the only game i had no trouble 
 beating on the hardest difficulty. I dont care for the multiplayer i think it is a complete waste 
 of time so once when you beat the game theres nothing else to do but beat it again. I really like 
 how at the ending of the game it says "to be continued". The thing i didnt like about the beginning 
 is that your on a swat team and in the beginning 3 missions your alone that to me is just stupid 
 even though they did get captured by the enemys i thaught it was stupid that they would add that 
 into the storyline but nonetheless the rest of the game was a blast and fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrandTheftC12
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 24, 2009 9:34 pm PT
Review:  I didnt get this game when it first came out because i didnt have a 360 back then. But i got this 
 game about 2 months ago for $20 and its pretty good for that price. But i would have never spent 
 $60 dollars on it because to me its just lacking something. It seems like the enemies are to hard 
 to kill and the guns dont do enough damage. Me and my friend played this as soon as i got it and 
 we are pretty good at shooting games but i bet we died 20 times on the first mission. This isn't 
 as great as people make it to be its more of a sneak up on these guys and fire on about 5 dudes 
 that have guns that can kill you in two shots. I expected more of a war type approach instead this 
 is like you just sneak up on these guys you may fight a few sometimes but they are just really 
 challenging and to me after you have died about 4 times it gets boring.
  For $20 dollars this is a good deal to keep your attention for a while but as far as giving it 
 a 9.1 no i only give this a 7.0 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrclortho
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2009 10:59 am PT
Review:  I dropped into my local used game store with a Madden '09 game to trade it and got $40 credit. 
 I wanted Vegas 2 but the guy at the counter told me to play Vegas 1 first so I picked up both games 
 for about $40.
  
  I was used to playing COD4 so when I first started this game, it just seemed slow. I had to retrain 
 myself on the style of play and then began to fall in love. You can't just run into a room and 
 rely on your quick instincts to get your through, at least not on the harder difficulty mode. In 
 many situations, it is a one shot, one kill for the bad guys when you step into the wrong room 
 and they empty and assault rifle into your skull.
  
  It starts off in Mexico City and I thought that the graphics were second rate. Just keep playing 
 and they get quite a bit better. Once you get to Vegas and fight your way through the casinos, 
 it is a freaking blast. It is fun as hell to position your guys at one door and then go to another 
 door to flank your targets. Have your guys throw in a flash bang as you come through a different 
 door and spray down the bad guys from behind with machine gun fire or snipe them.
  
  The good: I love the tactical, the weapons and the style of play.
  The bad: No 'knife' like in 
 COD4, graphics can be a bit dated but not too bad.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeyBob
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2009 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Excellent game. Suggest to anyone that like tactical shooters!!! A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
 A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A AA A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A AA A A A AA 
 A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A AA A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
 A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
 A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A AA A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A AA A A A AA A A A 
 A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A AA A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
 A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
 A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A AA A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A AA A A A AA A A A A A A 
 A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A AA A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
 A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
 A A A A A A A A A A A A AA A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A AA A A A AA A A A A A A A A A 
 A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A AA A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
 A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
 A A A A A A A A A AA A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A AA A A A AA A A A A A A A A A A A A 
 A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A AA A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
 A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkness225
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 7:51 pm PT
Review:  rainbow six vegas is set where you play as a member of the speical forces team rainbow six (srry 
 forgot main characters name) in the game you are trying to stop mexican terrorsist from taking 
 over vegas the game starts out in a mexican city where you are droped in to a ally then your helicopter 
 is shot at by a RPG and they have to move out to a safe area so you are on your own for now but 
 oh well. 
  now the cool features about the game is you can pick your own weapons and put what you want on 
 your weapons like a scope or a laser or just more magazine bullets now you have wall cover which 
 i think is great because you dont have to go behind a wall duck out then in then out graphics :) 
 are good story is great multiplayer is really fun you have different matchs like attack and defend, in 
 which if you are attackers you have to steal the package have bring it to the helicopter, survial 
 is last man standing win no respawns, team survial is basicly the same thing as suriveal last man 
 standing on your team wins sharpshooter is who can get the most kills in a time limit team sharpshooter 
 my faviorte kind of game same thing as sharpshooter team with most points in the time limit wins 
 yea really fun multiplayer except when people glitch on multiplayer here is a tip leave one exposlive 
 on for like glitchers and when you are not standing up you do not show on radar 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hickamie14
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2009 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six is one of the most potential ridden series ever created. The only problem with the 
 series has been the lack of a console to run its tactical and realistic game-play. Luckily the 
 Xbox 360 provides the torque needed to push the Rainbow Six series to new and exciting heights 
 in Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Vegas.
  
  Despite the co-op feature, the campaign was built from the ground up for one single person to experience 
 at a time. The game is going to take you some time to complete (roughly 9-12 hours) and is difficult 
 even on the lowest setting. The setting of the game is what makes Vegas so memorable, fighting 
 through slot rooms in casinos and recovering hostages from the Vertigo Spire is simply awesome 
 to experience. You don't really get to know the characters very well, but the plot is interesting 
 and will take a few twists and turns along the way while providing a feel unlike any other game. 
 
  
  The combat is masterfully done; the cover system is great and the controls work very well. There 
 are a number of gadgets you can use like Thermal Vision and the Snake Cam which allows you to peak 
 under a door before entering. The Enemy AI is absolutely superb, for the most part they'll suppress, 
 flank and kill you while working as a team. Because of this it's essential that you think tactically 
 and observe your enemies before attacking. Sadly the squad controls are a little limited unless 
 they are stacked up on a door and sometimes your teammates will either let you get killed or get 
 killed themselves by someone that they should have eliminated quickly. This really is unfortunate 
 because checkpoints are really spread out.
  
  The Multi-Player is not for the faint of heart. RSV features some of the most intense and realistic 
 multi-player you'll ever play. There are a number of different game mode and a few maps to play 
 them on, but the real depth comes from the weapon selection and the P. E. C (persistent Elite creation) . 
 P. E. C allows you to continually unlock new weapons and armor as well as different clothes as you 
 rank up your online identity. The system works very well, but finding matches can be pretty annoying 
 sometimes. You should also know that the multi-player won't appeal to everyone and you'll often 
 get booted just for having a low rank. 
  
  The graphics in RSV feature good looking environments and textures, but great looking weapons and 
 character models. The sound design is incredible and the orchestral score is high quality. The 
 only weak point in the graphics is the unvaried environments that can make the game seem a little 
 dull. 
  Rainbow Six: Vegas features unrivaled and intense realism that makes the game difficult but oh 
 so addictive. If you like tactical shooters then this will suck your life away, but if you don't 
 like tactical shooters you'll still enjoy the game. 
  
  ~~Story: 8.5~~~~~~~~~~Game-Play: 9.4~~~~~~~~~Lasting Appeal: 9.4~~~
  
  THE GOOD | Highly Realistic 
 | Huge weapon arsenal | Great environments | Intense competitive Multi-Player | Weapons look and 
 sound amazing | great enemy AI
  
  THE BAD: Squad controls are limited in normal combat | Squad mates can be stupid at times | Only 
 two difficulty settings | Host has too much control in multi-player | There are some spawn issues 
 in Multi-Player | Too few checkpoints in single-player.
  
  OVERALL: 9.3
  
  Rainbow Six: Vegas has amazing realism and is a blast to play. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trackpants
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 5:51 am PT
Review:  The game is a lot of fun. Especially the online version, you could play countless hours of online 
 gaming and plus some of the maps are even free on x box live so how could one complain. The ingame 
 play is pretty cool. You are hunting down this terrorist lady and her cell whom is putting havoc 
 on you and the city las vegas. You must stop her before anything drastic happens. You have a team 
 of three in total and you control your AI partners. It is realisitic military talking, training, 
 and gear. The weapons and its descriptions are bang on and the realism of the option to have one 
 to two shot kills makes the game a good challenge and lets you use your head to think of certain 
 situations, like a real soldier would. The visuals in the game are quite stunning too, when you 
 fly in the helicopter over vegas, it actually shows some of the cool buildings and sites of Vegas. 
 This game definitely deserves at least an 8.5 for its fun factor for online and its great campaign 
 mode! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WWARNER4787
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 1:01 am PT
Review:  Well I am a huge G. R. A. W fan and after seeing what Tom Clancy can do with that game, I knew he 
 must have done great with his others. So I told my cousin a few games that I wanted for Christmas 
 and he got me this one and I am so glad that he did. This game is a first person shooter game at 
 its best. It has some similar features that were in G. R. A. W so that made it easier to get use to, 
 but if you have never played a Tom Clancy game it won't be very hard to get use to the controls 
 at all everything is very simple to do. All the maps are great and the layouts are wonderful, also 
 the A. I. is very good and they are very smart when they are fighting you so be careful and always 
 approach them with caution and be prepared for a all out war. Also if you are a big multiplayer 
 then you are going to love this game it is very deep and the custom options for your player are 
 almost endless you will get addicted very quick. So as a 360 lover and a longtime player this game 
 is a must have for the first person shooter lovers and the multiplayer lovers. So go out and buy 
 this game you will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MyFingerPoints
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that really separates its self from the Rainbow 6 series. Though there is still 
 are many aspects that are borrowed from the previous Rainbow 6 games there are many additions that 
 make it one of my favorite tactical shooters. Firstly the shooting mechanics are improved with 
 the addition of a cover system. It is very useful when are you dealing with a large wave of enemies. 
 Also there are many weapons as usually which keeps shooting Mexican terrorists interesting, but 
 one thing I must add is it can get easy for those who have played the other Rainbow 6 games. The 
 visuals in the game are pretty good, however you do run into texture pop-ins and a minor drops 
 in frame rate. The story in this game has a lot of depth to it unlike previous games in the series. 
 There is various twists that keep you interested and an ending that leads into the second game. 
 Overall this game is a very good addition to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hahnasty
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas provides a good shooting game with a decent plot that you can play for a long 
 time. You get to be a part of a team too, which can be fun since you get to control them. The team 
 has extensive controls which you can make them perform, but you first have to learn how to utilize 
 them. They are no good if they stand right next to you the whole time.
  Compared to other games you can die really easily in this game. When you get shot the screen becomes 
 blurry and you can't see any terrorists on the screen. You have to find cover immediately, or you 
 won't stay alive. The problem is that the screens goes blurry when you get hit by one shot, so 
 you have to stay in cover all the time or you won't be able to see. You really have to learn how 
 to stay in cover, and kill bad guys really quick. That combined with sending your team ahead to 
 uncover some enemies will help you.
  You also may be much better at the game if you learn to use the map. At times the terrorists will 
 be shown on the map, so you can flank them and use the team on the other side.
  Although there are some frustrations with the game with dying too fast, once you learn the maneuver 
 and use your team wisely this game can be very fun. It's definitely worth the time to play, and 
 with a pretty long campaign mode you won't beat the game too fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smbius
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas (RSV) starts out strong and puts you right in the fire. You begin in Mexico trying 
 to bring a criminal to justice. Sounds simple enough until you begin to go through the number of 
 political twists and turns that ultimately take to the streets of Vegas. Because RSV's level design 
 mostly takes place in Vegas, the environments brim with gobs of interactivity. Slot machines, neon 
 lights, and tons of glass windows add flair to an otherwise ordinary gunfight. Nothing feels better 
 than hiding behind a roulette table and tossing frag grenades at the "tangos" hiding behind the 
 bar. Although RSV's storyline and narrative is strong enough to help you advance the plot, there 
 are a couple of gameplay issues that can mar the experience. In ye' olden console days of yore, 
 checkpoints (or savepoints) were rare in many action games and RSV has rediscovered this tradition 
 and decided to bring it to modern gaming as a reflection of what gamers suffered from years ago. 
 It's unfortunate that these issues with checkpoints occur in most of the games missions. With no 
 ability to run and checkpoints separated miles apart, the player may feel cheated after finishing 
 RSV's brief single-player campaign. Seasoned vets of tactical FPS games will briefly fly through 
 the game and find themselves with a dissatisfied ending. Throughout the game, RSV's balancing act 
 of the game's difficulty is a constant battle of replaying long winded stages.
  
  In addition, some parts of RSV have bugs that haven't been addressed even as of this writing. Imagine 
 reaching near the end game only to trigger a scripted event and not being able to progress after 
 the event.
  
  Sometimes level-of-detail problem causes friendly character models to be temporarily stuck in their 
 non-textured models. On occasion, the high-detail texture and geometry will load in while the person 
 has started talking to you.
  
  On multiplayer, RSV's hide-and-shoot game mechanics work well and the experience can be satisfying 
 when flashbangs and snake cams play a strong part of it. While Attack and Defend, Team Sharpshooter, 
 Team Survival, and Retrieval are all variations of Deathmatch and Capture The Flag. RSV's real 
 savior of multiplayer is the Cooperative Campaign. The difference in having three friends approaching 
 three different attack points instead of three AIs going through a single door changes the experience. 
 Just imagine you and your friends rapelling while breaking through the glass door and clearing 
 each enemy in seconds.
  
  Overall, RSV is not without its flaws. Taken individually, these flaws are minor, but the small 
 problems add up to noticeably affect the overall quality of the game. Fortunately, RSV's multiplayer 
 co-op mode plays as a savior despite these flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  The Rainbow Six Vegas series has always been the go-to source for a good tactical shooter (aside 
 from Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter.) It's safe to say that this is, indeed, a good tactical 
 shooter -- actually, it's a great tactical shooter, with great graphics, a high quality campaign, 
 addictive multiplayer and a co-op feature. Even though it misses the mark in only a few aspects, 
 it still deserves a place in any action fan's game collection.
  
  In Rainbow Six Vegas, you play as Logan Keller, the leader of one of Rainbow's three-man counter-terrorist 
 assault teams. You get called into action have some operation in Mexico went wrong, and, for some 
 reason, the terrorists decide to attack the casinos and high-rise hotels of Las Vegas. Your assignment 
 is to, obviously, stop these terrorists, which involves a device that will kill millions if not 
 stopped. The resolution isn't all that satisfying, either, but it's pretty easy to overlook, considering 
 that the combat in Rainbow Six Vegas is simply excellent.
  
  What differentiates this between another run-of-the-mill shooter is its tactical combat. The game 
 feels a lot like Gears of War, where a slab of concrete is your best friend. Walls, slot machines, 
 an SUV, a desk or anything else that separates you from your enemy is a key factor in progressing 
 through the campaign. Getting into cover couldn't be easier -- walk up to it and simply hold down 
 the left trigger. This way you'll be able to either poke your head out to line up an accurate shot 
 or to blind fire, which saves you from taking damage but is also far less accurate. The game transitions 
 from a first-person to third-person perspective as you go in and out of cover, and it's cool to 
 watch your character behind cover as bullets impact around him.
  
  You rarely ever fight alone in Rainbow Six Vegas; you'll usually have two other teammates with 
 you. The artificial intelligence is quite superb as you watch them follow you around. Finding your 
 next objective is pretty easy, since your teammates can navigate the cluttered environment effectively, 
 and the use cover almost as well as you do. It's actually quite easy to control your teammates, 
 too. By pointing to a spot on the ground and pressing A, they'll move to that same position. If 
 you point at a door and hit A, they'll "stack up" to it, and with the D-pad, you'll have different 
 options of entering the next room. It may help you decide how to enter these rooms by using your 
 snake cam, which allows you to see who's behind the door. It works effectively if you target two 
 enemies and command your squad to take them down from two different doorways.
  
  The game really makes you feel like you're an elite commando. It's fascinating to watch your character 
 rope down from a helicopter, land on a skyscraper rooftop, run to the edge and rappel down, all 
 in a matter of seconds. While on the rappel line, you'll be able to hang upside down, spot the 
 enemy in the room, and yell out their position to your teammates. Then, on your command, your team 
 will burst through the windows and kill the terrorists. In fact, the levels are designed with multiple 
 ways of entry, so you'll be able to ponder your attack strategy. An odd thing is that terrorists 
 in a neighboring room seem completely unaware of any gunfire or explosions happening within only 
 fifteen feet of their position. At least this let's you plan your attack strategy, though.
  
  On the lowest difficulty setting, Rainbow Six Vegas is a moderately challenging game, at least 
 after you beat the first stage in Mexico. You'll be able to absorb a decent amount of damage, save 
 for if you get taken down by a shotgun at close range. The health system is a lot like that of 
 the Call of Duty series. If you take some damage, your vision begins to blur, and if you take too 
 much damage, you're dead. But if you manage to find some cover and stay there for a few seconds, 
 you'll be back at full health. However, a major problem I have with this game is the checkpoint 
 system. Unlike the Call of Duty system, where there's an automatic checkpoint every few seconds, 
 the checkpoints are very spaced, so if you die ten feet from the next objective, you'll have to 
 restart the previous battle again from the beginning. If they'd borrowed the Call of Duty checkpoint 
 system, the game's difficulty setting would be considerably less frustrating.
  
  The single player campaign isn't terribly long, clocking in anywhere from ten to fifteen hours. 
 But there's a lot of replay value here with the strong four-player co-op feature, where you and 
 your buddies can play through the entire campaign, easing the difficulty setting slightly. There's 
 also a mode called Terrorist Hunt, where you and three other players fight against randomly placed 
 terrorists on any given map. It's always fun to try to strategize your attack both in the campaign 
 and in Terrorist Hunt. Unfortunately, you'll have to set up the server ahead of time for it to 
 continually load the next level in the campaign.
  
  In addition to co-op, there's also some competitive multiplayer modes that support up to 16 players 
 in a match. You've got your standard Team Deathmatch, Deathmatch and Capture the Flag, but there's 
 also a number of no-respawn modes, similar to Gears of War. The maps are either based off of the 
 single-player campaign or are completely original for the multiplayer. The core action is still 
 the same, and you'll be able to use the same type of tactics here that you used in the campaign.
 
  
  What's interesting about the multiplayer is the persistent character that you're building up. For 
 example, you'll be able to have tougher body armor, though it will slow your mobility. Body armor 
 comes in various pieces, such as the chest, shoulder pads and legs. All the weapons from the campaign 
 are in multiplayer, and they're divided into five different categories: shotguns, sniper rifles, 
 submachine guns, assault rifles and light machine guns. Each weapon can be individually customized, 
 with various scopes and sights, and there are also different grenades, like frag, smoke, and flashbang. 
 There's also face mapping. If you have the Xbox Live Vision camera, you can scan your face on the 
 model, creating another version of yourself in the game. Many of the achievements are in the multiplayer, 
 making it even more addicting.
  
  In terms of the audiovisual presentation, it's all great. The environments are nicely detailed, 
 along with your teammates, and even though the models could be better, they're fine for a game 
 made in 2006. The beautiful visuals, which still look good on a standard definition TV, are made 
 even better on an HD TV. Another complaint I have is the lack of environments. You feel like the 
 game doesn't make the most of its Las Vegas setting, which is a slight disappointment. The audio 
 is generally quite impressive, though all shooters these days sound alike. The voice acting is 
 as good as it's going to get, and the soundtrack is nicely cinematic.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas is a fantastic package. While the checkpoint system could use some work, the 
 environments are a bit repetitive, and the first level isn't all that great, they can be overlooked 
 when you see the greatness in the campaign, addictive multiplayer, and strong co-op options. Thankfully, 
 the game ignores the city's official motto, for if everything that happened in Vegas stayed in 
 Vegas, we'd certainly be missing out on this immersive shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotFox
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 2, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Every time I play a Tom Clancy game, I seem to set higher and higher expectations, only to become 
 more and more disenchanted with his franchise. Rainbow Six Vegas was especially disappointing, 
 since I've heard so many rave reviews regarding the game, and I personally found its presentation 
 to be sorely lacking.
  
  Maybe I'm overly biased, but I become quickly frustrated by any game  especially an immersive 
 game like a FPS title  that doesn't allow the player to jump and THEN blocks your path with small 
 boxes and crates. Okay, rubble and fallen buildings is one thing, but put a BOX in my way? Give 
 me a break. Even more frustrating is that you're allowed to climb over some obstacles, but not 
 all of them, which means that you have to approach all platforms in the hopes that the context 
 sensitive button will pop up to allow you to climb up onto into a higher area rather than scurry 
 around looking for a ramp. Oh yeah, this is a super solider all right, highly trained, able to 
 rappel off roofs and scurry down ladders, but put a box in his way and forget it. Maybe he's just 
 wearing too much gear to step off debris in his path? Whatever the case, this provided some annoyance 
 right off the bat.
  
  Returning to the context sensitive button I mentioned before, this becomes issue number two, because 
 this little bugger is a bit OVERLY sensitive at times. The major issue here occurs when you're 
 team stacking for door entry. If you've got some distance between yourself and the door, no problem, 
 you can send your team to stack on it quick. If you're too close, however, the button juggles between 
 three different options: stacking, opening the door, or sending a snake cam under the door. The 
 tutorial advises you to aim at the bottom of the door for the snake cam prompt, but sometimes the 
 cursor seems to get confused and either won't appear (as if you're pointed at the floor) or will 
 have you pointed too high, which will cause the door to open instead, exposing you to an ambush. 
 It would have been nicer if this sensitive area had been a bit wider.
  
  Checkpoints! This game is severely lacking in these, which causes a serious difficulty curve as 
 you're crossing the game's massive areas. It's extremely frustrating to make it through several 
 harrowing sections, fending off ambushes and enemy chokepoints, only to make a stupid mistake (usually 
 by opening a door when you're trying to send the snake cam under it) and get capped, bringing you 
 back to the beginning of the area. Are you kidding me?
  
  Another rather odd point of note in this game is the outfitting crates that are scattered about 
 the area. Taking in stride that these were somehow placed for the benefit of a Rainbow Six operative 
 in the middle of enemy-controlled territory, it was disheartening to find a great amount of weapons 
 and upgrades to these weapons available right from the beginning of the game at no cost. Why would 
 I take a vastly inferior pistol when I can equip a more powerful and accurate sub-machine gun AND 
 tack on a scope to it for FREE. Considering all the other FPS games where you have to earn your 
 better weapons, it was odd to have access to such powerful weapons right off the start.
  
  Graphically, this game is amazing, no doubt about that. From the game's beginnings in a rugged 
 and war-torn village in Mexico into the glamorous Sin City, this game continues to dazzle as you 
 explore the environment. No complaints on this score. As for the sound, once again we have a game 
 where a lot of dialogue is obscured by the surrounding ambiance. And look at that, you don't even 
 have an option to toggle subtitles, so that's terrific. 
  Okay, so that you don't think that I'm totally hating on this entry to the series, I have to state 
 that the AI is pretty smart in regards to your squad mates. They're rather efficient at storming 
 through rooms, taking out the enemy targets, and making efficient use of cover as they navigate 
 through cluttered rooms.
  
  I didn't find this game to be as impressive as all the reviews I've read made it out to seem, but 
 obviously I'm just one voice against the mob. If you're a fan of the other Clancy shooter games, 
 by all means, try this one out, and I hope you don't get as hung up on cosmetic details like me.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolaidWTF
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2008 11:38 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the best shooters I have played in a while before CoD 4 of course. But this 
 game is realistic, fun, addictive, and just pretty good. I've played this with my friends and brother 
 in the co-op terrorist hunt and I don't know if it was just us or what but this game isn't the 
 easiest game out there. I swear we played a level at least 30 times and we still haven't beat it. 
 It's just a game that you have to actually sit down and concentrate on and it takes team work and 
 skill to dominate in co-op. The split screen is always good for a good shooter, also when your 
 parter does get shot and die you actually get both parts to you one in 3rd person and one in 1st 
 person. So when you get blinded by those flash bangs you can always look over on the other side 
 and see where your going and that always comes in handy when you really need it. The guns and grenades 
 ehh aren't the very best. Sometimes you can throw a grenade 10 feet away from them and they wont 
 even fall down, or you can shoot them like 10 times before they actually die BUT the pistol only 
 takes 1 shot to kill them. Does that make sense? But other then that it's a pretty good game just 
 to have some fun with and do some shooting by yourself or even with a friend. I would suggest the 
 co-op on pretty much any shooter game it just makes it 10 times more exciting when you have two 
 people just going at it together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Negative7000
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Let me get this straight. This is one of the funnest games I have ever played. It's challenging, 
 but awesome. I love to play Terrorist Hunt with my friend, it's definitely one of the greatest 
 things about it. This game explored a whole other level of first-person shooters. The gameplay 
 will put you in awe and the visuals are superb. The dialogue wasn't cheesy at all in my opinion 
 either. Another great thing about Terrorist Hunt is that you have to work together; if your friend 
 dies, you'll have hard time staying alive. I like how that works out, but some may not. I wish 
 this game as for the Wii because I can only play it at my friend's house. However it is worth fifty 
 or sixty dollars! it's simply amazing! There's no other way I can put it! 10/10 I recommend this 
 game to anyone who is allowed to play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Impossible
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  This has to be one of the best tactical shoot 'em' ups we've had in decades since Operation Flashpoint 
 came out. In Rainbow Six Vegas you play a guy called Logan and you start off in Mexico fighting 
 against terroist's and then later on you meet up with Michael and Jung they are your team mates. 
 Eventually you leave Mexico to fight off a terroist organisation going on in Las Vegas and now 
 you have to track down the leader Irnea. The covering system is excellet, there's a varity of weapons 
 to choose from which you can customize if you want too that's cool. The graphic's are good but there 
 is a couple of glitch's in the game that will leave you feeling a little bit anxious but it's not 
 a great deal of difference these glitch's are only minor. The character models up close are great 
 but ubisoft needs to work a bit more on the character's up close and the environment that surrounds 
 the character is ace. The first half of the storyline was great and then eventually went downhill 
 afterwards. This game is excellent and if your looking for a very good tactical shoot em up then 
 you've come to the right place. Rainbow Six Vegas is a must buy!
  
  Graphic's - The environment in this game is nice and rich, however the character models need a 
 bit more working on especially the minor glitch's they need to be fixed.
  
  Gameplay - This game is absolutely brilliant.
  
  How long the game last's? - This will last 
 you at least 10 to 20 hours of gameplay or even less. The missions feel quite long but wants you've 
 finished story mode that's it. Unless of course you go on xbox live or you play cooperative with 
 friends on story mode. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cantius
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 12:34 am PT
Review:  (Review from gamefaqs. Shogain. Which is my account there.)
  
  Alright, to clarify something before you read this review, it is focused only on Single Player. 
 Why? Because I have no Xbox Live. Anyway, many people have heard of the name Tom Clancy. When you 
 read that name, you start to picture a tactical shooting game in your mind or a stealth game. Splinter 
 Cell? Ghost Recon? If you haven't heard of those, don't fret. Rainbow Six Vegas is a great way 
 to start for the Tom Clancy games, and this one by far is the best Tom Clancy game I've played.
 
  
  Story [? rating]
  Sorry to disappoint, but I or you could care less about the story in this game. It's rather boring, 
 and it's mainly about a terrorist group from Mexico, that have managed to control the major part 
 of a popular Vegas casino. It's up to you to stop them from killing the hostages, triggering a 
 bomb, or... maybe something more sinister. Yeah, sounds pretty boring, right? Considering how I 
 barely listened to the characters talking, I never did get the real point of the story. For that 
 reason, I give the story a ? rating.
  
  Gameplay [8.9]
  Ooookay, the major part of the gameplay. The real reason why your gonna buy the game. Graphics 
 or not, gameplay is mainly the reason a game gets a good review. Err, anyway, about the gameplay, 
 it is very fun. If you like squad based shooting games, then this is the right game for you. It 
 also feels realistic, with the cover system and all. A true tactical game, Rainbow Six Vegas has 
 a great roster of weapons. Sniper Rifles, Assault Rifles, Sub machine guns, shotguns, shields, 
 grenades, pretty much the weapons you would need in a real life hostage situation. One of the things 
 I disliked about the gameplay was that you can EASILY die from a few shots to the body. But, this 
 can be avoided if you cover behind walls, objects, cars, anything. Strategy is key in this game. 
 Teamwork, is important as well. Whenever you come upon a door, you can order your squad to prepare 
 to raid the room, in variety of ways. Whether placing a discharge bomb on the door, or throw a 
 nade, it'll get the job done. You can also use a snake cam, which you can see beyond the door without 
 getting noticed. A very useful gadget. Another useful gadget is your thermal sensor thingy. Whenever 
 you use smoke, you can use your thermal sensor, and quickly dispatch the terrorists. The game has 
 a bunch of awesome gameplay elements, such as rapelling down buildings, thus breaching in through 
 the windows, OR those awesome fast ropes, where you can quickly get down a high place, confusing 
 the enemy. Pretty much everything I wrote in this section covers the gameplay. Add that to multiplayer, 
 and you have yourself a fun fulfilling game.
  
  Graphics [8.5]
  The graphics are nothing new, but they are pretty eye-candy. With all those bright lights in vegas, 
 of course your gonna say the graphics are pretty. Well, pretty may not be the right word to describe 
 it, but it's enough to say that the graphics are good looking. Overall, the graphics in the game 
 is great.
  
  Sound/Music [8.0]
  Onto the sound and music section. First thing I didn't like about the sound was that the voice 
 acting was kinda low, but it wasn't so low that you could barely understand them. The voice acting 
 is superb, and is nicely executed. Your enemies shout out where you went, or shouting out hostile 
 remarks to you. It's what you would hear if you were in a situation like that. The music in this 
 game is also nice. I kinda forgot how the music goes, but I really liked the background music in 
 the casino. For example, you can hear elevator music in random places, and sometimes techno music, 
 which is attractive for some reason. Overall, sound and music is great.
  
  Final Word -
  I think that every Tom Clancy fans and to any shooter fans should buy this game. It'll be worth 
 every cent you paid for. Considering how highly I rated this game based on single player, I think 
 that alone should make you buy the game. If I had Xbox Live, I probably would've rated this game 
 a 9, considering how fun I had with the single player mode, and how it would feel to team up with 
 real humans.
  
  Overall [8.6] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rheinmetal
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2008 1:29 am PT
Review:  If I was to choose only a word to describe "Rainbow Six Vegas", I would say: "professional". A 
 professional shooter, that's what this game stands for. Beyond that, there isn't anything else.
 
  
  Difficulty is very hard, for no reason. Imagine that you have to wipe out an entire army of terrorists 
 each time, before you can reach a damn checkpoint! Sometimes it will get you hours to clear an 
 area, getting killed at the last time over and over...
  
  The game play is repetitive: Hide behind a wall, take out your pistol while the CPU is reloading, 
 shoot one or two times, hide again, move behind some other spot and so on.. It's a challenge all 
 right, but I expect something more from a game to really love it. Some plot perhaps? No plot here! 
 Just the basics. Kill the terrorists, free the hostages, and deal with situations that might occur.
 
  
  Controls are well set, although they could have been better. It might take you long to get used 
 to it, and most important, not to press instinctively in the rush of the battle the "B" button 
 that corresponds to bomb throwing!
  Graphics are solid. The environments are colourful, well lit, and vivid, as you might expect from 
 a casino scenery, yet the "face animations" of the characters look terrible. I'd say there aren't 
 any face animations actually! Just the lips open and close, and the eye lids blink rythmically. 
 Like the doll-actors in 70's action movies. Sound effects are OK. Shattered glasses, sound of the 
 guns of course, typical voice overs, nothing special, just the basics.
  
  Generally, this game is overrated, as every Tom Clancy game, allow me to say. It's a very good 
 action title all right, but not superb. It's stiff, something is missing. Naturally neither can 
 I recommend it blindly to everyone, nor prevent someone from buying it. I, myself bought it at 
 a bargain price and I didn't regret it, it just didn't make me happy either.
  Rent it, to see for yourselves if you like it. I would say it's a very good game, which isn't quite 
 suitable for all people. If "Splinter Cell" was your game, you will definitely like this one too. 
 But if you found that game rather dull, expect just a more polished and bright version of it in 
 "Rainbow Six Vegas". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer3450
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  The new gameplay is great, the new system cover is awesome, new weapons and gadgets ,now can modify 
 the weapons, the IA enemy is better, big scenes, the graphics are exquisite, great lighting effects, 
 character models are nicely put together, the multiplayer is awesome, The storyline is immersive 
 and very easy to understand. It makes the game seem like a movie because the storyline is something 
 like what you see in the movies. Though still, the story still grabs you.
  Everything you could wish for in a FPS of this type is at your disposal, guns grenades, smart team 
 members, all of them are great to play with. This is a thinking game. You are required to be as 
 tactical as possible, so if you like to go in guns blazing, think again. The dialog has been put 
 together with plenty of thought, and the story, has a breath taking environment. I guess the only 
 downfall came at the end of the mission. Im not about to let on what happens, but i would have 
 like to have seen a more final cut ending. Still, it will leave you wanting more, and that what 
 we want from our games. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: headymoe79
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  Graphics, storyline, controls, etc... all great stuff. The weapons were awesome. I loved cutting 
 those fools down!! LOL!!! It sucked to see our boy back stab us. Punk ass!! We'll get him in part 
 2. My team was very good. Much than GRAW. When things really get poppin' I had to step in and clear 
 things out.... but thats to be expected. So no problem there. I loved watching my guys smash and 
 clear the room on the snake cam. Looked like "extreme tv". LOL... Bodies flying!!!
  
  One thing I would like is to be able to switch views or hands with the weapon. That would definitely 
 help on certain parts. Everyone is NOT right handed. All in all, 
  
  I cant wait to play part 2 to and wrap up the story. Although, I was told that it was short and 
 not worth the purchase. Just to rent it. Thats too bad if its true. Either way, Tom Clancy really 
 has this thing down pact. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soldier11b
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Customization is the name of the game. With every bit of your gear and player under your control, 
 it makes the game quite immersive. Campaign is not quite as funs as online or Terrorist Hunt, but 
 it all makes one very cool game. Now all they need is a Melee attack with a good solid Spyderco 
 Military or Strider MT.
  
  Buy this game, it doesn't get old. You can play for hours and hours and still not have unlocked 
 even half of the gear, camo, and perks.
  
  So, you've got a completely customizable game that is reminiscent of the first N64 Rainbow Six. 
 What's not to love?
  
  Well, the downside is you have to always play on the hardest mode to enjoy the game or even beat 
 it, which makes for a very hard time. The map is also not free roam, which in this day and age 
 is almost inexcusable.
  
  I would like to see some more weapons put into the game such as the HK416, SigArms 
  P229/8, 
 and the M203. More tactical modes such as a strobing flashlight, take downs and arrests, tazers, 
 and more hostage rescue. It would also be nice to have an Elcan sight and an Eotech or 2. Also, 
 solid colors for camoflauge would have been helpful as it would have been easier to make my USMC 
 loadout. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slipstream720
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  To be honest, I have owned this game twice. It was one of the first games I had for 360, I sold 
 it, and I got it again a few days ago. This game is beautiful, to start with, and there are so 
 many small details that most games look over. The gameplay is solid (more so than Rainbow Six 3) , 
 and the cover system is great. There are some annoying glitches here and there that annoy me, such 
 as enemies shooting through metal, and delayed voices. This game is also frustratingly challenging. 
 It is DEFINITELY not a run-and-gun shooter, seeing at how you die very easily even on the lowest 
 difficulty level. I like this, because it adds some realism to the game, but some people with short 
 tempers will hate this game. Even after the decently long campaign, the terrorist hunt mode is 
 a whole lotta fun! Not many maps, but they are pretty big and the ability to play with a friend 
 hunting terrorists in Split-Screen is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nurok17
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  This game was truly awesome. The game is so precise and definitely one of the best tactical shooters 
 out there. For when it came out this game provided an amazing gameplay experience. It gives you 
 the best of single player solo action (you do have your AI partners though) or Co-op Story mode 
 and then there's the Terrorist Hunts (just plain fun) . 
  
  All around this game was truly amazing. The graphics and environments were top notch when this 
 game came out and are still pretty good in today's standards (almost 2 years later) . The story 
 was complex and immersive. Not too difficult either. If you're not a die-hard FPS person I would 
 recommend starting on Normal to be safe and then go to Realistic. 
  
  The realism of the game is what makes it so cool. You get hit a couple time and you're gone (although 
 you health does regenerate after not too long) . This game is all about finding and taking cover, 
 precision shooting and coordinated attacks. It's not so intense that you have to plan the whole 
 thing out like Rainbow Six 3 on PC but you make it up as you go. The weapon selection is great 
 too and you can swap out your primary and secondary weapons and your gadgets (i. e. frags, smokes, 
 C4 etc.) . 
  
  Playing co-op on Terrorist Hunts is my personal favorite though. It's not story driven and really 
 is just great practice for the game itself and FPS's in general. Plus it's fun to just mow guys 
 down for a bit. It does get a little repetitive and sometimes the AI is not that smart and you 
 wont move from the first section of the map and be able to take out everyone. It is more random 
 so guys are not in the same spot every time but the AI is not perfect. 
  
  Online multiplayer is fun. It seemed to be a lot like the terrorist hunts but now with real players 
 instead of AI (in adversarial modes that is) . Have not played online that extensively though.
 
  
  Overall the game is a real winner. Fun in all aspects and has great gameplay, graphics and sounds. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxboynabooxx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow six Vegas is an amazing game. It is unique from COD4 or halo. It is a tactical shooter. 
 This is a game wher u use tactics and stradegy to beat the game not just run and gun. So some people 
 may not like it.
  
  Well anyways the review. This game has good single player campaign but you'll get bored of it after 
 a while it gets repetitve. You can do it with a friend in coop but it really isnt organized nicely. 
 But the multiplayer is where the game shines. IT has terrific chracter creation and tons of unlocks 
 to keep you playing. The map assortment is great and a nice array of modes. 
  
  The graphics in this game are exquisite. Great lighting effects and framrate really drops. chracter 
 models are nicely put together
  
  OVerall this game is game that will keep on delivering for multiplayer but singerplayer it lacks. 
 But a game that will enterain! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moshxpit91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  In short, i think this game requires someone with an acquired taste for this type of game. You 
 will need a lot of patience to complete this game even on the normal difficulty setting. But if 
 you can manage to get through it, and are into this type of gaming experience you will find yourself 
 re-playing the campaign with various settings and such just because its so awesome.
  
  Story: Ok, so its not great. The story is usually not the focal point of a game like this. The 
 guns and explosions are! But i must admit, it was not bad for RS: Vegas. It even left a nice little 
 cliffhanger at the end. I won't go into too much detail to spoil it for anyone who cares, but the 
 bottom line is... your team gets ambushed and taken hostage by terrorists taking over Vegas. somehow 
 you avoid getting killed/captured obviously so you have to find them and save them. Turns out one 
 of your teammates was behind the terrorist plot the whole time and he gets away after you "rescue" 
 him. And thats where it leaves you. Its actually not that horrible the way its told.
  
  Graphics: Pretty much amazing. I think the outdoor environments really show off what the game can 
 do. But there is some VERY cool eye candy inside the casinos as well. The explosion and smoke effects 
 look a tad last-gen but its forgivable with such detail in the environments and character models. 
 The night vision is realistic. Its not as saturated and toxic-waste looking as in the older rainbow 
 six games, which is nice. its easy on the eyes and easy to see enemies in the dark. Thermal vision 
 is a little hard to use while moving cause in certain situations you cannot see certain walls or 
 obstacles very well. but in a close quarters environment when you're behind cover it works like 
 a charm. reflections and lighting effects look nice and there was very little clipping or glitching 
 in the graphics, even in multi player as far as i could tell.
  
  Sound: If you don't have a surround sound system yet (but who doesn't!?) go get one NOW. The explosions 
 will shake the room and send your family ducking for cover and the guns sound as they should. they 
 really do each have their own unique sound. you can tell the difference between 2 guns and they 
 have a nice crisp and loud snapping sound to them. As they should. The voice overs are ok. I've 
 seen better but I've also seen worse. but i guess in a game like this it doesn't really matter 
 anyway right?
  
  Gameplay: In one word: AMAZING. The AI is very intelligent. Especially compared to old rainbow 
 six/ghost recon games. Your teammates are not stupid. For the most part, you can send them into 
 a room and they will almost always do what you want them to do without dying. On rare occasion 
 i came across some odd glitching in the game though. Sometimes your teammates will get stuck on 
 random surfaces and you need to go out of your way to get them back on track and also on RARE occasion 
 enemies would not spawn in certain rooms causing the checkpoints to trigger in weird ways. Most 
 of the time i would have to re-load my last checkpoint when this happened but its not a HUGE problem 
 cause i didn't mind re-laying parts anyway. The controls are easy to learn and actually quite easy 
 to master. The cover system works almost perfect. the only things i found annoying is that you 
 can't cover/aim/and strafe at the same time. so sometimes i'd be stuck in a situation where i could 
 see my target, but not be able to shoot them without losing my cover. but thats the only flaw i 
 could see.
  
  Multi-player: Its good. But its nothing special. Playing team sharpshooter (team deathmatch) and 
 co-op story/co-op terrorist hunt over Xbox live were my favorites. there are other modes such as 
 regular sharpshooter, attack and defend, and some modes similar to that of capture-the-flag or 
 kind of the hill but it all feels similar and some are changed a little too much to the point you 
 aren't sure what you are supposed to be doing. but if you like playing shooters over Xbox live 
 as i do then you'll find yourself spending quite a bit of time in front of your T. V. with this 
 one.
  
  thanks for reading
  -frankusFreakout
  
  P. S. this is my first written review of a game. please give me feedback, if you like my writing 
 and if you agree with my points/opinions let me know and i'll keep reviewing my games
  
  peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dailyderek
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  This game brings new features into the game and delivers great Story Mode, Multiplayer (online 
 and offline) and great character customization. The only downsides are you can only customize characters 
 if you have Xboxlive so if you are playing with a friend, they probobly don't have LIve on your 
 360 and you know, only you get to create a character. Another thing I didn't like was how you unlocked 
 guns for online. Then you have to unlock them all over again a totally different way offline! Lasltly 
 i think it would be cool if promotions (leveling up) were offline as well. Not for campaing but 
 for terrorist hunt. A singleplayer or coopertive mission mode where you must take down every terrorist 
 without dying or running out of time. All these problems I mentioned however can all be ovverun 
 by the fact that the gameplay is outsanding making it really not matter. In games like Halo 3. 
 Armour and ranks keep you occupied. In COD4 ranks and perks and stuff give you motivation. In this 
 game. You could easily play it without. The game experience is so different every time it's just 
 AWSOME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cannon949
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2008 2:43 am PT
Review:  This is the best squad shooter / terrorist hunter / strategic shooter game out there. excellent 
 multi and single player.
  
  magnificent story with a new rainbow team new cover system with blind fire like gears of war. a 
 very balanced single player with just a couple of shots and your dead making you utilize your cover 
 system
  
  THE STORY: you start out in mexico where you and your team get ambushed by a terrorist squad and 
 your team gets captured while you escape. when the government find you, you are flown to las Vegas 
 and given another team where you play through las vegas while you find out it is the terrorists 
 that took your team that are destroying las vegas.
  
  as you play through you go to many places that are all over las vegas.
  
  you get desert eagle's 
 ak-47's and many more. very impressive.
  
  rated MA 15 + for strong violence and language. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklesrocks
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow six vegas is a brilliant game all round, it has everything from an engaging 
 story to a brilliant multiplayer, and the AI is smart to add on top.
  
  Like other rainbow six games you lead a squad but this time you only lead three instead of ten 
 of fifteen which adds to the tactics, intensity and gameplay forcing you to make quick decision 
 in tight situations while you duck behind a wall or box ordering your squad to suppres your enemies 
 while you think up a way to take your enemies down.
  
  The weapons in vegas are a great selection except for a few which dont actually suit the special 
 forces I. E: the mac 11 but forget about that it doesnt matter becase this time round you can customise 
 your weapons, this isnt an in depth choice just scopes and laser sights but it was a welcome addition 
 of course.
  
  The story in vegas starts out slow but has one of the most unpredictable plot twists i have ever 
 seen in a game causing one of the best cliffhangers at the end causing your jaw to drop and say 
 "well, i didn't see that coming!" 
  
  One of the greatist things about vegas is the fact of the difficulty, its not too easy and not 
 too hard its perfect in conclusion and you will have to use tactics to complete the game because 
 if you dont utilise your gadgets and team you are not getting anywhere very soon.
  
  Well vegas is a brilliant shooter and should be in every xbox 360 owners collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NaturalXX
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  Guns, terrorist and Las Vegas in one game seems to good to be true. Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas 
 has really increased my love for first person shooters. You play as a lead soldier trying to stop 
 terrorism from within casinos in Las Vegas and some places outside of Vegas as well. You and your 
 team try to save hostages or basically blow up the terrorists in the entire game. Now is it repetitive? 
 Some what but not really. Sure you kill, you save, your mission ends but the level of difficulty 
 increases throughout the game. Snipers are good shots which means stay behind cover. Cover is a 
 big part of this game. You don't cover, you will die easily even in normal difficulty (there's 
 no easy mode here) . Now your arsenal comes with a variety of weapons, shotguns, assault rifles, 
 SMGs, LMGs, snipers and shields. Rainbow Six Vegas is a great game but it doesn't mean that it 
 doesn't come without its problems. For one, cheap AI. Yes you will turn around and find yourself 
 dead thanks to a shotgunner right behind you. Also escorts are a big pain since your VIP keeps 
 on running into you when you try to shotgun someone which leads to you killing you man and starting 
 over. But the enemies are well placed through out the game so you can take a breather in a hallway 
 before another fight. Maybe sometimes your teammates might seems a little stupid when you tell 
 them where to go but nothing bad. So let's recap:
  
  GOOD: Great storyline, large amounts of weapons, good AI, its in Las Vegas.
  
  BAD: Some what 
 hard and repetitive.
  
  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas is awarded with 9.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rutulno1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Ever dreamed of being in the Special Ops in which you have many amazing guns to shoot at many very 
 naughty people (the bad guys) . Well, this game lets you experience that like no other game has 
 ever done before.
  
  First of all let me talk about the graphics. I totally admit that the graphics aren't as good as 
 they can possibly get but the fun you have while playing the game doesn't allow you to concentrate 
 much on the graphics. Of course, at times you notice the graphics, they might not be as good as 
 the Xbox 360 can allow, but it is good enough for you to make out if it is a piece of crap or a 
 bomb that is seconds away from exploding. 
  
  The storyline is immersive and very easy to understand. It makes the game seem like a movie because 
 the storyline is something like what you see in the movies. Though still, the story still grabs 
 you.
  
  Next = The sound. The background music is really cool throughout the whole game. It adds on to 
 all the suspense hanging in the atmosphere and really gets your heart beating when there is no 
 background music (you know something is gonna happen) . If you try to lip-read what your team are 
 trying to say you'll end up shooting yourself. The lips do not correspond to the people in any 
 way. Though the good thing is that you hardly ever see them talk. However, the lips still move 
 pretty nicely in the cutscenes but not as well as you may see in Oblivion (or any other game with 
 tremendous lip movement) .
  
  The controls can be tricky to start with, or very tricky to start with if you have played many 
 shooters on the Xbox, because the controls are very different to any other shooter. This makes 
 it a little bit annoying at first but then you get used to it. Although, if you play another shooter 
 straight after playing this one, you are bound to be confused by the controls all over again (happened 
 to me!)
  
  So all in all, a great game to play that fills your time with excitement and suspense. I strongly 
 recommend this game to all the FPS lovers!
  
  Graphics = 7.5/10
  Sound = 9/10
  Story = 9/10
  
  Overall = 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadspace1
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  Rainbow six vegas sets the standard to which all current generation games should aspire to be at 
 the least. Not only is it a sparkling example of a tactical first person shooter but the graphics 
 and the care that has been taken into making the game world as real as possible is astounding.
 
  
  Firstly its worth mentioning this care in more detail before jumping into the high quality gameplay 
 itself. Each facet of the gameworld has been thought out to the extent that most, if not all, of 
 what you can see is interactive in one way or another. objects react with realistic features whether 
 they are shot at, blown up or merely brushed past. glass smashes realistically in both buildings 
 that can be entered ad those that cannot. gambling machines shatter and spill out mounds of coins 
 when shot. the list could go on and on. It is this level of detail that really gets you engrossed 
 in the world that rainbow six vegas has set out to portray, and this world has been rendered in 
 jaw dropping beauty.
  
  whether your in a firefight with sparks, bullets and explosions filling the screen, or a dark, 
 gritty alley, or in the middle of a sprawling, flickering casino its difficult to not be impressed 
 by the visuals in this game. Dynamic lighting and great texturing, combined with the level of detail 
 explained before make this one of the best looking titles on the x box 360 to date. The character 
 models move in convincing ways and will satisfyingly crumple to the floor when that perfect head 
 shot is achieved. This combined with the great voice acting for the terrorists, and extremely high 
 quality of the enemy AI really makes it feel like your being assaulted, sometimes from all sides, 
 by a disciplined terrorist force. However it is the voice acting that leads to one of the games 
 flaws.
  
  The voice acting for the main character and each of the 4 members of rainbow unit that will accompany 
 you throughout the game is, at times, extremely wooden, and sometimes downright bad. however this 
 doesn't detract much from the games experience as most of the time you'll be far to busy dodging 
 bullets and finding increasingly ingenious ways to outsmart and outplay the terrorist forces in 
 vegas.
  
  So on to the meat of the game and the actual gameplay. The gameplay in this game is of such a high 
 quality that it really sets a bench mark for FPS games on the 360 and this is mostly down to the 
 brilliant cover system incorporated in the game. The system is not only very easy to use, hold 
 the left trigger to jump in to cover, but allows you to line up that perfect shot whilst in cover 
 so you can then jump out and take out a terrorist with pin point precision. This really makes you 
 feel like the hard ass special ops unit you're playing to be. also of note is the quality of your 
 AI team mates. They'll find cover and clear rooms in a very realistic manner. The character animation 
 on them is especially good as they move from cover to cover, clearing room. It is also very easy 
 to assign your team orders, make them use special breaching charges to clear rooms, rappel down 
 walls etc. These can all be combined with your own moves to clear rooms or streets using differing 
 angles or providing cover fire for each other. There really isn't enough good things to say about 
 the tactical possibilities of this game.
  
  As far as difficulty goes, this game seems just about right for a tactical shooter. You can't absorb 
 lots of bullets or rush a large group of enemies. The game really forces you to use tactics to 
 your advantage and out smart your opponents. However, when you move the game up to realistic difficulty 
 the game really gives you a challenge. There'll be no auto targeting or red cross-hair to tell 
 you you're aiming at a bad guy, and one or two shots is enough to finish you off. This really makes 
 for a more anxious game mode and has a suitable completion achievement attached to it.
  
  All in all this game is one which all fans of any type of FPS should own. Its high quality gameplay, 
 graphics and AI set this out as one of the best games in 360's roster to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dough007
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I played this game long before I had an XBOX 360. I played it at my Uncle's and I think it has 
 amazing graphics. So when I had gotten the XBOX 360, Rainbow Six Vegas was the first game I got. 
 An awesome storyline that made it so fun. I think Rainbow Six Vegas 1 was better than Rainbow Six 
 Vegas 2. The reason is because it had a longer and better Storyline. They both have the same graphics, 
 but I just think the 1st Vegas is better. 
  It so cool when you kill someone, and then you can go up them and keep shooting them in the head 
 and it shows the bullet holes. I love seeing the blood on the walls. The little features impress 
 me so much. I still play this game even when I know I played all the missions.
  The multiplayer mode is another amazing feature. This game should have a long lasting series. I 
 would purchase everyone and play it all the time. My opinion says this game is probably the best 
 tactical shooter so far today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_War_Chief
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 3:38 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas. A tactical shooter set in a Las Vegas captured by terrorists. It seems like 
 a recipe for disaster with a cringeworthy story and awful playing field. However, Rainbow Six Vegas 
 takes all these fears and quite easily puts them to rest... as long as you invest the time.
  
  I was coming back from other run and cover shooters, like Gears of War, and thought this would 
 be very similar. Yet, it is somehow very different. It's called a tactical shooter for a reason, 
 and if you are not prepared to your team mates, you will find the game very difficult. Much like 
 Gears of War, you also have very little health. Even on normal difficulty, four direct hits will 
 kill you, so, naturally, you must also be prepared to use cover effectively, and take out your 
 enemy tactically. This isn't run n' gun like Halo. Master Chief and Rambo, please leave the room.
 
  
  In terms of control, I found it pretty hard to get used to. Looking back, it makes quite a lot 
 of sense as it is though. To use cover you use the left trigger whilst up against or near to cover. 
 However, you must keep holding it, for when you let go, you move away from the cover. This is intuitive 
 though, because it makes it easier to remove yourself quickly and find new cover. 
  
  The graphics of the game are excellent. They won't compare to Gears of War or Assassin's Creed, 
 especially in terms of facial graphics, but the environments definately look very pleasing, and 
 add to the atmosphere. However, physics are not so good. I know the game is 2 years old, and I 
 can't remember how good physics engines were when it came out, but when I walk into a stool, I 
 certainly do not expect it to go flying across the room, or have guns sit on the floor facing up 
 vertically.
  
  Voice acting is very good, if a little quiet at times. When I'm talking to someone, you can hear 
 them as if they are on a speaker to you. What I mean is it's a little fuzzy. This is fine when 
 they are in the sky and I'm in a Casino in Vegas. It's not fine when I'm standing right next to 
 them and they're still fuzzy!
  
  Music in the game is very good. Music is difficult to comment on I feel, since people have very 
 different tastes in music, but generally it is upbeat and dramatic. It makes you feel like what 
 you are doing in the mission is important. Plus, it's cool when you can hear ambient sounds in 
 the background, like casino machines churning out sounds as you walk by.
  
  As for the gameplay, somehow, it manages to draw you in and not let go. When I played I always 
 had trouble stopping playing. It would reach a checkpoint, I would think I wanted to quit, but 
 I'd have to see what was next, and then get engaged in the game again. I'm not a patient player 
 either, and even though I died many times, often on the same bit, I persevered. Usually I would 
 just quit. This really is an addictive game. I think part of it is it just feels so fluent. When 
 you die, you don't feel as if the computer cheated, as if it was at an unfair advantage. Every 
 time you die, you feel it is your own fault, and you want to prove to yourself that you can do 
 it.
  
  Certain points in the game are frustrating though, so be prepared. Times when you have to break 
 into a room that has several exits and is chockablock full of tangos carrying shotguns (which usually 
 kill you in one hit) , with the last savepoint ages away... it makes you feel like you cannot beat 
 the game. It does challenge you to try new strategies though, and you actually learn from your 
 mistakes here, and learn new tricks to help you win. 
  
  I am well aware I did not touch upon multiplayer. Unfortunately, I have another couple of months 
 until I get my XBox online, thanks to Microsoft's little Wireless Bridge which costs an arm and 
 a leg...
  
  Anyway, to be honest, this game isn't ground-breaking. It's all been done before, but it isn't 
 stale and repetative either, and it's addicting. Any shooter fan should love this... or to be honest, 
 any hardcore gamer! Put in the time and effort, and this game will reward you with epic levels, 
 interesting story, and a nice, fun shooter. What more could you want? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akatsuki398
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  To let me start, Rainbow Six is a first person shooter with the whole rescue hostages, clear every 
 room, go there, regroup, kill hostiles, and all of these SWAT aspects captured and put into a game. You 
 play team leader or seargent Logan Keller who was told to give the terrorrists the boot out of 
 Las Vegas. But the game isn't as what it seems. The game is pretty hard and dieng is pretty easy. So 
 you have to remember commen sense to live longer. The concept of clear one room to another is fun 
 and goes well with SWAT teams. You can give orders to your team mates to  
 stack at door. The game is granted with a tactical map to show where your enemies are and where 
 you need to go to. Ubisoft gives your character the snake cam to look under doors, but don't expect 
 it to peek into the girl's locker room. Some of the gun's are hard to use in order to kill the hostiles 
 so choose carefully before starting your mission. But instead of shooting down random terrorrists, you 
 can not only tell your team to attack or do your dirty work, but you can tag the enemy from two 
 targets to choose from. This has become a helpful option as long as you aid your men in battle. When 
 you teammate is down, heal him or tell the other to heal him, so you need to stay as close to your 
 men as possible. The goggles you wear work fine too. The grenades are really usefull such as smokes, frags, incendciary, and 
 C4's. Rainbow Six Vegas has some really spectacular graphics and gameplay, but the difficulty just 
 not right. The aspect of teamwork is fun too. So that's all guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _guenter_26
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2008 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is a very good shooter and is a good addition to anyones library. The campagin 
 is full of action and has a good story. The cover system is very good and blind firing is realistic, 
 this is very realistic which can make this game hard for inexperianced players or casual ones. 
 It was hard for me because i am used to taking a lot of fire from other shooters but in this one 
 like five shots and your dead. Having high realism isnt bad but can make it challenging. The guns 
 are awsome and some of the best out of all FPSs, and they have nice sounds and are realistic. Also 
 being able to upgrade them is nice. The character customization is basic but bieng able to take 
 your own picture is nice and a good feature that allows for som funny moments. Multiuplayer is 
 good but if you play with noobs or run-and-gunners it can be quite bad, in that the defending team 
 wins a lot. Although this is a tactical shooter and mutiplayer is fun when you are bieng tactical 
 it just can make your team bad without a plan. Overall the campagin is good and so are the visuals 
 except they didnt put the same effort in to multiplayer visuals this makes for one good shooter. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cozmono
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 4:13 am PT
Review:  If you want to feel like a highly trained special task force solder, this is the game for you. 
 It adapts GOW's 'hide and shoot' factor, and pulls it off with an extra cheese topping. The controls 
 are some of the best configuring ive come across in quite some time. When first starting the game 
 you will be in one of the most amazing settings ever seen. And it just keeps getting better. The 
 graphical achievement in Rainbow Vegas, deserves to be displayed in more games on the X360's platform 
 as It looks spectacular. Your team will do almost exactly as you ask them to with a point and click 
 motion, and the AI **** all over Recon. They are deadly, and you will never know what their plan 
 is. Everything you could wish for in a FPS of this type is at your disposal, guns grenades, smart 
 team members, all of them are great to play with. This is a thinking game. You are required to 
 be as tactical as possible, so if you like to go in guns blazing, think again. The dialog has been 
 put together with plenty of thought, and the story, has a breath taking environment. I guess the 
 only downfall came at the end of the mission. Im not about to let on what happens, but i would 
 have like to have seen a more final cut ending. Still, it will leave you wanting more, and thats 
 what we want from our games. Heres to more Tom Clancy Rainbow titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strongholdluva
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Ok first off i would like to say this game is probably THE best shooter out there. Mainly because 
 u need to react and actually act like its combat not run up in yo spot kind of game.
  
  Gameplay: The Campaign can be challenging at times if ur not used to using strategy and just prefer 
 to run up in the enemies face (which u will probably die doing) But its great all-around campaign. 
 A Decent selection of weapons are available in the beggining but later on u get better guns. Ex: 
 Desert Eage, Mac-11. This game is also interesting in Terrorist Hunt. which is exactly as it sounds 
 hunt for terrorists in a variety of maps in the game but altered or not in the game. Co-op is great 
 fun especially with the terrorist hunt mode.
  
  Graphics: Very good graphics the creators have really outdone there selves. Explosions look very 
 good. Flying particles and explosion very well done. The best thing would be gun appearance and 
 enviroment appearance which are very very well done. Although somethings look a little to real 
 if u no wut i mean (a lot of Axe Ads....) All and all very outstanding
  
  Audio: Sounds are great since you have to use them so much. The sounds are very distinct and will 
 help u tell if some1 is around the corner, behind the door, or right behind you (happens alot) Terrorists 
 have many of the same voices but there conversations are interesting. And they say things if u 
 kill some1 on there team. Like dam bich owed me money. Or"get that pendejo" If u don't no wut pendejo 
 means it means dumass in spanish.
  
  To some things up.... GET THIS GAME ITS FUN... its well worth your money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AirDog80
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 22, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so I finally did go back and play through Rainbow Six Vegas. For starters combat in this game 
 is freaking awesome. The advent of the cover system completely changes the flow of the combat for 
 the better. There is a large selection of weapons and a lot of satisfying ways to shoot baddies. 
 Watching cars and trucks blow apart around you while terrorists curse and fire wildly is only topped 
 by watching the bank robbery scene from the movie Heat while drinking red bull. 
  
  That being said the game is excessively repetitive. Kill a guy, look under a door, kill a group 
 of guys, repeat. New weapons and gear are not unlocked as you progress and ultimately I just wanted 
 to finish. The storyline in Vegas is non existent, she is bad kill her, the bomb is bad diffuse 
 it, this guy who was supposed to be good who you never saw before is bad, shoot down his helicopter. 
 Lazy, lazy lazy. A lot of this is made up for by game play elements but a better solution is to 
 HIRE A WRITER. I'm going to wait a month or two to play the next one which is equally awesome plus 
 the customization largely missing in the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hrdcorenick
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is the best game in the Rainbow Six series.
  You fight in casinos set in Las Vegas. The story is basicly terrorists are in Vegas and you are 
 sent in to kill them. Everything about this game is so amazing, you can rappel down buildings, 
 smash through windows and hide behind things. The cover system works really well and the blind 
 fire is a good feature. 
  
  The graphics in the game are stunnning, the game is an older xbox game but still has amazing graphics. 
 The casinos look colourfull and bright like they do in real life. The gameplay is also rather good, 
 it is a tactical shooter so you can send your team infront of you and get them to clear people 
 first.
  The AI in the game is actually pretty smart, give them something to do and they will do it. 
 
  
  Defianly one of the best tactical shooters to date. Definatly go pick up this game its worth every 
 cent! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 8
Date: May 9, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  so i played rainbow six vegas 2 first. i'd heard rsv1 was essentially the same game, so i picked 
 this up, and hawt damn it is! this is great for folks like me who didn't play this one before. 
 it takes very little time to acclimate to the play style... and it really is virtually identical.
 
  
  on that note it's not limited to the gameplay. the graphics are carbon copy as well. i saw no difference 
 from 1 to 2 graphically... and admittedly it's a fine looking game, but it just leaves you thinking 
 ubisoft got a little lazy here.
  
  as to the gameplay, i'm impressed with the level of customization, tho it does pale to the upgrades 
 in '2'. the control is tight and responsive, but so very much more methodical. it takes me back 
 to metal gear solid in the way you have to think before you finally move.
  
  i would have liked my control customization, and online only rank gain turns me off, but boy howdy, 
 headshotting a guy from behind a corner at fifty yards is incredibly satisfying. and before i forget 
 the sense of tension in rsv1 is palpable, considering how easy it is for you to get killed if you 
 pop your head out like a goof.
  
  all told, 25$ was more than fare to draw out the experience i'm already enjoying in rsv2. i can 
 always enjoy more stealth kills, sniper action, and silencer sound effects. heheh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjamaster62
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 6, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  This game has provided me and my friends with countless hours of shooting terrorists in the face, 
 and that = fun. The controls are great, the graphics are phenomenal, and the sound is awesome. 
 The voice work is not only very well done, but at many times, is extremely funny and entertaining. 
 I love hearing people I'm about to kill curse at me in Spanish. The gameplay feels incredibly realistic, 
 it drops you right into the middle of a very real feeling Las Vegas, which really adds to the game. 
 The multiplayer I think is the best part of this game by far. The wide range in weapons and weapons 
 customization makes for endless options when it comes to deciding what you are going to use for 
 making the people dead. The only thing I would say is negative is the poor checkpoint placement. 
 All in all, this is a great shooter that should not be missed by any fps fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 6
Date: May 2, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  I had been excited about this game the second that it came out with a cool name that is has with 
 "VEGAS" in the title. I never got a 360 until recently so it was finally my time to give the game 
 a shot.
  
  Considering the first portion of the game is not even located in Vegas makes it a pretty crappy 
 beginning. The title makes it seem like it is entirely in and about Vegas, but why the hell start 
 off in Mexico???
  
  The graphics on this game are absolutely amazing and give a great atmosphere with the awesome detail 
 to the surroundings and the buildings around you. You can tell that this game took a lot of time 
 abne effort in making.
  
  HOWEVER, the lamest thing abotu this game and by far the most frustrating thing that makes you 
 want to bash your controller into the couch is the horrible placemetn of checkpoints! It is hard 
 enough when the game causes you to die if you take anything more than 4 shots at any one given 
 time, it can be damn near impossible to hide and sneek around before being shot dead and then having 
 to restart all the way back at the beginning! What they need to do is place a lot more checkpoint 
 spots into this game as it became a terrible gameplay experience to work so hard and get so far 
 before dying and then starting back over again. One particular portion of the game I spent 1:45 
 before I could finally get past the checkpoint, having died and restarted the section a good 15 
 times in the process..... stuff like that deters me from playing such games.
  
  
  The game is great on all aspects other wise, but horrible checkpoints and the who area of Mexico 
 drop the score of this game drastically for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhfpunisher
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  RSV is by all means a great game. It is a game that needs to be in your collection if you are a 
 FPS fan. It is a realistic game in the fact that if you get shot a few times you are down. You 
 can't go full speed ahead and expect to live long. Games like COD4 you can charge 15 soldiers and 
 most likely make it out alive and 15 of them down. Nothing against COD4, this is a great game, 
 I just wanted to compare. RSV story mode is fun, even when you are not playing a friend. The game 
 is setup to where the enemies are placed in different locations when you restart a level so this 
 obviously adds to the re-playability. The weapons are top notch and you have plenty to choose from, 
 sniper rifles, assault rifles, shotguns, etc. The graphics are great and the game makes you feel 
 like you are in a Las Vegas Casino. Everybody that comes to my house (even people that don't play 
 games) get into this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lnehme
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  Rainbow six vegas is by far the best gme I've have ever played. The graphics, the sounds and the 
 gameplay are excellent. The story is a bit disappointing though, especially the end. 
  
  The graphics: Almost real. The city os Las vegas is so real that I actually thought that I was 
 there for real. It is so amazing. The weapons ar not that insane, but it is also good. The characters 
 are not so real while you are on the helicopter...
  
  The sounds: the voice commands are good. Ther are parts of the game that there are lack of soundtrack, 
 making the game a bit boring. 
  
  The gameplay: Excellent. Everything is excellent. The cover is outstanding. It helps you a lot 
 when ther are lots of enemies. The commands are easy to learn and easy to use, making the gameplay 
 a lot better.
  
  Rainbow six is a great game that everyone has ti have in their collections! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vnetvnet
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 6:08 am PT
Review:  It's a big different between Rainbow Six Vegas and Raven Shield (please ignore Lockdown, it's the 
 most disappointing sequel and game i ever played.)
  The command system is great, easy to learn anybody can be proficient player by using this command 
 system.
  
  Graphic - The unreal engine is so powerful, the light, the texture, the smoke, the effect are awesome.
 
  
  Sound - Great sound effect, the explosion, gun fire are realistic. 
  
  Gameplay - Definitely heart-stopping singleplayer. Player need to command your teamates in to a 
 right position and ready to attack. It will definitely help you to finish the mission. (don't think 
 about finish it by yourself)
  
  However, the story is not good enough, it is not surprising me and too simple. Weak story is a 
 fatal failure of this game.
  
  For conclusion, it's great game and hope vegas2 will also surprise me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batmanboy11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  (P. S. First of all if you don't like games where you have to think don't bother reading this) Rainbow 
 Six Vegas is one of 2006's best games on the Xbox 360. The story, although short, is very well 
 told and may last longer than 5-6 hours depending on how good you are. After the story mode is 
 finished there is so much else to do it will keep you hooked for months. First of all, the multiplayer, 
 which has always been a strong point, is back and better than ever. In it you create your own and 
 rise from private second class all the way to Elite. If you don't have Xbox Live there is still 
 terrorist hunt and co-op story. In terrorist hunt you and your friend work together to take down 
 all of the terrorists in the area. In co-op story you both play through the story without Jung 
 and Michael and play as your own two operatives. All in all a great way to spend your thirty dollars. 
 9.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cofresi
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  If you are looking for a game that gives a great challenge as well as an immersing experience, 
 then this is definitely the game for you. It has been almost 3 years since I first played through 
 this game and I had to pick it up again recently to compare it to Vegas 2, after renting it through 
 Gamefly. Vegas 1 was so good, that it convinced me to not purchase Vegas 2, because to me they 
 were one in the same. Yes Vegas 1 has its glitches during online play, but it is very easy to get 
 past this.
  
  Vegas has great graphics as well as a great online experience. It is definitely a must buy, especially 
 at its current price!!! One of the aspects of online play that keeps the gamer engrossed is the 
 ranking system, just as in any online shooter game. I simply love how as you rank up, near gear 
 becomes available, which distinguishes the elite from the noobs.... and yes, I am a noob wearing 
 barely pants and a shirt online lol. 
  
  The single player campaign is an engrossing one, that leaves one satisfied during the fighting 
 sequences. The AI is not of much help, other than sending them out as bait to make sure the room 
 is clear lol. But this only adds to the challenge of the campaign in my opinion.
  
  The ending is an open one, so do not go in thinking everything will be nice and pretty in the end. 
 Just like real life, not everything has a true beginning and an ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 1:56 pm PT
Review:  The biggest disappointment of "Vegas 2" was the lack of the Vegas Strip and well, casinos!! What 
 happened Ubi Soft? That's what made this Vegas game so great. All the flashy graphics are found 
 in the original. More standard locations and more slowdown are found in the recent sequel. Sad 
 news indeed. So, if you want a shooter that has lots of cool Vegas locations, than get this one 
 instead. It may not have the addicting role-playing elements, the run feature, extra weapons or 
 new maps of the sequel. But it's prettier and feels more original. If you loved "Rainbow Six 3" 
 and wanted a true sequel, than "Vegas" defintely feels like one. Rappeling down the side of buildings, 
 hiding behind riot shields and blindfiring behind walls are great additions. And the third-person 
 perspective helps immensly in tight situations. And Vegas looks great!! I've been there a number 
 of times and Ubi Soft has captured the look perfectly. So, if you want tactical espionage action 
 (no pun intended) than look no further than this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cogs1038
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  Ubisoft make alot of good games, but this is probably ranked #2 best game next to splinter cell 
 series. It's online play is very fun =) you create a player and you work your way up to the highest 
 rank by of course, playing ranked matches. So that was the online play. The campaign is a different 
 thing. Most levels may be somewhat of a challange. But still fun. You can order your squad to move 
 to doors, mark a target to kill and tell them to hold position, regroup, or follow. Believe it 
 or not they can be a big help though. And I almost beat the game but didn't beat it quite yet. 
 This game is really fun and i can't wait to play Rainbow Six Vegas 2. Oh I almost forgot that they 
 give you a wide variaty of guns in the game also. the best pistol ever to be made the DESERT EAGLE. 
 And they have the AK-47. They have shotties. 50 calibar Sniper Rifle. And pretty much the guns 
 that they have in Call Of Duty 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is the first next generation Rainbow Six game released by Ubisoft for the Xbox 
 360 and PS3. The game leaves a great first impression as the first level is a well designed level 
 with a good amount of challenge. Your team mates also are intelligent and know how to fight. Sadly 
 this level of quality is not seen throughout the whole campaign. While your team is usually reliable 
 and intelligent in combat, later on in the game they sometimes can go absolutely crazy and do insane 
 things that violate all your commands you gave to them. The problem is when they do this they die 
 90 percent of the time forcing you to go save them which usually results in your death and then 
 you have to start over from your last checkpoint. For me, this happened a lot which made for Vegas 
 to be a frustrating game sometimes making it so bad I just had to turn it off. When everything 
 was going well though the campaign was great fun, still a challenge but nothing that is un-doable. 
 The campaign though ends abruptly and is extremely annoying as it has a cliffhanger which just 
 sucks you into buying future Rainbow Six installments. The story is also your typical Tom Clancy 
 story, not that this is a negative though. The story is a strong one until the end. Overall the 
 campaign was disappointing to me and if I was to give it mark out of 10 I would give it a 7, still 
 good but not great. 
  What saves this game is an excellent multi-player and some solid graphics and team based gameplay. 
 The graphics are very nice especially in some of the casinos, though at the beginning the graphics 
 look typical later on you see some of the amazing lighting effects and great textures. The gameplay 
 is also good when it's not glitched, the squad commands are solid and the shooting is great fun 
 though not as fun as Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, another Tom Clancy game. Sound is also great, 
 the radio voice overs are great and there is some subtle sound effects used that really make the 
 experience seem more real. Sadly the sound has glitches such as the endless shooting sound glitch. 
 
  Multi-player is the strong suit of the game, you can do everything with another person and this 
 makes the game great. You make your own custom character and can even put your own face on it. 
 The multi-player is very similar to that of counter-strike and past rainbow six games. It's a great 
 experience and it is worth the purchase price alone which now is around 30 dollars.
  Rainbow Six Vegas is a fun game but not without it's flaws, it's worth a purchase now for the price 
 it is and the online is still very much alive as of now. The campaign for me was frustrating but 
 it may prove different for others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PerfectlyDark
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Let me say, I love it when games take a gerne and toss it somewhere bizarre. This tactical shooter 
 lands you in Las Vegas... yeah. But don't freak, it kicks alot of ass. The weapons and locations 
 are all real and the folks at Ubi have made a fantastic cover system. In fact, its flawless. The 
 game takes you on huge trips across the game world and its all quite fun but the multiplayer is 
 the bad part. Although fun, its kinda hard to get good at. Some will like it, others will leave 
 and go eat a sandwitch.
  
  Graphics: The environments and character models looks fabulous, but the piss poor textures and 
 ugly guns leave some sad faces. The game also seems to be kinda lame in the audio department, they 
 are still using weapon sounds from Rainbow Six 3. Thats kinda saddening, but overall thew game 
 looks and sounds next gen so just ignore it.
  
  Gameplay: Great fun. Weapons are all very different and seem very powerful. This latest Rainbow 
 has a cover system thats WAY better than that of PDZ and GOW so check it out for that, the only 
 real issue with gameplay aside from brutal difficulty is the blur from getting wounded seems a 
 little over done, otherwise vegas is the ****.
  
  Should you buy this? Sure, in fact get this and AVOID number 2. Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlieprince
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Seriously, The multiplayer s revolutionary. You go up to a rooftop, wait for your friend to agrivate 
 the baddies then just pop and drop 'em! Multiplayer isn't it's only strength though... There's 
 also the character creation! You actually take a picture of your face and it puts it inside the 
 game! Programing GENIOUS! Aswell as having a blast with your friends and flanking enemies out there 
 is the awesome single player! The AI programing isn't really on the "aware" side but when they 
 do see you it's a full out firefight! You gotta pop'em to the left and drop em to the right. You 
 also get to command your squad for maximum experience! Overall this game is freaking AWESOME! Before 
 you step into the storyline and kill some badly programmed AIs, try flanking out your friends on 
 the revolutionary multiplayer! Just one more thing... HAVE FUN WITH R6: Vegas! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallenAngelXBL
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 30, 2008 2:23 am PT
Review:  Hey GS
  
  Id like to put down how I Score games (this is important if you want to understand why my score 
 is so 'low':
  1 - Utter rubbish
  2 - Utter rubbish
  3 - rubbish
  4 - average
  5 - Good
  6 - Pretty good
  7 - Great
  8 - Greater than 7
  9 - Awesome
  10 - so great 
 ill never review a game that's this good... period.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas is the 5th installment to the critically acclaimed Rainbow Six series. You take 
 command of a elite military group (like the GHOSTS) called the Rainbows and you have to stop terrorist 
 threats. Like the GHOSTS, your main enemy is Mexicans... essay... sorry...
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Since the game is somewhat 1-1.5 years old now the game doesn't look as sharp or as detailed as 
 other games such as Halo or Assassins Creed. But the graphics are acceptable and still have surprising 
 amounts of detail that don't make it an eye sore. And for some random facts, its made by the guys 
 who done Assassins Creed and you can clearly see the similarities in graphics.
  
  SOUND
  
  Like all Tom Clancy games, the voice acting is so generic you could spread it toast, but that 
 doesnt mean its bad. The voices fit the role pretty well, and if often muffled for a 'lol its coming 
 from a radio yet im standing right next to you' feel. The sound effects are nice with guns sounding 
 real and explosions sounding satisfactory and with some generic music that fits in with the rest 
 of the generic sounds. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas is a tactical FPS. You order your squad to move into positions to cover you whilst 
 you advance and work together to dominate the Mexican threat that you initially think is in Vegas. 
 This works really well and is one of the games highlights as commanding your team is easy but the 
 results are effective which is a great combo... unlike being really hard and having crappy results. 
 Of course your squad isnt meant for JUST giving covering fire, they also have quick raid options 
 if you stack them against a door where they can open flash and clear, open frag and clear, breach 
 and clear etc. These all have there uses and add a true sense of 'Wow im cool and can kill a room 
 of 10 people with 3 people without getting shot at :O'. 
  The main story takes you through Mexico, several cassino's in Vegas, the streets of Vegas and the 
 Nevada Dam, which i believe is the Hoover Dam if my geographic knowledge is correct. The campaign 
 is about 10-20 hours long, and is a difficult yet rewarding experience that keeps you hooked from 
 the get go. Unfortunately, there is a noticeable lack of checkpoints and you can go for 45mins 
 before you get to one, now that can really be annoying if you know what i mean. The story may be 
 long, but it isnt a very good story, its pretty basic and its the gameplay that makes you want 
 to play more, which is a good thing... unless you wanted a story.
  
  Vegas also comes with a excellent Multiplayer allowing you to play 8 v 8 on a wide selection of 
 maps with a wide selection of game modes. This is very rewarding as you can customize your characters 
 weapons, camouflage and body armor to your liking and you are constantly getting new armors as 
 you play and rank up. With DLC for new maps and game modes for FREE, you cant go wrong with this 
 side of multiplayer. Another great addition is Terrorist Hunt. You can do 9 maps (i think) of killing 
 terrorists by your self, split screen, online or a mixture of the later options. This is a very 
 popular game choice as you are basically playing through the campaign maps again, but with a team 
 of real life people against some pretty intelligent AI.
  
  OVERALL
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas is a good game, it suffers from the Generic Plague like most Ubisoft games, but 
 the gameplay it self is a breathe of fresh air. With good multiplayer and a solid single player 
 i would recommend buying this, or at the least renting it. However, im rating it down to 6 because 
 multi player is becoming sort of dead now, with the release of Vegas 2. 
  
  6/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HaloHitman-
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clacys Rainbow Six is great, but now it is even better, they are in a sin city enviroment where 
 they have to take out terrorists from destroying vegas. The game has amazing graphics and visuals 
 that make this game to amazing for a shooter, they are just so amazing that it makes the game real 
 to players.
  The game also has very solid controls that make swat type action amazing and keeps you into the 
 game. There are some downfalls though, the game is kinda short for a tom clancy game. the terrorist 
 ai isnt the best at times, and it can also get very annoying, and frustrating whwn it comes to 
 rescuing your teamates when they are inured or down. Also the multiplayer is good.
  Overall this game is one of the best rainbow games out there, and a worth buying to any rainbow/clancy 
 fan, go but it, if not then you dont know what you are missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Assassin-Altair
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  This game use to belong to my brother. At the time I had no Xbox 360 so I started to play this 
 game on his system. I loved every single aspect of this game . . . almost; it isn't without its 
 flaws. I loved the graphics and how detailed the characters and weapons as well as the scenery 
 are. If Tom Clancy made the game you can count on it being extremely detailed. The gameplay is 
 very well done.
  
  The flaws are few. There are some glitches in this game such as wall tricks to kill your victims 
 during online play, and the other would be lag. I've gone quite a few rounds where I've shot a 
 few rounds point blank into an NPC and while they were loading just to have them turn around after 
 being shot several times in the head and kill me instantly. But it doesn't happen all that much.
 
  
  Once you've beaten this game odds are that you will want to play it online against others to test 
 how 'bad' you really are, and where you stand among other players. The story is good and has an 
 interesting twist but you do more shooting then scenes. Not really a balanced out deal here. Also 
 don't hold your breath the helicopter scenes are devious and a lot of players hate the waiting 
 for the chopper to land and the action to begin. Keep your eyes open for advertisements . . . that's 
 right AXE ads are actually everywhere in the game an are really noticeable.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: reign_six6six
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is easily one of the best shooters I have ever played! I'm playing the second one now 
 currently. But if you're not sure if you wanna get the first one or not I'd say you defiantly should!!! 
 Not only will you understand the second one better but also this game is just way to good to miss. 
 It has gorgeous graphics and really smooth game play. Pretty much everything in this game is done 
 really well. I actually had to make myself purposely not play the game so I wouldn't beat it to 
 soon I like to make my games last a while so I would try not to play all the time as hard as it 
 was to do that lol. But I'm just trying to make the point that even after I died in the same place 
 a few times I didn't get aggravated and quit I just wanted to keep playing that's how good it was.. 
 Soooooo yes! Buy this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikees1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  Well keeping it short and sweet, just brought, played and reviewed rainbow six vegas 2 so i thought 
 id come back and give a favourable vreview to the game that inspired it. i dont need many words 
 to describe this other than, squad combat, flanking, window breaches, door breaching, mutiple weapon 
 choices, oh and some more squad combat! All in all a very good game. I actually held off on buying 
 it until id completed COD 2, 3 and 4 then the ghost recons and to tell the truth i wish id done 
 it the other way round rainbow then graws1 and 2 then the call of dutys. This game is not a call 
 of duty clone, it isnt all run and gun. It is squad combat at its best a first person shooter for 
 the thinking man, i liked it so much iv completed it twice on both dificuties. That isnt to say 
 its easy though because it isnt. Like graw it can be a case of one well placed shot and your dead. But 
 in between it can take mutiple paths or entry options to take down a very large room, it can be 
 both spacious and claustrophobic and checking the snake cam (a device with a micro camera, inserted 
 under the door) to see what your dealing with on the otherside of the door can be very deceptive. You 
 can see some of what awaits but your never truly know until you go in (or breach, in rainbow terms) 
 and thats when the s**t really can hit the fan! A very good game and definatly worth the 15-20 
 quid its probably worth now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  When I first played Rainbow Six Vegas I was not quite sure what to expect. First of all the game 
 was called Vegas and the game starts out in Mexico. Another thng that had my unsure about the gamew 
 as that one of the best things about the Rainbow Six series was the many locales that you would 
 fight terrorists in, so I was a bit unsure about the game taking place in one setting. These worries 
 went away almost immediately when I started playing the game. This game features some of the most 
 intense moments in the series history and that is saying something. The folks over at UbiSoft really 
 delivered with this game and they succesfully created what was easily the best first person shooter 
 on the 360 when it came out (only being beat by Call of Duty 4) . Fans of the series will not be 
 disappointed one bit.
  
  The game starts out with you and your team chasing down a terrorist leader in the slums of Mexico. 
 Now this had me confused at first, I was thinking this is Rainbow Six Vegas (emphasis on the word 
 Vegas) and not Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter. Another thing that quite shocked me was that your 
 team is not the team that you fought with in the previous games. Maybe after the disasterous Rainbow 
 Six Lockdown, they all decided to retire, maybe this wasn't a bad idea. Anyways, things go wrong 
 and before you have any time to recover from what happened in Mexico you are called to action in 
 Vegas.
  
  The game really picks up here, because the Mexico mission at times feels unneseccary and like they 
 just put it in there to show you the ropes and to develope the story, as I felt that it could easily 
 ahve just been a cutscene that they could have thrown in at the beginning. Anyways, you meet up 
 with your team in Vegas and you immediately take on terrorists that have siezed a Las Vegas casino. 
 The enemy AI is absolutely amazing in this game. This is a very difficult game, but don't be discouraged 
 because that will not make you turn your head from this game. The game will engulf you until the 
 very end. This is one of the most suspensful and action packed games that I have played in a long 
 time, and like all Tom Clancy game's this game is full of moments that you are sure to never forget.
 
  
  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas looks amazing as well. The graphics are top notch as they are with 
 every Tom Clancy game. This game is kind of a nice preview to the amazing graphics that would be 
 found just months later in the Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2. The character models look good 
 and so do the slum settings of Mexico, but it is the bright lights of Las Vegas that really do 
 steal the show.
  
  The multiplayer is top notch in this game, which shouldn't be a surprise to anyone who has played 
 a Rainbow Six game or a Tom Clancy game in general. The game is an absolute blast and the multiplayer 
 is no different. It is soo deep and innovative, it is quite easy to see that Call of Duty 4 got 
 its multiplayer class ideas from Rainbow Six Vegas.
  
  At the end of the day Rainbow Six Vegas is a must own. Even if you already have Call of Duty 4, 
 I still strongly reccomend playing this game, and I dont say that very often. Buy this game now! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sludge15
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  Well first off to play this game you need to be smart and fast.....
  It is extremely difficult on realistic difficulty unless you use your squad to there full potential...
 
  
  Graphics:
  9.0
  For an old game the graphics on this game are preety slick and pleases me even after previosly 
 playing COD4......
  
  A. I:
  9.5
  The A. I is smart and your enemy's are constantly trying to flank you.... really intense on realistic 
 difficulty, one enemy can be a threat as long as he has a gun and a wall....
  
  Difficulty:
  9.6
  Perfect on realistic but a bit to easy on normal... i love the challenge that 
 one enemy can present if he has good cover and good weapon.....
  
  Map Design:
  8.5
  Great but there always seems to be a corridor or an alleyway when there are enemys that need flanking... sometimes 
 it seems unrealistic.....
  
  Gameplay:
  10
  I thank god that you cannot jump in this game because the HALO jump completely ruined my liking 
 of jumping..... (MC jumping 30 foot in the air is annoying) the cover mechanism is by far the most 
 realistic yet it is alot better than the GOW mechanism...
  
  Overall:
  9.0
  I enjoyed this game more than HALO 3 or Gears Of War...... for one reason.... it is realistic..... however 
 it does not enter in the same leauge as COD2 or COD4 it is still one of my favourite games.....
 
  
  Contact me at:
  XBL: GT: Halobuster66
  or: MSN: Adam-Birch@hotmail. co. uk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CripingCarpet
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  A lot of people are going to disagree with my review and i have come to the conclusion that there 
 must either be a mass following of rainbow fans who will buy anything with the Clancy label. Let 
 me start with the few good points, the single-player graphics are great and the game has a solid 
 story but as usual the AI is as dumb as a brick which i have come to expect in rainbow games also 
 the campaign has its frantic shoot outs but then gets really boring at times its pretty much breach, 
 shoot, rescue repeat. The multiplayer is the best part of the game and thats not saying much for 
 a tactical shooter this game is far from realistic especially when it comes to the accuracy of 
 weapons. The bullet dispersion is but when a bullet hits someone in the head and you see blood 
 gush out and they dont die, Houston we have a problem. The multiplayer is the meat of the game 
 but still the bullet lag is constant the graphics on your personal character has so many box like 
 body shapes it looks like something out of ps2. I personally have played every rainbow since pc 
 an i have never had so much disdain for any game particularly a game from a series i liked so much. 
 Don't get me wrong there are a few mechanic upgrades added to the game that give the game some 
 added fun but it doesn't make up for this sorry excuse for a next-gen game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerseyborn88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  The terrorists are close. You can hear them through the door, whispering. But there are only two 
 of them, so, feeling action-star confident, you race into the room with your assault rifle blazing. 
 One second and a flurry of lead later, you're dead.
  
  Quickly recognizing that you're not the indestructible leading man of most videogames, you turn 
 to your two teammates. They must be standing here for a reason... and two-versus-two sounds like 
 a fairer fight. Ordering them through the very same entrance, you hang back and wait for the "all 
 clear." It never comes. The terrorists found cover and your men, completely exposed in the exchange, 
 are now crumpled on the floor and fading fast. You dash to their aid, receiving another fatal head 
 wound as your reward.
  
  The third time is different. You study your options, as well as the layout of the building. Noticing 
 that the room in question is top level, with a wall of windows to one side, you sneak to the roof 
 and silently command your squad to rappel down the side of the building. Leaving them, you return 
 to the death door and, rather than open it, snake an imperceptible camera wire underneath it. With 
 the ambush set, you give the signal and watch in grainy black and white as two shadows materialize 
 behind the glass, then explode through it. The terrorists dive for cover and turn to face the new 
 threat, not realizing that the real threat - you - is about to bust that damn door to the ground 
 and shoot them in the back.
  
  Finally, success. Because now you're playing by Vegas rules
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas delivers with realism and online play. First by taking place in Mexico (I don't 
 know why they'd want to set it there) then it takes place in Sin City itself. It's cool how when 
 you fly in the chopper how you see a view of Vegas. It's also cool how if you have LIVE, there's 
 posters of movies or shows like Hitman or Criss Angel Mindfreak. I thought that was pretty cool. 
 The missions are hard and they don't get any easier and the online play is mainly the reason to 
 play this game and since I'm not big on online gaming, I think it's best to say that the online 
 play is great. The more you play, the more you unlock and rank higher. There's a lot of really 
 good players out there and chances are you'll end up the kill dummy. Good use of tactics and weaponry 
 and AI. Personally, I preferred Ghost Recon and Splinter Cell but RSV is as good as you'd expect 
 it to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rayk3400
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  In RS: V there's a wide variety of weapons to choose from, and each can be customized to your play 
 style. The single player campaign offers about a 15hour experience. There's also terrorists hunt 
 for single player, but I prefer it multiplayer. The difficulty settings are realistic and normal. 
 Realistic mode is actually pretty realistic for the most part, but occasionally you have terrorists 
 spawning in your face. 
  
  
  If you have Xbox Live Gold, this game is well worth your money. Rainbow Six Vegas has many different 
 player vs. player play styles, the most common type of player vs. player game is a team deathmatch 
 or Intel retrieval, player vs. player mode is up to 16 players. Co-op is played with four players, 
 the co-op modes are campaign missions and terrorist hunt. RS: V online also has a great ranking 
 system, but it takes a while to get to the highest rank. You can make your own custom character 
 and as you get ranked up unlock armors, accessories, weapons and clothes. You can also put your 
 face as your in-game character's face with the Xbox vision cam, in some ways this works well, but 
 often there are glitches.
  
  
  
  Get Rainbow Six: Vegas if you're looking for a strategic shooter. This isn't a battlefield type 
 of game where you're sent into this awesome battle with bombs exploding and tanks rolling around. 
 This is a tactical warfare experience in which most operations are inside a building.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 6:05 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas was graphically and in terms of its controls a great game about a year ago, but 
 after Halo 3, Call of Duty 4 and The Orange Box it's just an average terrorist hunting game with 
 squad commands and an interesting cover system.
  
  Story puts you in the shoes of a newly appointed Rainbow team leader Logan Keller, with 2 squad 
 mates fighting against terrorists. Missions consist mostly of rescuing hostages and defusing bombs. 
 There are some interesting twists and turns, which will leave you waiting for a sequel.
  
  Graphics were great a year ago, but now they are just average and a little too grainy to my eyes. 
 Also the frame rate takes a hit when there's a lot stuff flying in the air. Music and sounds are 
 OK, but the score is usually a little too dominating when comparing it to the actual action happening 
 on screen. This makes the otherwise good music annoying to listen. There's also quite a lot of 
 voice acting, but no subtitles, which is a drawback and should not happen anymore in this kind 
 of games. All in all I must say that the audio visual presentation of Rainbow Six Vegas is a disappointment 
 especially after Call of Duty 4, The Orange Box and Halo 3.
  
  Gameplay is pretty much your standard first person shooting, but with a great cover system and 
 a good squad to assist you in your mission. When pulling the left trigger Logan takes cover and 
 from there you can either take a closer aim or fire blindly behind your position. The AI of your 
 2 squad mates is great making the game a lot easier and giving orders is done with a D-pad. In 
 my opinion the using of one's own squad is the best part of the game.
  
  Unfortunately especially at the beginning of the game it's not always clear about what you should 
 be doing. Luckily this aspect is being removed later on, because it's pretty much just pushing 
 forward and killing terrorists. Controlling Logan is not so fluidly executed as you might expect: 
 you can't run or jump and all in all Logan is a stiff guy to control.
  
  Save system uses checkpoints, which in my opinion are too few and far between and since you can 
 die in just a few shots you might end up playing the same spots over and over again. This gets 
 irritating very quickly. There should be more checkpoints or the ability to save anywhere anytime. 
 Or both just like in The Orange Box and Bioshock.
  
  Multiplayer is a whole another game. For starters it's a great feature to be able to put your own 
 face to your character by using an Xbox Live Vision camera. This way the fights become more personal, 
 but for some reason in the game I appear to be bald. Graphics in multiplayer are even worse than 
 what they are in the single player, but at least there are quite an amount of different game options 
 to choose from.
  
  The ability to kick unwanted players from a game is too easy and this meant that I was unable to 
 find myself a match to play in: everyone saw from my rank that I'm a noob and kick me out before 
 the match even got started.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas was a good game about a year ago, but now you should just skip it, wait for the 
 sequel and in the meantime play Call of Duty 4 instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Team_Io
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Alright first difference from all the other Rainbow 6 games is the cover system, which is similar 
 to kill switch (find cover, or find religion) . But don't think for a second that the its a cover 
 system thats as good as gears of war's which is the best ever... ever. Unlike the other rainbow 
 6 games you only have 3 teammates instead of 4; but the new guys are much smarter so you don't 
 need 4. The customization is fun, but you only get to use one upgrade so you can't equip a laser 
 sight, an acog scope, and kill everybody unlike crysis. Blind firing is fun but you can't hit ANYTHING 
 unlike in gears. The guns you get are varied and very fun to use but it doesn't have a M4 (in any 
 modern shooter game that is a crime) . I can recommend this to anyone so go buy this and buy the 
 sequel... NOW!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SLICKViP
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  Rainbow six is quite frankly a great game for the xbox 360. The tactical element to the game is 
 both appealing and exciting but there are a few negatives to take in. Frannkly i find the first 
 part of the game in Jordan frankly quite  However the game does 
 pick up once u enter Sin city and grows ever more exciting as u utilise your tactical skills to 
 the game. One thing that can b quite frustrating is the checpoint system which annoyed me at some 
 intervals where combat was difficult. Some might not agree but i certainly fouund it to be a challenging 
 aspect.
  The game also utilises the aspect of using cover and u feel that u need to use it and u dont want 
 to get hurt in the process of fighting. 
  Overall this game is a great package. You really do feel like your part of a squad and that you 
 really feel like youre there and in the battlefield. A must buy for your xbox 360 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninjamonkey25
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Were to start with this game, well first of all single player awesome it lets u pick maps in any 
 order. the freedom to select weapons, grenades, and kinds of scopes is a HUGE improvement from 
 other shooters who dont give u much control over your character, but this game does. u can even 
 select how your character looks male or female and different gear, there is over 25 choices. now 
 lets get to the gameplay, most important part of the game. weapons are real sounding and look real! 
 incredible graphics! there is accurate aiming no bull **** like waisting 3 rounds on a guy and 
 hes still not hit at all. also there is a good amount of blood in the game. it splatters and everything. 
 
  
  Now weapons, u got a primary, secondary, a handgun and 2 types of grenades/charges. there is a 
 great variety of sub machine guns, shotguns, snipers, assault rifles, and light assault rifles. 
 guns have a good magazine size and good number of clips. also its cool to be able to command a 
 group and it is good for being tactical. armor is also realistic and cool looking .
  
  lets get down to the tactical part of this game. being able to hide on walls is a nice feature. 
 convieniently placed obstacles and things to hide behind are good. mission settings are also good 
 for this because places like casinos provide cover for u and your enemies which makes the game 
 unique because its not easy but not super frusteratingly hard its just right at a good challenging 
 level.
  
  my last segment is multiplayer. co-op is big for this game because you have to work together and 
 find ways to take down the enemy being tactical. now online is amazing!! u can customize your gear 
 that looks cool and gives you different abilities. its not like CoD4 where u get perks and u pwn 
 ppl cause u have way better gear and weapons but the gear will give you either more speed and less 
 protection or more protection and less speed it just depends on what kind of person u want to be. 
 you can get different colors af things and u can get helmets and masks. you can customize your 
 chars features and everything. overall 9.0 because no game is perfect and this game has some flaws 
 but its close to perfect. and R6V2 will probably be even closer. thanks for reading :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beasterxxx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  Sorry for the play on words! This game has everything you could ever want in a tactical shooter. 
 The story mode leaves you wanting more and the online play keeps you coming back for more! Name 
 another game where you can repel down a wall flip over and shoot two bad guys in the head then 
 breach in and mow down 4 more terrorists! There are none simply put! This is THE Tactical Shooter 
 game, forget GRAW 1 AND 2, COD and any other military shooters you can think of. RB6V is truly 
 a masterpiece. There are two issues I have with the game though. First: the graphics are a bit 
 behind the curve when you consider Gears of War came out around the same time, even in high def, 
 it just looks "foggy." Second: The multiplayer has some spawn point issues, to allow people to 
 be able to spawn camp this easily just turns me off to certain maps. There is also the ranking 
 system that allows better players to become nearly invincible and finally in multiplayer, you shouldn't 
 have to play 1400 hours to be able to achieve gear that you NEED to be competitive in. Most of 
 the glitches have been fixed. Co-Op mode is nearly perfect. This Game is as close to perfect as 
 it comes, and would get a 10 if the graphics were a little better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoomBringer2010
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Ok i hav had this game since it came out and hav just got to review it. You are the leader of the 
 best SWAT team. You start out in Mexico but when you lose your two teammates you fight back to Vegas. There 
 you uncover a terrorist plot. (No spoilers here) . Single Player for this game is just spectacular 
 lush and beautifully designed landscapes make you feel like you are in Vegas. This is a definite 
 tactical shooter, seeing that you need to be tactical to defeat your enemies. But this game is a 
 fraction as good as it's multiplayer. The multiplayer allows you to customize a character to fight 
 in big battles. The main mode everybody plays is Attack and Defend. The objective for the attackers 
 is to retrieve the intel and take it to a extraction point. Defenders is the opposite of course. It 
 makes you feel like a real SWAT member if you are an attacker. Just like the singleplayer you have 
 to be tactical to win the game. Now on to weapons, there is a wide range of weapons to choose from. light 
 machine guns to snipers and everything in between. Also there are a bunch of gadget like GPS devices 
 or GPS Jammers, this game will keep you entertained until the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Story: Your two squadmates have been taken hostage, you must get them back while saving the city 
 of Las Vegas.
  
  Graphics: Great looking, Shader 3.0 required (PC Version)
  
  Audio: Squad has good communication, weapons sound great, all round well recorded.
  
  Missions: 
 Kill bad guys, defuse a few bombs, save the hosties, etc.
  
  Controls: Work great.
  
  Features: New cover system that works very well and can save your life in many spots.
  
  A. I.: 
 Smart, can flank, and will own you hard if you let them.
  
  Loading Times: Many but never more than a 15 seconds long.
  
  Multiplayer: Get your money's 
 worth, cool rank up system.
  
  Requirements: 360, XBL for MP.
  
  Weapons: Standard Rainbow Six weapons... no M4 : ( 
  
  The Good: Graphics, Cover System, Enemies.
 
  
  The Bad: Frustrating at times, No M4!
  
  The Ugly: In Games Ads. Meh.
  
  Replay Ability: Single Player- Average, MultiPlayer-High.
  
  The Bottom Line: The Best Rainbow 
 Six Game to Date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vicariouslyme
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 3:57 am PT
Review:  Not being overly impressed with the rainbow six games for ps2 i was wondering if this was gona 
 be the same hack job that ubi soft has ported over.. by the looks of a bit of dodgey graphics i 
 thought i was right.. turned it on expecting not alot from it really and within the first burst 
 of my gun i was hooked.. the realisticness of this game is unbelievable
  and i just love the whole thing. The game was the first fps i had played online and i totaly loved 
 it.. the story was great, the gameplay was fantastic, the mission varity was great defending, attacking, 
 hostage situations, stealth and infiltration was amazing i was really impressed and spent every 
 day playing it.. for any fan of games and online play i recommend this game. It isnt perfect by 
 all means.. it has a few glitches here and there and online can be frustrating with bullets that 
 can go through walls (which isnt due to good game creation its due to bad because its not allowed) 
 i through my 360 controller str8 through my hd tv when this happened. The dedicated servers could 
 be used more but apart from that the game is incredible and i cant wait for the second installment! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RHCPfan24
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  The Tom Clancy series has always been known for their realistic, tactical approach to the shooter 
 genre, and the Rainbow Six series in particular has been Tom Clancy's longest running franchise 
 as well as, arguably, their most popular. Rainbow Six Vegas carries out this tradition, but re-hauls 
 the series in almost every way. 
  
  One way notice first about Vegas is its new cover system. On my opinion, this system is superior 
 to Gears' system in about every way. All the player has to do to get behind cover is to pull the 
 L trigger near any medium to large object, and use hte analog sticks to move around and aim from 
 behind cover. The player can also 'pop out' of cover easily with a flick of the analog stick. This 
 mechanic works very well, and, as mentioned previously, is better than Gears of War's.
  
  The gameplay all together is very solid. Shooting is marvelous and you can always see the reticule 
 positioned over a terrorist's head. The different visions as well will be utilized, as the environments 
 can become dark. Thermal, which has always annoyed me in past games, is actually pretty cool, and 
 I used it on many occasions. However, the environments can become very dark and hard to see sometimes, 
 and the visions really ruin the HD, next-gen nature of these games. Also, the levels as a whole 
 can become either repetitive or dull in nature with the exception of many of the wide casino spaces 
 and lobbies. The Mexican beginning feels like it begins more in Ghost Recon rather than Rainbow 
 Six as well. Fortunately, complaints end about there. 
  
  The story, while nothing terribly original, immerses the player in a terrorist-infested world that 
 the world of today is. Numerous attacks are being conducted throughout Vegas, and it is up to your 
 team of three to stop it. Why they only use a team of three beats me, but it adds to the suspense. 
 Speaking of which, this game is hard. I mean really hard. Not only on realistic will fairly-seasoned 
 gamers become frustrated during some shootouts. It is very similar to some of COD4's frustratingly 
 intense sequences, but, if you give it the effort, you will pass and make it to the next area. 
 Also, a pretty difficult mode called Terrorist Hunt is part of single player and tasks you with 
 eliminating an area of all the terrorists and scores you on that. It is really hard and requires 
 determination considering no snake cams are allowed as well as you are alone without your team. 
 It is a fun bonus mode on top of an already stellar game.
  
  Additionally, the multiplayer and co-op play is top-notch. Many modes and maps will keep any hardcore 
 gamer satisfied (by the way, this gamer is not for the casual; it requires precision and is best 
 suited for the experienced with a gamepad) . To this day, numerous gamers still frag it out on the 
 online matches, and rightfully so. Many will find COD4 and Halo 3's multiplayer options a little 
 heftier in depth, but Rainbow Six Vegas was revolutionary for the time and still a hell of a lot 
 of fun nowadays. 
  
  The feeling of leading your two elite soldiers through casinos never gets old, no matter how repetitive 
 some of the levels can be. And that is the beauty of Vegas: the game is slightly flawed, but the 
 positives greatly outnumber the negatives and I still don't regret giving this game such a high 
 rating. It is truly that great. With the sequel approaching, I don't think I will trade in this 
 game for the new one (which I normally do with sequels) , and I feel as though my library of games 
 will be incomplete without this one. With an excellent single player, a fun bonus diversion game, 
 and one of the best multiplayer experiences on Xbox Live, Rainbow Six Vegas rocks and is quite 
 simply, amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firestorm217
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Sin City is about to get a wake up call, but that's ok because I've been up all night anyways playing 
 Ubisofts new installment in the Rainbow Six franchise, Vegas. This game tells the tale of an elite 
 infiltration squad run by Rainbow team leader, and main character, Logan Keller. Assisted by Alpha 
 and Bravo teams, with extra support provided by your "support staff", you try to take down terrorists 
 in a Mexican Area, which is followed by the height of this game, Los Vegas.
  
  The overall game play of Vegas focuses mainly on the Team Aspect, which includes giving orders 
 (whether it be using The Controller or the Xbox 360 headset using "voice recognition") to do things 
 like breach doors, repel down building sides or to change the rules of enemy engagement for stealth 
 or direct assault purposes. The game follows it's "First Person Shooter" genre, however the camera 
 will move into third person while into cover which is quite the refreshing first person break. 
 There isn't much of a health system in this game when you are shot your sight gets fuzzy and makes 
 it difficult to see, but this goes away after a bit. If shot again while in this state of disoriented 
 sight, the symptoms will get worse, making to almost impossible to make your way out of fire. If 
 shot again after this last state, you are dead. The environments in this game are excellent to 
 say the least. With proper lighting use, shadows, and great looking environments .
  
  The sounds of the game impressed me. When on multiplayer or on single player issuing commands using 
 the headset your players mouth moves along with the speech. Many guns can be equipped with silencers, 
 but each gun varies in level of silence, a silenced assault rifle with be obviously louder than 
 a silenced sub machine gun. The graphics are also superb, and this is coming from someone who plays 
 on a 13-inch tube TV. So for those of you playing in nice, crisp HD, prepare to be blown away. The 
 AI of this game surprised me with its keen sense of awareness and, sight distance. For example: 
 I was in the Mexico mission and I spotted a hostile. I thought I would move back a lot to a point 
 in which I figured was too far for him to see me, I got into cover and popped up to line up my 
 shot. It wasn't more than one second out of cover when I heard yelling followed by shots by the 
 same hostile I had set out to kill. This makes it hard to be stealthy at times, which can take 
 away from the atmosphere of the game. However there have been times when an enemy would be in cover 
 yet being in clear line of my fire.
  
  Single player isn't the end to this wonderful experience however. With one little Ethernet cable 
 and an Xbox Live gold membership you can be on your way to excellent multiplayer. Multiplayer scenarios 
 include, an attack and defend match, Team Sharpshooter a. k. a Team death match, a Co Op mode and 
 plenty more. If you are one of the people who have bought an Xbox Live Vision Camera, you can actually 
 take a picture of your face and have it overlaid onto you online character (which also gives you 
 an nice 20 point achievement) . Your online character also has a wide window for customization. 
 With more experience you can go up in ranks which unlocks more outfits you can slap on your character 
 to fully express your online persona.
  
  So if your ready for the next gen of console shooters, or have already played through the Gears 
 Of War campaign and are looking for something just as good, I highly recommend Tom Clancy's Rainbow 
 Six: Vegas.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobkinator
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  The game begins not in vegas but in mexico where it sets up the games plot and thhe reason that 
 you have been sent to vegas though the story is definetly not spectacualar until the ending cliffhanger 
 it is plausible enough. now to get down to the gameplay, the game uses a cover system much like gears 
 of war but a bit more tuned to close quarters and tactics allowing you to spin around doors and 
 blindfire. you can take cover behind almost anything solid that is big enough to support you. he 
 cover system also should show you that this is not a run and gun by any means at all. this is most 
 definetly a thinking mans game in how you do almost everything. the game also centers around commanding 
 your squad and using diferent tactics to take on different situations. you will command a two man 
 squad that is pretty good at what they do, when you say move they move, when you say go silent they 
 go silent and when you say make that door explode they make it go boom. now on to the tactics portion 
 of the game, every weapon that goes silent in the real world can have a silencer which gives even 
 more options on how to take down your foes and you can order your guys to "stack up" at a door 
 and depending on which rules of engagement your on you will have different options on how to assault 
 the room from blowing open the door to tossing in a flashbang after using the snake cam to assess 
 the situation making it fairly fun to start every battle. the games difficulty has to settings, normal 
 and realistic, these range form hard to impossible because of how little damage you can take on 
 either setting and how the AI reacts [they use cover and tactics well on both] . the games graphics 
 are good [they wont blow you away] making all the places look good, though at least when playin 
 co-op the textures suffer severely. the multiplayer works well making it important to work as a 
 team to succeed. all of the single player campaign is co-op with up to four players supporting custom 
 characters [more on them later] along with the terrorist hunts [the name says it all] .when playing 
 online the game uses a system alot alike the one in Cod4 where the more you play the better weapons 
 and armor are unlocked for your character. when making a character you pick from male or female 
 and pick a face you like and can add scars and stuff [the game supports the use of the xboxlive 
 vision camera to upload an image of yourself] . 
  
  this is a game that any one who likes a good first-third person where you have to think shouldnt 
 miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calwilliamson
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 1:58 am PT
Review:  LOVE IT thats all i have to say, but that cant be it or im not aloud to submit it.
  
  Multiplayer. GREAT. Terrorist hunt. GREAT.
  Campaign. GREAT.
  Cheese. GREAT.
  
  when my brother 
 comes round or any of my freinds we always play this game, we could spend hours playing it (Library 
 is best map) i cant really say anything else. the fact that you can customize your equipment before 
 a map is really cool also the CHEAT for 3rd person is cool.
  
  if you dont know it, its:
  X, B, X, B, Left Thumbstick, Left Thumbstick, Y, A, Y, A, Right Thumbstick, Right Thumbstick 
 
  hi
  even though its on the cheat page but you always have to be carefull as my aunty used to say (she 
 then got hit by a bus LOL only joking)
  
  i just love owning terrorists and seeing them fly across the room when you blow open a door so 
 funny.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChestyMcGee
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 7, 2008 5:13 am PT
Review:  If you're looking to buy a new 1st Person Shooter, the first question you should ask yourself is 
 "Rainbow Six: Vegas or Call of Duty 4?" The answer very much depends on this next question: "Do 
 you have Live and do you make full use of it?" The sad truth is that both game only get one half 
 of the equation right  Call of Duty 4 has brilliant multiplayer and a dodgy singleplayer and Rainbow 
 Six is the other way around so your purchase should be very much decided on how much you play online 
 and how much you enjoy playing on your own.
  
  The Rainbow Six series has always been centred on realism and simulation and indeed, the first 
 three titles are some of the most realistic video games available. Rainbow Six 3: Raven Shield 
 was the highpoint of the series; it incorporated the incredibly realism and tactics of the previous 
 games while making it slightly more user friendly, couple this with over 50 weapons to choose from 
 right from the start and some decent multiplayer and you have a brilliant game. Rainbow Six: Lockdown, 
 its sequel, was a terrible game that attempted a complete arcade makeover of the original, critically 
 acclaimed setup. So you'd think that perhaps Rainbow Six would simply accept defeat and withdraw 
 from the video game scene. Well, Tom Clancy isn't one for defeat and the Rainbow Six franchise 
 has been reinvented yet again for a new age of gaming. The result is Rainbow Six: Vegas and while 
 it is almost completely different from Raven Shield, it is still a brilliant game in its own right.
 
  
  The story of the game follows the adventures of that same team from Tom Clancy's original novel; 
 "Rainbow" is a top secret multinational team of highly trained anti-terrorist soldiers. The hero 
 of the novel and the previous games, Ding Chavez, has left the scene of this title, probably for 
 some high ranking office job. Instead, that role switches to young Logan Keller and his go-team. 
 While on a mission to capture an international terrorist in Mexico, things go sour  your team 
 is captured and you left for dead and a huge terrorist epidemic begins in Sin City. It's up to 
 you and your new team to rescue your comrades and put an end to the threat which unravels into 
 something much bigger through the course of the game. Overall the story is fairly decent, although 
 not really a necessity to the game's experience. Luckily, it has a good script and good voice acting 
 to match, especially from a couple of the characters although they're let down by some dodgy acting 
 from little parts such as the hostages. 
  
  Story, voice acting and script: 7/10
  
  Graphically, Vegas can be quite stunning at times thanks to the fantastic amount of detail in the 
 environments. The textures aren't particularly good and in some cases they're quite poor indeed, 
 but the sheer amount of interactivity in the surroundings during fire-fights puts even Half-Life 
 2 to shame. It's incredibly satisfying to put some rounds into a car not to have it simply explode 
 unrealistically like in CoD4, but to have individual doors fall off, the windows and mirror smash 
 and the body to rock on its suspension. Or a fight in a casino will cause the panels on slot machines 
 to come off and in some cases causes them to cough up money all over the floor, in one instance 
 it was cool to see that bullets hitting a piano in a bar snapped off one of the legs, making it 
 collapse in a loud clashy chord as it hit the floor. Music to my ears.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  The sound in the game is also fantastic, especially with surround sound and the bass on pretty 
 high. All the guns sound powerful and beefy, but not in an over-the-top 90's action film sort of 
 way. The best effect has to be that pretty much whenever you're outdoors, all of the weapons echo 
 fantastically around the open spaces making for some truly breathtaking combat. 
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  The shooting is solid, smooth and satisfying. The use of a 3rd Person Gears 
 of War-style clip-to-cover system, albeit with slightly different controls, really helps make the 
 shooting extra special, also, you get to see far more of the destructible environments while taking 
 cover. The only down point really is that it can be far too easy to aim your shots without actually 
 popping out of cover, as with every 3rd Person Shooter, I wouldn't mind this in other circumstances 
 but I don't feel it has a place in a realistic game. Also, the addition of crosshairs that grow 
 and shrink depending on your stance and movement also feels a little out of place. The clip-to-cover 
 system might take a bit of getting used to and at first, fans of 1st Person Shooters might not 
 enjoy it as pretty much the entire game is done in 3rd Person cover, pretty much the only 1st Person 
 action you'll do is if there's no cover available to you, which is very rare, if you have a scope 
 on your weapon or if you're moving between cover/sections of the level. Once you're used to it 
 though you stop being a FPS fan-boy completely and just enjoy the game for what it is. It's also 
 quite short like pretty much every other game out in the past five years but it has very little 
 replay value thanks to the fact that the first four levels are pretty much training missions, then 
 the four missions after that are really good, but then from there on it gets pointlessly difficult. 
 For a first time play through it is truly quite amazing, and the four middle missions are enough 
 to keep you going for a while. There's also a "Terrorist Hunt" mode where you can single-handedly 
 take on swarms of terrorists on the multiplayer mapsbut it's even more difficult than the singleplayer 
 and more boring. The only other low point about the singleplayer is that it can at times be infuriatingly 
 difficult and later on the enemies start wearing some sort of fantastic armour that can stop a 
 ridiculous ten rounds before becoming useless. 
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  
  The AI is also fairly solid, they take cover well and they understand that when bullets are pinging 
 off their cover it's better to blind fire than get shot, they'll also throw smoke grenades (unscripted 
 of course) if they've got a lot of ground to cover or flashbangs if charging into a room. I have 
 to admit though, quite often their grenades land in entirely the wrong place and they'll flash 
 themselves or they'll put a smoke on the floor above them by mistake, sadly the AI also suffers 
 from "Gears of War Syndrome", also known "Mass Effect Syndrome" (though I might just rename it 
 "Clip-to-Cover Syndrome") whereby they occasionally decide that, although the fight might be perfectly 
 even and they have perfect cover, it's probably best if they just jog idly towards your position 
 firing off they're cheap Chinese-copy AKs. 
  
  AI: 7/10
  
  The multiplayer is the game's let down. It's by no means terrible, but it's not fantastic either 
 like Call of Duty 4's. Like CoD4, it has consistent character creation so you can create your soldier 
 and level him/her up, unlocking new weapons and armour as you play games. The thing Vegas does 
 that CoD doesn't is that you can choose what your man (or woman) looks like and what they wear, 
 where-as wearing cool shades or a bandana does nothing to change the game, different armour types 
 protect you better but consequently weigh you down more. Sadly though, whereas CoD has plenty to 
 unlock and consistently too, Vegas starts you off with pretty much every weapon and the only things 
 to unlock are a couple new guns, a new armour type and some cool balaclavas. Not my idea of a reward. 
 Also, hardly anyone online actually uses any armour at all and much prefers to run around in shorts 
 and t-shirts so they have the opportunity torun faster. The biggest annoyance, however, has to 
 be that even on game modes where you can respawn as soon as you die, you have to wait up to ten 
 minutes for the round to end before you can play, and it's very rare that you'll ever find a game 
 not in progress. The already mentioned "Terrorist Hunt" can be played online with a friend too, 
 which offers slightly more enjoyment than it does on singleplayer, but is still far too difficult. 
 
  
  Multiplayer: 6/10
  
  So, to conclude, the singleplayer is one of the best shooting experiences to be had on 360 while 
 the multiplayer lets it down considerably. That said though, if you find this game in the sales 
 or cheap in the "Classics" range, then it's a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerreviewer
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 6, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  If you do decide you want to play this game then try renting it first if you havent played a tatical 
 first person shooter before otherwise youll have a frustraiting time. Rainbow Six Vegas is a pretty 
 challenging game otherwise put is as just plain hard. This game is not just about you being the 
 hero of Vegas, include your team mates in the award ceremony too for helping you shoot down those 
 extra terrorists hiding behind the corner that you can barely see. The graphics and controlls are 
 alright but takes time to get used to as you play through this game.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay of Rainbow Six Vegas can be frustraiting and it doesnt add that much of 
 a thrill for me during the story mode. The controlls are good but not great. Whats good though 
 is they give you a tutorial description on the top right in the middle of battle so take some cover 
 and read that description they give you. They really dont explain how the battle standards though 
 which they should have covered more because of the hostage situation. There are two standards, 
 Infiltrate and Assault. Infiltrate is for the hostage situations otherwise use Assault for anything 
 else. It isnt that bad for Tom Clancy fans that might know these already but its not good for new 
 comers. Also you get to command two squad members, commanding them to break in through windows 
 or blast through doors and you can set which terrorists to shoot. If one of you team mates is shot 
 down then tell the other guy to heal him and take cover for more action. Depending on the situation 
 you have three options to break in. You can also come in a different door and shoot the terrorists 
 when they are busy aiming at your team mates. The weapons are strong and you will die in two hits 
 about and its really easy taking out the terrorists but you have to watch out for the ones in the 
 dark that come up behind you and for the gernades that can be hard to dodge at times. This game 
 takes some strategizing looking for cover and making sure you are in a safe spot during combat 
 and more importantly rely on your team mates to do most of the work.
  
  Sound/Music: The music doesnt really put you in that position in the game. The opera house music 
 is quite dramatic and it can set you away from that rage building up.
  
  Graphics: Ubisoft focused more on the scenery than the people but really didnt to that good of 
 a job on the lighting after being shot. When you are hurt the screen is blurry and its hard to 
 see so you can die if you dont know where you are at but just stay under that crate. Being shot 
 the third time is the worst. The screen is burry and it grows dark sort of being like your drunk 
 at a party in the casino.
  
  STORY: Your squad Rainbow end up saving Vegas from a terrorist attack from a terrorist leader, 
 Irena. You play as Logan Keller that meets up with his squad in an abandoned Church in Mexico on 
 a mission to arrest Irena, the terrorist leader. Your Squad Gabriel and Kan end up kiddnapped from 
 an anbush Irena has set up. Later They move to Las Vegas which is being attacked by Irena but you 
 set another objective besides saving Vegas, Saving Gabriel and Kan. 
  
  Multiplayer: The multiplayer is mostly the same as the story gameplay only except that you cant 
 upgrade weapons and you dont have any squad members to command, but its worth playing for those 
 Xbox acheivements and ranking which takes long to level.
  
  OVERALL: Rainbow Six is an okay game and I liked using all the tatics and trinkites you get to 
 use to make batteling easier but the bad is mostly from the spies sneaking up on you when you least 
 expect it, having to hold the LB button when taking cover, some of the weapons and how the tageting 
 takes time to become familiar with it, and just going through all that to find out something else 
 that brings this game to a sequal "To Be Continued" scene. Its still a fun shooter to play but 
 rent it first if you are not sure about it.
  
  Thanks for reading,
  Gamerreveiwer.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Unseen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  I could not believe the graphics of the game when I played on it, single player is a tough but 
 I managed to get to the 3rd to last mission on realistic until my Xbox got wiped of its data ( 
 lost everything )
  
  The game types online are good online as you have about 7 types to choose from and several maps, 
 but the graphics online seem to lack my standards, but it is one of the best games I have played 
 on ever. I also like the creation of your own player on Xbox live. Overall I would consider buying 
 this game but if you can wait till the 23/03/08 Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is coming out! 
  
  Pre-order now at this link
  
  http://www. play. com/Games/Xbox360/4-/3437678/Tom-Clancy-Rainbow-Six-Vegas-2/Product. html
 
  
  I hope you liked this review as it is only my second so i am not very good at these 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09231991
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is serious awesome. I haven't played to many Ghost Recon and Rainbow Six style games 
 in the past because I wasn't a big tactical shooter person but when I saw videos and such, I was 
 blown away. This game is just a blast to play and really makes you think. The premise is basically 
 your a SWAT team leader with two guys at your disposal for your team. You start out in a dusty 
 town infested with terrorists and your job is to capture their leader. Well it is a tutorial level 
 but eventually becomes pretty intense. The game has two difficulty levels, Normal and Realistic. 
 Normal was hard enough so I'd say realistic should be for veteran players. Anyways you eventually 
 end up in Vegas where the terrorists have been causing havoc and such. The ending though is a huge 
 cliff-hanger, I'm not going to lie. Now onto the Multiplayer portion. The multiplayer portion is 
 very fun. My favorite mode is team deathmatch or, well I guess anything that team-based. There 
 is a all-out deathmatch but its not as fun because theres no teamwork and no tactical prowess at 
 all. The multiplayer becomes eventually addicting because its just so damn fun to play. There is 
 also team-objective based multiplayer modes as well which are also really fun to play. A must buy 
 for tactical-shooter fans, 360 owners or Tom Clancy fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanTnT
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas is a great first person shooter. It uses the cover system, kind 
 of like Gears of War did, but a little different. The campaign is good, decent length, and some 
 variety in locations, but mostly takes part in the various casinos and clubs in Vegas, but starting 
 off with dessert like Mexico. At max, you can carry two main weapons, one pistol, and two types 
 of grenades. You really have to be quick when shooting enemies, because if they have a good shot 
 on you, they will kill you very quickly. You have control of 2 squad members, sometimes useful, 
 sometimes completely stupid. For example, most of the time, you tell them to open and clear a room, 
 they will do so, but then other times, they can throw a grenade, and then die from the grenade 
 they threw. They don't die instantly, they go down, and you have to heal them, or if one of them 
 is still good, you can order him to heal the down squad mate, which is good since if the mission 
 failed every time one of them were down, the game would be even more frustrating than it currently 
 is. Just like my experience with Splinter Cell Double Agent, the checkpoints seem too far apart. 
 In Splinter Cell Double Agent, you could save anytime, which saved some frustration in having to 
 repeat the same parts. In Rainbow Six Vegas, you're going to have to repeat until you beat it, 
 most of the time it takes a few tries, but takes longer since the checkpoints are spaced. Don't 
 get me wrong, this is a very fun game, but a few annoying elements such as the spaced checkpoints, 
 occasionally dump allies, and hard difficulty, made this game great instead of superb. Multiplayer 
 is awesome, keeps the replay value high, but just like many Ubisoft titles of the past year, it 
 ends in a cliff hanger, it had a sense of closure, but not one I was particularly satisfied with, 
 but overall, Rainbow Six Vegas is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MexicanMonster2
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  Rainbow 6 Vegas is one of the best games of the year in my opinion. I bought it about a month or 
 so after the release and haven't stopped playing it since. The single player is above average but 
 what sets this game apart from everything else is the online multi-player. There are more then 
 a few glitches in the online play but as you play you learn how to get around them and defend yourself 
 from the people using them. Sometimes online people get a little too caught up in getting the points 
 to rank up but you can choose the room you want to be in to avoid this. You can also customize 
 your character online and use them in terrorist hunts in single player. Unfortunately you cannot 
 use them in a single player story mode but that's O. K. From everything from a bandanna to a tactical 
 helmet; wife beater to assault vest. You can tweak your character to you're liking. This game is 
 a must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garygok
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  As a long time gamer but first timer to the Rainbow Six name, I was pleasantly surprised overall. 
 It is tough these days to stand out in a saturated genre but RS: V does a few things to keep it 
 interesting.
  
  The duck-and-cover gameplay is reminiscent of a little game called Gears of War and this is a good 
 thing. Overall a good job has been done to give you plenty of hiding spots while keeping the gameplay 
 challenging but the controls fluent. Having two squad mates who you control has never been more 
 fun as you now pretty much have a couple of guinea pigs you can send out in front so the enemy 
 gives away it's location. Your squad is also relatively smart and does a descent job of finding 
 cover, keeping itself alive and so forth.
  
  Great moments of both intensity and suspense are present and are definitely some of the games greatest 
 assets. There is nothing quite like an emotional roller coaster when you are playing a game; I 
 think it really helps the game to be memorable.
  
  You've probably heard or read a lot of stuff about Rainbow Six: Vegas and there is probably not 
 much I can tell you other than it really did live up to my expectations. However the story ends 
 much more abruptly than one would 
  like and you may even find yourself saying "What the..." when you finish the game. The game doesn't 
 have to stop there though as you are left with alternate difficulty levels as well as some highly 
 acclaimed online multiplayer. 
  
  This is a title that is well worth the reduced price it is currently at and I would recommend it 
 to anyone; in fact I'd go so far as to say if you don't at least give it a try, you are missing 
 out. Even if you plan to get RS: V2 which is just around the corner, i'd still recommend going out 
 and treating yourself to this game.
  
  POSITIVES
  AI is great, seldom will you catch someone in the open. As well as picking good hiding spots, the 
 enemyies do a good job in attempting to flank you and react to your actions. Descent story. There 
 are multiple paths to reach most objectives which helps dampen that linear feeling alot of games 
 give you. 
  
  NEGATIVES
  Maneuvering your squad in close quarters could sometimes be frustrating. A few glitches here and 
 there when it comes to squad orders and using cover. Extremely abrupt ending that will leave you 
 wanting more and wishing there was. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  You will basically move from objective to objective as guided by voice/video transmissions from 
 your superiors. 
  
  There is alot of duck-and-cover and patient progression through the various areas. There will be 
 no run and gunning in this game you will learn early; It's all about finding cover, choosing where 
 to send your squad members and deciding which path to take to your destination.
  
  You can customize your equipment between levels as well as pick up the weapons of your adversaries.
 
  
  The controls works well and going from completely exposed to hiding behind the nearest cover work 
 with just the click of a button. And once you are there providing blind fire to cover your team 
 members or peeking around corners is fairly seamless. A little tweaking on the ability to peek 
 around corners would be nice but overall nothing there to hinder gameplay.
  
  GRAPHICS
  For the most part the graphics are great. Overall though I felt that they could use a bit of a 
 boost. 
  
  Particularly on details such as the gun you are carrying. I also felt that while good, the environments 
 could also do with a little lovin'.
  
  I have a very hard time looking past very blocky looking environments with alot of right-angles 
 and texture changes that don't flow smoothly into eachother, and although this didn't take away 
 from my enjoyment of the game, it is worth mentioning as sort of a wish-list item for the next 
 release.
  
  SOUND
  Great music and sound effects pretty much the whole way through. The ambient sound effects such 
 as slots machines sounded great and helped to get you feeling like you were in a Las Vegas casino. 
 Gunfire and explosions sound great. The general banter of your enemies that you occasionally overhear 
 are good for a few laughs. The music works well and sounds great which helps to add to the suspense 
 of the game.
  
  VALUE
  I consider this title to be a great value especially considering that it now has a new low price. 
 This is primarily because there is a sequel coming out soon but even so, I would definitely recommend 
 going out and grabbing this one before all the attention shifts to number 2. You'll have yourself 
 a great gameplay experience and you'll also prime yourself a bit for the sequel which is due out 
 soon. :) Oh, and don't forget the inclusion of online coop and versus play that you are sure to 
 get a few hours enjoyment out of.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdwolf260
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas delivers on all fronts, graphics, sound, weapons, and a ground breaking cover 
 mechanic. This game looks amazing, and it knows it too. The settings where the action takes place 
 shows off Xbox 360's graphical prowess, though you would need an HD TV to really get the full impact. 
 The Mexican border town, casinos, restaurants, and streets where the action takes place are superbly 
 detailed and lighted. The weapons at your disposal are varied and fun to use. You carry two primary 
 weapons, a handgun, and up to two different support items like C4, grenades, and breaching charges. 
 You do carry limited ammunition for each weapon except the handgun, not to worry though because 
 you can pick up ammo from the bodies of your defeated foes, as well as their weapons. Those weapons 
 do suffer balancing issues in multiplayer but with the everything else being so polished that's 
 forgivable. Multiplayer options are splitscreen and online, giving you different play options including 
 completing the entire campaign in co-op. The story may not be that great and a little hard to understand, 
 but it's hard to care about that when you're busy shooting up the bad guys and watching the environment 
 around splinter and explode beneath the barrage of bullets. I don't think there's any other game 
 out there that implements the use of cover as well as this game, all other developers should take 
 notice and try to emulate. This game is easily the best not just in Rainbow Six series but in the 
 genre as well. If you love shooting up terrorists in gorgeous locations you can't miss this one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: its_mmd
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  now it's when the innovation provides a game succes. rainbow six vegas is perfect, the best reason 
 for game shining is its innovative gameplay. the blind-cover fire system helps providing a fast 
 ,heavy and of course realastic battle that makes your dreams of being a rifleman come true. realastic 
 dificulty is what the game can make more focus on it in next series of the it, the gameplay can 
 get closer to the border between impossible and very hard ,because some times you think there's 
 no diffrence between AI system in medium and realastic difficulty and enemies have jast been phisycally 
 stronger not mentally. it; s a real pain that lack of diffrent types of enemies hurts feel of a real 
 war after a while. but must confess that ''rainbowsix : vegas'' is one of the best modern tactical 
 shooters that were ever released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PureRevenge
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  This game was amazing for me, because i am a huge multiplayer fan. The games online feature was 
 unbeatable, you have to use teamwork and the cover system to win, oh ya the cover system, this 
 was amazing for a 1st person shooter like rainbow six. This was very helpful when u were getting 
 shot, all u have to do is just pop out and shoot and hes a gonner. Single player: Now see single 
 player for me wasnt that great. Story telling for me was off a bit, But raibow six's graphics and 
 wepon choice made it just perfect. But for the multiplayer wow, it was outstanding, oh and by the 
 way... if u want to add me on XBL (xbox live) my GT is: II PAWNCAKE II Now for me i am a huge fan 
 of 1st person shooters. last summer all i did was play this and gears of war. im not an elite in 
 Raibow six but im in the higher ranks. This game just seemed to me like a great multiplayer and 
 single player... not so much. Most of the Achievements are single player so... not so much of an 
 achievement game.
  Now thank you very much for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Newjack900
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  I haven't been blown away by a 1st person shooter like this since Goldeneye for n64. I remember 
 as a kid loving that game, and spending countless hours just going through the levels on every 
 difficulty, while looking for every little thing I might have missed before. The fun factor for 
 this game is no different. The teamwork and stategy used with your 2 teammates is a display of 
 some of the best AI to date in 1st person shooters. I think this game is amazing. I actually prefer 
 playing this game over BioShock, which I also own and think is a great game. Don't hesitate to 
 give this game a try. I am pumped for the sequel. It's one of those games that disappoint you when 
 its over just because you want to keep playing. Luckily, they have other game scenarios that will 
 keep you playing for hours after you have gone through the story mode. I havent played it online 
 yet, because I fear if I do, I might never leave the house. I can only imagine how fun that would 
 be. - Cory G 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jokul
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2008 5:11 am PT
Review:  For some time now the general FPS shooter hasn't had a lot of work done on it, For years the standard 
 interface has stayed the same, the typical HUD layout with the gun at the bottom and the target 
 in the centre, however since the launch of the xbox 360 game developers are taking the classic 
 style shooter and giving it a new twist.
  
  Rainbow six vegas is a gritty and intense shooter that gets the blood pumping round your body at 
 a good rate.
  The new technology means that this game excells in the graphic and sound department with fantastic 
 voice overs, an immersive story line and a such a destructable enviroment it needs to be shot to 
 be belived!
  
  The game has a few differences from the other R6 games of the era, for a start this game depends 
 a lot more on cover and your tactical use of cover. By pushing a single button the typical HUD 
 view is replaced by a 3rd person camera view of your player allowing you to cling to walls, look 
 round corners and hide behind desks and blind fire back at enemys. This technique of running, hiding 
 and shooting from cover allows you take a more tactical approach, for example in two player co-op 
 one person can keep the bad guys at bay with some cover fire while your team mate finds a good 
 spot to snipe them from or makes his way round the side to take advantage of their blind side. 
 The animation is also worth noteing here as well, it works so well and is so smooth.
  
  The campaign is lengthy and challenging in both single player and co-op player with additional 
 game modes available after completing the story line on each mission.
  Typically you will be storming casinos in vegas with 2 team mates, who can be easily controlled 
 from your pad and you can choose who they fight when you have mulitple enemies with a click of 
 the button.
  There are a lot of weapons in the game rangeing from pistols to sniper rifles with a large variety 
 of choice between from Desert Eagles to PSG-1 with P90's and FAMAS and almost every choice of accesories 
 between.
  
  The games AI is really good, in some cases I've found myself at the receving end of death as a 
 an enemy sneaked behind me while another kept me busy with suppresion fire, they are definetly 
 some of the more organised enemys I have had the pleasure to kill.
  
  All in all, I would recommend this game to everyone over the age of say 12, some of the content 
 may not be suitable for anyone under that age.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobby_joe_is_in
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  K, im reading the review on this game, and it says it got a perfect 10 on Tilt??? What is this???? 
 ive been wanting to know for a long time, but i never got around to it. Can anyone please respond. 
 im dying to know what tilt means!!!!!! PLZ!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  K, now the review. This game is excellent. Its got an ok story (not very original) but, hey, should 
 this hold u back from gettin it???? the answer is NO. The rest of the game is great!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 The detail! The graphics! The action! The great multiplayer! and most of all, a good squad control 
 scheme. If u own a 360, and ur in to killin terrorists, this game should be in ur game library. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agustbestur
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 4:42 am PT
Review:  If you like long tubes of metal that spew forth cascades of molten-hot lead, it's a bloody good 
 time to be a 360 owner. Both Gears and COD3 have ably demonstrated that Microsoft's next-gen console 
 has well-and-truly hit its shooter stride. Just when we thought we couldn't handle any more face-blasting 
 action on the 360, along comes Rainbow Six Vegas to suck away any spare holiday time left after 
 the other big games. 
  
  Rainbow Six Lockdown was a point-blank shotgun blast to the Rainbow Six franchise, leaving Tom 
 Clancy's longest running series doubled-over like a rag-doll corpse. Ubisoft obviously couldn't 
 allow Lockdown to be at the forefront of gamer's memories of Rainbow, and have pulled out all the 
 stops with Vegas in an effort to compensate. The result is the finest, most feature-packed game 
 in the Rainbow series.
  
  Upon first heading into Ubisoft Montreal's latest effort, we were struck with an overwhelming sense 
 of Dj vu. Sitting in the back of a chopper, gazing out the open doorway as we fly low over a 
 dusty Mexican city, a myriad of squat shanties stretching off into the distance - hang on a minute, 
 isn't this Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfare? As we abseil to the streets below, an RPG round blazes 
 its way to the Black Hawk, forcing our team mates to abort their landing. We're stranded, alone, 
 in a neighbourhood that makes Cronulla look friendly. As the camera pulls into a first person perspective, 
 we still can't shrug off the feeling that this game feels very similar to GRAW. That's not a bad 
 thing though, considering that GRAW is still one of the finest shooters to grace the 360. 
  
  However, as we progress through this first training mission and are slowly introduced to the 
 intricate, yet incredibly intuitive, control scheme, we start to see that where GRAW focused on 
 long-range, outdoors combat, Vegas is all about the close quarter battle. It does have its share 
 of wide, open spaces to give your Scout sniper rifle a bit of a work out, but where it truly shines 
 is during the close confines that urban warriors call home. As the level progresses, we move into 
 the claustrophobic confines of an underground tunnel system, and the game's cover system comes 
 into its own.
  
  
  Nothing stops hot rounds chewing through your flesh like a metre of concrete between you and the 
 bad guys, and it's as easy to use as holding in the Left trigger. As long as you hold the trigger, 
 your player remains safely behind cover, but still has the ability to look around corners, with 
 the view pulling seamlessly out to a third person perspective. Lean just a little bit to the side 
 or over the top and you can lay down a wild shower of inaccurate cover fire. Poke the stick further 
 in that direction and suddenly you'll pop out from cover, squeezing off more accurate shots. Using 
 this technique it's possible to line up targets without leaving cover, before popping up to take 
 the shot. It's a more controllable system than the one seen in Gears of War and, unlike that title, 
 we didn't experience any moments of accidentally taking cover when we should have been retreating. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jks22112
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  The Good: 
  +Great graphics
  +Very intense
  +Great online multiplayer 
  +A very interesting premise, not seen in many war shooters. (Basiclly, it's not set in the middle 
 east, asia, africa, or south america, but here in the united states.)
  +Fairly long campagn mode, and difficult enough for it to last.
  +Really well done cover system, 
 and maybe the start of the covering system rip-offs in many other fps games.
  +Create a character and take him or her online. 
  
  The Bad:
  -Difficulty and sometimes long 
 seperation of checkpoints can make the game a little frustrating at times.
  -Online play might get a little stale
  -For a Tom Clancy game, a guy who writes novels for a 
 living, the story could be alot better, and the characters more interesting. 
  -Removed alot of the stradegy, planning, (but not all) and cool characters from old games. 
  
 
  The Ugly:
  *Apparantly all the cars in Las Vegas are Dodges
  *Though the location and premise is good, it seems a little ridiculous. 
  *Online play is getting 
 so old for people, most people play by new rules for games created by the people. 
  *The main character.. and the cliffhanger ending.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas is the latest instalment 
 in the Rainbow Six franchise. This one takes the series, and flips it on it's ear. All the characters, 
 are gone, going across the world, is done, and the planning and trial and error nature is no more. 
 
  
  Instead of have a less realistic, but still not arcade like shooter with an awesome cover system, 
 and the occasional rappeling. Switching your team is a thing of the past as you are always (except 
 one mission) accompined by 2 other people. At the beginning of the game your two teamates are taken 
 hostage, and you have to get them back. 
  
  They happen to be in Las Vegas, where a group of mexican terroists are executing a VERY large scale 
 assault on sin city. You haul back to sin city, and then the rest of the story mode is one night 
 of progressing through Las Vegas, killing tons of bad guys. 
  
  So you go through Las Vegas streets, and Casinos, and even the back areas of the city. The whole 
 story is pretty predictable, and a little ridiculous. 
  
  Multiplayer mode is pretty normal. You have the Deathmatch, team deathmatch, Survival, Search and 
 Destroy, Attack and Defend ETC. The cover system makes it a little different than other FPS, and 
 for that, it does have a really great online multiplayer. 
  
  Including in online mode is the ability to make a character, equip him or her with many different 
 types of clothing, accesories, and camo colors, and take them online to play against other people. 
 But to get many of the options available for you character, and many of the weapons of online play, 
 prepare to play the game A LOT. 
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas shows us a little of what next gen fps can do. Too bad games like COD4 have surpased 
 it by now. But if you haven't already tried this, it's defintely and exciting game, that probably 
 shouldn't be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Move over Ghost Recon because the best tactical shooter to date has just released. Rainbow six 
 doesn't not reinvent the wheel, but takes all of the parts of shooting games that are liked and 
 turn it into a polished high quality experience. The game starts in Mexico where you are reconing 
 possible terrorist activity and guess what? We actually have a storyline with the terrorist. I 
 will avoid spoilers, but the storyline is just riveting and we actually have links with the soldiers 
 and the terrorists so we actually have somewhat of an emotional experience instead of the patented 
 "here is your mission do it." We actually have great storytelling. The graphics really display 
 the battlefield well and the character models. Everyone looks important and the explosion effects 
 are done in such a way you actually feel as if you are in a battlefield at times. The is on the 
 same scale as the graphics and the game plays on a level that just ups the bar for tactical shooting. 
 You control squads of three (including yourself) and the commands are quick and precise. The AI 
 on your team is a well oiled killing machine and they follow orders to the letter. Your character 
 handles well and things move really smooth. You don't seem overburdened with commands because all 
 the stuff that should be instant is. like which way you lean and how you approach environmental 
 hazards and aides. Multi player also includes a ranking system and regular matchmaking games in 
 which you gain new weapons and armor that balance speed and the amount of damage you can take. 
 You also want to strategize on this as well because running and gunning will get you blowed away. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vectorman23
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is made from ubisoft/Tom Clancy. makers from great titles such
  as splinter cell, and ghost recon. The story in this game is not straight forward. so don't expect 
 any thing from that. The mulitplayer is where this game was heading. There is online or local split 
 screen. The online portion of this game is a amazing enjoyment. If you have xbox live or psn I 
 recommand buying this game. There is coop online and split screen which make the story mode much 
 easier. The weapons are also the same as the other title's with new features such as character 
 customization and weapon placement. The graphics are amazing. So people with HD have the joy of 
 the amazing textures but don't think it doesn't look good on stv. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nala2624
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  When looking through the "Classifications" I saw many that described this game, Immersive, Best 
 in series, Great Multiplayer and more. Rainbow Six Vegas in one of the best game I have ever played. 
 Just getting my Xbox 360 yesterday, I have logged over 20 hours of this game. The single player 
 is well planned and thought out as far as story goes. Easy to get used to and challenging to boot, 
 this game has it all: movie style gun fights, high tech gadgets, and a selection of weapons that 
 would make Burt Gummer droul. 
  
  But the single play is only the tip of the iceberg. Taking it to miltiplayer co-op makes it all 
 the better. You dont have to point to a place to send your team, just ask the person next to you 
 or over Xbox Live to flank Tangos or lob a grenade or give cover fire. The expansive selection 
 of methods to do something as simple as entering a room makes it seam as if Sam Ficher was running 
 the show.
  
  Rapelling and inverted rapelling is another nice feature. Imagine hanging up side down outside 
 a window watching Tangos and they dont know your there. Or having your team fast line through a 
 skylight. That is the clasic special ops drop through the ceiling on ropes move. 
  
  My favorite level you can use both. I wont spoil it but lets just saw, you invert rapell, shoot 
 a Tango and your team drops through the skylight to finish the rest off.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas for the Xbox 360 is one of the greatest game in history. The series has come 
 a long way from the 8-bit first installment. I eagerly look forward to Ubisoft's next game and 
 hope it will be as good if not better than this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feedbackdrmmr15
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 25, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Released: November 20, 2006
  Publisher: Ubisoft
  Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
  Game Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
  ESRB Rating: M for Mature
  ESRB Description: Blood, Intense 
 Violence, Strong Language, Suggestive 
  Themes
  
  Opening Thoughts:
  R6: Vegas was the first Tom Clancy game I ever played because, frankly, I don't like tactical shooting 
 games. I like tactical games, and I like shooting games, but the two mixed together don't sit well 
 with me.
  
  Story: 20%
  Gameplay: 40%
  Graphics: 30%
  Durability: 10%
  Story (5/10)
  If all of the Tom Clancy games are this terrible with their storylines, I have 
 no clue how they are selling. There is not an option for subtitles, and the voiceovers are so quiet 
 that you can't hear them anyway, and if you turn up the volume the background noise overrides the 
 talking.
  
  The main jist of the story is that terrorists have attacked Las Vegas. Your job is to stop them. 
 There is a bit of a plot twist at the end, but nothing that really keeps you wrapped up in it. 
 And it's very short, to boot. Good thing it's got multiplaying abilitybut I don't really rate 
 that.
  
  Gameplay (7/10)
  Being a tactical shooter, there is a cover system that is imperative to the gameplay. It's very 
 flawed. You cannot move from the wall to a crate sitting right next to it, so you let off of the 
 cover button and get sniped. That is how frustrating the game is overall. 
  
  The gameplay is very average. Nothing stands out, and there is nothing that you haven't seen in 
 other shooting games.
  
  Graphics (7/10)
  The graphics are decent, but nothing flashy and there are no cinematics. On the good side, there's 
 no skipping.
  
  Durability (3/10)
  My TV is very lucky that I'm patient, or it would have a hole in it right now. The ambushes that 
 are set up in the game along with the easiness of dying, lack of checkpoints, and no easy difficulty 
 make the frustration high. With only 6 levels, the game doesn't last long, either.
  
  Overall Score (6.2/10)
  
  Final Thoughts:
  Not too flashy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c-d4wg
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  This really is a game which puts you in control. Your the guy (or girl) inside all of that armour. 
 This isn't a game where you have a little life meter down the bottom and an armour meter next to 
 it if you can find the pick up or power up... You have ONE chance, ONE life, ONE squad. Unlike 
 FPS's like halo or unreal tournament, you will die immediately if you are caught out by the enemy 
 (or tangos as they like to call them =) ) . Thats right, there are no over shields, power ups, pick 
 ups. This is the real thing. This game makes you think twice before you go charging into that room 
 and letting all hell lose. You have to be a team player and think about the others who are depending 
 on you. This is a tactical shooter like no other. You have a huge array of options. Instead of 
 blowing down the door with a shotgun, breaching charge, frag or C4 (I personally like the shotgun) 
 you can plan your attack. Why not use your nifty little snake cam and order who is taken out first. 
 You can flash and clear with a flashbang grenade or why not try a smoke grenade and eliminate the 
 enemy's vision while you turn on your heat vision and pick them off. You are in charge, you can 
 order your team mates to enter the room from one side, creating a distraction while you come up 
 from behind and cover them. All though the story mode is quite short, you have the option to go 
 solo and take part in the terrorist hunt mode. Rainbow Six Vegas is unique in many ways, for a 
 start there are no rocket launchers!!! finally a game where your skill matters with guns, not grenade 
 launchers. Grenades alone are an exception. But i mean you don't see the SAS running around with 
 rocket launchers and blowing up the whole site (although it would be pretty cool) . This is an edge 
 of your seat game. Will you reload in enough time before a terrorist comes around the corner? will 
 you survive rappelling up the side of the building, not knowing whose on the roof? Will you be 
 taken out while fast roping through the glass in a movie style action? Who knows, but thats what 
 makes this game so good, everything is un expected. This game is just so addictive to me because 
 even after finishing it 10+ times, I still either last 5 seconds or manage to finish the mission. 
 It really is a great idea having absolutely no loading time before you respawn in terrorist hunt. 
 Although in story mode, the helicopter rides can go on forever.... BUT this game is everything 
 and more then i thought it would be. I only gave this game a 10 because there wasn't an option 
 for 11!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesseandnikki
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  The Rainbow Six series seemed to be heading nowhere but down the tube. That is, until Vegas came 
 out. Finally fans of the series are given a Rainbow Six game that makes us proud. 
  
  The singleplayer is good, but not great. Compared to the last few Rainbow games it's phenomenal, 
 however it's still not as good as our beloved Rainbow Six 3. With that said, let me say that the 
 singleplayer is more like a movie, which gives it a unique feel that sets it aside from the others. 
 The story is good, but could've used more hostage missions. Many of the missions, especially towards 
 the end, seemed more suited for the National Guard or Marines rather than a three man international 
 SWAT team, so it's a little unrealistic for a "realistic" tactical shooter. The tactical part, 
 however, is intact. 
  
  Multiplayer is where this game shines, as many already know. P. E. C is good, but could be better. 
 Using the Vision camera is harder than it needs to be, but the simple fact that this game has that 
 feature makes it kick***. If you're able to get a good team to play with then this can end up possibly 
 being the best tactical experience in a video game you'll ever experience. The only problem with 
 multiplayer is a little bullet lag and some other glitches that are easily overlooked unless you're 
 just looking for a reason to hate the game.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone who likes a good shooter. Simple as that. The storyline is fun, 
 and even though there isn't full fledged co-op, being able to play with a friend is a blast, despite 
 the inconveniences. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xTriviumx
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is a beast tactical shooter set in modern times. The graphics are great and the 
 gameplay is amazing as you go level after level beating difficult enemies using anything from stealthfully 
 making shots with silencers to blowing the door down with C4 type bombs. The story is great and 
 to the point where you aren't left standing wondering what the heck to do. The online multiplayer 
 is definatly part of the game's strong point where you can play basically anyone in almost and 
 type of game match you can think of from sniping to straight out shoot-em-up. Also many gun classes 
 and customizations and combonations as you can think of. You can even just plain out go killing 
 terrorists with the game's mode, Terrorist Hunt. There is truly nothing you can get bored from 
 in this game. Definatly a 9.0. Peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: true_apollo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 20, 2007 4:07 am PT
Review:  I honestly don't know where to begin; this is such an amazing game. Though Rainbow Six is based 
 in tactical shooting, it still maintains quick pace to keep things interesting. The single player 
 campaign is awesome, and beating it on realistic, though very hard, is one of the most satisfying 
 experiences to be had on the 360. Though almost a year old, the multiplayer field is still well 
 populated and for good reason. The multiplayer experience is very deep here as well. Character 
 customization is great, and the slight RPG elements are only outdone by the great RPG integration 
 in CoD4. The cover system really stands out in my mind when thinking of RS. Though a cover system 
 may seem like a small thing, the way it is integrated into both the single and multi-player experience 
 in Rainbow Six makes it a very fun and interesting ingredient in the RS formula. This cover system 
 is very cool, and it makes cover systems from games like GRAW and GoW look antiquated and awkward. 
 Overall just a great game. The only down side to Rainbow Six at this point is that it is soon to 
 be succeeded by the eagerly anticipated Rainbow Six: Vegas 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullking224
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time - you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your review, remember to keep the language 
 clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the 
 first time - you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback 
 associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, 
 save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. rainbow six is awesome
 
  the censore thing is stupid go to my acount and look at the blog see real review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: E1000_the_Gamer
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is totally INSANE!!! I t do not own it up to now, but I've been playing for up to 40 
 hours with my friends and it is really one of my favourite games, just after halo 3 :P The single 
 player mode is not as fun as the multiplayer mode, and if you don't have a Xbox LIVE account... 
 better have a friend to play with :P 
  
  I would also say that it's worth it and that you NEED to buy the game :P
  
  In conclusion, 
 f you own a 360 and that you like shooter-style games... you HAVE to buy it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tibisay
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Hello Everybody a greetings to all gamers from any console
  this is the first shooter that i did played Rainbow six vegas is a game that you can play alone 
 MODE HISTORY r Multiplayer and the GAMEPLAY is excellent the gunshots sounds ufff so great.....!!!!!
 
  the variaty of the weapons are so good too, its a little mono in the Maps i mean that scenary 
 is a little re-use but is the only thing that i dont like
  but when you are facing a few enemies is very exciting you can use many strategics stuffs
  the 
 graphics are nice but could be better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: childofrock11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy is known for bringing us some of the most realistic and tactical games available (Rainbow 
 six, Splinter Cell, Ghost Recon) . Rainbow Six Vegas redefined the franchise and has become one 
 the best offline and online shooters available.
  Vegas is a first person shooter with heavy tactical elements such as commanding team members, choice 
 of weapons, being silent our loud etc. Every firefight that you encounter, and believe me when 
 i say that there are alot, is filled with the most visceral action to date. The mechanics are easy 
 to pick up; you are near a wall and so you hold the left trigger throwing you into a 3rd person 
 perspective in which you can peak around cover to pick targets off. You are also able to blind 
 fire your weapons as well, leaving less of your body in the open but making your weapons a whole 
 lot more inaccurate. 
  The story is by no means great but it is better than most Clancy games in my opinion. The campaign 
 is of average length and there are alot of weapons to browse through and try, but what will last 
 you the most is the fantastic multiplayer.
  Online you are given the task of rising in rank and in doing so you unlock new fully customizable 
 weapons and armor. You are also able to make your avatar's face look exactly like your own if you 
 have the patience and the xbox live webcam. Working as a team or going it alone is always fun in 
 RBV and will last you many many hours of enjoyment.
  Overall, RBV is one of the must have games of the console world (preferably for 360) that every 
 shooter fan should play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_webster_87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  After the awful game that was Lockdown, I feared for this game and the entire franchise but thankfully 
 the switch to a new studio has worked to deliver a solid shooter.
  
  Graphically the game looks pretty realistic from the character's, level designs and of course the 
 guns themselves. It would be very hard to pick out any fault with the graphics but there vest that 
 the characters wear could of done what SWAT 4, did and actually clearly display all of your equipment 
 right down the magazine clips but that really is just nitpicking I guess.
  
  In the sound department, the game gets a glowing review with everything from the bullets to the 
 voices sounding virtually perfect. You even can hear the coins come out of the slot machines which 
 shows how much detail and effort the developers put into the game.
  
  The game has gone a little away from the tactical nature of its predecessors but still offers some 
 strong gameplay and infact a more accessible one for any new players to the franchise. The cover 
 system adds a little extra to the combat and when you get into a big gun battle, you will enjoy 
 this game even more. However its not without its flaws and for me it uses the classic "hold your 
 ground from impossible numbers from a impossible position" like in the Theatre and Dam levels one 
 too many, which takes away the realism of the game. Also the spawn feature of the enemy in terrorist 
 hunt is a little buggy and seeing someone just appear in the middle of the room or behind you is 
 very annoying.
  
  The AI is far improved but still can be much better but at least there are signs its getting there. 
 The biggest problem is how many bad guys there are in the game which again makes a fun shooter 
 but takes away the realism aspect we have come to know and love in the franchise.
  
  Online play is very good and playing with your friends on CO-OP or against them in the other modes 
 is great fun though I would of liked slightly bigger maps but with the 360 headset you can make 
 the co-op feature the best from any game to date.
  
  While I am unsure if it's better than Rainbow Six : Raven Shield, it definitely gives it a run 
 for its money but more importantly is that Vegas is a big step in the right direction for the franchise 
 and makes the wait for the next Rainbow installment even harder. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_zone
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 5:35 am PT
Review:  !!!!!! On Your Six, cuz this Review is targetting only the Single Player Mode!!!!
  
  Rainbow Six Series has been a very tactical video game in the PC days back in 1998-2005. But this 
 time, it has so much flavors in it since Rainbow Six 3 release on the consoles, and it remains one 
 of the best FPS / Tactical FPS to date. (oh ya... todays date is...30th November 2007)
  
  If you haven't yet to play the past series, Not to worry, as this game brings a whole new set of 
 Fresh story plot without making you confused. But If you have ever tried the Console Versions Or 
 PC ones before, and it is still in your memory.. then get ready for the most Twisted Story Of Rainbow 
 Six. This is one and only best Storyline ever created in Rainbow Six Series.
  
  Though I'm not gonna spoil the story for you, you will take fully control of a NEW Rainbow Six 
 Force Character named, Logan Keller, alongside with his two new Teammates, mainly Jung Park , a 
 recon expert, and Michael Walters, whose a Demolition Specialist. But Not to worry as they are 
 clever enough to decide whose doin the Recon And Demolition job everytime you issue them an order. 
 
  
  So lets starts reviewing, i will try to go in as detail as possible in every aspect of the game.
 
  
  Cover System (PROS)
  Rainbow SIx Vegas feels fresh with its new Cover System. Not only can the Enemies and your A. I 
 teammates cover behind objects and walls.. but so can you.. Just by holding the LT on your Xbox 360 
 controller, will set you into the cover mode when you're standing or crouchin close to a wall and 
 other objects...
  While Covering, the camera will change to a 3rd Person view.. allowing you to see whats behind your 
 cover.. locate your enemies positions, aim for it, and shoot them while you're still in the cover 
 mode. It might sound complicated, but its just a two way process... and that is...
  
  1) Cover
  2) kill your targets when you see them
  
  It is totally simple... Trust me.. You 
 can also Blind Fire, Throw Smoke/Grenades, Flashbang, give commands to your teammates, tagged your 
 enemies and even let Logan stand, crouch move left or right simultaneously while covering. This 
 cover system is one of the coolest interface that has been done to the game to make it feel fabulous. 
 Its somethin to be proud of when your Controlled Character can finally cover behind objects and 
 walls in a great FPS Game.
  
  But what if you don't like this cover system thing? well i've come across such people ya know.. not 
 to worry.. as you can still strafe left and right behind cover... crouch and stand up back just to 
 shoot your enemies.. its up to you to decide whether or not should you use this new cover system 
 in this game.
  
  Cover System (Cons)
  Though the cover system works great most of the time, but i doubt its totally perfect.... so let 
 me ask Logan and see if he has any complaints about the cover system, So Logan, any complaints while 
 you're covering?
  
  Logan: You're asking me?! Heh! If you wanna know.. I'll let you Know!! 
  10% of the time while 
 Covering on certain objects, i can't seem to fire from the left or the right side of the object 
 that i'm covering on..! and i cant even popped out of cover.. this may be the problem with the way 
 Ubi designed the objects in the game..
  But Why?! Coz i don't see any barriers on both of my sides! 
  And that left me no choice but 
 to stick out of cover and start strafing left and right like as if my feet are planted with a pair 
 of Ice Skating Shoes! Ubisoft.. Please fix that bug for me in Vegas 2 Arite!
  And 5% of the time, i've tried to shoot from my cover.. and well.. i've already target my enemies 
 while i'm covering, the minute i stick out my head to shoot them, there will be another scattering 
 object around the area which will suddenly block my sight from the enemy.. instead of aiming for 
 them.. i'm aiming for that useless piece object!! Now I'm pretty mad when this Happens!! 
  It's a good thing for the enemies that this isn't GRAW or Call Of duty 4, if not i will just shoot 
 that object assuming the bullets could penetrate through and kill whats behind it!
  
  Thanks For the Complaint Logan... please inform ubisoft about that... and make vegas a better city 
 instead of makin it to a more sinner city!
  
  ok great.. So Now lets Move on to the...
  
  Giving Commands/Orders (PROS) ....
  well acutually i'm sick of typing... so let me ask logan 
 and see if he can answer my questions... so Logan, how do you order your men in Vegas?
  
  Logan: I just need to point my crosshair to a spot, and with a single push of a button, will make 
 me to issue a "GO TO" order, press D pad Down, will make my men to regroup on me, and by pointing 
 the crosshair to an interactive objects like doors and ropes will make them stack up or rappel 
 up / down the rope. It works pretty simple...
  but HEY did i mention that I can even complete the whole story without givin much of the commands 
 to my men? i'll just ask them to regroup on me help me out as necessary... so for those of you who 
 likes to be a recruit instead of an officer, please stay away from commandin your squadmates... coz 
 for me.. i just love to issue commands and ask them to do whatever i want them to do.
  
  Me: That sounds simple Logan.. and since we're in the commandin section.. care to tell me what are 
 are tactics that are available in the game itself.
  
  Logan: Theres quite a handful of it actually. First, i can set my team into a Infiltrate mode, 
 or aggressive mode simply by pressing the LB. In Infiltrate (Stealth) mode, my squads wont shoot 
 at the enemies on sight.. Instead, they will just mark the enemies that they see, and fire at will 
 once i turned them into the aggressive mode. But if i choose the agressive mode, they will shoot 
 at the enemies once they see it causing chaos! its all up to me on how i wanna approach it...
 
  Another tactic is known as room clearing... so before Clearing the room.. i will have the opportunity 
 to Snake cam a room, meaning i can know whats behind the closed doors using a mini camera provided... and 
 Once i've ordered my men to stack up to the door. i can choose from 5 diffrents ways for them to 
 clear the room depending on what mode (agressive / infiltrate) i've set for them..
  
  Giving Commands/Orders (CONS)
  Me: Wow.. thats quite a detail.. so what do you dislike about giving 
 commands to your men? and what tactics that is present in the game you find unnecessary?
  
  Logan: I like every part of it, except a few things and that is,
  i can't command them to throw 
 a grenade, a smoke grenade or a flashbang in an open firefight... so thats quite a weak point, 
 
  another thing is that i can't command them individually...
  what?! are these two guys born to be a gay twins with the opposite colour skins till they must 
 always stick up to each other?!
  And at times, they tend to ignore my commands due to some scripted animations... so i need recommand 
 them again once they have finish with their scripted animations.. And lastly, i can only ask them 
 to move to a spot where i can see.. i cant exaclty issue them a long range command, and when i cant 
 issue them by the map, that means its hard for me to issue my men to flank the enemies... u see.. though 
 the commands are quite simple.. its definitely not depth.. About tactics.. i think the most useless 
 one is actually to Smoke And Clear a room...
  
  Weapons (PROS)
  Me: Thanks for the overview of the command system and tactics used in this game.. So what about 
 the weapons? Is it satisfying and authentic
  
  Logan: i like the way the gun recoils, the sounds, the variety of weapons, the stats... switchin 
 to a silencer or change the rate of fire anytime during the gameplay is a cool idea... What's also 
 cool about it is that, first you can normally do what most FPS are capable of and that is to pick 
 up dead enemy weapons, secondly, you can refill your ammo or change your weapons if you come across 
 a Green Rectangular Box being placed on the map itself, if you cant find the box, you change the 
 weapon whenever you're in the helicopter ride... You can also customise your weapons... like scopes, 
 recoil grips, laser sight, extra rounds.. though Grenade Launchers are not available in the game... Also 
 Keep in mind that silencers will always be on your posession, so u can use it anytime you want to 
 unless you're using a sniper or a shotgun...
  
  Weapons (CONS)
  Me: arite.. so whats Bad about the weapons?
  
  Logan: Well... I don't get it why does the MP 
 section have all the access to every single equipments and weapons where else the SP Mode is only 
 limited only to certain weapons!!! And theres this weapon call "Shield" its where i will hold a 
 Swat Shield, and a pistol.. its a neat idea.. but it lacks within the interactivity of the surroundings.. u 
 cannot Snake Cam with it, and that will cause you to open a door suddenly if you forgot to free 
 your hands from the shield, also you can't cover behind objects, climb over walls or heal your teammantes... that 
 makes me look like a Retarded Six instead of bein a rainbow guy... But it also makes me look stronger... cuz 
 just by the hip.. i can fire off hundreds of bullets from a SAW gun without any tripod stand... its 
 cool.. but not realistic... and definitely dont make sense!! argh! Blind Fire don't seem to actually 
 surpress the enemies.. i've tried many times doin it.. but i can't find any effect except to lure 
 the enemy firin on you instead of your teammates... and is only use for shooting at nearby enemies 
 whose hiding around the corner...
  
  A. I (PROS)
  Me: hey.. easy on that Logan... will u be more angry if i say your teammates do actually follow you 
 blindly?
  
  Logan: Arghh of course! But before i screw them.. let me say what good they have done for me.. and 
 how good is the enemy A. I.. the enemy A. I is more agressive than my teammates are.. good thing is 
 it will make it more intense..2ndly, my teammates are quite a marksmen... lastly.. they listen to 
 where and what i told them to do... does that makes me a good squad commander?! u 
  
  A. I (CONS)
  Me: now let me hear you fire off bout them...
  
  Logan: Lets start off with my 
 teammates... Its not they are totally useless.. yes they are definitely useful... But I've noticed 
 that the more creative i'm tryin to use on the tactics... the more stupid they will be...
  
  For instance.. I've set them to "Infiltrate Mode" meaning "Only Fire if they are fired upon", but 
 i guess they are just too rookie for that... so they will just stay behind cover and wait for the 
 bullets to drill in their body organs... though this doesnt happen all the time... it will definitely 
 gonna get on my blood and nerves when it does..
  
  NEXT, i don't like the way my teammates clear a room... they don't seem to find cover while clearing.. they 
 will just stand in the open and again.. waiting for bullets to rip through their body armor.. so 
 once they start clearing and firin.. i will order them to go to a cover if necessary before joining 
 them into the action...
  
  The next problem is, they will always stick close together if one of them is injured... so you cant 
 order them where to go if one of them is down... Like i've said earlier.. these two black and white 
 guys are meant to be together. and they will never leave each other..
  
  I don't know whether this is a bug or not.. but if both men are down.. you cant walk over them.. their 
 body structure will be like a wall and you need to walk around them to get thru... consider this 
 is almost a room to room clearing game.. space is quite vital.. and if i loose space.. i can just 
 forget about everything...
  
  Another Problem is.. my teammates will sometimes keep on reloading their weapons even though they 
 are not shooting on anyone... and they will keep on reloading behind cover till you regroup them 
 to me and recommend them back..
  
  These bugs wont occur often.. but when it does.. it makes me feel that my squadmates are nuthin much 
 than a couple of lovin fools...
  
  Enemy A. Is are good.. and much more clever.. they will tend to flank you.. throw grenades and incendary 
 at ya.. and if they manage to pop a head shot to you or your guy.. then lets just say..."Game Over, Reload 
 from the last checkpoint"
  
  Its not a bad thing.. but its quite unbalance for them to be much more smarter than my Teammates...
 
  
  Some Other Good Stuffs
  Me: hmm.. so are these the strong and bad points for making rainbow six a great FPS?
  
  Logan: 
 Basically yes... there are other good stuffs as well... like a good ragdoll death physics.. its quite 
 realistics..
  good voiceovers... good level designs...
  graphics aren't superb.. but still above average...
  Some movements of enemies during a firefight 
 isn't scripted..
  Intensity are mostly high throughout besides the cutscenes...
  A regenerate Health System is helping me to progress...
  My teammates can also cure each other 
 if one of them is down, provided i ordered them to do so.. or i can cure both of them when they 
 are down...
  
  Some other Bad Stuffs?
  Me: So any other minor issues stuffs?
  
  Logan: I'm in this game doin the same missions over and over again for sometime now, but the first 
 few times i load myself in the game, i felt that the saving checkpoints are quite far away from 
 one another (Typical Ubisoft Games) , i took sometime adaptin the controls since Call Of Duty games 
 were used to be my basic Control configurations... It makes me frustrated many times tryin to win 
 some levels... and the realistic mode will likely kill your teammates instead of just injuring them.
 
  
  OVERVIEW?
  Me: So logan, would you like to some up everything into a brief description of the game?
  
 
  Logan: Yes.. definitely, this game pace is diffrent from call of duty or most FPS games... Rainbow 
 Six Vegas are much more to the realistic side... though some arcadey features are in it (e. g Regenerate 
 Health System, Saving your men from many injuries, Two or 3 shots from some pistol to your enemy's 
 legs wont make them fall.. etc) but the Single Player experience is different. Rainbow Six PC fans 
 may or may not like this new addition.. but for me.. i love it... though theres no map planning.. in 
 a way it outshines most of the FPS games in a unique and intense way...
  
  Graphically, it's the nicest compared to the past series.. this game will look nicer if Some of 
 the shadows arent glitchy and some higher resolution textures on certain objects could fill up 
 the gap...
  
  Single Player Campaign would be better with longer hours.. though you can complete this in 6-8 hours (If 
 you're an expert with it) it will always haunt you back to play it more... For me.. i just hope some 
 bugs are fixed and better A. I Teammates would help me out in Vegas 2. Till then, tangos out...
 
  
  No problem with sound and lasting appeal.. is quite appealing even though i didn't tried out the 
 Multiplayer...
  
  Gameplay : 8.8
  Graphics : 7.8
  Sound : 8.1
  Story : 9.0
  Presentation : 8.0
  
  Overall ====    8.7 (gamespot rating bar wont let me slide to 8.7) Crappy 
 Spot!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scanzo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Vegas gets a 9.5 out of 10 in my book. It has an okay storyline but the 
 co-op made up for it, partying up with 3 of your buddies or random people on live and playing the 
 story spices things up and the multi-player is one of the best online experiences I have ever played. 
 This is a great game for gamers who loved the original Rainbow 6's and other Tom Clancy Games will 
 greatly enjoy this tactical game Ubisoft cooked up for us. Great Job Ubisoft, I just wish you guys 
 didn't flush the Splinter Cell series down the toilet by turning it into a GTA wanna be game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shas02
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 12:46 am PT
Review:  This is one of my top 360 game so far. Lets start with the single player, graphics are great in 
 SP, the lighting is fantastical, voice acting is sub-par and the sounds are good. The length of 
 the campaign in my opinion is short, some may differ. The real guilty pleasure is in the MP, you 
 can customize everything on your character, guns, grenades, armor, and even custom colors you create 
 yourself. But you have to be an "elite" to unlock that. A lot of game modes including your standard 
 deathmatch, team deathmatch, retrieval ( kind like capture the flag) , terrorist hunt, campaign 
 co-op and ect. There is a rank system which makes this game addictive, as you move up in rank you 
 unlock guns, armor, clothing , and camo. There are varieties of map in the MP but once you play 
 them all, you will only stick to certain maps for certain game modes, because some maps you have 
 to run long distances after you respawn and thats just not too fun. The teams are well balanced 
 out by the host, its usually a 7 vs 7 but if you decide to go on dictated server its 8 vs 8. The 
 only downside is, if someone has a bad connection it will lag the game for everyone. Also Ubisoft 
 has made a DC (downloadable content) which contains new maps and game modes. There is also a rumor 
 that they will be releasing new guns but no official news. 
  
  So if you enjoy FPS and has XBL this game is a must have. The graphic for the MP may not be as 
 polished as the SP but its good enough. This is one of the best FPS for the 360. And it also has 
 clan tags, so you and your buddies an tag up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infinite_venom
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is one of the good shooter games you can ever find. The games battles can be 
 really fun or can be frustrating especially when against a lot of enemies. The controls are quite 
 nice although it will take time to master it. Enemy AI is intelligent and they sometimes act realistically. 
 One bad thing about Rainbow Six Vegas is its cliffhanger ending. While playing the game, you might 
 be surprised that the game suddenly ends and then shows a To Be Continued sign. Despite it, the 
 game is still enjoyable. The games graphics are also superb especially the lighting. Some objects 
 in the game doesn't look that great though its forgivable. The characters too look great including 
 the environments. The games frame rate is also stable. The music of the game is also amazing including 
 the music.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas is one great game with superb graphics and sound though a cliffhanger ending 
 keeps it from having a higher score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xDJxGodx
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I bought it, loved it, and will continue to love it. It was the best impulse buy EVER. The campaign 
 is jesusly and the multiplayer is pretty darn fun. If you like CoDs, buy this! If you play halo 
 and hate the long time it takes to kill, buy this! I love halo 3 but i hate pouring assault rifle 
 rounds into an enemy to have him get away.
  
  I heard there was a planned sequel, hopefully it is just as good!
  
  Bottom line, just plain 
 fun! A lot of bang for your buck, now go buy this! Seriously, its amazing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mulanpoopy
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  Anyone who speaks poorly of this game should be shot.
  It's not a barge in and kill all game, although there are some levels within the game where this 
 is the only way to win, one also has to use some sort of strategy to win.
  You can play co op and single player with terrorist hunt and or story mode, how awesome is that.
 
  And it's a co op game where it acually requires two people to help each other and back each other 
 up, instead of having one run off to be captain america and the other fighting for the most kills.
 
  If story mode doesn't tickle your fancy, go online. Play against other players who spend about 
 6+ hours of their day playing the game and become so hard core that you often see some guy running 
 round with a raging bull and just blowing the brains out of another player, then you see him fly 
 acorss the arena, because the pistol is so bloody powerful.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ATFNeOpHyTe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 3:04 am PT
Review:  What I first noticed was that the graphics are just mindblowing, compared to this game GOW was 
 just thrown back to the bargain bin ( on graphics IMO) . Game play feel a little bit like GOW, but 
 just a lot harder, AI is very good and most of the times they will fire at you when you dont even 
 see them ( mostly they dont hit you or can even hit you) they will try to flank you and your team 
 sometimes. nice arsenal of weapons, and modifications.
  
  This is an very good game to play in single player or split screen ( never played it online) .
 
  
  over all: some time your team will not completely do what you want them to do, just do it your 
 self, but thats about the only thing that is a minus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MYSTROW1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must have, even if you just want to play multiplayer this game kicks butt. Stunning 
 graphics are well presented, all weapons play and feel right and sound great like they have kick 
 ass power. Get this if you look at someones face while they are talkling their mouth moves as if 
 they were saying the words and you can put your on face on the characters. And the you would think 
 the quality of this feature would be abysmal it truly looks great and is a nice touch. The idea 
 of a FPS in Vegas scared me but it provides environments that just make the game so playable . 
 MUST BUY 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: daman12369
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  RB 6 Vegas is an immersive game that delivers a great action, but with a weak story. First the 
 graphics are freaking amazing, and there is really a frame rate problem. Frame problems will only 
 be on multi-player, if you have a bad connection. The only bad thing about the game is that the 
 story is very good, there is very good voice acting, but the overall plot isn't that great. The 
 action is intense and fast paced, but when you play on Realistic mode you will die, you will scream 
 for your mom. The only way to beat it is with friends on Xbox Live. The weapons selection is amazing 
 and the weapons look, feel, and sound real. All the weapons have add ons, such as silencers, laser 
 sight, scopes, and many more. The AI is very smart and will work together to take you down. Cover 
 is key to survival, if you don't duck, you die, period. The campaign is about 10 hours, but on 
 the harder settings its more around 20-30. The multi-player is great, all the modes are what you 
 would expect. Death match, team death match, survival, etc. The online is good, but only if you 
 have a good connection, otherwise the multi-player isn't that good. Also you can costumes your 
 online character, with new weapons, gears, and more. You get more items by achieving new ranks, 
 by killing more people. All in all the game is very fun and will keep you playing, it's challenging, 
 addictive, and extremely fun, a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyyankeesjg25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is a great First Person Shooter. This was my first game when I got my XBOX 360 
 about a year ago. The greatest thing about this game Is the gameplay. One of the newest things 
 this year with FPS is the cover system which pretty much got kicked off by Rainbow Six. The cover 
 system in this game is a HUGE advantage in online and single player. You can use this to your advantage 
 if your covering up against a car, a wall, a table, etc. You can also use what I like to call "Random 
 Fire". This is when you are covered up and u still have the cross hair on the screen. Your character 
 will blindly fire his gun past the point hes hugged up against. This is a very cool feature. The 
 games single player is a good one also. It wasnt the best single player I have ever played seing 
 as the missions seemed very repetitive but what FPS isnt? You go to locations and shoot people! 
 Besides that the missions are very cool and very detailed. Whether you are fighitng in the Streets 
 Of Mexico or securing the vaults in the Calypso Casino you will not be dissapointed with the single 
 player. Another great feature is the different guns you can chooose from. The different weapon 
 classes to choose from inclue Assault Rifles, mini machine guns, SUB machine guns, Sniper Rifles, 
 Shotguns, Pistols and Shields. You can choose from a wide variety of guns along with attaching 
 different things to the guns for good custimization. Personally speaking the hands down best feature 
 of this game is the online mulitplayer. You can join or create different games on many exciting 
 maps. You create your own online player from scratch in which you can customize every aspect of 
 your player. This is a great game! A defintie buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bone3593
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Lets get the bad stuff out first. The Mexico city level at the beggining is a bit dissapointing 
 and the cover system can be a pain sometimes (It works most of the time but sometimes it will be 
 hard to stick to a wall and something that seems like perfect cover but it won't let you cover 
 there) Now that the bad stuff is out lets talk about the good stuff. Choosing to make a first person 
 shooter in Las Vegas was a great idea. The casinos are incredible and it is fun to take cover behind 
 a slot machine. When a grenade is thrown and lands near a slot machine when it explodes money will 
 come out of it. The tactical side is incredible too, beating GRAW any time with its squad commands. 
 The enemy A. I is very hard to defeat and can be too hard sometimes. The graphics are incredible 
 with a lot of detail in the enviroments and the different weapons. The sound is allright but can 
 be a little bad sometimes. I allready mentioned the cover system being a little mest up but it 
 is in no way broken. It works great allmost better that Gears of War's cover system. If you like 
 tactical shooters or just FPS's then get this game because this game is worth the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J_Fernandez
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  Give it a 9.5. I am a fan of shooters, and this one is top notch. I don't even know where to start. 
 It is certainly one of the most balanced FPS games I've played. There really aren't any sure fire 
 tactics that work all the time, which I like. You have to have different tactics for different 
 situations. This game does almost as good at discouraging camping as Gears does, which means a 
 lot to me. It is fairly easy to discourage campers in most of the game modes, which this game is 
 surely not short on. Personally, the deathmatches on this game don't do a whole lot for me but 
 many of the other modes are really fun when you give them a chance. One thing that bums me on this 
 game, though, is the fact that they dropped the option of having the one handed low caliber grenade 
 launcher instead of a pistol. I loved that from previous installments. The single and multiplayer 
 modes are a blast. The game does require patience, so make sure you know that coming in. It is 
 the perfect compliment to Gears, actually. It is super-realistic as far as games go. The guns all 
 feel right on. The Co-op Terrorist hunts online totally rock. If you have surround sound and have 
 been in a Casino before, you will be absolutely blown away by the sound of this game. Stunning. 
 Don't listen to the naysayers and especially don't pay attention to the Edge Mag rating. There 
 is a reason that their ratings are almost always completely different from everyone else's. They 
 want attention. Good magazine, they just march to the beat of a different drummer on ratings. How 
 much you have enjoyed R6 games in the past needs to be considered before you buy this game, though. 
 If you like old R6 games, this one will rock you. If you hate them, you'll hate this one. You might 
 like it online, but you'll hate single player.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Lets get the single player out of the way...
  
  You play with your squad of men and go through various spots in Vegas. Yadda yadda yadda. The Single 
 Player has an awesome story, the AI is great and over all it alone gets a 9.5! The graphics are 
 some of the best I have seen on 360, you forget your playing a game sometimes! You can tell your 
 teammates to repel, cover, attack... etc. And when you put your silencer on so do they. And cover 
 is VITAL. You will die in big firefights without cover and proper use of teammates. They are NOT 
 your personal shield.... well most of the time. And yes there is COOP which makes it all the more 
 fun!
  
  The most important part of this game is its Multiplayer! I had to have played over 400 hours online!\ 
 before I decided to return it (rental) . It was so addicting! Theres a ton of maps, modes and things 
 to do. And theres lots of content to download too! 
  
  Plus there are so cool features. You can use your face on your guy thanks to your 360 camera, although 
 you can't use certain gear. And your guy is VERY customizable! As you go through the ranks online 
 you also unlock stuff to use. So you won't be getting some really good stuff to you been there 
 like 3 months!
  
  But I did deduct some points beacuse of a minor problem.
  
  The obvious problem with games online is picky people. Alot of servers ban certain things so get 
 use to ALL the weapons and gadgets beacuse people are always banning diffrent things like certain 
 shotguns and machine guns and even grenades. The online also shares the same great graphics and 
 no noticeable "tweak" or lower graphics as some online games do.
  
  Overall this is definitely a great game to buy. At the least rent! Theres no way to be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valttu
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 5:31 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas takes FPS to a whole new level. Now you get to do things like using fastrope, 
 rappelling, smashing through windows, shooting covering fire blindly, and so on. All these things 
 are made well, and friggin' cool.
  
  Taking cover is the most important thing if you want to survive. You can take cover behind 97% 
 of the walls and objects out in the field, and you really need it. If you run in to an open area, 
 it's pretty propable that you're dead in 1-5 seconds, so you better plan your moves well.
  
  Commanding your teammates is easy and simple. You have the hold/follow commands, room entry/clearing 
 commands, defuse/set charges and hack 
  computer commands, "heal teammate" -command, and of course, the "move to" -command. And you can 
 also change the rules of engagement, and tell your men to silence their weapons or make them loud. 
 Using those commands and your teammates wisely and tactically is your key to victory. Without your 
 mates this game is impossible. They are VITAL for you. They take care of you as much as you take 
 care of them. 
  
  The AI in this game is great. Your mates take cover as well as you, and they 
  are wise in other 
 ways too. The enemies use grenades well, and take cover 
  and shoot blindfire too. 
  
  The sounds are awesome. Especially the voice acting, both your team's and the enemies'.
  
  
 The graphics and animations are top notch. It looks so cool when your mates breach a door and rush 
 in. The environments are beatiful. 
  
  The storyline is pretty good too. I thought that it would be just separate missions to destroy 
 the terrorists, but this game has actually a great story. I wont tell it cause I don't want to 
 spoil. 
  
  Shortly: Rainbow Six Vegas is a tactical first person shooter with great sounds and graphics. It's 
 full of exciting situations and intense action, and you get to do a lot of cool things, that make 
 you hold your breath cuz you're so amazed. This game... It's a must have!!! 
  
  
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acemac14
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome and is definitely the best game in the Rainbow Six series. The gameplay is 
 awesome and online is a blast. Singlepayer is not bad and co-op story is always fun. It is very 
 realistic with weapon customization and the damage. If you get shot a couple times you die. It 
 is quite challenging and the mutliplayer again is a great thing. Thats all I play online and the 
 maps for multiplayer are really quite good. Another that i really like the the persistent elite 
 creation and how you can customize your character and it's cool how you can unlock many really 
 cool outfits and armor as well as new weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tacosrule193
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  the games really good. taking cover, climbing ropes and shooting your teammates have never been 
 so fun. rainbow six lives up to its hype, takes fps to a new step. the game is good... u cant put 
 it down. dont believe me... try the demo on xbox live. your teamates listen to u, the enemy r smart 
 and ur night vision comes in handy
  
  good
  
  awsome graphics
  teammates accually listen to u
  taking cover is accually fun
  enemy's r smart, they come after 
 u
  ur in vegas! shooting people!
  nice campaign mode
  
  bad
  
  it would be better if u could jump
  
  other than that this game is really good. great surroundings, 
 good graphics, everything u want from a fps game. yep buy this game. its 39 dollars and its cheap. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: freshcutgrass1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  Plot: The plot involves you taking the role of Logan Keller, the new leader of the counter terrorist 
 squad Rainbow. New threats arrive that lead to terrorist attacks on casinos all over Las Vegas.
 
  Graphics: The graphics are amazing, the environments are varied and all look good. The casinos 
 have the machines, the music, the money and lights that the real Vegas has. The lighting is done 
 to perfection, and textures are excellent in quality too. Team Rainbow looks absolutely amazing, 
 and weapons all retain their real life qualities. The framerate not to mention is almost perfect, 
 except moments where things get very hectic. The only imperfections are that the terrorists look 
 decent but nowhere as good as the main characters and the hostages you encounter in the game look 
 downright horrible. Although the lip-synching is done pretty well the graphics are noticeably downgraded 
 in multiplayer.
  Gameplay: The gameplay is the same kind that the series is known for with close quarters fights 
 that have you and your team storming a room of terrorists. But the environments aren't always indoors 
 or small some of the Mexican levels have large scaled levels that you can take advantage of with 
 a sniper. The new innovations are the tagging system that you use to tag terrorists that you feel 
 your team should take out. It works perfect when you do use it. You can also repel buildings, and 
 slide through skylights. The multiplayer is very funs with a mix of different modes from 4 player 
 coop to team death match to survival where there is no respawns. Also Exp can be gained in the 
 multiplayer to go up in rank, unlock weapons, and camo. It all works well and gives good initiative 
 to play the multiplayer besides it being a tons of fun. 
  Sound: The sounds are done well the terrorists communicate the ways you'd expect. The guns sound 
 excellent as do the grenades and flash bangs. The music is set to the moment appropriately and 
 it's good.
  Value: With a great campaign lasting 8-10 hrs campaign, 10 different online game modes, +30 weapons 
 that can be tweaked with different scopes, silencers and rate of fire. Character creation with 
 custom color camos, clan tag support and more, the game has a ton to offer and is worth the money.
 
  Achievements: The achievements have the player obtaining the highest rank, beating the campaign 
 in coop, beating the single player campaign on hard and getting 10 kills in multiplayer without 
 dying. 
  Tilt: Rainbow Six Vegas has a good single player campaign, 4 player coop, 10 different multiplayer 
 modes on 20 different maps, and a ton of customizable features makes it a instant buy for tactical, 
 Fps, and Rainbow Six fans alike.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpstill85
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 9, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about Rainbow Six: Vegas, I was a little weary about picking it up. I'd just 
 bought Gears of War and was completely blown away by it. But after hearing so many good things 
 about it, I couldn't help myself. And it was probably the best decision of my gaming life. I've 
 never had more fun from a shooter than playing R6V. The story line was just the right difficulty 
 for me to enjoy on the realistic setting while still having the moments where you are cursing the 
 game for killing you. The squad based engine works extremely well and I've never experienced controls 
 that are so smooth. The multiplayer is completely addicting. The rank structure combined with the 
 unlocks keeps you pushing for just one more rank before you go to bed... and before you know it, 
 you have become a mindless insomniac. And if you want to take a break from the multiplayer, you 
 can hone your skills in online co-op terrorist hunt which is absolutely no joke at the proper difficulty. 
 Coming more from the Halo background, this game completely changed my outlook of gaming. Even after 
 purchasing Halo 3, a week later, Rainbow Six: vegas was back in my console. I have very few complaints 
 about this game and even then, my complaints are completely outweighed by the vast amounts of praise 
 that this game so deserves. If you don't own it, buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pill922
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  You start out in Mexico City being separated from your squad. But soon you are rejoined to face 
 a terrorist Irena. Throughout the game you chase Irenas men and try to find the SUPER BOMB in 
 Las Vegas. The story is very forgettable. The game play is rock solid in this game. All of the 
 weapons fire smoothly and responds very well to the type of weapon it is. Now before you run though 
 a door guns blazing you can order commands via snake cam to you team mates. The squad element has 
 been done very well in this instilment in the series. You can select assault or silent mode for 
 your squad which means they will shoot anything that moves or will only fire when fired at. When 
 ever you put your silencer on they do the same. There was so much thought put into the squad mechanics 
 its crazy. You can play though the campaign with a friend locally. Multiplayer is a very good reason 
 to pick up this game. You can play slandered multiplayer match types (death match, team death match, 
 retrieval (CTF) . Lots of very good maps to play. Or you can play a mode were you and a buddy team 
 up to clear a whole map full of terrorist (bots) . This is very fun and adds a whole lot of replay 
 value to the game. But there are some issues with connecting to a multiplayer match. Some times 
 matches will just boot you and you cant play for more than one round in the same group. All in 
 all Rainbow six Las Vegas is another great reason to own a 360 and ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 345669
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 12:59 am PT
Review:  This game has become one of my favorite first person shooter even though the Xbox 360 has plenty 
 on offer. If you are into games which offer Swat like tactics, teamwork, leadership and all out 
 action, this is just the game for you. The games single player graphics are fantastic with allot 
 of attention to detail especially on characters and locations. Although when playing online the 
 games graphics are turned down, the gamemodes, gameplay and variety of options more than make up 
 for this.
  
  I have had this game from start and still play it on regular occasions, even though it has been 
 more than a year since its release. The intuitive cover system makes the game really enjoyable 
 especially with the ability to blind fire around corners or over cover. Plenty of weapons are available 
 to choose from including assault rifles, shotguns, handguns, sun-machine guns and sniper rifles, 
 a swell as many gadgets and explosive devices. This choice of artillery provides the game with 
 many options in ways to eliminate opponents. There many different maps available for online play, 
 with locations such as warehouses, a church, military training shacks, hotels and other, such as 
 a restaurant etc etc. all of the maps are adequate in size, some of which are small and some huge 
 and will take gamers allot of time to find their way around. All common modes of play such as attack 
 &amp; defend and Terrorist Hunt are included as well as others. Although the game offers users 
 the choice of downloading additional map &amp; game mode packs from the marketplace (Internet connection 
 required) which are free to download.
  
  This game has allot to offer although the single player game mode could have concluded better. 
 Simply cannot wait for the next installment for this game. The game exceeded my expectation, Excellent 
 . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Import2Ner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  I've grown up with the Rainbow Six games ever since the first one came out on PC years ago. I must 
 say that I had been away from the console version of the Rainbow series until I grabbed a demo 
 of Vegas on the 360. Ever since then, I've been amazed at this game! - Single player was great 
 and had some tense moments. I played on the Realistic setting and had my share of mission failures 
 on the game. - The storyline was very good and I was engrossed in it throughout game play.
  
  - Graphics are amazing and while I've seen complaints on this game being about using too much 
 cover, it's not hard to understand that real life firefights are not about staying in the open. 
 You might have a run and gun fight once or twice in the open but if you really want to stay alive 
 and complete the mission, you need to utilize cover. - Artificial Intelligence in the game is pretty 
 good and challenging. Of course it has it's problems but I have yet to play a game with perfect 
 AI. - Multi-player gaming is pretty cool as well. I haven't done any team versus team combat but 
 I've been mainly doing co-op missions and have had a blast. In conclusion, I'm still playing this 
 game regularly and will do so for some time to come. If you're wanting a pretty decent and realistic 
 modern shooter, pick up this title. I don't think you will be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warlord20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six - Vegas is one of the best shooter games i have played so far. The graphics are outstanding, 
 the missions are action packed, the storyline is great and i have never came accross a game with 
 more realistic weapons sound effects. What makes this game even better is the fact that is is also 
 Co-op so for all you co-op fans, this is the game to get. Like every game it has its flaws, such 
 as the slight rag doll effect and the way it ends. But the fact that it ends the way it did leaves 
 room for the next chapter in this action packed first-person shooter series. I would advise anyone 
 who enjoys shooting games to purchase this game. You will not regret buying this game at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nmafilms
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  A series that started off with a bang. Slowed to a repetitive, increasingly boring game experience. 
 Brought back to life on the XBOX 360. Tom Clancys Rainbow Six: Vegas is one of the best first 
 person shooters ever made. In my opinion, the best first person shooter on a console. This game 
 was on my watch list since Ubisoft reveled its name. Rainbow Six 3 and Rainbow Six 3: Black Arrow 
 were two of the best first person experiences on the XBOX. Then came Lockdown and Critical Hour. 
 I didnt think the series would recover from those mistakes. Then after following E3s coverage 
 of Vegas, I realized there might be hope. The game would be coming out on the 360. A multiplayer 
 co-op was confirmed. Online team play was also there. Not to mention all of the Best of Show awards 
 it snagged while at E3. I started to believe, this game had a shot. I picked up the game the day 
 of its release. As soon as I dropped into the Mexican Streets, I knew this was going to be fantastic. 
 The look of the game is amazing. The textures, the lighting, everything was pretty. The movements 
 are so fluent and the animations are great. Oh, the best cover system in a video game. The left 
 trigger works as your cover button. The AI is also very smart. The game has opened up to a less 
 linear form of gameplay. Instead of a set path of play, the game opens up to an entire map with 
 multiple paths of choice. This is where you have to be smart, because if youre not the enemy AI 
 will take advantage. They work as a team just as well as your team does if youre not careful. 
 Focus too much on a large group behind some cars, one of theirs will flank around a building and 
 pop one in the back of your head. The sound is amazing, especially if youre running surround. 
 The violence is just right, and satisfying. A great range of weapons will help you as you progress 
 throughout the game. And the new Tagging system is fantastic. Snake a room and tell your teammates 
 who to take out in order when you bust down the door. The inverted repelling is also one of the 
 coolest things to do in a video game. When you are able to do that you feel like a total government 
 killing machine. Your team also provides great support. Its also very easy to tell them what you 
 want them to do. The voice commands are a little clunky although. I would recommend sticking to 
 the controlled commands. The firefights in the game are some of the most intense Ive ever played. 
 After I beat the games story mode I wanted to check out the multiplayer. The multiplayer lobby 
 is wonderfully designed and easy to navigate. The ranking system is awesome with some great unlockables. 
 Clothing and weapons become available to you as you gain experience. Not to mention the face mapping. 
 This was the game that forced me to purchase the XBOX LIVE Vision. How cool is it to see yourself 
 in the game murdering terrorists? Pretty damn cool. And it works so well too. I bought a second 
 copy of this game for my friend so I could play it with him online. The maps are incredible. As 
 are the maps in the Red and Black packs that you can purchase with some Microsoft Points. Some 
 of them are absolutely huge, like Wartown. Gigantic. I dont think Ive ever seen that entire map. 
 Rainbow Six: Vegas was the resurrection this franchise needed. If you love first person gaming, 
 pick up this title. You will not be disappointed. This title provides a great campaign (solo or 
 co-op) , and a fantastic multiplayer sure to give you hours upon hours of just straight up fun. 
 I have a buddy who just doesnt like first person shooters. He bought this game the day I showed 
 it to him. If you dont believe me, rent it. Or pick it up used some place. Chances are youll 
 own it eventually. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barbarian_Ash
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  Mulitplayer: This is along with Ghost Recon 1 , 2, on of the best tactical real first person shooters, 
 even more realistisc than Ghost Recon... At The first time try the multiplayer will be somewhat 
 slow paced and with a hard controlled shooting than other shooters like ( as above, Ghost, Or Call 
 Of Duty ) but after a few hours playing the ( REAL STUFF ) , the multi gets much easier to play 
 and remarkably FUN, almost you dont want to quit.
  Some good looking weapons to choose , and here comes the best part... that is you can pick extra 
 equipments for you weapon so as , laser for better accuracy, a sniper scoope , accuracy scoope, 
 silencer, etc.....
  this kind of stuff just makes it much more fun.
  and im not done with the multi, there is so much more you can choose from, like equip you self 
 with enemy gps finder/ c4/ frag grenades/ flashbangs ( really cool ) tear gas / movement detector 
 and some more stuff not mentioned. The last thing is, if you have an Xbox 360 Webcam, you can have 
 your own face on a soldier, and play with it. cool huh?
  i give it 10/10 on multi.
  
  Graphics: The Solo stroy mode graphic is absolutely beatiful. just like the ghost recon series 
 on 360. PERFECT, and on multiplayer the graphic is much much more better than the Ghost Recon Multi. 
 9/10
  
  Sound and Game Value is also very nice :) but like the gamespot reviewer said, it could get better 
 if it had some real vegas music :) So for all Real FPS fan, get this game, and forgot `bout Gears 
 Of War. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toxic8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Where do I start with this game? After booting it up the first time I couldn't stop playing it. From 
 the fantastic multi-player to the long and difficult single player this game has it all. The graphics 
 are top notch and the sound effects are amazing in surround. Also the wide array or guns, armor and 
 characters you can choose from is a welcome sight in a game that lives off of real life.
  I cant stop playing the game with my friends in co-op and beating the crap out of the cpu on the 
 hard setting. If you go in the open bang your dead. Sometimes one shot one kill.
  I love this game and will tell anyone else that loves the FPS genre to buy this game and watch 
 your life dwindle away as you play special forces and act like Chuck Norris. LOL Actually the only 
 thing that stopped me from playing the game was my 360. Which is being sent to MS. Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: proplaya07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  A Quality game with graphics to match. The opening level (s) were a bit weak but the rest of the 
 levels all the way to the end were solid. The terrorist hunt, I have to admit, was a total waste 
 of brainpower, they are really easy but so boring because the basically repeat themselves. Multiplayer 
 is the best thing about it simply because it's so much fun (and thats were I met Paris Hilton) 
 but watch out for those glitchers who could use the worst pistol (use the power glitch) then it 
 would be more powerful than a sniper. Apart from that it is one of the best online games, a must 
 buy for people who love going online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpatterArtist
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of Tom Clancy games, and this one is just top-of-the-line. Although it may 
 stray from the past Rainbow Six games in some regard, it still makes for an excellent experience.
 
  
  Fast paced tactical action, more weapons than you could possibly know what to do with, and plenty 
 of intelligent enemies to use them on make this an extremely fun game.
  
  The only problem I have with this game is one that isn't even a fault of the developers; I'm annoyed 
 with the online community. It's rare to find a game that isn't run by team-stacking, glitch-whoring 
 elitists who play on one of two maps (LVU Campus and Casino Vault) . For the most part, most of 
 the players are fun to play with, but the bad ones really get to you. What's worse is that so many 
 of the players are 12-14 year old children who shouldn't be playing this game in the first place, 
 constantly trash-talking and otherwise making the game rather unenjoyable.
  
  The campaign story kinda gets to me (isn't it the same story as used in GRAW? Mexican terrorists 
 get a hold of a nuke and eventually get onto US soil? I mean, you even visit the same Mexican cities 
 in both games) , but Clancy games aren't exactly built on great storytelling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game__Raider
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 24, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Difficulty: Hard
  
  Learning Curve: 30 minutes to 1 hour
  
  Last year when Ubisoft revealed that Rainbow Six was coming to Vegas I was almost upset and was 
 thinking about not buying this game. Las Vegas felt like just a city to gamble in , but how were 
 they going to fit terrorists in a city were people go to lose money. When I first rented the game 
 i judged it to quickly and looked away form all the great things about this game.
  
  The Single-Player Campaign is very good and is also very tough even on normal difficulty. The visuals 
 of this game are slcik and are up to par with what next-gen graphics should look like (Gears of 
 War for another example) . Realistic difficulty is only for pros to attempt and sometimes is to 
 hard for the casual gamer to enjoy which brings this game down some. The A. I. for your squad mates 
 is incredible but not so much for the terrorists. They almost let you know what their going to 
 do so you can react quick. They usually will say things like Throwing Frag or Fire to let you know 
 when they attack. The only down side is there are almost to many terrorists for this to save your 
 life , and that is why it can become very frustrating. The tactical combat is much easier to learn 
 than G. R. A. W.'s combat , but it is also much more enjoyable and is just as intense.
  
  In Rainbow Six Vegas cincrete walls , slot machines , over-turned poker tables , and anything else 
 to hide behind is your savior. This game is nothing like the run-and-gun combat of Halo but is 
 eeriely similar to Gears of War. If you even think about running and gunning you'll be dead before 
 you can fire your gun. The health system is very realistic and you can't take much fire before 
 you die. Along the way you will unlock over 30 different guns and 15 different gadgets to use to 
 help you save Las Vegas from being over-run by what seems like Mexicans.
  
  Your squad mates A. I. is incredible so whenever your in trouble and don't want to take a risk it 
 usually best to tell them to Open and Clear or Flash and Clear a room before you go in there , 
 too. Whenever your team-mates are down its best to revive them eaither yourself or using the other 
 team-mate if he is still alive. Your team mates can take cover , fire their guns , and take out 
 terrorists almost better than you can. Point at a door and they will Take Cover there so you can 
 issue a command to them.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas was also already hyped by its previous games in the series and this one is up 
 to par if not better than all the others.
  
  In normal difficulty , you can enjoy a slightly difficult yet unmerciful team of terrorists that 
 will provide a challienge while you have fun along the way. The terrorists in normal are smart 
 but make there moves predictable and stick their heads out to long which makes it easy for you 
 to shoot them. They also are usually in groups of 2-3 together so if you throw a frag near one 
 you should get at least one more , too.
  
  Now if you are brave enough , and patient enough , to tackle Realistic difficulty then be prepared 
 for mind-numbingly annoying terrorists that hardly ever show their body and cna take you down in 
 one or 2 shots. You migh think it will be easy after the first level but it gradually gets tougher, 
 and tougher , and tougher , and tougher. You are a Legend if you beat this game on Realistic annd 
 it will greatly prepare you for online battles.
  
  Now my favorite part of the game......... online!! It is very addicting thanks to the ranking system 
 which makes you want to play for hours on end. Your start of as a Private Second Class and have 
 all the basic equipment. As you gradually rank up you will unlock new camos , headgear , armor 
 , and weapons. It is a sense of pride when you get to Elite so this game provides hours of replay 
 value online and offline. The only way to rank up is to gain points online by playing Attack &amp; 
 Defend , Team Sharpshooter , Sharpshooter , Co-op Terrorist hunt , Retrieval , Survival , Team 
 Survival , and Co-op Story. You will find some over your favorite weapons from the story will be 
 locked online at first till you get to the necessary rank , but you start off with all the gadgets.
 
  
  All-in-all Rainbow Six Vegas is a great game and a must buy for 360 owners.
  
  Good: Lengthy Campaign with over 40 weapons and gadgets , slick visuals , grea and addicting online 
 multiplayer , amazing A. I , Great tactical combat , and fast ropes like your actually a S. W. A. T 
 team member
  
  Bad: Frustrating Campaign and a rwally stupid ending
  
  Verdict: BUY , Fanboys only , Don't Buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arroliga
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to list one single thing that makes this the best console FPS I've ever played because 
 it does so many things so flawlessly. For one, the shooting in itself is fantastic. The feel &amp; 
 sound of the military-grade weapons you get to wield are as authentic as it gets. I've never fired 
 one of these babies in real life but I bet if I did, it'd be something very close to what you'll 
 see in this game. Secondly, the death animations are superb. The slow painful death movements your 
 victims experience as they're pierced by one of your nasty bullets really add an eery sense of 
 realism already heightened by the awesome weaponry. Thirdly, the camerawork is nothing short of 
 perfect. The viewing angle is everything in a FPS &amp; its absolutely flawless in Vegas. You really 
 start to appreciate the camera work when you start to rely heavily on the cover system, which is 
 another thing this game has perfected. Fourth, the multiplayer is addictive. The ease of matchmaking 
 together with the incentives for gaining online rank will keep you coming back for more &amp; more. 
 I suck at FPS games online but I found myself playing Vegas until the wee late night hours. I could 
 go on &amp; on, guys. You get the picture: Vegas gets the console FPS genre right.
  
  A few minor things that bugged me about this game were the average graphics, the sometimes unfair 
 advantage more experienced players have in the multiplayer &amp; the moderately long loadtimes. 
 I stress, however, that these are minor gripes (you always have to have some :P) so don't let them 
 discourage you from trying this incredibly well done Rainbow Six game.
  
  8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemesi609
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  it really is, i swear. if not for the lame campain (way to short, and down right impossible at moments) 
 and the multitude of glitches, i would think this is the greatest game ever. i played this game 
 from december till halo 3, and if not for the fact taht it was the only really good shooter (multi 
 player) out, and that i got sick of it ( played it too much) id prolly still be playing it. i really 
 liked how oyou could choose waht kind of multi player mode you wanted , that was sweet. the customability 
 of your character was so immense taht me and my friends prolly changed our character camo and looks 
 regularly (weekly, daily, ect) , and the clan system ( the prefixes) were easy to distinguish and 
 use 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Jaminson
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  The story of Rainbow Six Vegas has you playing as Logan Keller, the leader of elite group of 3 
 Rainbow counter-terrorists trying to capture the leader of the terrorist group, Irena Morales, 
 who are intent on taking over the many casinos of Las Vegas. Rainbow is severely outnumbered but 
 they certainly have the skill to do the job. In a very Tom Clancy-like fashion the terrorists are 
 up to something much worse than originally expected and this time they are going to blow up the 
 Nevada Dam, a place with very little strategical importance for the terrorists, apparently with 
 a stolen warhead. Destroying the dam would cause minimal casualties, so Rainbow kept their ears 
 and eyes open while proceeding towards their objective. One thing leads to another and the warhead 
 is about to launch to somewhere other than the dam in which it stands. The leader Logan Keller, 
 the demolitions expert Michael and the tech expert Carl Jung must stop Irena's plans before more 
 lives are lost.
  
  The single player campaign is more of a diversion when compared to the deep multi-player experience 
 partly because it is rather short. You will start off, playing as Logan Keller, by yourself in 
 the currently hostile streets of Mexico near the border. You will rally with your team in a clear 
 area to try and capture Irena Morales, alive. Of course when the 3 elite Rainbow members have her 
 pinned down, she shows that she has a few tricks up her sleeve. An explosion allows her to escape 
 and capture Michael and Jung and leaving Keller with just a pistol to rescue them. The story increasingly 
 gets more exciting as you head through the casinos. The actual storyline is actually pretty cliche 
 as far as Tom Clancy goes, but its still fun to engage in. Each section is split into 4 separate 
 levels, and there are small loading pauses between each one. Each time you hit one of these points, 
 you will likely let out a breath of relief that you have completed another section as there are 
 very few checkpoints within levels throughout the campaign. Many terrorists will try to stop you 
 while you make progress. Since the game uses a real-life damage system, you will definitely want 
 to stick behind cover as much as possible; you do so by holding LT near a wall or car etc. Once 
 you get hit you recover health by staying out of the battle for a few seconds. Using cover, you 
 can blind shoot or pop out for a more accurate shot. As you would expect blind shooting yields 
 very few hits. Its used more for suppressing or cover fire. You can also use flash bangs, incendiary 
 grenades and regular frag grenades the same way. There are other gadgets at your disposal throughout 
 the game including breaching charges, C4, night vision and thermal vision, all of which are actually 
 pretty useful when used in the right situations. Another piece of equipment is the snake cam used 
 to look under closed doors to detect any threats on the other side. When you are looking through 
 the view of the snake cam you can tag enemies by pressing select and this makes it possible to 
 track enemy movement in the next room so you can plan an attack. Of course, the single player campaign 
 is squad based and this is one of the most interesting things about the game. As Keller, you control 
 two other Rainbow counter-terrorists. The simple direction commands are obviously present, but 
 during their movement you can tell them to either only shoot back, or shoot on sight. The best 
 part about the squad commands is the fact that you can send your team to a door and coordinate 
 an attack on the enemys inside. Different options are available at this time including clearing 
 the room, fragging and clearing, smoking and clearing and so on. These attacks are often very necessary 
 for flanking a hoard of enemies. There are various multi-player modes, each available co-operatively 
 online or on the same console. Two to four players can play through the same single player levels 
 with a variable amount of terrorists littering the level, however you are forced to sit through 
 some pretty eventless helicopter rides. Another downside is you do not get to hear the dialogue 
 of the single player campaign, but the missions are still a blast to play, especially with friends. 
 Terrorist hunt is another mode available for two to four players and it really is a challenge. 
 Basically, you just sent the terrorist concentration to low, medium or high and the difficulty 
 to either Normal or Realistic. And then depending on the level a varying amount of terrorists litter 
 the level, seemingly at random. This mode is tough, especially on the realistic difficulty because 
 there are no respawns. When playing online (including some of the traditional modes) you earn experience 
 for winning a match or completing a T-Hunt or story mission, the more difficult the mode, the more 
 experience you earn. You gain ranks by gaining experience and that unlocks new equipment and weapons. 
 Disappointingly, if you just want to gain ranks, it boils down to playing on Realistic difficulty 
 with three other people in LVU in the T-Hunt mode. All in all, Rainbow Six Vegas is a great game, 
 with an exciting campaign though slightly disappointing storyline. The multiplayer modes are really 
 fun, even more so with friends. The game is challenging and often very rewarding. It really is 
 recommendable to any Xbox 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madbeast8888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes, you want to play a FPS that has a more arcade-ish style to it... one where the "run & 
 gun" strategy is the mainstay. Then, sometimes you want that FPS that brings realism and serious 
 strategy into play, and this is the game to satisfy that urge! The single player mode involves 
 a lot of squad-based tactical play, while the online modes range from co-op terrorist hunt or story-mode, 
 to all-out team vs. team deathmatch and other team-based games. Any and all facets of this game 
 add exciting ways to play through, and the online matches will have you hooked for more hours than 
 you may wish to spend! The only real issue with this game, is that in order to unlock all of the 
 best weapons and armor for multi-player play, you have to earn an insane amount of experience points. 
 This backwards logic actually rewards the best players with handicaps... as if they are the ones 
 who really need it! But aside from this fact, the game has an excellent selection of weapons to 
 choose from, armor customizations, grenade options, and much more! Certainly worth checking out, 
 if you haven't already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: resonant_1_1999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  R6 Vegas provides a perfect balance of tactical play, simple action, and mission based drive to 
 keep any shooter fan playing for hours on end. The fast pace is balanced by a reasonable challenge 
 a stages in the missions that keeps the overall gameplay fun and engaging. Additionally, the seamless 
 control of yourself and teammates keeps you fully immersed in the gorgeous graphical environments.
 
  
  Friendly and enemy AI are both at a high enough level to keep the game immersive, but there are 
 occasional hiccups. Friendlies have periodic path finding problems which require a bit of pushing 
 to get them going again. Sometime you can pop around a corner facing an enemy and wait a full 5 
 count before he responds to your presence. These glitches are infrequent enough to cause a significant 
 problem, but keep the game from perfection.
  
  All in all a must have! Personally enjoyed this one more than Gears of War. Although gears of war 
 is graphically stunning with smooth action, it lacks the tactical element of R6 Vegas 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kcpp2b
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Like me you may have played a couple of Rainbow six titles before and then traded them in soon 
 after as it just wasn't for you. It's not that you dislike squad based games or shooters, far from 
 it. It's just that something about the previous titles didn't do it for you maybe. Or maybe the 
 series has gotten stale for you like it has for many gamers. But after playing Rainbow Six Las 
 Vegas on the Xbox360 for about two or so weeks you can really notice the difference. If future 
 games of the series are going to be like this you can count on many new loyal fans of the Rainbow 
 Six franchise to march on in towards this Tom Clancy game in hurds. Gone are the boring and lengthy 
 explanations of your mission, rather you are briefed during the game or in between levels while 
 in a helicopter traveling from place to place. The story of course isn't so great, there are points 
 that may gain your interest but you'll loose it again. However the gameplay alone rocks so who 
 cares! Graphics If you have a standard television you may want to pickup an HD one if you can afford 
 it because the graphcis are better on HD but that applies to just about all games. Rainbow Six 
 Vegas will remind you of the Splinter Cell series when it comes to the graphics but that's not 
 a surprise considering they're both Tom Clancy games. The lighting in this game is used a lot more 
 affectively then with the past games from the Rainbow Six series. And with so much of the game 
 taking place in casinos and sites in Las Vegas (even though they are not real casinos etc...) it 
 all looks beautiful. They gameplay takes place in a lot of areas you don't normally see shooters 
 in so you will find yourself looking around a lot at the scenary and the graphics. Of course you 
 will be looking around a lot more on Hi-Def. Gameplay Health regeneration, thank you Jesus! Not 
 sure when this became the new trend for games but many may remember Halo as being the first game 
 where health regeneration was such a huge part of the game. One thing some gamers may hate about 
 this series was how often you would die and how you had to worry about your health all the time. 
 Playing this game on the normal setting with the ability to cover and regain your health is one 
 thing that will make you want to retry this franchise again. And boy will you be happy with the 
 results. Like Gears of War this game requires a lot of cover from the onslaught of bullets and 
 enemies you fight in the casinos and streets. The gameplay, when it comes to the mixture of cover 
 and flanking your enemies, is something a lot of gamers have been looking for in a game of this 
 genre for a long time. Some games have tried this but didn't really pull it off as beautifully 
 as Rainbow Six Vegas has. There are a lot of great elements to the gameplay. For one, your teammates 
 are very good, they are not just regular allies that depend more so on you to do the dirty work. 
 They can pretty much do most of the shooting for you and you can hide behind the doorway like the 
 sissy you are. Or you can run in there and lead the attack, your choice. And now with the new health 
 system you can do flanking moves by yourself and not feel so worried about getting shot because 
 you can just regenerate now. Your team won't automatically die either, they will lay on the floor 
 waiting for assistance for a certain amount of time before they will die. You or the other member 
 can heal them with a syringe full of Sunny D! or some other kind of health saving liquid. Another 
 great thing is the ability to mark which targets you want your team to take out and in what order, 
 although you can only do two targets for any given clearance. It adds to a more realistic feel 
 to the game because you can just focus on the guy who is going to kill the hostage or if you think 
 you can't cut it your team can take him out first. Although it is kind of weird that they can see 
 who you are telling them to target when you are using your snake cam or if you are just marking 
 them from the cover of a window without looking, but it's a game and we'll just let that slide. 
 This game isn't for everyone, as the whole clearing of rooms aspect and how fast it can happen 
 may not be great for some gamers, however there are a lot of firefights that are anything but quick. 
 Like when a member of your team is in a truck hacking into a computer and you and the other member 
 have to defend against over a dozen men. But like Gears of War you feel at home in the middle of 
 a firefight all snuggled up in your cover position and there are great cover positions in this 
 game. And being able to fire blindly, just like in Gears of War, is also a way of backing off your 
 enemies from advancing on you, which they will do again and again. The A. I. in this game won't 
 just sit there most of the time. If there is a way to flank you they will most likely take it unless 
 you position yourself right, then they will have no where to move to. The biggest flaw in this 
 game is the Co-op mode. First off the vertical split screen is annoying and hurts the gameplay 
 because these kinds of games are all about what you can see. And with half the screen gone, horizontally 
 speaking, it just feels too weird to play right. I also would rather it remain with three members 
 instead of the two players when it's just two people playing in co-op. Although if you have three 
 friends you can have four members and kick some terrorist ass. One feature gamers may not know 
 about is that with the Xbox camera you can put yourself into the game, for online play mind you 
 not in campaign mode, and it is an amazing thing. You basically scan your face and put it into 
 the game. Sound The sound for the game was good, nothing too amazing here really, but you will 
 enjoy hearing the terrorists communicate, even the worried ones who sounded like junior terrorists 
 on their first day at the job. Oh those young terrorists, how naive they can be. Just like in other 
 Rainbow games the voice acting can be weird at times. Like the Irena character or your team. Something 
 about those voices seem like a bad Seagal movie, but most of the time it's just standard orders 
 that are being taken. The guns sound... like guns. So many games now have authentic sounding gun 
 fire taken from actual guns, nothing really too innovative hear to talk about with the sound of 
 the game. But nothing that ruins the game either. Except maybe for your team yelling out Ohh Ahh 
 or whatever he's saying... That's just weak dude. Honestly people in this kind of situation mostly 
 swear their asses off, maybe there needs to be more serious swearing in shooters. Lasting Appeal 
 This game will last you a while and you will come back to it down the road too, well until they 
 come out with the next title. From the online play which has modes like capture the flag, or the 
 terrorist hunt which you and your buddies can go have a good old time killing terrorists while 
 your girlfriends sit in the back room making out with one another and... Wait, sorry I'm going 
 too far here I mean who am I kidding, we don't have girlfriends haha... I hate my life. Anyway, 
 the single player campaign mode alone is very addictive and you can play it again on realistic 
 mode if you wish, where you can take less damage before dying then on normal. Or you can take different 
 routes and this time you do the shooting and let your team sit in the corner wondering when it 
 will be over. And again, you really do feel comfortable in that cover position so much so that 
 it will feel like home. And that's not an easy thing to do in these kinds of games. It's a lot 
 easier to feel at home in a run and gun game like Halo then in a more stealth game like Rainbow 
 Six but it's very addictive and it won't be something you'll forget about. Fun Factor In Rainbow 
 Six Vegas you know where you are all the time and what's around you and can plant yourself in your 
 cover and plan your attack while your team holds them off. It's an amazing feeling, add that to 
 the health regeneration and other elements and you have one of the best games on the 360. While 
 it's also out for the PS3 I have a feeling this will be a better version at the end of the day. 
 Games like this which are about planning and strategy aren't always very fun but this is one of 
 those games that are just so fun to play. If you were never a fan of the series before or felt 
 it was lacking something, this is the time you may want to give this series another shot. You won't 
 be disapointed. And If the next game for the series has the same health system and cover I will 
 surely be single for a lot longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkfire514
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is by far one of my favorite video games ever. If you are a fan of first person 
 shooters, deffinitely try this game out. There isnt one drawback i can think about. The game has 
 every mode imaginable. Campaign, terroritst hunt, and an awsome splitscreen co-op. The games online 
 features also include the accesibility to open up a lobby and play a free-for-all with players 
 across the world. Incredibly fun. Something even better too look forward tol; the four player online 
 co-op mode. Rainbow Six Veags is one of the most masterfully crafted and well- done shooters to 
 date; Ubisoft really scored with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xivalai72
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  This is basically the best Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six game that was ever made. If you like Tactical 
 Shooters like Ghost Recon or any of Tom Clancy games then you will love this. The online play is 
 really fun and you get new gear for ranking up. So it keeps you motivated to rank up more. The 
 story behind this game is very well made. Terrorists are blowing up casino's in Vegas and you have 
 to stop them. You are able to command your team to do what you need to. You can command them to 
 go down a fast rope, rappel, ladder, and more. You can switch between Assault or Infiltrate. Assault 
 is for shooting at whatever enemy they see and Infiltrate is shooting only if you are shot at. 
 So who's going to save Vegas? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KFrog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  What happens in Vegas stays in Vegas and gets shot!
  
  True next generation gaming arrives on the Xbox 360 with Tom Clancys Rainbow Six Vegas. This is 
 the best game I have ever played. Not that Ive played a whole bunch of games, but this is the 
 best one; and from so many different aspects. Action, challenge, voice acting, sound, graphics, 
 weapons models and explosions. Its all here.
  
  One of the new features of Rainbow Six Vegas is the ability to rappel down the side of shafts, 
 walls and the outside of buildings. You can even go inverted and fire at guys. You can also jump 
 away from the wall and smash through windows to surprise the tangos and take them down.
  
  Another new tool you can use is the snake cam which lets you look under doors, tag the terrorists 
 as primary targets then hit open and clear to clear the room. Neat and clean.
  
  There are all kinds of weapons to use as is always the case with Rainbow, but this time you can 
 customize them with different scopes with different levels of zoom power and laser sites.
  
  I personally like the new third person view you get when you pull the L trigger. When up 
 against a solid surface and up against the wall and you can look around the corner from cover and 
 take shots at enemies. It works really well. Once I got used to it I use it all the time. You can 
 even chuck grenades form this position.
  
  The AI is pretty good. They take cover well, try to flank you, throw frag, smoke and incendiary 
 grenades at you and just generally make your tasks pretty difficult.
  
  The character animations of your team members are just amazing. Some of the best Ive seen. You 
 need to check out the detail of their movement. Its so realistic at times that it is almost scary.
 
  
  Take some time check out some of the casinos while on you stay in Vegas. The architecture is really 
 something to see. Very detailed and realistic.
  
  All of the audio in the game is first class all the way including voice acting, music and sound 
 effects. Typical of Ubisoft. This game begs to be played on a big screen HD TV in 1080p because 
 it looks so good.
  
  This game rejuvenates the Rainbow Six series and from the way the story ends looks like there will 
 be more Team Rainbow to come. The sooner the better I say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sealedexit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  The first time I played a Rainbow Six game I was disappointed. That was years ago. However that 
 is not the case with Vegas. It had been a long time since I had played an FPS.
  
  The first thing i liked about the game was the customization for characters and weaponry. Even 
 though the guns are a little limited, hopefully they will make that a little better next time. 
 The guns are pretty well balanced, on single player that is. I have yet to play MP. Once in the 
 game I found the cover system to work quiet well, not perfect but good for the first time they 
 used it this way. The graphics were the best I had ever seen at the time, they are still good today 
 but there are some games that have better. I still can't get over the blood splatter effects, absolutely 
 awesome imo. Some of the destruction effects are bland though.
  
  The gameplay was good too. The AI could be better on the easier difficulty, especially your teammates. 
 Realistic difficulty made it worth playing through a second time for sure. The controls were good. 
 Sometimes my gun wouldn't shoot, it shot more than it didn't though. The sound was great some of 
 the best I have heard. I haven't shot any pickups with a twelve gauge but I imagine thats about 
 what it'd sound like.
  
  All in all I loved the game still play it when ever I can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamebills
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas is the newest edition in Tom Clancy's long running series. I've owned every 
 game since the first for Dreamcast, and I must say, It's come a looooong way. The frist thing I 
 noticed were the visuals and effects. stunning. The tecnology put into this game is astonishing. 
 Realtime shadows with no rough edges, great character models, and no lag while playing multiplayer.
 
  
  The thing that bugs me is the lack of depth in the game. Unless your playing Live, every mission 
 or Objective is to kill all the mexicans. Or whatever the hell I was shooting at. Very shallow. 
 But I did really enjoy all the guns that made their way into the game. Dozens of real world guns 
 look great and all have diffirent stats. Plus you can silence every semi auto and auto machine 
 gun in the game. And also modify their firing rate.
  
  Yet in the end I'd rather sell this well polished, yet semi repetive shooter for Halo 3. There 
 just ins't enough there for fans without Xbox Live. But if you do have Live, go for it. And have 
 fun cause trust me it's harsh there's not many little kids playing this game online =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skilo2
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  the online play is amazing, i love watching as my ranking keeps going up every time i finish a 
 game, and i love all of the weapons and how you could customize you outfit to your liking. There 
 are several faults with this game though, for one, in the story mode, your teammates are a bunch 
 of r-tards.
  they rarely kill the right person and they get wounded really easily. also the only reason i did 
 the story mode was just to get the acchievements, if the 360 didn't have the achievements then 
 i wouldn't have spent hours trying to beat the story mode. rainbow six also include t-hunt or terrorist 
 hunt where you go and find and kill 20 to 50 terrorist, this feature is usualy the only thing i 
 do because you can gain rank easily with this and it's quit easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaming_Deity
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 8, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  I'd like to start by saying that I enjoyed the Rainbow Six games quite a lot up until this point 
 in the series. The Rainbow Six games have delivered the best close quarters tactical gameplay of 
 any game out there. In this installment Ubisoft has completely deviated from what made their games 
 great. Now taking an action movie type approach, everything is geared toward the fantastical without 
 every achieving such a thing.
  
  The single player experience no longer sports a briefing before missions and any chance for creating 
 a plan of action has been stripped away. While this isn't necessarily a bad thing, as on the fly 
 thinking can be just as rewarding you soon find out that the game is setup like many other shooters 
 out today. You progress down a linear path taking on pockets of enemies every now and again. There's 
 little to no strategy to be employed as most of the fights are fairly simple affairs. The action 
 slows down from time to time, giving you fewer enemies, who are spaced apart further, allowing 
 for some pseudo stealthy moments. When you are approached with a room clearing, some tactical thinking 
 is required in that different gadgets need to be used and multiple entrances require a bit of planning, 
 but the tactical end ends there. Once the first few shots are fired everything goes to hell, as 
 enemies start flooding in causing everything to devolve into chaos. The game also presents you 
 with more wide open areas with enemies in every, which direction. These sequences may have been 
 enjoyable, but most of the time they feel like a crapshoot. Sometimes the enemies will flank and 
 use covering fire causing long gun fights that really are fun, but other times they'll either be 
 extremely stupid (i. e. shooting walls over and over, sitting out in the open and taking shots or 
 refusing to move from a piece of cover, no matter how obvious it is that you've flanked.) or they'll 
 completely dominate you, killing you in one hit with the first shot they take before you even have 
 a chance to react. In light of these problems, I'd like to make clear that the game is fun. I played 
 it for a good four weeks before I lost interest. There are moments and sometimes, but rarely, entire 
 levels that have very well executed action sequences and they deliver some great times that require 
 the use of every weird angle you can muster. How enjoyable each fight is, is really dependent on 
 the area it is taking place within because the enemies don't arouse any fear because they are sometimes 
 so dim witted.
  
  Everything about the way your character moves can be described as sluggish and loose. Whether you're 
 trying to run (jog) from cover point to cover point or using the cover system everything seems way 
 too slow. This may not seem like a huge problem but really, it drains all of the urgency out of 
 the action when no one really looks like they're afraid for their lives. Coming around corners 
 while in cover is especially painful. Often it's a better idea to stick to a wall just to get the 
 3rd person view around the corner and then come out in 1st person. Not only does the camera sometimes 
 give you the improper angle to hit enemies but it's not uncommon to take more shots because it 
 takes so long for your character to come out for a shot. Half-way through the game I stopped using 
 the cover system almost entirely. The game is still playable and manages to be just workable enough, 
 but it could've been so much better.
  
  The presentation isn't exactly a strong point either. The graphical quality in game is really quite 
 poor. Textures for the environment and weapons are extremely muddy, and only get worse in split 
 screen. The level design is entirely bland, with few fun places to fight and a complete lack of 
 interesting environments. I'd call this a huge step down in graphical quality from GRAW. The fly 
 over before going into a mission really shows how little work was put into the game's visuals. 
 The only good thing I have to say about the graphics are the character models. They are very detailed 
 and have a fairly realistic animation set, excluding the animation for coming around cover, but 
 the heavy contrast created by the terrible environments and the good character models makes everything 
 that much more frustrating. There are some nice physics but they are also slow and underwhelming, 
 much like the rest of the game.
  
  The multiplayer may very well be why most people will buy this game. There are plenty of options 
 and game modes for slightly tweaking your online experience and there's a cool ranking system that 
 unlocks new camouflage, armor, accessories and weapons as you gain experience. Though after you 
 unlock every weapon (I did it after three days of playing) there's really no point to really strive 
 for higher ranks, unless you want an achievement and that oh so fashionable pink camouflage. The 
 weapons are unbalanced, SMGs are far more useful than anything else. (EDIT: a patch was recently 
 released to fix this problem.) The different game modes all have their places and the maps are 
 fairly well designed, especially Kill House. The one thing that the multiplayer suffers from is 
 the lack of a party system, which can really extend the life of any online game. Apart from competitive 
 modes there's a nice co-op mode that allows you to play through the story mode without all that 
 pesky story or play terrorist hunt, which basically plops you and a butt load of terrorists in 
 a map and tells you to kill them, both modes support up to four players online or two in split 
 screen. They're both fun in their own way, especially the co-op story. Having players instead of 
 the bullet magnet AIs is a really nice addition and a lot of the boring areas in the game end much 
 faster. The game ends up being much more fun on the whole in co-op. It's a pretty standard online 
 gaming affair, granted online co-op is a blast.
  
  All in all, I feel comfortable recommending this game to anyone looking for a moderately enjoyable 
 game to blast through with some friends. Despite all of its flaws, lack of polish, glitches and 
 imperfections in the cover system that make it seem tacked on, the story, and the overall completely 
 underwhelming feeling you get, the game can deliver a really fun experience. Just trust my on this 
 when I say, don't play this game alone. Get online and get four buddies on your team. You'll have 
 MUCH more fun with the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hal02g0d
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 4:37 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas is an amazing game. The story, while it may be a bit half-baked, the conflicts 
 themselves are mindblowing. With control of everything, including whether the shoot first, shoot 
 last, go loud, go cold, and even where you tell them to stand, all at the push of a button. Multiplayer 
 is a center stage though, with its P. E. C. mode where as you level up, you get more gear. Weapons 
 are balanced nicely, making you choose between that SMG or that Sniper Rifle. The maps are amazing 
 too, with many varied environments. The MP modes are also fun, form the typical deathmatch, to 
 the not so common assassination. So R6V is, to be frank, a msterpiece of its own breed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alvin201
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 3, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six is a wonderful game when it comes to multiplayer. It has a lot of different game modes 
 and there are a endeless different weapoons. If you are really into guns you will notice that some 
 guns here function the ssame way they do in realy life. But when it comes to single player this 
 game is kinda boring.. The only thing you do is kill terroists and its get very boring. If you 
 dont got xbox live rent this game to see if you like this game.
  
  Story: Kinda lame for such a great game iin multiplayer.
  
  Graphics: Beautiful graphics. Its 
 not a gears of war but looks great.
  
  Sound: The guns sound so authenic.
  
  Playability: High when it comes to multiplayer but low in single player
  
  Bottom Line: You 
 really have to buy this game if you got xbox live but if you dont just rent or juz let it pass. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Standard_222
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow 6: Vegas was well worth its retail. The single player campaign isnt really anything special; 
 its pretty much your standard Tom Clancy kill terrorist, and play soldier title, but the fact 
 that its all taking place in a beautifully detailed Vegas is pretty exciting. The AI from your 
 allies is pretty much non-existent. Theyre more like puppets that just obey your every command. 
 In fact, the best way that I found to use them was to send them ahead of me to draw enemy fire. 
 Also theyre very good shots too. However, the enemy AI is marvelous and quite difficult sometimes. 
 So the campaign may not have been anything revolutionary but where this title shines, is its multiplayer.
 
  
  Online this game is great, though it does have its problems. It has a fair share of glitches, in 
 fact online users commonly refer to a player using these glitches as glitching and identify it 
 as cheating, and the host advantage is a little too much. But in the end it makes for one great 
 multiplayer title. Since R6: Vegas is more of a simulator than an action adventure, you can count 
 on using cover a lot, so no run and gun here. This also requires a great deal of patience as you 
 have to use strategy to take a room that the enemy has or find away to sneak around since running 
 in guns blazing means certain death most of the time. One of the let downs, at least for new users, 
 is its use of the unlockable weapon system. R6: Vegas does require some time to gain rank to unlock 
 the better weapons, so you can count on dying a lot more at the beginning from those that are higher 
 in rank. All in all, R6: Vegas is a good game with a lot to offer in multiplayer, especially if 
 you have a pretty hefty friends list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  With the past Rainbow 6 (R6) games, they offered a decent tactical shooter, but with each version, the 
 qualitiy grew worse. After R6-Lockdown, i had vowed never to play another R6 game again. Well, after 
 passing on this for so long, i am now eating my own words. After renting it for a day, I went out 
 and bought it. This game is extremely intense, and the enviornments are wide open. Gone are the small 
 rooms, and narrow hallways. Also gone, the typical, clear room, move to the next room, clear and move 
 forward. Honestly, this game feels more like GRAW, and i couldn't be happier. Now featuring a great 
 cover system, new moves such as rappelling down wallsand inverted shooting. At certain points, enemies 
 are hard to spot in the distance, but it's a small gripe. Powered by the Unreal Engine 3, the game 
 looks amazing, as does the animations of the enemies and your team mates. Commanding your team is 
 simple, and they actually help you unlike past games (although, you'll still have to revive one every 
 so often)
  
  Simply put, this is one of the best games on the 360 right now, and if you haven't tried it, go and 
 get it. You won't be disapointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fightinirish419
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 28, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  All in all, Rainbow Six: Vegas is the best game I have ever played, and by far the best game on 
 XBOX 360. I love this game because of the amazing visuals and the huge selection of realistic weapons. 
 Also, the game is extremely realistic. It is not like Gears of War, where you run into the open 
 and just spray and pray and hope to get lucky. You actually have to think, get into cover, and 
 set your plan of attack before you execute it. There are too many games in which it takes a thousand 
 shots to be killed, making boring combat because it gets very old, and Rainbow Six is an exception. 
 Extremely life-like, and tons of gameplay hours make this game the best on XBOX 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxbababooeyxx
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 28, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  This is the best FPS online game ever. There is no game that even comes close to this game for 
 being the best online. its the most realistic, tactical, and requires the most amount of skill 
 to dominate than any other game and is far superior to halo 3 in every way. there i said it and 
 im not scared. however lately i have noticed a problem..... to many newbs. too many little kids 
 and unskilled people. i dunno if this game hit the bargain bin or what but it is now rapidly deterioting 
 into a game filled with annoying players. they need to jack the price back up to keep the integritty 
 of this game intact or make it only accesable to an older audience. perhaps xbox is going the way 
 of nintendo and its time for me to hang up my controller. or perhaps ill hang on a litle longer 
 to experience the next GTA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  After missing the point with 2005s Rainbow Six: Lockdown - sacrificing the tense tactical gunplay 
 in favour of balls-out blasting and outrageous pyrotechnics - Ubisoft has sensibly gone back to 
 basics for this latest instalment of Tom Clancy machismo. And in refining what made Rainbow Six 
 a revolutionary experience in the first place, Vegas is one of the most impressive shooters and, 
 for Xbox 360 owners in particular, one of the consoles greatest triumphs.
  
  While the game remains true to its roots and will feel familiar to fans, what marks Vegas out from 
 its predecessors is the refined controls; ordering your team-mates to open doors, defuse bombs 
 or choose terrorist targets is only a matter of clicking a button, allowing you to quickly and 
 seamlessly concoct elaborate plans and get the drop on the bad guys. Moreover, as the number of 
 AI-controlled squad members has been reduced from three to two, it gives you more room to manoeuvre 
 and avoids the frustrating bottlenecks at doorways that plagued earlier incarnations.
  
  The new health system  modelled on games like Halo and Call Of Duty, where you health slowly regenerates 
 if you shelter from enemy fire  also makes for faster-flowing battles, and the fact the controls 
 encourage you to use cover and take pot-shots at rivals from behind walls and doorways means the 
 level of realism is astounding, making it feel as if youre part of a real firefight.
  
  The multiplayer online co-operative and competitive modes also help round out this sublime shooter, 
 and with dozens of different ways to tackle each challenge, this is one game you can play over 
 and over again without seeing the same thing twice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trench_Coat
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  So, Rainbow Six: Vegas. Or if you've played games from the Ghost Recon or Splinter Cell games you 
 could call it Splinter Ghost Six: Vegas as it really is a mash-up of those titles. Overall the 
 game looks fantastic save for the low-level live-cam integration which allows players to produce 
 a low-res screen shot of their face and map it to a multi-player character model. The game also 
 features a voice-op feature which allows players in the single player campaign to use voice commands 
 such as 'hold' or 'follow' on the AI teammates, providing the player can speak loudly and with 
 enough clarity for the game to understand. This sometimes results in a word like hold to be screamed 
 through the living room several times until the order is finally carried out. The gameplay is much 
 like that of Gears of War. You constantly shoot then duck behind cover before moving to a new piece 
 of cover and repeating the process. This games biggest problem is the checkpoint operated save 
 system. Rather than letting players pick and choose when and where they save they instead need 
 to cross over a check point which will prompt an auto-save. This leads to very frustrating re-play 
 moments where the player will have to repeat the same sections of a level over and over until they 
 finally cross the next threshold.
  
  The Good:
  
  Great Graphics
  Excellent assortment of weapons
  Interesting use of the vision cam and head set.
  
  The Bad:
 
  
  Punishing save system leads to frustrating re-play moments
  Voice over and face-mapping technology arent fully developed yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartacus0420
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. I have a core group of people I play with and it seems the more I play rainbow 
 six, the less I want to play with new people.
  
  I love the development of strategy and team-play. You cannot run and gun in the team attack and 
 defend or objective games and hope to have any chance to be successful. The communication system 
 in the game is very good.
  
  The downside of this game is the loading times. The load times to join rooms and to change maps 
 are horrible. I noticed this after playing the Call of duty beta and realizing there is no need 
 fcr such a delay when you are trying to join A friend.
  Also, another downside to this game is the gameroom setup. You constantly have to kick players 
 or make people leave to switch teams up or even to change sides of the room is full. The update 
 on the next version I am sure will fix these small problems, but it sure will make gameplay alot 
 better if there was an update soon.
  
  back to the positives though. I love the play/reward of this game. The endless amounts of custom 
 armor, clothing, and extra equipment and camo make this one of the greatest games I have ever played. 
 The custom characters finally let you determine who your team-mates are while in gameplay without 
 looking above their heads for a name icon. This allows great clan/team play with the ability to 
 change certain colors to distinguish rank, or player info.
  
  This game was addictive from the first minutes of play and continue to give quality gameplay and 
 tactical play. The online aspect is extremely worth the money and the campaign version also was 
 worth the bucks paid. It seems alot of in depth work was put into this version of rainbow six and 
 not just thrown together 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xRmRxfreakBOMB
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most own games for the Xbox 360 including Gears of War, Oblivian and BioShock. 
 Rainbow Six Vegas combines first person with third person and blends it together into a kick butt 
 game. Graphics are amazing, sound is awesome, and controles are nicely designed. The part of the 
 game that most people will like though is it's multiplayer. There's up to 16 players in one room, 
 over 10 different game types, huge maps and there is a well thought out ranking system. The single 
 player is a little boaring though, but very very very hard, especialy at the end, on normal difficulty. 
 But most people will play it in co-op. So if you looking for a solid first person shooter, here 
 it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crushallya
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas - the Multiplayer... Was it worth the $$$ or was it just another sequel to the 
 Tom Clancy regime??? Hmmm... Rainbow Six Vegas was the first in it's kind to get me to understand 
 how Multiplayer was arranged, played, and accepted Worldwide. The Story Mode was in it's own right 
 exceptional, but couldn't live up to the hype of it's MP counterpart. If you like the challenge 
 tactical FPS offers - then take on the Rainbow. There so much to accomplish when it comes to Achievements 
 for your Gamerscore, only if you try your true skill at it's best or you cheese it up with a buddy 
 to try and show your skill as Gamerscore cheeser. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZachLittle
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2007 2:02 am PT
Review:  Best mutiplayer game you can find, currently.
  Gameplay and weapons are perfect.
  Maps are all balanced well.
  A ton of game variants.
  Unlocking new weapons and leveling up 
 always keeps you hooked, and looking to play a few more matches towards that next bar.
  
  This game might take a little while to get used to if you've never been into the tactical genre. 
 Be prepared to take a beating in live matches. If you find yourself frustrated, step away and immerse 
 yourself in the single player. Get a little headshot practice in some terrorist hunting. I guarantee 
 it, once you get the hang of this game, you won't be able to pull yourself away from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7-ate-9
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  This is the best multiplayer game I have ever played. It is so much fairer than say Gears of War 
 and, although it helps, you don't have to know every map like the back of your hand because you 
 have a mini-map onscreen. This gives you a good chance against the veterans. The multiplayer has 
 a lower level of entry than most games, chances are you won't get capped after walking only two 
 paces, at least if your'e careful. The game lobby and set up are the best i've seen in multiplayer 
 games. You can see all the current games, how far into the game the players are, how many players 
 are in the game ect. This makes it very easy to select a game. Also the community is strong, there 
 are always 100's of people playing this game at any given time. Coupled with this there are a lot 
 of modes and maps to play with especially if you have downloaded the two free expansion packs.
 
  
  The character system is great, you create a character by modelling the way you want your fighter 
 to look then you kit them out with your choice of weapons and armour. Over time you gain experience 
 and rank up from private to elite (i think elite is the top I'm only private first class so I need 
 to get better!) .
  
  Wheter you want a coop or competative experience Rainbow 6 Vegas does both incredibly well. I would 
 buy this game if it shipped as multiplayer only (it kicks Shadowrun's ass) the fact that it also 
 has a decent single player mode with tactical squad based action really pushes the score up for 
 me 10 on 10, one of the best games i've played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killinchris13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  R6V is a great game and worth all 50 bux I spent on it. This game has a fun challenging story mode. 
 The A. I. are intelligent and dont just keep runnin into walls like past games. This game has excellent 
 multiplayer. I wouldn't recommend this game to someone who doesn't have a multiplayer. If you don't, 
 I would suggest renting it first and see if you really want it on your desk. The multiplayer is 
 basically where the game gets great and challenging, even though the single player is great. I'd 
 say it's the best FPS on 360 for now. Unfortunately, multiplayer does have a few glitches where 
 you get killed over somethin dumb, but every game has their glitches so I wouldnt hold it against 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king8211
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  this is such a fun game i got it about 2 weeks ago and have beat the game. within these 2 weeks 
 i have play the game at least 150 hours which is half the week. i love how good the graphics are, 
 and how you can do so much like hiding behind walls, sticking doors and killing stupid people. 
 its kinda funny how stupid the terrorist are in terrorist hunt. one of the fun things to do is 
 throw a grenade in a room and the terrorist scream in pain. if you have money buy this game it 
 was so worth it and have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: narutoman786
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Like I said, I did'nt like how the plot twisted at the end. Now they totally make up for it in 
 the multi-player. I like the Ranking's system, and the different types of multi-player modes. I 
 don't, however, like the fact that people can restrict item's. If there in the game that means 
 you were meant to use them. I do like the way you can customize your character with so many combinations 
 to choose from, its almost impossible to have the perfect character. Overall, this is a great game 
 worth buying! That does'nt mean you should go out and buy it right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peanut-butter
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  Story: It starts off with a solid story with you in Mexico, and you eventually get into Vegas pretty 
 quickly into the game. I felt that the story was pretty good throughout the game, but it had kind 
 of a disapointing ending.
  
  Game-play: When I started playing VB6 Vegas, I fell in love with it right there. The game does 
 such a good job making shooting stuff so much more fun then it should be. Squad control is also 
 simple and easy to use, so you won't need to spend half the time trying to figure out how to command 
 your squad. Also the taking cover button which sticks you to a wall for cover makes the game more 
 intuitive since it switches from first person to third person. And most importantly, breaking into 
 a room full of terrorists and capping each one of them while they were holding a bunch of guns 
 up to a civilian's head has never been easier. The game makes doing complex actions (such as scaling 
 a building, or breaching in through a window) so much easier. Graphics: The graphics in RB6 Vegas 
 have much to like. And they really give you the sense that you're in Vegas. It also succeeds in 
 special effects, such as shooting out windows, or rappelling up/down the side of a building. It 
 really makes it feel like your in the game.
  
  Sound: Gamespot's review may have given RB6 Vegas a 7 for sound, but I must disagree. I felt that 
 the sound was very well done. Each gun in the game sounded like it should if you were firing it 
 in real life. Also when terrorists scream scared conversations with one another since you just 
 killed their buddy always feels satisfying. And not only seeing stuff blow up, but hearing it totally 
 makes the game experience more appealing. Co-op: It's always fun to hunt terrorists by yourself, 
 but if you have a buddy or two, bring them to the gun fight. Co-op in this game feels so satisfying, 
 whether it's story mode or terrorist hunt, RB6 Vegas always leaves you wanting more. There is so 
 much reply value in the game (especially in terrorist hunt) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoNu7
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  
  Simply put, the graphics look pretty much amazing. It's not terribly detailed and crisp, and some 
 of the textures look a bit washed-out but it boasts an excellent atmosphere reminiscent of, well, 
 Vegas! The glittering buildings and night setting create a moody, but colorful experience. The 
 non-Vegas portions of the game look decent and are certainly nicely detailed, but the drab coloring 
 detracts from the from the overall experience.
  
  The weapons look realistic and have an excellent, visceral effect to them, and explosions and gunfire 
 are top-notch. If I have any other gripes about the graphics other than the occassional blurriness, 
 it's that some of the character models could have used a bit of work. They are detailed yes, but 
 the lighting on the models look a bit off and the facial expressions (or lack thereof) could really 
 have used some touch-up.
  
  Sound:
  
  Gunfire and explosions sound excellent and add more to the overall visceral experience. Voice-acting 
 is decent, and the music is solid, but they pack quite as much punch as the sound effects.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Fun, decently-paced and with plenty of targets to shoot at. You'll usually 
 want to find a place to hide, pop out for a few shots and get back under cover. Indeed, you'll 
 learn a lot of tricks as you play through the game, such as throwing a smoke grenade to cover an 
 ally who is hacking a computer, sending your AI teammates in as guinea pigs so that you can ensure 
 that you won't be the first one to get shotgunned in the face.
  
  The game can get quite difficult at times. I'm talking especially about the parts where you have 
 to cover a teammate that is working on something (like hacking a computer as mentioned above) . 
 You only have oh-so-many smoke grenades and there is always the possibility of stray shots that 
 can hit your teammate. You can also die very, VERY easily, even on Normal difficulty. The game 
 only comes along with two difficulty levels, Normal and Realistic. Even on Normal difficulty, just 
 a few shots or a single burst of Assault Rifle / SMG fire at close range can take you down. While 
 those familiar to shooters should be able to get a grip on the game fairly quickly, those new to 
 shooters will certainly have a difficult time. Regardless, no matter how pro you are, be prepared 
 to die a LOT.
  
  The single player mission is fairly short (about 9 hours long) , but there is certainly plenty of 
 replay value due to the sheer number of weapon options, and there is also a Terrorist Hunt mode 
 that you can play single-player or coop in which you basically kill all the Terrorists on a certain 
 map. And of course there's also Realistic mode for you real Hardcore players, which will greatly 
 lengthen the campaign. Finally, there's online play. Rainbow Six boasts excellent online play. 
 I haven't gotten around to trying it out much, but suffice to say from what I've played so far 
 it is a lot of fun and there are plenty of modes and maps to keep you busy for a long, long time.
 
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Overall, it's an excellent game, with great graphics, decent sound, and excellent gameplay. The 
 story is fairly strong until the very end in which the end comes along fairly abruptly and in an 
 unsatisfying fashion. If you are an Xbox 360 owner, this is one game that I highly recommend you 
 purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n0s2004
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2007 11:33 pm PT
Review:  R6 VEGAS continues the Rainbow Six series of tactical shooters. It's perhaps the best in the series 
 &amp; easily ranks among some of the best shooters Ive ever played.
  
  Graphically it aint no GEARS OF WAR but it looks great, right down from the casinos &amp; hotels 
 to the streets of Mexico everythin looks splendid.
  
  Sound is top notch, gun fire sounds great even the little dialogues are well delivered.
  
  
 Gameplay is where it blows other shooter to smithereens. It's unique cover system woeks well for 
 an FPS &amp; everything works smoothly.
  
  The campaign is just enough as you'd expect from a tactical shooter but it ends in an unexpected 
 sort of way.
  
  The AI is one of the smartest Ive seen in a while. Both, your teamates &amp; enemies behave like 
 they should.
  
  R6 VEGAS is one of the finest games released in 07 &amp; should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerocoolness
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. i think its absolutly wonderfull. and atm, its the game i spend the most time 
 on xbox live with.
  
  the single player is OK. nothing uber amazing, and not super sucky. a typical tom clancy story 
 line of terrorists and bombs.
  
  the multiplayer is where this game shines though. even though they tuned down the graphics for 
 multiplayer, it proves that gameplay is greater then graphics.
  
  the online system uses a continuous player system. kinda like a rpg and a fps mixed into one. you 
 get to fully customize the way your character looks. from the type of clothing and its camo, to 
 the type of armor hes wearing. its great.
  
  everytime you battle, whether it be against bots, or humans, you get xp. win or lose. you accumulate 
 xp to rank up. with each rank unlocking nice features.
  
  most of the unlocks give you cosmetic changes. with very few weapon upgrades.
  
  im glad they 
 did it like that though, because it keeps the multiplayer fairly balanced. the newbies that just 
 start can easily kill the vets. the only thing that seperates the players is skill.
  
  certain upgrades do give you better armor, and different ways to look and such. but for the most 
 part its balanced as far as newbie vs vet (skill aside)
  
  +/- graphics are OK. more like xbox maxed out then next-gen. (at least for multiplayer
  
  + 
 online character upgrades are great
  + balanced between vet and newb (skill aside)
  + community tends to be of a higher age
  - lack of updates for guns. they tend to get boring 
 after alot of play
  -/+ AI is weak sauce. you quickly learn how to control them into going where you want
  + each 
 map has tons of ways to exit/enter. whether it be from a rope or ladder or breaking through glass. 
 its almost limitless
  + the cover system is the best part of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmnestyErr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Right off the bat I have to complement the 'COVER' system Rainbow Six Las Vegas employs. It is 
 one of the convenient and neatest feature in the game... and yes, I've also Gears of War.
  
  As a long time fan of the Rainbow Six series from its conception from the PC I've played EVERY 
 iteration of the series (yes... the PSOne versions too) and although lacking the interesting technical 
 aspects of the series (as what happens when you bring a niche title to a broad audience) Vegas 
 plows on through with its excellent interface and immersion and the action is right along with 
 it.
  
  Because of my ignorance, ego, and most likely my affinity to adapting to most games I started right 
 off the bat with the hardest setting and to be honest I'm glad I did. I can assure you, Rainbow 
 Six will have you double-checking your routes because although skirmishing is great, you'll be 
 doing a lot of it when you restart-die before the checkpoints (thank goodness for these!) ; the 
 AI is smart, its fast, and they're not going sit on their asses waiting for you to flank them... in 
 fact, I swore the game was cheating when I had the advantage and got shot the next second ending 
 the up to four minute long skirmish... for the 7th time.
  
  When you get shot at you die pretty fast. Its not like you can take on tons of damage and manage 
 to roll into a corner to heal; if the first shot doesn't kill you right off, the second and third 
 are going to make sure you learn your lessons. (I'm still amazed to this day about the sharpshooting 
 MK23 (SOCOM .45 cal Pistol. PISTOL!) wielding enemies... from across the room... and I'm on top.)
 
  
  Not that I'm a stickler to rifle authenticity but I do have my grudges about certain damage aspects 
 and categories some rifles are designated into but nonetheless: most casual FPS players will recognize 
 the nice inclusions (... and certain exclusions) of player favorites and their faithful interpretations. 
 Once again, I don't necessarily agree with some of the weapons and what they gamers intended you 
 to use them for, but just pick a favorite per class because ballistics count for the most part. 
 The AI you're pitted against are not only smart but they're packing just as well. You've got a 
 grenade. They've got a grenade. You think you're the only one with Incendiary (... Phosphorous 
 ) grenades, Smoke, and Bang? Think again. For every weapon you can utilize the enemy WILL use as 
 well. The other neat and convenient thing I liked about Las Vegas was the drop of the hat picking 
 up of weapons laying around should you claim it the original owner. Your MP5 not packing enough 
 to drop the armored guys around the corner and fresh out of grenades? Well run back around (... lol, 
 before the system refreshes the stage as you stack the body count) and grab that AK or G36 and 
 bring in the higher caliber weapons to eat away at that body armor of theirs. Better yet, grab 
 that MG36 and lay suppressive fire as you tag the door for your buddies to burst through with smoke 
 and have them clear the room from the other side.
  
  Long gone are the old 'plan out' screens from the previous iterations, which I kind of missed because 
 you knew where you were going and what you were expecting, and you're balls to the wall for most 
 of the chapters; but this doesn't mean you can't make decisions on the fly. For the most part your 
 AI companions (rounding up the team to 3... NOT SIX... which defeats the purpose of being called 
 Rainbow Six I might add...) are competent enough and wont get themselves killed unless you place 
 them into an over complicated pinch where they can be overwhelmed.
  
  Although it feels like you against the world... the 3-... well, 1000 odds certainly make you feel 
 emboldened to do things not necessarily... prudent in a tactical shooter as Vegas flaunts itself 
 to be. Which is kind of deceiving because the game would hope you would play the game 'tactfully' 
 but throws a ridiculous amount of not only good but damned great shooting enemies at you all the 
 whilst reclaiming back 'taken territory.' Did I mention they've also similar secondary load-outs 
 as yourself?
  
  As I mentioned earlier, the game isn't like its predecessors, which is kind of sad, and the game 
 is pretty liner and blunt about when it intends you to do and when it intends for you to go. There's 
 not other 'second way' about doing a mission. If you've played it through the first time then the 
 second time will pretty much have you playing it through the same way... with the exception of playing 
 with different weapons and secondary load-outs. One thing about the PC predecessors was you could 
 plan meticulously how you could handle a situation, where you could enter from, and who, what, 
 when, and where you could execute your plan. It allowed you to learn the system, learn the tactics, 
 and play it completely differently the next time around because you could better prepare for it 
 or assault using a separate team etc etc and so forth. Granted you're given a convenient map of 
 the place but as I mentioned earlier, you lose the fun of being a tactical shooter.
  
  *SPOILERS* (you can skip this part should you not be interesting in the story... I've partioned 
 it.)
  ---
  ---
  
  The things about large brand name titles though, notice how I don't have any transitional material 
 here..., is they start out strong and well... need I remind you about the ending of Halo 2? As I 
 was playing the game, completely immersed in it I did however begin to think to myself: You know 
 what... I'm missing some parts of the story... god I hope it doesn't end how I think its going to 
 end. 
  
  ... and how right I was. As a writer, gamer..., illustrator, musician (I'm a jack-of-all-trades, 
 har har) I picked up pretty easily on what the story was about and eventually where and how the 
 story was going to end. I'm NOT saying that its COMPLETELY predictable... it's just that I knew 
 so and so was going to happen and I was going to get so and so ending.... but it was TOO clich&eacute;, 
 mind you. ---
  ---
  *END SPOILERS*
  
  All in all, Rainbow Las Vegas provides a pretty meaty experience but don't let that stop you there.
 
  
  The multiplayer is SOLID and will offer countless hours of skirmishes. With the newest online additions 
 via the 'RED PACK' Las Vegas' online world is even bigger and more fun to play. I'm especially 
 keen on the 'Assassination' feature they added (Which if you've played Sierra's SWAT 4 you'll know 
 what I'm talking about) which is additively fun. Regardless of Ranked games your online Identity 
 WILL still earn experience and as much, rank. Its extremely convenient to casual and hardcore gamers 
 a like should they choose to just play with casually without having to worry about their standing 
 rank. As your character ranks up you will unlock more weapons and better looking accessories for 
 your online Identity; so when you're fighting someone who's no longer wearing the traditional BDUs 
 you know they've invested a good deal of time in the multiplayer aspect and you can expect a decent 
 challenge from them.
  
  I highly recommend this game to all 360 libraries and although its an... interesting ending the 
 game is worth being experience. Time well spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hongkingkong
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  I've hopped in and out of the rainbow six franchise a few times over the years, while not being 
 dissatisfied I am left with a feeling that none of these previous iterations lived up to its full 
 potential; in terms of plot, character development, graphics and AI behaviour.
  I am now finally pleased to say that Rainbow Six Vegas has built on the great game Rainbow Six 
 3 was and have made it better in all of the above terms.
  The music is exhilerating and relentless, the sound of the hails of bullets thudding against your 
 cover and the terrorists shouting and firing blindly creates a frantic and satisfying scene at 
 every enemy encounter. Tactics are no longer arbitry commands you give to dim-whitted allies that 
 seem more intent on suicide than capturing a position. Your team are far more competent and easy 
 to manouver, with simple yet fun stacking up and breaching routines. If you have found friendly 
 AI buggy and unresponsive in other tactical shooters you'll be relieved to find out Vegas is about 
 as slick as it comes.
  The whole look of the game just oozes the word finito . The pollished graphics and sublime atmosphere 
 the game creates with the interesting neon lighting you'll come across while blast your way through 
 Las Vegas really makes you feel like you're in the fire-fight (especailly with a HDTV, I would 
 strongly recomend one of these for this game) .
  Thats enough for the single-player, now heres where you'l be speanding 90% of your time on Rainbow 
 Six Vegas if you so decide its worth the puny &pound;17.99 it costs right now (play. com :D ) . I 
 am of course talking about the online modes. Once you have customized your character with all the 
 sick gear you get, you'll realize you need to go and shoot some people to rank up, so that you 
 can get more weapons, armor and snazzy camoflague and hats. Suits you sir! Furiously competitive 
 Team Sharpshooter with up to 16 players on one server is the clear favourite among Rainbow veterans. 
 But equally (if not more so) popular is Co-op terrorist Hunt; as well as new online co-op story, 
 Vegas has a gem of an online mode in which you rather quickly rank up by your team of 4 human players 
 eliminating a set number of terrorists terrorists in a map. Extremely fun, and likewize rewarding, 
 you'll watch the hours fly by on this mode. Its a team based mode so you MUST work together to 
 get it over and done with and on to the next round as quick as possible.
  This game will keep you amuzed for hours, it is arguably twice the online game Gears of War is. 
 The Campaign only lacks in its depth of plot and unresolving ending, which cancel eachother out 
 really and why would you care when you're having so much fun killing Terrorist scum! Its an easy 
 game to get into, but difficult to master. But its incredibly equal online so not to worry if you're 
 a bit rubbish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guitar_Hero321
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas has a great storyline, great graphics and AWESOME online multiplayer.
  
  The story begins in a desert city in Nevada where you have to repel a terrorist attack, then gradually 
 the story line changes to the streets of Vegas. The combat system is this game is much like the 
 Gears of War style, hide and shoot but it also leaves room for run and hope you dont get hit style. 
 The Multiplayer in this game is exellent with many different styles too choose from. From Capture 
 the Flag to Elimination there is never a moment when you cant hop into a match and play.
  
  The graphics are great but have room for improvement in some spots, so if you have Gears of War 
 and gotten bored with it, this game is the next best thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaos_Prince
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game since i got it about 9 months ago, AND IT STILL KICKS ASS. The single player 
 story is not anything amazing, but the multiplayer gameplay is AWESOME. I love how easy it is too 
 get into a match in the game and get right into the action. I havent played all of the other Rainbow 
 6s, so i cant say its the Best in the Series, but it is the best shooter game i have ever played. 
 The character creation online is fun, and it gives you lots of options. The rank system in the 
 game makes sure that everyone knows how long someone as been playing, as well as give you access 
 to new weapons and looks for your guy. In one word :AWESOME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowblind54
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas has an amazing single-player experience, but where it really shines is its multi-player. 
 The games ships with 8 modes and at least 12 maps, and two free packs add another two modes and 
 at least ten new maps. With a gigantic player base that never seems to diminish, Rainbow Six Vegas 
 has an amazingly high re-playability. Rainbow Six Vegas is by far the best of the series and definitely 
 one of the best First-Person Shooters for the 360 so far. The many different weapons allow multi-player 
 to be very diverse and you'll never play the same round twice. To tell the truth, it's hard to 
 find something wrong with this game. Rainbow Six Vegas is just perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petervenkman
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is made by the team of Ubisoft, the same team who made Splinter Cell, Ghost Recon, 
 and the Prince of Persia series. The Rainbow Six series has been out for quite some time now and 
 some of the games in the series have been good and some kinda bad. Rainbow Six Vegas is one of 
 the good ones, it's not good, its great. Rainbow Six Vegas is, I think, the best in the Rainbow 
 Six series. The graphics are astonishing and look great. The sound is great too, with the silenced 
 rifle to the fully-automatic submachine gun. One problem is the story, the story is not as fleshed 
 out as you would want it to be. It is hard to keep track with the plot and how it changes. The 
 campaign is pretty short too. The difficulty in Vegas is very hard and you may find yourself replaying 
 certain gunfights over and over again until you get it right. The checkpoint system is not that 
 great either, once you die you may have to restart from the recent checkpoint and go through a 
 lot of stuff, again. Ubisoft really went their limit and they make you feel that you are reallt 
 in Las Vegas. The gunfights stretch from The Strip to Fremont Street. You will also notice some 
 of the hotels like the Luxor, MGM Grand, and the Stratosphere (Vertigo Spire in the game) . The gunfights 
 are really intense and realistic. The squad based system works well, just like the previous Rainbow 
 Six games. The weapon selection is great from the pistols to assault rifles to the sniper rifle. 
 Rainbow Six Vegas is a great game and well worth a rent, even a buy if you are a hardcore Rainbow 
 Six fan. FANTASTIC GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: candidate0
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Awesome single player, Awesome multi player.
  
  If you played the original Rainbow 6 on the xbox and spent many nights live in AIrports and Garage 
 you will know what this game is like live.
  Pick up and dont put down, if you are in a clan too this game is ideal.
  
  The face mapping 
 feature also works well although it did take me a few times to get it right as occaisionally some 
 strange results occur.
  
  Brilliant series update however as they get the game back on track after the aweful Lockdown.
 
  What a pile of crap that was.
  
  If you like rainbow 3 , its more like that than rainbow lockdown.
  
  The first game i bought 
 for my 360 that got me hooked and i still play on it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BattleSword1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 2:35 pm PT
Review:  The Rainbow Six franchise has made a big leap forward in technology as well as quality. Throughout 
 the years I've played the Rainbow Six games through and through, and I found that most of them 
 were very good, but suffered from various issues. You won't find any of that here, as Vegas is 
 undeniably the greastest Rainbow Six game ever made. Terrorists have taken control of every major 
 casino in Las Vegas, Nevada, and that's where you come in. You'll fight ruthless terrorists through 
 lost of gorgeous environments, and there's plenty of fragging to go around for everyone in the 
 game's fantastic multiplayer, which is the game's strong point at best. Also, there is a lot (and 
 I mean a lot) of blood. I'm not saying it's the best game ever, but it's certainly one of them. 
 If you haven't played it already, my recommendation is to buy it now. Your $60 will go a long, 
 long way.
  
  Truescore: 9.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoY0360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  This has to be THE best Rainbow game to date! I completed it a couple of weeks ago... but I still 
 can't help myself to play it again and again. The great thing about this series is the replay value 
 you've got the campaign, splitscreen, XBL plus the Terrorist hunt mode which is great for pick 
 up and play fun. The story is like any rainbow game really save the day shoot loads of bad mammajammas 
 lol sounds boring but its not, the gameplay, music, animation, graphics, equipment and controls 
 feel perfect (to me anyway) .
  If like me you like a challenge in ya games stick it on Realistic mode it's great! feels hard but 
 not so hard as to make you throw your controller at the tv.
  
  The thing that I like most about this game is the A I its fantastic enemies actually think for 
 themselves and react accordingly to any given situation. be it to throw a flashbang and try to 
 flank you among other sneaky techiniques. Your squad are also far from braindead, you'll see em 
 take cover whenever they can and let you know when there are any Terrorists near to your position, 
 they can be a real life saver when you have accidently run into a room without clearing it properly 
 lol.
  
  I don't have a HD TV yet but even with a normal 39 inch wide screen TV on 60 HZ it feels so imersive 
 and graphics alone are stunning. For me the only draw back is the weak ending but apart from that 
 it's well worth your time and money GO BUY IT! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: memanguy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks! It is really realistic, so if your shot in the heart or in the head then man are 
 you dead! Peeking around corners and blind firing. while your teammate sets an explosive on a door 
 where everything near it gets demolished. And when you flank the enemies with a smoke grenade, 
 or use there own smoke grenade against them by running around and catching them by surprise. You 
 have to play it for yourself to get a better description if mine is'nt very clear. When you play 
 this game you will probably like it for sure.... unless ,of course, you are the kinda person who 
 likes to go the easy way all the time and does'nt like a good O'l challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duanejake
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Clancy has totally outdone himself.. this time with this edition on Rainbow six . This ones got 
 it all, style and depth. Adiction also is a huge factor which will want you craving more and possibly 
 more.. i bought Ghost Recon and Rainbow six hoping that the latter would be a much better game but 
 how wrong i was Rainbow Six totally rocked. The weapons are great.. good selection mind you, so 
 for all you weapon fanatics out there this is the game u want... coz it has almost every weapon 
 used in modern combat. From the uzi to the mitar. And not to mention the fact that you could go 
 covert or loud and kill enemies in plain sight. The only drawback with this game was that sometimes 
 your teammates might stray.. or block your line of fire and it is for you to keep an eye out for 
 that.. as enemy AI is good and they will rip you to shreds in a matter of seconds!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jokerofclubs777
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 4, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  A great game that everyone should own. this game is for the action-adventure enthusiasts. This 
 has a great story line and easy controls. The game truly sucks you in and for a good reason. Play 
 it. LOVE it. And cherish it. But to the contrary there are some problems. It can get somewhat repetitive 
 with the story line being similar to past and otherwise the same. As great of a game it is it doesn't 
 have a good replay value. You play it once and thats enough. It is boring to replay because as 
 i said before it gets repetitive and there is nothing new to entertain you for a second time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  First I'll talk about the singleplayer. You are always on your toes, peeking around cover, and 
 taking guys out. Controlling your squad is easy, but one time they got stuck and won't listen to 
 me. Other than that, they are very smart and have great A. I. This has the best squad command system 
 in any game I've ever played. Controlling yourself is confusing at first, but after a while, you 
 get the hang if it and you can do a lot of cool stuff like in action movies. Customizing your weapons 
 is fun. This is my best weapon: A scoped shotgun, with a silencer. The pace is perfect, and is 
 one of the best action games ever. It is realistic. The cover system is much, much better than 
 the one on Gears of War, even though sometimes there are a few hiccups. There is even a mode where 
 you can go to a location and just clear the level of terrorists. It is much harder, but still fun, 
 especially with friends. Now to the multiplayer. It is great. The Co-Op is great, and requires 
 a lot of working together. The vs. is cool to because you can make your own character. Now to what 
 makes this game not a 10. The check points are far between, and since the game is hard, you need 
 to do a lot of parts of levels over again. The graphics aren't as good in Multiplayer either. Other 
 than those few things, this game is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chippy439
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  this game is a sweet game it has its ups and downs but it will get you hooked on this game like 
 me i play this game for hours and i learn some of the player made game modes like gladiator, arena, 
 mike myers, duck hunt and ect. there are about 20 maps and i think like 40-50 guns and like 10 
 game modes if you are looking for a good fps this is it . this game probaly wont be as good as 
 halo 3 but i might still play this but i will mainly be playing halo 3 , there are rumors of new 
 ranks and guns i hope to see you on this game but september 25 i wont be playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesniperkilla4
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  First Person shooters seem to be around a lot these days, and many have proved to be abysmal at 
 best. But Rainbow Six Vegas delivers whether it be the intense competitive multi-player or the 
 chaotic single-player campaign Rainbow Six Vegas isn't only a great shooter it is just plain fun 
 too. Sure though you may hae done pretty much the same thing with Gears of War but I implore you 
 to at least try this game out, you won't be disappointed.
  
  First I'll start with the Gameplay, Now there are many features in this department. And if your 
 like me who plays the single player campaign first then do multi-player, you can spend about 10-15 
 hours on realistic, that is if you died as much as me lol. But I say try it on realistic as I found 
 it being a real nail biter of a experience. And if you die (which you will as you have less health 
 as on normal) You'll think like a tacticul commando and try to outsmart your opponents.
  
  You'll also be accompinied by 2 AI teamates, no they are not mindless and dumb they can actually 
 help you quite well if you know how to manage them. It can create many fun experiences as well, 
 I remember 1 time on the Vertigo spire (Ithink) I got my AI buds to wait by a door on the bottom 
 while I stormed the top part. It created chaos and pandemonium all throughout that casino with 
 slot machines being blown up and grenades being tosed every which way it certainly is a very fun 
 time. But if you breeze past the campaign and don't have a xbox live account you can do terrorist 
 hunt. This is a very hard (but fun) experience, since you are alone and don't have AI meatshields 
 to take the damage you will come under fire most definately and will have to struggle to get to 
 cover. And with this you'll get flanked constantly if you don't sweep certain areas and with no 
 AI opponents you'll get killed without even knowing where the F that guy is. You can have another 
 human player with you but unless they live with you you might get 1 level or so done if it's just 
 a visit, as even with 2 people it is a challenge. But besides that this is a very fun feature and 
 can even train you for multi player as well :) .
  
  Speaking of Multi-player it is very awesome. You'll have players that are more relaxed and more 
 mature (at least with my experience) playing, but that doesn't mean it's not competitive cause 
 it is. Especially when your higher up in the food chain playing people your level, you'll always 
 want to prove your better than them and everybody below you. Customizing your multi-player avatar 
 is very addictive as well as you'll always want more points to get more stuff for him, and to make 
 him look like a total bada$$. All the Multi-player is great the levels the game types (sharpshooter, survival 
 etc.) But may I please say that just to have fun with the multi-player as getting all mad and frustrated 
 won' t get you anywere but at the bottom of the point board and the player's respect for you. Trust 
 me just play for fun and you will be rewarded with cool people to be friends and a awesome reputation 
 and you will have people wanting you to play with them. THe Graphics and Sound are both very amazing 
 with the graphics being on the Unreal 3 engine it certaintly looks awesome, But somethings on it 
 just don't look right. Such as the lighting and some of the textures, but that is just my opinion 
 other things look superb. And With the ragdoll physics in it it makes it hilarious as well to watch 
 some of the positions where dead people end up in. It also runs smoothly for me, there is some 
 slowdown on terrorist hunt however if you have lots of dead bodies laying about, but other than 
 that its fine. The sound could be better but still is amazing, the gun sounds each have a unique 
 sound to them and hearing grenades blowing up around you is pretty intense. But the enemy chatter 
 yet funny gets repetitive and the music and all that is pretty dumb. This game should keep you 
 busy for a long time if you play both terroist hunts (normal and realistic difficulty which both 
 give you achievments) and the campaign on single player should run you at least 25 hours if your 
 good and fast. Then you can spend easily 50+ hours on Multi-player, but any more than that IDK, 
 the Multi-player does grow on you sort of, But maybe thats because i'm more into the fast paced 
 shooters like Call of Duty 3 (which I probably have 100+ hours of multiplayer on lol) . But all in 
 all if Tactical shooters are your thing you'll love every second of vegas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squirrelman5674
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Now, for those of you who actually think that the story mode is the most important part of a game. 
 That's not always true. In fact, I myself prefer multiplayer features rather than interesting dialoque.
 
  
  This game just blew my face off with its' multiplayer capabilities. It's just great. Working your 
 way up to unlock more weapons. (It does kind of rip off of BF2 but this is more of a Xbox 360 version.)
 
  
  The story mode was really short since I beat it in only 4 1/2 hours. But, I did get some nice achievement 
 points. I believe that this game had to be on the top 3 list of best games for the 360.
  
  Halo 3 needs to work on their multiplayer a little more if they want to outrank my response to 
 this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mar_24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  So Rainbow Six: Vegas was one of the only games that I absolutely love on the 360, it just has 
 so many things good in it. This is my favorite 360 game i have played so far.
  
  Singleplayer: This game has great single player and a surprisingly good story that i was suprised 
 because FPS's dont really have a good story line other than the halo series. The cover system is 
 the best i have ever seen in a game to this date because its easy to use and extremely effective. 
 The health system is also very good because you can just recharge your health and you dont need 
 to try and find a health pack before you get shot in the face. And your team isnt great but they 
 are effective.
  
  Multiplayer: Now this is were this game truly shines and makes you coming back for more. They ranking 
 system is awesome, maps, game modes, weapons, the engine etc are just amazing about the multi player. 
 The Co-op and terrorist hunt is fun and a good way to practice. But this game is probably the best 
 multiplayer i have ever played. I cant right more because is just an awesome game and if you have 
 a 360 you should definitely pick this game up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bubbles662
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Well let me start off by saying that this game is IMO the best game to come out of Tom Clancy, 
 I believe that it's better than GRAW 2 except for a few things like sound, which in Rainbow Six 
 Vegas wasn't that well done.
  
  First up is the graphics department, which is very well done. Right from the cutscenes to the in 
 depth demolishing of the game like blowing things up, it really captures a real life like feel 
 to the game and makes it seem as though your playing the game as if you were right there actually 
 fighting against the enemies. Also the way that they did the lighting for Las Vegas was really 
 impressive and it really look as if it was real life. Graphics gets 9.5 out of 10.
  
  Now the gameplay which is once again well done as it usually is in Tom Clancy games, but for me 
 this game took it to a whole nother level, by really show casing it's life like shooting and A. I. Now 
 speaking of A. I in this game the A. I plays as if you were playing another person it is exceptionally 
 well done and makes the game alot more interesting to play. The game also makes excellent use of 
 covering which you have to use or else your gunna get your head blown off, if you don't. All in 
 all the gameplay department gets a 9.5 out of 10.
  
  Next up is the sound which in this game was very awful. I myself was very surprised that this game 
 didn't have the sound that I was hoping it would have, I mean your in Las Vegas which should already 
 tell you that the sound is going to be good, also you shooting guns in a Tom Clancy game which 
 should sound amazing. However, I think that the game designers fell into a hole with this department 
 and they made the shooting sound awful, and the music didn't fit into the game that well, it was 
 overall badly done. Sound gets a 7.5 out of 10.
  
  Finally the storyline which has you playing through the game as Logan Keller a leader of a three-man 
 counterterrorist attack unit. You and your team are called into duty when something bad happens 
 in Mexico which for some reason makes the terrorist want to attack the casinos of Las Vegas. Your 
 mission is to stop them before they unleash a secret device known as the McGuffin device which 
 could kill millions, you must stop them before it's to late. Well thats all I'm going to give you 
 because I don't wanna give away any spoilers, all in all the ending was unsatisfied and left a 
 lot of strings untied. But all in all the story is gunna get a 8.5 out of 10.
  
  So there's my review of Tom Clancy's: Rainbow Six Vegas and all in all the game had some high points 
 but also some low points. Such as the sound was absolutely awful especially when the people who 
 have played other Tom Clancy games know how good the sound can be. And the ending of the story 
 left you unsatisfied and left you wanting to know alot of things, also the game I found was very 
 short it only took me 9 hours to complete. But other than those three flaws which prevent this 
 game from being a 9.5 out of 10. I'm going to have to give it a 9.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grapetoucher
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. Of course it will draw comparisons to GRAW. I may rank this higher, but I 
 still like GRAW better-makes no sense I know.
  
  Graphics are great, especially in vegas when you are riding in the heli: traffic, buildings, fountains, 
 lights, all there. This is more of an action game than a tactical shooter but it has all the commands 
 and such as GRAW, just alot of close quarters combat, and killing bad guys in general. You only 
 have 3 guys instead of 4 in the squad but they are very effective. They use cover well and kill 
 plenty of bad guys for you. They also communicate well, yelling out when they reload, etc... Commands 
 are very easy to give both contextual and otherwise.
  
  Sound rocks. Enemies yell out and cuss and taunt you. They also communicate with each other and 
 flank well if you stay put too long, Gears style. Definately stay behind cover, there are tons 
 of guys to kill and you only have AI backing you up. In coop mode you can run and gun a little 
 more, I think they made it easier in coop-less hostages die and bombs go off. Controls are the 
 best of any game I've played on the 360. Aiming is great with the sticks and the cover system is 
 easily the best ever. The only thing I changed was the tac map location to the RB. The tac map 
 itself kinda sucks if you are used to GRAW, not very easy to follow and find objectives, but it's 
 solid.
  
  Difficult game I must say, especially on realistic. Checkpoints are spaced out a bit so don't die. 
 Sometimes dying is inevitable when dozens of guys seem to have pinpoint accuracy from long range (damn 
 FAMAS) and you need to reload while they flank from all sides. Replay value is a definate 10 with 
 tons of multiplayer including full coop story and terrorist hunt, as well as player v. player and 
 two difficulty levels.
  
  Overall great game, GRAW is still my favorite, just wish the AI and controls from R6 were there. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow six Vegas is a very nice touch of current shooters on next gen consoles and I can't deny 
 that the hours I spent on playing this game were plain fun; actually, right from the start you 
 can tell how awesome this game can be !! the graphics are top notch even in my humble SDtv I still 
 could appreciate the great quality of Unreal 3 engine with all the precise textures and beautifully 
 designed levels. even the details on the characters are so detailed , and indeed you get the feeling 
 of engaging into a realistic atmosphere, especially inside the casino .. it's sweet and Vegas should 
 not be let down at all. the game presents a very realistic and authentic cover system that you 
 can never do without, hiding behind cover is the only way to get passed the bullets coming your 
 way, and like gears if war, you are dead in a couple of seconds if you stand in the open, since 
 the enemies are very smart and agressive and they can take you out before you even know it. yet, 
 what's really amazing about the game is that you feel like you want to take cover and engage enemies 
 behind it and it's just a way of playing that never gets old ( the shooting behind cover can take 
 different forms, though) and there's no way you won't enjoy the gameplay of RSV !! it's a 100% 
 pleasure.
  
  The sounds are really really great from the glass that shatters to the cars that crack up you can't 
 feel let down at all, besides the weapons are so realistic and each has its own distinct sound 
 which is unlike many games dones very very well. Rainbow six Vegas is a tremendous success and 
 it did not come bad in anyway since everything you would be expecting in a shooter is here and 
 even more than that is to be discovered !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: syntary
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  RSV offers a wonderful experience in an online multiplayer game. The visual effects are nothing 
 less than awesome and the experience and feel of being in heated combat is unrivaled in this amazing 
 video-game. Although the campaign is lacking in areas and can prove unsatisfying in the resolution 
 the game makes up for its lack in single player in its multiplayer. RSV is the best in the Rainbow 
 Six series and offers a priceless experience in terrorist warfare. The control are relatively simple 
 with a reasonable learning curve, the strategical standing points of the game's system are realistic, 
 creative and innovative. RSV is very satisfying and pleasing at times and is definitely worth the 
 money and time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insane_metalist
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Well this is a great game but the campaign isn't so great. It's kind of boring running around casinos 
 and street and killing terrorists all the time. But it has a great multiplayer. If you have xbox 
 live and you like first person shooters then get this game for sure. The online is alot of fun 
 and you also have a rank so everytime you win you rank up. But even if you don't win you will still 
 rank up just not as much. This game has pretty sick graphics but what sucks is that you can't jump 
 at all or run faster. So if someone throws you a grenade and it lands next to you then you're basically 
 dead because you can't run away from it. Also the game alot of different and realistic weapons. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goallie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 1:49 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is the latest in the long running series of Tom Clancy FPS games. As the title 
 of the game suggests, you spend the majority of your time situated in Sin city, Las Vegas, though 
 you will also spend time in Mexico, which is where the game actually begins. While in Mexico, you 
 receive a message that Vegas is under attack, for a unknown reason, you and your squad of two men 
 are taken there to control, and stop the terrorism situation. During your rather short time in 
 Mexico before receiving this message, you do not see much variety of setting; you are in a shanty 
 town of sorts, which looks nice, as it should. However while in Vegas, you will see a vast variety 
 of environments, which range from, Casinos, to five star restaurants, to a water damn, all of which 
 look spectacular, and make you feel like you are really there. The story itself is somewhat lacking, 
 it really doesnt draw you in, the plot lacks depth, and for most of the game, you basically dont 
 know a lot of whats going on, other than Vegas being under attack. The story does begin to expand 
 slightly near the end of the game, but ends very abruptly and leaves you frustrated and wanting 
 to know more. Graphically the game is undoubtedly nice looking, the unreal engine is put to fine 
 use in it, while the graphics are nothing ground breaking, or outstanding, everything looks how 
 it should, has nice textures and just feels right. The animations are much like the graphics, as 
 in they are very nice, everything looks realistic, and it includes some very nice, while small 
 details, such as power lines over head bouncing up if you throw a grenade near. Sound wise, the 
 game is also solid, youll often hear the Tangos having their own conversations as you sneak up 
 on them, some of which are even humorous, not only do you hear the Tangos speak, as you are coming 
 up on them before a fire fight, but during the fight youll often hear lines such as Cover me! 
 F*ck you man! while this isnt needed, it adds a little bit, and gives a good laugh once in awhile. 
 With all that being said, the area of Rainbow Six Vegas that really shines is the multi-player, 
 its phenomenal. Possibly the best of the 360 to date, you have a wide variety of maps, as well 
 as your standard match modes. The lag is normally a non-factor though at times it does rear its 
 ugly head. If you find the right group while playing, it can be an absolute blast, youll find 
 matches of all types though, some that are intensely strategic, while others, seem to resemble 
 a halo style of play. Overall, if you like the First Person shooter genre, you owe it to yourself 
 to play Rainbow Six Vegas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackfire210
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 12:02 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  This game is a masterpiece when it comes to gameplay, completely flawless. At first it comes off 
 as another run and gun, but then you realize there's no jump, and you can take cover, and BAM it's 
 now a tactical shooter. The single player campaign is expansive and entertaining, very cinematic-esque. 
 The multiplayer though is what sets the bar, I've put tons of hours into it and I can only imagine 
 myself putting more. Lemme start with the ranking system. There's 17 ranks in Vegas and you rank 
 up by experience you gain in online matches you play. Each new rank you obtain you unlock more 
 content for your online character (i. e. armor, clothing, camouflage, helmets, etc.) , they are often 
 for cosmetics but they make you look like a bad ass. ;D There's many game modes to choose from, 
 Survival, Team Survival, Sharpshooter, Team Sharpshooter, Retrieval, Co-op Terrorist Hunt, as well 
 as four new modes, Attack &amp; Defend, Co-op Campaign, Assassination, and Conquest. Survival is 
 a last man standing form of deathmatch, you live to the end, and you're a winner. :P Team survival 
 is the same thing but it's the last team standing. Sharpshooter which is classic deathmatch. Team 
 sharpshooter obviously team deathmatch, Retrieval which is more or less capture the flag, you obtain 
 a canister somewhere in the map and deposit it into a toilet (that's what I've always called it 
 lol) . Co-op terrorist hunt is my favorite game mode, you and up to 3 other people are pitted against 
 a horde of terrorists (really mercenaries, but whatever) and your goal is to wipe out every single 
 one, no respawns either. Co-op Campaign is pretty obvious, play through the campaign with other 
 people, sort of detracts from the cinematic gameplay. Assassination is much like the VIP game mode 
 we all know and love, one lucky guy is a VIP (looks like Dr. Phil lol) and his team are out to extract 
 him to safety, the opposing team is obviously trying to kill him, the VIP ends up with a pistol 
 and body armor. Conquest is practically the game mode from Day of Defeat, there are several locations 
 on the map that you are trying to take over, whoever gets all of them at once wins. The thing in 
 multiplayer I'd like to mention is the ability to add your own face in the game, in the 360 version, 
 if you have the Xbox Live Vision camera, you take a shot of your face, and a profile shot, and 
 the game formats it to the ingame face. It works pretty well, I've gotten some other people in 
 too (Hitler, Bush, Clinton, all came out awesome lol) . So all in all, multiplayer seals the deal 
 with Rainbow Six, making it well worth it's time and the ranking system is a great way to keep 
 people playing.
  
  Graphics:
  Unreal Engine 3, we're all familiar with it. It makes good use of effects, such as metal, wet surfaces, 
 water, leather, they all look stunning. They could have made this game in a higher resolution though, 
 in 1080p it looks a little lacking as there are some aliasing problems and the textures look a 
 little blurry and lackluster. The textures in general though are pretty great, the environment 
 is what really sets this game, the atmosphere is great, shooting a guy in the face between some 
 slot machines never looked nicer. ;D You'd expect them to put a little more effort in the weapon 
 skins but in my opinion those are the most lacking, they often look boring, drab, and just gray. 
 Not much detail at all in them really, but it's acceptable as some weapons do look significantly 
 nicer than others.
  
  Sound:
  To be honest there isn't much to talk about here. It; s in Vegas so naturally I'm hearing slot machines 
 explode and casino music 3/4 of the time. It gets a little repetitive and often bores you after 
 hearing the same thing on loop for too long. The gun sounds are a little underwhelming, too much 
 pizazz and not enough BAM if you know what I'm saying, the reloads are clicky, the shoots are loud, 
 not much to say. CSS sounds are a bit better than these I'd say.
  
  Value:
  I'm sad to mention I blabbed about everything that's supposed to go here in the gameplay section. 
 Multiplayer WILL keep you playing for a bit, the ranks are good motivation to keep getting better. 
 There's different game modes to try, a LOT of maps to play them on and always different people 
 to play with.
  
  Last words:
  Like many people often say, gameplay &gt; graphics. Not to be taken the wrong way though, this 
 game still looks great, just needs to catch up with its gameplay.
  
  Pros:
  -Good decent length single player
  -GREAT multiplayer
  -Balanced ranking system
  -Unreal 
 Engine 3, duh ;D
  -Has a little variety, it doesn't all take place in Sin City. ;D
  
  Cons:
  -Team stacking in multiplayer
  -The same maps are often played online
  -Will get kicked 
 often, best you play with friends
  -Story seems to drag on near the end
  -God awful frustrating moments
  -People who exploit online
  
  Good game, buy it. If you already 
 have a 360 and don't own this you're an idiot. ;D Highly recommended for PC, PS3. DO NOT EVER TOUCH 
 THE PSP VERSION FOR YOUR LIFE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hogowagh
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  So lets get this stated you are in a spacial group caled rinboe six ( Like they coulde not make 
 a more originule name ) there alot of wepons. I think this game rocks but evry game has screw ups 
 game is to short way tooooo short some times some parts are hard you wolde have to do them like 
 20 times game ending to be coninue graet ha. So sholde you buy this game yes you shoulde. I just 
 hope next one is going to be beter and longer dont get me wrong this game is grate super but it 
 faild me you know what just go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soufan123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  This Game has Great Visuals As Far as Graphics go and great FPS fun. First of all the single-player 
 campaign has very good length and great storyline. It actully makes you feel like your in Vegas 
 fighting off these Terrorists that just wont go away. The multi-player is filled with awesome fun 
 and great people. Your also set with a great amount of customization with your online character. 
 As you play Online games your Rank begins to climb giving you a show of skill. While your progressing 
 through the ranks you can upgrade you character giving him better armour, better weapon and overall, 
 a better appearance. Also if you have a friend over or your little brother keeps bothering you, 
 plug in your other controller and play co-op or terrorist hunt in split screen mode. In the End, 
 this game came out to be amazing in most aspects and a great tactical shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigb89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 4:12 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas changes the series with multiple new features, such as a new health system where 
 the player regenerates health while not taking fire. However, the regeneration is slow in comparison 
 to other games; if the player does not move to cover quickly enough, one or two more bullets will 
 lead to death. The player's vision is also greatly impaired while damaged, similar to the health 
 system in Gears of War. Furthermore, a third-person view has been included for moments where players 
 can blind-fire around corners to lay down suppression or covering fire. Other changes include a 
 larger enemy presence and much tougher artificial intelligence, a shift in focus to where kills 
 will be much harder to obtain, a reincarnated aiming system similar to the aiming system of the 
 old Rainbow Six games and Call of Duty 3, a context-sensitive D-pad based command system for the 
 player's squad and sections of gameplay where the player will scale buildings and cause environmental 
 damage. This command system was borrowed from another Ubisoft game, Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter. 
 The player can also give voice commands using the Xbox 360 headset, but team-mates are no longer 
 audible through the headset.
  
  The developers have also opted to not include any cutscenes, instead telling the story through 
 video feeds played through the heads-up display, similar to Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter. Most 
 important was the developers' decision to remove the mission planning feature. Also, Vegas is the 
 first Rainbow Six game where weapons can be obtained from dead enemies.
  
  Rainbow Six: Vegas features real world weapons (over 40 in all) , including numerous assault rifles, 
 submachine guns, pistols and grenades, as well as other tactical explosives and devices, such as 
 breaching charges and C4.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  The multiplayer modes have gained a lot of praise for the same tactical action as the single player 
 mode whilst adding some improvements. These include customizable characters (Xbox Live Vision Camera 
 owners can digimask their face onto their character) , the ability to choose equipment and add items 
 such as laser-sights to weapons and to choose the armor's camouflage scheme. As the player progresses 
 through online play, his/her character gains experience points after every match, and rises in 
 rank. There are ten enlisted ranks and seven officer ranks. All together there are seventeen total 
 ranks. When players rise in rank, they will unlock new equipment and weapons, intended to offer 
 more options for customization without putting novice players at a disadvantage. There are currently 
 ten multiplayer game modes; Survival, Team Survival, Sharpshooter, Team Sharpshooter, Retrieval, 
 Co-op Terrorist Hunt, as well as four new modes, Attack &amp; Defend, Co-op Campaign, Assassination, 
 and Conquest. Multiplayer mode supports up to sixteen players, when Dedicated Server is selected 
 during the match creation process, the host can sacrifice his ability to play and dedicate his 
 connection fully to the other players to improve overall connection performance and reduce lag 
 issues. With the use of the Dedicated Server option, up to sixteen players can compete in one match, 
 excluding the hosts presence. Hosting a match on a Dedicated Server with all sixteen players also 
 unlocks an achievement called Master of Ceremonies for the game. Each mode can also be customized, 
 by changing options such as the number of respawns each player gets and restricting certain equipment 
 and weapons.
  
  Plot
  
  The player begins the game as newly appointed Rainbow team leader Logan Keller, with two squadmates, 
 Gabriel Nowak and Kan Akahashi, on a mission in a Mexican border town in the year 2010. Joanna 
 Torres, Rainbow's intelligence officer, briefs them on their mission; their objective is to arrest 
 Irena Morales, a terrorist ringleader. As the team reaches its landing zone in a helicopter, Logan 
 fast-ropes down first, but the helicopter and the rest of the team is forced to retreat as a rocket-propelled 
 grenade barely misses them.
  
  Separated from his squad, Logan fights his way through the terrorist-infested streets and meets 
 up with Gabriel and Kan at an old Spanish church, their alternate landing zone. After infiltrating 
 a train yard and freeing a group of hostages, Rainbow eventually makes their way to a mine where 
 Irena is hiding. After eliminating Irena's guards, they attempt to arrest her; however, Irena triggers 
 a set of hidden explosives, caving in the roof and burying Logan under a pile of rubble. Gabriel 
 and Kan are overwhelmed and captured by terrorist reinforcements.
  
  As Logan regains consciousness, he finds his weapons and goggles missing. Alone, and armed only 
 with a pistol at first, Logan fights his way through an abandoned factory, eventually escaping 
 with Jo in Rainbow's helicopter. Logan never finds Gabriel or Kan.
  
  Domingo Chavez has a conversation with the new team leader about the incident, instructing him 
 to handle a new crisis in Las Vegas. Logan objects, insisting that he search for his lost squad 
 mates instead; Chavez, however, surmises that the Las Vegas incident and Irena's activity may be 
 too closely related to be a simple coincidence.
  
  Upon reaching Las Vegas, Logan is taken outside of the terrorist-controlled Calypso Casino where 
 he meets with his new team: Michael Walters, a British demolitions expert specializing in heavy 
 weapons, and Jung Park, a Korean Reconnaissance and electronics expert. The team infiltrates the 
 Calypso Casino, clearing out the terrorists and rescuing a group of hostages from being executed 
 on camera. Once they clear out the Casino, they must rescue Doctor Philipp Smythe, a NATO weapons 
 researcher. After a brief gun battle, Rainbow extracts with Doctor Smythe, who tells waiting FBI 
 agents that another weapons researcher, Dr. Williams, has also been captured. Rainbow takes on 
 the case.
  
  Rainbow is taken to the Red Lotus, a Chinese restaurant, in order to rescue reporter Trish Gracy, 
 who was held hostage after an interview went wrong. Once the team clears out the restaurant and 
 rescues Trish, she informs them that the terrorists are using a news van as a communications hub. 
 Rainbow makes their way down Fremont Street and eventually reaches the van. Jung hacks into the 
 system while Logan and Michael fend off a wave of attacking terrorists. Afterwards, Michael places 
 a demolition charge on the van, destroying the hub. The team is then extracted via helicopter and 
 taken to rescue Dr. Williams.
  
  Rainbow is dropped on the Vertigo Spire, a luxury hotel along the likes of the Stratosphere. The 
 team finds and rescues Dr. Williams from the terrorists, and he informs the team of two bombs, 
 one which destroys the top floors of a building across the way, and the other a micro-pulse bomb 
 that was placed in the Vertigo, which Michael disarms after the team searches a few floors down 
 from where Dr. Williams was rescued. Rainbow is then extracted to locate Gabriel and Kan.
  
  The team is dispatched to Dantes Casino, still under construction, and clears the roof. During 
 this roof clearing, a bell in the tower falls, causing tremendous damage and a fire in the lower 
 floors. In Dante's Arcade, the team finds and frees Gabriel, who is extracted despite his insistence 
 that he fights alongside the squad. While searching the construction area, Rainbow finds Kan engaged 
 in a firefight, who is fatally shot in an attempt to warn the team about an ambush before the team 
 can reach him. Dying, Kan reveals that the attack in Las Vegas is a distraction, and Irena's terrorists 
 are planning a far bigger attack.
  
  The team proceeds to the theater to hack a terrorist server. Irena's target is revealed to be the 
 Nevada Dam (very similar to the Hoover Dam) , a hydroelectric dam on the Colorado River. Rainbow 
 then heads to the roof and extracts.
  
  Rainbow descends onto a bridge in front of the dam where an officer informs Logan of the terrorists' 
 bomb on the bridge in the tourist center. The team makes their way to the second story of the bridge 
 where Michael defuses the bomb with three seconds remaining. They then fast-rope via safety cables 
 to the bottom of the dam and enter the dam to save a hostage who informs them that the dam will 
 buckle under the pressure of the lake. He tells them that they can relieve the pressure by using 
 an emergency release valve. Once the dam pressure crisis is resolved, the team proceeds further 
 into the dam and finds that it is a weapons research lab, where Doctors Smythe and Williams inform 
 the team the terrorists have a micro-pulse missile on top of the dam.
  
  Logan presses forward, confronting Irena Morales herself and shooting her in the chest, fatally 
 wounding her. With her last breath, Irena taunts Logan; while she may die, her partner will continue 
 the fight against Rainbow. Finally, the team heads to the top of the dam and plant a charge on 
 the missile to detonate it in mid-air, without triggering the micro-pulse payload.
  
  Logan receives a transmission from Gabriel, who tells him that he is Irena's mole. Furious, Logan 
 rushes to the chopper to see Jo and Brody Lukin, the pilot, kicked out of the helicopter, Brody 
 unconscious. The team must protect Jo and Brody from a small group of terrorists.
  
  As Logan, Michael and Jung rush to their fallen comrades, Gabriel attempts to escape with an enemy 
 pilot. Logan can let this happen or he can fire a few shots at the helicopter, which eventually 
 causes it to crash. Logan explains the situation, and the team is sent out to find the organization 
 behind Irena's and Gabriel's terrorist attacks. When the mission completes, the words To Be Continued 
 appear on the screen, inferring a sequel. The credits roll while news is broadcasted about the 
 situation. If Logan shot at the helicopter, the news will say that only the body of the pilot was 
 found, implying that Gabriel survived.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas has won numerous awards, including Best First-Person Shooter , Best Xbox 360 
 First-Person Shooter , Best Online Game , and Best Xbox Live Game in IGN's Best of 2006, as well 
 as an Editor's Choice Award from GameSpot. Gaming Target also selected the title as one of 52 Games 
 We will Still Be Playing From 2006 .
  
  The PC version has also received positive reviews. However, some in the PC community have expressed 
 disappointment that the game requires a video card that supports Shader Model 3.0. Many gamers 
 with low-end graphics cards simply cannot play the game. A poll is being taken on the Ubisoft forum 
 to patch, and thus remove, the Shader Model 3.0 requirement. However, it is unlikely this will 
 ever happen, due to the fact that Ubisoft has stated before that the reason they made Vegas SM3-only 
 was that delivering an experience comparable to the one on Xbox 360 would be impossible without 
 an SM3 card. Moreover, a growing concern over lack of further support in form of patches from Ubisoft 
 has resulted in daily discussions on boycotting and legal action.
  
  On March 20, 2007, the North American Support Supervisor announced on the Ubisoft forums that Ubisoft 
 has and will always provide support for this title . He also said, As for the rumors of no further 
 patching, I can confirm that the rumor is false. There is another patch in the works. Unfortunately 
 at this time, we do not have a release date or a fix list. We have been listening and have heard 
 your complaints. All that we ask is that you please continue to be patient. The patch was released 
 on July 19, 2007 and updated the game to version 1.05. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamedude404
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow 6 las vegas a 1st person shooter that mostly takes place in las vegas. You fight terrorists 
 and complete certain tasks. Vegas was a fun and realistic game. Graphics were pretty good and so 
 was the sound. Weapons were fun and realistic. Rappling down helicopters was pretty interesting 
 and smashing through windows was cool too. 2 player mode is great especially. But the bad thing 
 about Vegas as that the shooting and covering gets a little boring and feels repetitive in the 
 end and the story wasnt that great. Dont get me wrong, the game is still pretty good but after 
 awhile it justs gets a little boring. Here are the pros and cons
  
  Pros: Graphics are good, Sound quality is great, lots of weapons, realistic covering and firing, 
 Enemies act realistic, Rappling down from helicopters is pretty cool, 2 player mode is fun
  
  Cons: Story wasnt very good, couldve added a 2 player STORY mode, no real dialogue in cooperative 
 multiplayer, shooting and covering may get boring after awhile 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riddle015
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  Raibow six Vegas is just a really fun game. You are the leader of a three man team trying to stop 
 terrorists in Vegas. First of all this game has such amzing graphics. When you play it, it looks 
 so real and that helps you get in to it. You get a bunch of weapons to choose from, you can choose 
 from machine guns to snipers but I guarantee you that there is gonna be a weapon that suits your 
 gameplay. In the single player you get to control your two men. you can tell them where to go, 
 move to cover, who to attack first, tell them to blow up doors, and breach rooms. there is no way 
 that you can get through the game without using your team. They do a lot of killing in the game 
 but you do as well. thanx to your command system in the game that lets game get tactical. you don't 
 have to be next to your men the whole game you can enter a room from upstairs and tell your men 
 to enter from the bottom. you can enter a room through different doorways so the enemy is trapped. 
 I actually found myself doing a lot of flanking thanx to my men being the center of attention in 
 some parts. Another good thing about the game is the multiplayer you can do co-op story, co-op 
 terrorist hunt, and your regular multiplayer team based games. But I find co-op really fun especially 
 the co-op story mode. it allows up to 4 players and it really allows you to use some teamwork. 
 all in all Rainbow Six Vegas is my favorite game I used to [play Call of Duty 3 but now all i play 
 is rainbow six vegas!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobain112
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  The good:
  .Multiplayer is the best part about it which in some ways is bad but good if you have xbox live.
 
  .Great storyline .Best one so far.
  .New features change your looks.
  The bad:
  .Not a very satsfying ending.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas the 5th in the whole lot....
  Tom Clancey 
 was very succesful making this as the multiplayer was the greatest part about it!
  Campaign is great and it still has the classic terrorist hunt...
  Fight your way through Vegas 
 casino's killing any terrorists that get in your way.
  Use your tactical skills using Frag Grenades smoke grenades and thermo vision to kill your enemies 
 quickly and sufficiently. The graphics are very satisfying and no need to have been better.
  unfortunately there is a rather dissapointing ending which i won't tell you just in case..... I 
 would definitely reccomend you buy this game and play it to shreds! The great thing also is when 
 you've completed campaign and you haven't got xbox live you can use the maps you've done in campaign 
 and put yourself to the test by jumping sttraight into the action in terrorist hunt! Or if you 
 have xbl hunt terrorists with another friend! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halochief_101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  I only play RB6 vegas on realistic it makes the game way more fun. This is another game where you 
 can't get bored with it same with gears. Very fun multi player. The graphics are amazing i like 
 how you duck for cover very realistic. Gameplay is pretty good but the end wasn't so great... It 
 gets really hard when you play realistic i died like alot lol but it's fun. The game really makes 
 you think your in vegas unlike the PSP version was very short with only 5 levels. This is probably 
 the second best shooter out there gears tops it idk about halo 3 though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeonNinja
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  If youre anything like me you probably hate the city of Las Vegas and very rarely do you ever 
 see a game take place in Las Vegas, the last time was in Die Hard Trilogy 2 for the PlayStation, 
 and according to most reviews, that game sucked pretty badly. So when the new Rainbow Six was to 
 take place in Vegas its clear why so many people didnt care, and no, Die Hard Trilogy 2 actually 
 had nothing to do with it. It was in fact the recent Lockdown, which had so many gamers become 
 apathetic towards this once proud series. That all changed on November 20, when Rainbow Six Vegas 
 was released and surprised everyone with its high quality. Rainbow Six Vegas was astounding, having 
 gameplay that many compared to the amazing Gears of War. But this time, gamers couldnt knock the 
 game for being similar to another, because Vegas was released only a week or so after Gears of 
 War. The release of Rainbow Six Vegas marked one hell of a hat trick as well. It all started on 
 Halloween with the release of F. E. A. R., and then came Emergence Day with the arrival of Gears of 
 War, and the final shot fired was Rainbow Six Vegas.
  
  While F. E. A. R. achieved a bit more of a hardcore following due to its frights and cutthroat AI, 
 and Gears of War a mass following due to the fact that it can make your eyes bleed and is one of 
 the most intense shooters ever, Rainbow Six Vegas struck a perfect balance, offering beautiful 
 visuals and deep, tactical combat. In fact, if any one thing cannot be faulted in Rainbow Six Vegas 
 its the combat.
  
  In Vegas you play host to a variety of awesome weapons. This isnt Gears of War or Halo where you 
 can find only one type of assault rifle or one shotgun, on the contrary, youll find from the outset 
 that there are multiple assault rifles, shotguns, sniper rifles, submachine guns, pistols, grenades, 
 and gizmos. Ultimately, every gamer will play with a different preference of weapons, and once 
 you find your favorites youll fly through the game with those weapons. I personally preferred 
 a combination of the 552 Commando and G3KA4 assault rifles.
  
  By the time you learn which weapons are your preference, youll have more than likely learned how 
 to properly play the game as well. When you first start youll quickly realize that Vegas is no 
 cakewalk, and if youre used to playing the likes of Call of Duty youre going to die fast. You 
 can only take a few bullets before kicking the bucket. Fortunately, Ubisoft has included a Halo 
 2-like health system and a fairly stellar cover system. Whether its slabs of concrete or the side 
 of a slot machine, youll find that the level design in Vegas is quite good. The more you play 
 the more youll grow to appreciate the excellent level design, every area is designed to work with 
 how the game is supposed to play, and youll ultimately find that to be one of the best parts of 
 the game. You can always tell your two teammates where to go, or how to fight, or if they should 
 just follow you, and youll find a variety of uses for every type of explosive in the game, from 
 ordering your teammates to frag and clear a room, to tossing the dizzying flashbang.
  
  The game offers two difficulty levels, Normal and Realistic. If you live for tactical shooters 
 then Realistic is the difficulty for you. For the rest of us, Normal is hard enough. Youll find 
 that both difficulty levels, though difficult, are indeed fun. This can be attributed to the enemy 
 AI. They arent as good as whats found in Sierra and Monoliths opus, F. E. A. R., but as a group 
 of terrorists they play out very well. Theyll constantly take cover, give supporting fire for 
 their comrades, and toss grenades your way. Though your AI teammates arent slouches either. If 
 you let them loose in a room, they will follow your orders and clear out that room, or if you prefer 
 to have them follow you and cover you, then theyll do a good job of keeping the enemy off of you. 
 Theyre extremely competent. However, both the enemy and friendly AI occasionally do some stupid 
 things. For one, towards the end of the game, youll find your favorite terrorist buddies love 
 to hang out by explosive barrels. Unfortunately, the explosive barrel rears its ugly head in Vegas. 
 It didnt show up in Gears of War or F. E. A. R., but some bonehead designer thought that it would 
 be cool to have exploding barrels that the terrorists could hide behind. As for your friendly AI, 
 theyre great for the most part, but one time, and I stress this as just that one time, one of 
 them decided to stand up out of his cover and get between my crosshairs as I was firing at an enemy. 
 He died. I had to start over from the last save. Thankfully though, the friendly AI rarely acts 
 so stupidly, and the enemy AI is only given a chance to hang out by explosive barrels near the 
 very end.
  
  The graphics in Vegas are rather nice to look at; the environments in particular are gorgeous. 
 Its as if the game designers knew exactly how Las Vegas would look in the midst of a terrorist 
 attack, with deserted casinos that are still full of life and bombarded cars out in the street. 
 It all feels right. Unfortunately the character models dont look nearly as good as the environments 
 do. Theyre great character models for sure, but Vegas looks hyper-realistic at times while many 
 of the characters just look, rather plain. This same problem is also in F. E. A. R., the character 
 models are extremely plain.
  
  Youll find that a lot of the intensity comes inbetween missions, during the few sections that 
 are in the chopper. It really does feel absolutely intense when the enemy has snipers firing at 
 your chopper, or watching a friendly helicopter explode in front of you and watch it crash land, 
 only to take a rope down. The rope really is awesome, both it and the rappel help add to the intensity. 
 These dont really serve as much of a gameplay element so much as they look freaking cool. Theres 
 nothing like rappelling down the side of a building, breaking in, taking cover and shooting terrorists 
 with your squadmates.
  
  The sound in the game is very good as well, it isnt as deafening as the sound in Halo, nor is 
 the music as epic, but it gets the job done. It does feel rather eerie to walk through a casino 
 with nothing but dead terrorists and the sound of slot machines going out of control. The soundtrack 
 adds a very dramatic edge to the game, and it really helps in adding to the experience.
  
  However, that drama, or the lack thereof, is in fact Vegas biggest weakness. The campaign, though 
 fun, is far too brief, and the overall plot is absolute garbage. The game has no character development 
 at all; you feel nothing for any of the characters. The game tries to get you emotionally attached 
 to whats going on, it tries to throw twists and turns your way, but instead of being those, Oh 
 my gosh moments they end up being Uh OK, whatever moments. It just doesnt work, and if youre 
 into playing shooters for their plots then Rainbow Six Vegas isnt the game for you. The game has 
 one of the worst endings ever, it literally just flashes To Be Continued once you finish the 
 final mission. But the overall campaign was so brief that youd think it would be easy to have 
 added another level or two to finish the plot found in the game.
  
  Vegas, like any good shooter, has multiplayer support, whether its co-op or competitive multiplayer, 
 its here, and its fun. The multiplayer is deep team-based, unless of course, you take part in 
 a deathmatch. But it really shines when youre on an eight-man team, working together, rappelling 
 down buildings, and kicking ass. Unfortunately, the multiplayer is a bit difficult to get into, 
 if youre used to jumping in for a quick shoot-out than Vegas multiplayer isnt for you. However, 
 if youve got time to spare, youll find an immensely rewarding experience for you on Xbox Live.
 
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas is a great game, and if you love shooters than this is the game for you. If you 
 love tactical shooters, than chances are this game is the best reason for you to own an Xbox 360. 
 Unfortunately, Vegas difficulty isnt for everyone. While experienced FPS players such as myself 
 had few problems, this isnt the best game for rookie gunmen. And while the campaign feels absolutely 
 intense, the plot just takes away from it a bit. But all that aside, this is a great shooter, and 
 if those words have you excited then this is a game well worth having in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aroman010
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 24, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Vegas was the first game I purchased for The 360. When faced with a decision to choose between 
 Gears of War and Vegas my deciding factor mearly came down to what I as a gamer like; realism or 
 sci-fi. In amazement, The single player portion of the game was amazing and I must say, unexpected. 
 The story was well written and leaves room for those who have never played a Rainbow Six game before. 
 Anyone who wants a brief run down can read the next paragraph, if not skip this part.
  
  ** While pursuing a known terrorist in Mexico, (What is Tom Clancys obsession with mexico anyway?) 
 the lead character Logan is ambushed and looses his 2 squad members in the process. After narrowly 
 escaping, Vegas is suspiciously taken over. Could it be connected to Mexico? Will Logan get to 
 save his friends? Play the game and find out, I promise the only disappointment you may experience 
 is how the game ends; leaving you in suspense for the sequal. ** Graphics are exactly how they 
 should be for a next-gen system and game. Character models are human and detailed, guns look and 
 sound like the real deal, and enviornments are rich and vibrant with color and texture both inside 
 and outside The Strip . The AI in the game is actually smarter than your average AI. They will 
 not stand around and get shot for to long and you will see them making coordinated attacks to attempt 
 to flank you and your team. Your team is a set of 2 AI controlled squad mates, one gunner and one 
 rifleman. They can be pritty dumb at times but if you keep tabs on them and command them they can 
 be VERY effective. Control is perhaps the most important thing in a game these days and Vegas is 
 right where it should be. Button scheme makes sense and Context sensitive spots to repel and fast 
 rope make the game so much fun and realistic its scarey. One button commands for your squad mates 
 make it quick and easy in pinches to make your squad save your life or dig in in a fire fight. 
 Now for the Multiplayer portion of my review. In comparison to its competition I would have to 
 say Rainbow Six has THE BEST multiplayer to date and I'll tell you why. From the get, you have 
 options to customize your character / avatar to your liking. There is a decent amount of cloths 
 and armor to choose from so the possiblities are fruitful. You also get four templates to set up 
 a default loadout for your weapons (Assault / Recon / Demolition / Sniper) for quick and easy switching 
 between guns. Different game and scenarios to choose from keep the game fresh and entertaining 
 and if you dont feel as competative there is a 4 player coop mode called terrorist hunt which is 
 both challenging and fun depending on how you set it. AI enemies are just surprisingly smarter 
 online. Working to flank you at any given oppertunity so team work is very important in coop. Vegas's 
 multiplayer also has a ranking system that goes by experience and moving up in rank will unlock 
 knew gear for your created charecter as well as new weapons for your load outs. Last but not least 
 for an extra little kick I would highly recommend an Xbox vision camera for your multiplayer experience 
 as well since you have the ability to digitize your face onto your created character. This does 
 affect some of your ability to use certain head and face wear, but then again, why would you want 
 to cover up that pritty face anyway? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScRP192
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 3:28 am PT
Review:  The previous versions of rainbow six to me were adequate but vegas has proven a superb, addictive 
 game as it made its debut to next gen. The graphics are extraordinary, especially being shown off 
 in the sublime nightlife of las vegas. The gameplay has matured which makes you feel as if your 
 really involved. As terrorists take over the casino capital, its your job as logan to travel from 
 mexico to the hoover dam to prevent the threat they cause and of course, not forgetting to fight 
 it out in the world famous strip of vegas, this game will not disappoint, you'll want to play this 
 game to death. A must must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zachbateman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  This is the best R6 game made yet. You can tell they put alot of time in making it because of physics, 
 real guns, sounds, and so on. If your looking for a great tactical shooter then look no further 
 because VEGAS is it! the Co-op is great and online play is top notch, the campaign might not be 
 really long but its still pretty fun. The best quality about this game is the realism. This game 
 alone beats ever other shooter combined in terms of realism. It has an awsome feel to it. Running 
 to the edge of a wall then leaning out to take a quik shot at a tango's head with your PSG1 has 
 never felt so good. The body physics are the best so far. The rappelling is really cool too. Theres 
 not too many bad things to say about this game, so if you havent played it i highly suggest you 
 buy or rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan678
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2007 4:38 am PT
Review:  i have played this game to death! everything about it just shows exactly what the xbox 360 is capable 
 of: brilliant sound, sharp crisp graphics and above all immersive gameplay. the graphics on rainbow 
 six vegas are among the best seen yet on the 360, maybe only (narrowly) beaten by gears of war, 
 but they are both very good visually.
  
  i like the fact that it is a squad based game, but the squad orders are easy to perform, such as 
 just a push of the A button and they will stack up on a door then just press right and they will 
 grenade and clear the room, it is simple, fun and effective.
  
  the story of the game isnt one of those 'ive gotta keep playing to see what happens next' and a 
 lot of the time you wont even care whats happening in the story, but the thing that kept me playing 
 was the fact that its just an amazing game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orakk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 2:23 am PT
Review:  Well, where to start. I know, I could start to tell about the awesome gameplay!
  
  The gameplay in rainbow six vegas is really awesome and specially if you have a friend/brother 
 to play it with. When you complete the single player on normal difficulty then you should try realistic. 
 Thats tough and if its too tough you can play coop with your friend/brother on normal now when 
 rainbow six vegas have a super coop game. It is like single player. You are a team with your friend 
 or who ever and then you complete the game. When you complete on normal you get an achievement 
 and the same with coop realistic mode. Then you can go back and play single player again and then 
 win in realistic mode and get more gamerscore points. Then it have taken around 30 hours of your 
 life easily because you just can't say: I dont fell like playing right now . Well I can't.
  
  So;
  
  Rainbow six vegas is a really good game that almost everyone should take a look 
 at!
  
  Graphics: 10
  Gameplay: 9
  Sound: 9
  Overall: 9.5
  
  -Orakk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pirate-monkey
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far the best game I have ever bought.
  
  It's one of the first games I bought for the 360 and I've clocked the story mode.
  
  Now I 
 am constantly playing the online games in the pursuit of Elite rank!!! I have several friends that 
 have the game and we pretty much all agree that even after finishing the actual game, we can still 
 see a long life span in this game in online matches.
  
  That said, I agree that the story mode ending was a bit lame... One of the previous levels towards 
 the end had a good ending, and should have been left there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainbowsix11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  This is the best xbox360 game out to date, it is the best by far. The other games in this series 
 dont match to this one. The single player is challenging yet lots of fun! (If you are not used 
 to these kind of games rent it cause its not your regular boring fps) AND the multi player is the 
 best multi player out to date its better than any other game. The are like 20 different modes 
 and there are 1000 ways to tweak you guns and The P. E. C feature ( find out what it means go buy 
 it!!!) feature lets you look completely different than any one else. The graphics are simply AMAZING 
 ESPECIALLY IN SINGLE PLAYER. If you have not at least tried this game than you are lame. There 
 are about a 1000 other things I could say about this game but that basically sums it up for ya 
 now go play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven4d8
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  This is a great online shooter, probably one of the best for Xbox 360 right now. i have a really 
 hard time finding good online shooters and this one comes close to my favourite the Socom series 
 for PS2. Although i would definitely go back to one of my old socom games over this game that doesnt 
 mean this game its not good.
  
  The graphics are amazing.
  I love the upgrades and classes upgrades and unlocking all the weapons and armor etc
  Great create 
 customising which a shooter has never had before like this
  Very easy to get really good at. On the downside...
  
  The sniping is terrible and i love to 
 snipe and you cant on this game. the maps arent really that big compared to the maps in the later 
 socom games. the sniping was 100% better in socom. No vehicles, vehiicles with turrets are always 
 fun
  and like nearly every online shooter there seems to be a lot of lag whether its the screening bouncing 
 or not being able to kill anyone...
  
  Overall you must play this game if you are a fan of first person shooters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lathan94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow 6 vegas is a superb game for many reasons. The first reason is it makes you feel like a 
 badass commando. You will be killing alot of terrorists in fast paced long and short ranged combat. 
 The multiplayer is going to keep you playing long after you finish the campaign. You can customize 
 your character in multiplayer also which is awesome. Make sure you get this game if your a fan 
 of tactical shooters or just shooters in general it has amazing moments you wont soon forget!!! 
 Make sure to play co op it can be very funny and enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cybernet995
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 2:23 am PT
Review:  BUY IT BUY IT BUY BUY BUY BUY ULTIPLAYER ROCKS BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY buy buy buy buy 
 buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy buy 
 buy buy buy !) ) ) ) ) ) ) 0 0 00 0 00 0 0 00 00 00 0 00 0 0 0 00 010 10 11001 010101 01 0101001 01 01 
 01 0 1001 0 101 01 01 01 01 01 0 100 101 01 010 101010 0101 01 0 1010 10 1010 0101010 10 1 0101 
 01 10 01 01 01 01 01 01 10 2020200 22020 2001101001 01 01 01 h g1g j1g j1 hjh1 jh1 jh1j hj 1hj1h 
 jh1 j1h j1h jh1 j h1jh1 jh 1jh 1jh 1jh 1jh1 j1h jh1jh1 jh 1jh 1j1h jh1 jh 1j1h jh1 jh 1j1h jh1 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: power4ward
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  This is my favorite game for the 360, and has been since it came out. The story mode is a bit easy 
 and does lack a good ending, but it leaves it open for a 2nd game. The online gaming is fantastic 
 and highly addictive. There are many maps and game modes to choose from, especially when including 
 the 2 map packs that have been released which are free to download. Its a fun skill oriented game 
 that I would personally only have a few small things changed to make it perfect. I dont like to 
 use explosives when playing but thats easy to fix simply by restricting them when hosting a game. 
 The only bad thing is that there are a fair amount of glitches in each map that will aggravate 
 you, and start arguements when people use them, you just have to hope you're in a room where people 
 have enough skill that they won't need them and can play the right way. Other than that, its a 
 fantastic must have game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake4eva_92
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas is, put simply, an amazing game. Of course there's always room for improvement 
 in any game. But in this case, the room for improvement has been compressed so severely this game 
 is near impossible to fault.
  
  During the main story, you play Logan Keller on his first mission as the team leader of the Rainbow 
 Six squadron. The games punishing difficulty may put casual gamers off, even on 'normal', the easiest 
 setting. But eventually you realise that every one of your deaths is down to a mistake on your 
 part. I have nothing against Halo, but if you do what you do in that during this game, you will 
 die... a lot. The game gently pushes you into thinking more tactical than most FPS', using all available 
 cover to your advantage, and of course, directing your team well. The controls are simple, but 
 also feel incredibly natural. The buttons to shoot and use cover and the most accessible, the triggers. 
 Rainbow Six: Vegas has, in my opinion, the best cover system in existence. The left trigger controls 
 the whole system, while standing near a wall or an object, press the trigger and your character 
 will take cover, use the left and right analog sticks to maneuver yourself and the camera, let 
 go of the trigger and your character will leave cover. This blends seamlessly to the action of 
 the game, the game fluidly changes from first person to third person as you cover.
  
  Both single and multiplayer modes have a plethora of weapons and gadgets for your disposal. Ranging 
 from Assault Rifles to Shotguns, and from Frag Grenades to Radar Jammers. All of which have various 
 but useful results.
  The game focuses heavily on teamwork, whether offline or online (more so online) . Taking down enemies 
 is understandably a lot easier when you and other team members are working towards the same goal. 
 During the time I have had this game I've only found myself complaining about something once or 
 twice. The inclusion of a Swat turn would be very beneficial while moving from cover to cover, 
 and a melee attack would help for close quarter combat, using a sniper rifle and being approached 
 from behind by someone with a light machine gun leaves you wishing to be able to smack your opponent 
 over the head with the but of your rifle.
  
  Aside from these minor gripes, Rainbow Six: Vegas is an incredible first person shooter that is 
 easy to pick up by any type of gamer with an open mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chawy24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  This is THE best tactical FPS out there. With great graphics, controls, sound, and gameplay, Rainbow 
 Six Vegas is sure to please any fan of tacticalk shooters. The single player campaign is very well 
 done. Although the endng is a little dry, the single player also features solo or co-op Terrorist 
 Hunt missions which gives it some replay value. The multiplayer is where this game stands out the 
 most. The system Ubisoft created for the multiplay facet is nothing less than exceptional. As you 
 play through multiplayer matches you gain experience based on how you did. There are may ranks 
 in the game, with each providing different weapons, camo, armor, accessories and more. All in all 
 Rainbow Six Vegas is one of the best shooters, and THE best FPS of the year, and any fan of the 
 past Rainbow Six games or tactical shooters should own it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laverdegamer
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  A VERY FUN AND ADDICTIVE GAME. MUST BUY FOR THE 360 AND A MUST PLAY ON LIVE. THE REAL FUN IS ON 
 LIVE. EXCELLENT GAME. ONE OF THE BEST SHOOTERS OUT THERE NOW. GREAT GRAPHICS AND GREAT MULTIPLAYER. 
 I LOVE THE DIFFERENT MODES THAT THEY HAVE. GREAT STORY. AND I LOVE THE FACT THAT ITS IN VEGAS. 
 IF YOU TRUELY ASK ME YOU HAVE TO GET THISGAMES AND IF YOU DO GET IT, IT HAS TO BE FOR THE 360 AND 
 IT IS VERY RECCOMENDED BY ME TO HAVE LIVE ALONG WITH IT. THATS WHEN THE REAL FUN STARTS COMING 
 IN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: USAFA2006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is classic Rainbow Six. From the opening moments in Mexico, to the ending moments near 
 Vegas, the game just feels right. Everything about it brings back that classic Tom Clancy feel.
 
  
  The interface is simple and easy to use, voice commands are pretty well recognized, your AI partners 
 are smart as well as the enemy, most of the sound effects for weapons are absolutely superb, the 
 multiplayer is among the best available on the 360, and it helps to have a good story line to go 
 along. The interface is extremely easy to use, not to mention it actually makes sense! Instead 
 of trying to go through menus upon menus to give commands, or searching for that one command, everything 
 is delegated to a push or push-and-hold system. Pushing does one option, but pushing and holding 
 will give specifics. Voice commands can also get you way more into the game.
  
  Speaking of getting into the game, turn off the lights and turn up the sound. Everything in Vegas 
 is just spectacular. From the slot machines to the helicopter blades to the machine gun in your 
 hands, everything is spot on. Descending from the chopper in the Vegas strip you hear that familiar 
 woosh of the blades. Going around slot machines you hear the music calling you to play, and then 
 going haywire as bullets rip the machines into pieces. And those bullets pumping out of your gun 
 capture every single shot.
  
  The graphics are also what you'd expect on a next-gen console. Frame-rate issues are almost non-existant 
 and everything is clear, especially in HD. However the campaign can be short, though frustrating 
 at points. But the real cake is in the multiplayer.
  
  The rating system is a great one to begin with. Unlike Halo 2, you can't lose levels by playing 
 bad. So you have an off day, you just gain less points, you don't lose any. You play better, you 
 get more points. Either way you'll get points, it just takes awhile to get to what you want depending 
 on how well you play. The ranking system is also pretty fair too, because only the die-hard amazing 
 players will reach the highest ranks in a reasonable amount of time, where as the casual guys tend 
 to remain in the lower ranks.
  
  Matchmaking could be a little crisper, but the gameplay is exactly like the campaign, so there 
 isn't anything different to learn. Its easy to pick up and rediculously fun to play. Not to mention 
 realistic. Stick your head out just enough and POP, you're looking at the spawn screen.
  
  Overall RS: V is a great game for the 360, probably the best FPS Tactical shooter out there right 
 now. The multiplayer more than makes up for the lack of a lengthy campaign, but the campaign will 
 also keep you occupied for awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adams95
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas has an outstanding multiplayer mode which is really the main part of the game 
 that gives it so much replay value. When going into the multiplayer mode for the first time you 
 can choose what your character looks like from head to toe. The game uses a army ranking system 
 so the more you play the more ranks you get through which take longer each time. Every time you 
 get to the next rank you can unlock new content to make your character look cooler and also different 
 armour and new guns. The game has many modes to choose from theres the usual death match and so 
 on all there to play spanning across 20 maps to select from. But if your not into all the competitive 
 matches you can play with your friends in a terrorist hunt or coop story. The multiplayer is in 
 my opinion once you get into ranking up and such is a similar quality to Halos, thats how good 
 it is!
  
  Vegas does have a single player mode to of course which is pretty good overall, the single player 
 overall will probably last the average player 10 hours. The main problem with the campaign is that 
 it can be frustrating since some of the checkpoints are quite far away from each other, this means 
 having to do large chunks over again. The single player doesnt really have that much reply value 
 either but the multiplayer more than makes up for that. The game has excellent graphics more so 
 in the single player, the multiplayer doesnt look as great probably to keep it from lagging. So 
 to sum up Id say this is one of the best shooters on the 360 and I highly recommend this to anyone 
 that likes great multiplayer shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamin261
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  This is a masterpiece of what next generation consoles can achieve. The graphics and the sound 
 are up to date and are of an excellent quality with sound snazzy shooting effects and character 
 animation. The environments and characters are amazingly rendered and the detail of the Rainbow 
 commandos is fantastic.
  There are a few issues with this game. At the start it feels abit like GRAW in the sense that your 
 in a street environment killing soldiers, it's ok if you couldn't get enough of GRAW but annoying 
 if you want something else.
  The default brightness levels are such that you can't see where your going without NV goggles even 
 in a daylight environment.
  The difference from the other Rainbow games is striking, there is no pre-planning or squad choosing 
 but for those who are bored of the planning its a big thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btime
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 14, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Great game. Cutscenes are well placed and the game handles nicely. Story is easy to follow and 
 AI puts up a good fight which causes you to use your teammates more and more. Great graphics, I 
 was at least impressed by the good level or realism, everything looked believable by me and you 
 cant run and gun like other games. Another thing I liked is you heal your AI teammates instead 
 of new ones just rushing in to fill their shoes. I especially like the view, which, being a big 
 socom 1 and 2 fan and thus somewhat set in my ways, I found nicely done. I feel like the view gives 
 you more of a realistic feel when playing because you can see the whole of your body if you want, 
 which sort of replaces some of the senses you have in real life, making it a more realistic feel. 
 Overall, good game, buy it. BTW, multiplayer is awesome as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevernight490
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 14, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  The Rainbow Six series had left me dissapointed throughout its multiple games. But this game changes 
 everything, and my point of view on Rainbow Six. The singleplayer mode is not very fun, only the 
 achievments kept me playing. The ability to command your squad and use them as meat shields did 
 make the campaign easier then expected. However, the storyline cliffhanger ending did leave me 
 wanting more at the end. The singleplayer terrorist hunt mode is fun for a little bit, until you 
 complete the maps. Really not a good singleplayer game, but the multiplayer experience makes it 
 all worth while. The offline multiplayer mode is like singleplayer, boring and can be uninteresting. 
 But online is a whole different story. With the rank system and the ability to customize your character, 
 there is a drive to play. Unlocking weapons and armor as you rank up makes sense and adds more 
 fun to the game. Also, gaining experience from a match even if you lose has made this game's multiplayer 
 a fun experience. Many classic modes and new maps combined give Rainbow Six Vegas an edge in its 
 popularity battle against Gears of War. This game simulates a very realistic world, where a player 
 cannot take much damage before dying and requires him/her to take advantage of cover and teamwork 
 tactics. Flanking, ambushing, and overwhelming are all important strategies to use. Also, some 
 cool tricks like Rappeling and Fast Roping make the game more interesting. The maps are well balanced, 
 with open spaces and confined areas and don't forget multiple paths to take. The maps allow players 
 to manuvear around to get behind an enemy without him knowing. This IS worth the money if you are 
 a fan of Rainbow Six or Tactical FPS. Probably the second best game released for the Xbox 360. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dazer1234
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 14, 2007 3:10 am PT
Review:  this game is amazing the way the i picked it up and now cant stop playin ive had start agiin it 
 was so gd the graphices r amazing the flashbangs look so gd the effect on the p 90 u can see the 
 bullets as u fire leavin the ammo case brillant the storyline is brillant and settin it in vegas 
 was a gd move but the sound of it can drive u mad coz of all the machines makin there nosie ur 
 team mate r really gd they do wot u stay for once but sometimes dont hav the ai to move out of 
 the firein line but as for value its g8 online is brillant and the campaign u can play over and 
 over again the enemy is intelligent for once if they hear sometink they will come out and look 
 for it but would u really come to the door if a shotgun bullets had pounded it lol over brillant 
 u wont see a better game until halo 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: visionedorange
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 13, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas combines stealth elements with modern day shooter elements and the result is 
 a decent, but hard game. If you are the kind of gamer that gets frustrated easily or just wants 
 to play a game for fun, this probably isn't the game for you. The game features 2 difficulties, 
 normal and realisitc (hard) . The games normal difficulty isn't so bad, but a lot of the achievements 
 and such that players try to get out of there games require you to play through the game and terrorist 
 hunts on realistic most of the time. In this difficulty, you'll most likely find yourself getting 
 far into a level, and being charged by an enemy, in which you can't do much, dieing, and having 
 to start from a far back checkpoint. In the terrorist hunt missions, you will have to start back 
 all the way from the beggining. As for the games online multiplayer, its your average online shooter, 
 with familiar game modes such as deathmatch, team deathmatch, and capture the flag style game types. 
 If you enjoy the rainbow six vegas series, you'll probably enjoy this installment in the series, 
 but if your not as big a fan, it would be safe to say you'd probably want to rent the game before 
 buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokizarro
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  this game is amazing, It took me a couple of days to complete it (i was not playing it non stop) 
 however after playing F. E. A. R (which i did not really like) i thought that was the best that the 
 xbox 360 had to offer in the FPS genre, Boy i was WRONG
  
  gameplay: the gameplay plays like Gears of War, however i prefer this just a little bit. You can 
 take cover, hide behind almost everything, throw grenades, heal your team mates if they are dying, 
 use infra-red, night vision, rappling hooks, use tonnes of weapons, climb up and down walls with 
 ropes, use silencers to avoid attention, use smoke grenades to cover you, eye dazzling graphics, 
 very realistic gameplay, and excellent hit detection, Is that enough for you to enjoy a good game? 
 ^_^ lol well what can i say? it's like a mixture of splinter cell and Gears of War except you don't 
 have to be to sneaky or to harsh on the enemies. 10/10
  
  graphics: hmm the eye candy... Excellent, the Unreal engine 3.0 has astounded me once again. The 
 enviroments are beautiful, so is the blood, the water and everything else. What more can i say 
 really about the visuals? they are one of the best i have EVER seen and almost on par with Gears 
 of War. 10/10
  
  (by the way The unreal engine 3.0 is the graphics engine epic games use for their games such as 
 Gears of War and the upcoming Unreal Tournament 3)
  
  sound: the gun sounds are very well done, even when you put the weapons on silent they still have 
 a Very good (but silent) sound. The grenades explosion sounds are realistic, and the music in the 
 game is excellent, the gun sounds are probably also the most realistic i have ever heard. The enemies 
 taunts are quite funny sometimes, Now and then you will hear a terrorist shout im gonna shoot you 
 in the face! in a dweebs voice lol 10/10
  
  replay value: i have not played multiplayer yet because im a kid and can't afford an internet cable 
 for my 360 yet, But i will eventually. Anyway well yeah you can play this game over and over and 
 it does not get boring because there are so many things to keep you busy, i only named a few in 
 the gameplay section! so yeah i also give this a 10/10
  
  Overall: give this game a shot no matter what games you like. And if you do like this then look 
 out for Unreal Tournament 3 and Halo 3. So thats my review really. I hope you agree and like this 
 game, I know i did. I may go and play it now ^_^ thanks for reading everyone!
  
  lokizarro ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Allex007
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 12, 2007 6:22 am PT
Review:  Well I can say that that i was very excited about this game when it was released back in november 
 because of its killer graphics, cool cover system (similar to gears) and multiplayer. Being a big 
 fan of the Rainbow Six series (haven't read the book but that's another story) i could say that 
 this is the best one ever made... Ubisoft did a good job making this game for shooter fans and a 
 like. One of the things I didn't like about the games is that it's short... kinda short but the multiplayer 
 makes up for it. You can play the campagin with 3 other players on Xbox Live, you cand play with 
 15 other players in modes like Team Sharposhooter, Survival and many more. I also liked that i makes 
 you fell like your a real commando, doing master assault and recon  
 cover fire, you have high-tech gadgets like the snake cam so you can your assault. Also the enviroments 
 you go are absolutely fenomenal, you get to see the great interior of the casinos, you see slot machines 
 roulette tables.. all that kinda stuff.
  This game is a must have for all shooter fans!!! Seriousely go and buy it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: COMBATER202
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 11, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun and makes you feel like your really in the game. The guns to choose from 
 are all real and the sounds and looks of them are very close to real. This game is fun to tell 
 your friends orders and kick open doors to bombard a room. You can talk strategic elements and 
 find a way to get to the next objective safely. If you own an Xbox 360 and are looking for a very 
 good fps to play by yourself or even more enjoying, with a friend, go pick up Tom Clancy's Rainbow 
 Six Vegas. It is definitely the best rainbow six there is and one of the best fps' I've personally 
 every played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalhead164
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 11, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Vegas is the new installment to the original game lockdown. This FPS is absoulutly fantastic and 
 is really addictive on and offline. This new addition to the series is way more impressive than 
 the others, like in this one you can acually fight in a casino other than just warehouses and deppresing 
 locations. This game definetly has more color and value than the others.
  
  The most impressive thing about this game hands down is the multiplayer. What is great is there 
 is a variety off different online playing options. And you can customize your character and which 
 is really uber awesome. The sound is also very great, you'll get nice Las Vegas casino music when 
 you are killing terrorists. The graphics are more stunning than the game itself, and that's saying 
 something. If you just got a 360 dont try this game right away it is very very challenging even 
 on easy mode. The covering system is great and in my opinion better than Gears because when you 
 blindfire you dont get your arm shot off!!! Listen if you are not an FPS fan try this game because 
 if this doesnt make you like FPS' nothing else will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NatchoKing
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  RB6 VEGAS implements some of the best gameplay to ever grace the genre of an FPS. With fluid battles 
 with terroists managing to run at a perfect frame rate almost 99% of the time. You get to control 
 your 2 team matese flawlessly, but they arent your average dumbitted sidekicks. They will take 
 cover and usaully lay down a good base of fire for you to flank the enemy. Through each mission 
 you can pick up new weapons. customize them an so on, making sure that you never feel like youre 
 firing the same gun through ever scenario.
  
  Multiplayer:
  I would personally say this is the best multiplayer to ever come out on the 360, let alone any 
 other platform. Its just so much fun! I prefer to play RB6 VEGAS online rather than Gears Of War. 
 Through mission you play you will gain points for kills and team wins, which unlock cool equipment 
 to help customize youre charachter as youre rank progresses. As of yet i havent experienced any 
 glitches with the server and surely hope so for the future.
  
  Overall:
  This is oneof my favourite games on the 360 and is a must buy for anyone looking for an amazing 
 FPS too add to their collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobinca
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 10, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  the first rainbow six game was one off the best , but as for the most sequels the good worse , 
 so i was very happy to see that this one was great in all categories, i can make a summary of all 
 the good things but that would take to long, i just write the bad things this is over a lot quicker. 
 as for the gameplay sometimes you got position yourself against a wall but then you can't look 
 left or right, it happens not very often but if it does it's annoying and as for the gear change 
 it took to long sometimes, there is no quick change or i must have mist it (didn't read the manual, 
 but overall the gameplay was good to very good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insanepyro6
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is a very solid game that will pleasure shooting fans. My opinion is high for 
 this game, but some people disagree.
  
  The main problem is surprisingly, there multiplayer.
  
  Pros-
  
  -Not much lag unless someone 
 has a terrible connection
  -Great maps and game modes
  -Supports up to 16 people
  -Addictive ranking and achievments section
  
  Cons-
  
  -WAY too many glitches
  -Many 
 ways for players to get more points, but ruin the game for others.
  -Sound isn't too good.
  
  In Multiplayer, you can do many different game modes. You can kill terrorists just for fun, 
 play a sharpshooter match, or even play the campaign over Xbox Live. (One of the first XB360 games 
 to give that option) This game, in my opinion, has the best multiplayer of almost any game ive 
 ever played. I think the only game that is upcoming that will top it's multiplayer is COD4 or GTA4. 
 (And assassins creed if it ends up doing Xbox live)
  
  The campaign is also good, but is more fun with a friend at your house to tear up Calypso Casino 
 with you. I can't give a strong opinion of it, as i haven't finished it yet.
  
  In general, this game is pretty much awesome if you come with fair, fun loving players. It's not 
 as fun when they glitch.
  
  My opinion is don't waste money going to blockbuster and renting it. Just buy it. It's worth $60. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russianlegion3
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 8, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  For those of you who play FPS' on a regular basis, this game is the right game for you. Although 
 the graphics could have been a tad bit better, the customization has soo many options, that you 
 can create the right guy (or girl) for you. It also supports the xbox live vision, in which you 
 can take a picture of your face and put it on your player. At first when you play the multiplayer 
 portion of the game, it is quite hard, since there aren't so many newbies as there were before. 
 The game might be very hard, but as you get into it, it starts getting really fun. There are also 
 clans that you can join or create, but it's really not a clan, it's a 3-letter/digit code that 
 is placed in front of your gamertag (like the halo 3 beta) . This game has A LOT of glitches in the 
 game, which is not even right, more than any game ever. Each map has atleast 2 glitches. But aside 
 from that, the maps are great, and you have to be quite tactical about the situation. It's not 
 a run and gun FPS like halo or Call of Duty. This game involves quite a bit of thinking, and going 
 Rambo is not going to help you or your teammates. Also there is a ranking system in the game, where 
 every time you rank up, you get something special, like camo's, guns, and armor. The single player 
 part of the game plays a little differently than the multiplayer. It has a lot more variety and 
 is very fun to play, althought the ending was quite a dissapointment, it was still fun to play 
 through the single player. If you don't have xbox live, I wouldn't recommend buying this game, 
 it is quite pointless to buy it then. This game is very ambitious, just like any other Tom Clancy 
 game and I would recommend this game to anyone who likes a little bit of strategy involved with 
 their FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Insert_Clip
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 7, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  This game does it right. My suggestion is to not even bother with single player, and get with the 
 times and get an xbox live subscription if you do not already have one, because this game truly 
 shines online.
  
  Once you have those hurdles covered, be prepared for one of the best FPS multiplayer setups ever. 
 Not only is the system well designed, making it easy to find games (along with Xbox's already great 
 system for joining/making friends) , it has an element of addiction and depth that other FPS games 
 seem to lack. And this comes depth comes from the character customization to the ranking system, 
 as well as the many gameplay modes and variety of maps the game offers and extra downloadable content 
 offers.
  
  You start out as a private and have to work your way up to Elite , which means going through each 
 rank of (what it looks like to be copied from) the army. To do this you play in any online match 
 and whether win or lose, you gain experience points (more if you/your team wins obviously) and 
 eventually you rank up, filling your experience bar that looks just like any MMORPG or RPG experience 
 bar. As you rank you unlock different camoflague colors and designs, as well as weapons and personal 
 items for your character such as tactical goggles and riot helmets. The ranking up of an RPG coupled 
 with the gameplay of an FPS works wonderfully, and makes the game twice as addictive. The best 
 part is is it doesn't really matter which rank you are, because most of the weapons are already 
 unlocked from square one, and unlike MMORPGS a private is just as powerful as an elite really because, 
 after all, it is all twitch gameplay.
  
  Speaking of which, the gameplay is exciting and builds tension, while promoting a sense of realism 
 in the actions and physics of the characters. While the game has a bit of run and gun feel to it, 
 it is a bit more careful, because of the realistic setting. You'll see as many people just running 
 around shooting their heads off as you'll see people crouch-running from cover to cover, shooting 
 around their cover in concentrated bursts.
  
  The game uses the same sort of cover system that is found in Gears of War, but in my opinion, to 
 a better extent. Instead of Gears having a stick cover system as I call it, where you have to press 
 A and your stuck to the cover until you come out, R6: V has a more dynamic cover system, which is 
 to say the cover system is dictated by holding and releasing the left trigger. If you hold it, 
 you stay in cover. If you let go, you fall out. to look around/over the cover you taking you simply 
 use the left joystick then the right joystick to aim. I find it much more efficient and it provides 
 greater mobility then the GoW system.
  
  The rest of the gameplay and the game content relies around Rainbow Six tradition, with your real-world 
 guns and weapons and terrorist hunt and team adverserial gameplay modes. The terrorists are decently 
 intelligent in this rendition, as they will use the cover system, throw grenades, flank your position, 
 and exhibit unpredictable behavior each time you play. Sometimes they will run at you guns blazing, 
 other times they will wait behind cover and wait until you come and get them.
  
  The animations and physics were extremely well done, as players rappel, breach, lean out from corners 
 and desks, and blind fire around objects. There is a certain sick satisfaction to throwing a grenade 
 and watching bodies, glass, and whatever else is around fly around in destruction.
  
  The graphics use a rendition of the new unreal engine, and exhibit some especially neat lighting 
 effects (shown off in the Streets Redux map from the free downloadable content Black pack) . They 
 aren't Gears of War graphics, but then again it has at least three times as much content then Gears 
 of War.
  
  The sound is solid, with the guns all sounding how they should, and flashbangs, grenades, and other 
 ambient sounds being top notch as well. There is a glitch in the game where (sometimes) the sound 
 of a gun going off will keep recycling for awhile, but usually once the player leaves the area 
 the sound gets more out of range until it disappears.
  
  The value is beyond anything I'd imagine for a console, and it's at the level you'd expect from 
 a PC game with a good community. Between all the player customisibility and different gameplay 
 modes, as well as ubi having already released 2 content packs on the Xbox live marketplace, this 
 game keeps giving even after the 55 bucks.
  
  Bottom line, if you like tactical action that is a cross between counter strike gameplay and old 
 style, tactical rainbow 6 gameplay, with some great online features and a wonderful cover system, 
 then this is your best option for the xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benjo89
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  My initilal statement may perplex you, but it is true: In Rainbow Six: Vegas (RSV) dying is nowhere 
 near as frustrating or likely to make you take your 360/PS3 and use it as a shotput. In fact, dying 
 is half the fun. Firstly, the difficulty in this game is perfect - not too easy that you sail through 
 levels, but not hard enough that you end up losing the will to play.
  Having said that, you will end up finding yourself faced with a slowly reddening screen, but when 
 you do, you find yourself wondering why you died. More often than not, is down to you and your 
 actions; you ran in guns blazing; you didn't check round a corner; you should have found cover; 
 you should have used your team to flank - when you die, you know where you went wrong.
  Restarting from the checkpoints, which there are many, placed after difficult firefights or tenuous 
 situations, you can fix where you went wrong last time. The game does not have the open-ended options 
 of GTA, but many large firefights allow the player to pick their route of assault. A few examples:
 
  Faced with a rising atrium, 4 or 5 stories high, we sat with our backs against a low wall. A gun 
 emplacement raing over our heads, and the tangos on the 3rd floor had the angle on us. So I sent 
 my men to the left pillar to shoot at the right side of the atrium as I picked off those ufortunate 
 enough to be on the left. I regrouped and cjarged for the escalators, diving behind pillars, clearing 
 each floor. With my men in tow and 360 degree arc the baddies had on us, we were soon Swiss Cheesified. 
 So restart, full of excitement that I get to replay this wonderful firefight, just outside the 
 atrium, this time, we stand at the pillars and clear the most we could. This time though, I sent 
 my men over to the far side of the atrium where the maintenence stairway door glimmered lick a 
 helping hand on high. As I loosed a few mags from my 21E, I saw my men pick off a few stragglers 
 covering the stairs before crouching and waiting, firing a few covering shots blindly. I charged 
 for the door and led my men up the stairs. From here, we (very dishonestly) shot the gun emplacement 
 in the back. I ordered my men along the far left pillar as I took to the right. As they lent round 
 to polish off their foes, as well as any on my side that were causing me grief, we met up on the 
 far side again, before racing up the escalators, as the enemy had found the maintenence staircase. 
 Second example: In a bid to recuse a VIP, all three crouched in a corridor somewhere above the 
 target room. The simple way was to head down the escalators and flashbang the room. However, from 
 training missions, you learn this gives the hostage takers enough time to off the hostage. So, 
 I saw a very appealing balcony on which to muse. However, this paradisic retreat that overlooked 
 the beautifully rendered neon soaked strip was the perfect entry to nab the hostage quick enough 
 without having to drag him by the heels, a bullet in his head. So I sent my men to rappel (an brilliant 
 and very useful feature of the games whilst I peered down into the skylight. As the two silently 
 slipped down the side of the building onto the window nearest the hostage, I lined up the closest 
 hostage taker in my fibre optic sights. The calm was broken in line with window as I ordered the 
 two men to smash through and clear the room. Simultaeneously, I dropped my friend and through down 
 a few smoke grenades. Popping on my Thermal goggles, I fast roped into the room, diving being cover 
 and unloaded rounds into anything that glowed red that was in the direction of my comrades. As 
 the smoke cleared and my team cleared up any terrorists playing hide-and-go-gun, I felt a sense 
 of realism that is what a real team of crack spec ops would have done. Perhaps I was a little sad 
 that I hadn't died and wouldn't feasibly have another crack at it., but I was sure that in another 
 few minutes, an equally challenging and thrilling tactical situation will present itself to me. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SBD-LUDI
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  Single player-
  
  The first thing that i like in this game is your in the thick of the action all the time the hole 
 single player game it starts as soon as you drop from the helicopter onto the street and 30 or 
 40 steps later and your under heavy fire and forced to flank your targets. Your forced to do things 
 like fight you way through a casino then a privet lounge several high end buildings explode and 
 well its not exactly a cake walk in the single player game. You fight your way through several 
 seemingly impossible scenarios and let me tell you know when you play them they feel totally impossible 
 and you win half by shear skill and the other half by dumb luck.
  
  Multi player-
  
  The Multi player is where this game really shines though if the single players owns than this part 
 of the game is closer to god like. You start at the rank of privet 2nd class and go all the way 
 up to elite and I've seen those 2 ranks face off and watched the elite mow him down in less that 
 3 seconds then i hit him in the side of the head with a sniper rifle. As you rank up you get new 
 bundles of armor and weapons. You can also customize you character with face masks and hats stuff 
 like that, but if you didn't like any of the original faces you can put your own on your character 
 with Xbox live vision. If you don't like that then well hay plastic surgeons got to eat to.
  
  All in all-
  
  It's a great game and you need to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostblock22
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 2, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  man it s of the chain i like it alot espically the face mapping. the games single player didnt get 
 me it was the multiplayer i like playing with other people it harder than the single player. i 
 have got a couple of freinds to buy the game to that i have met on other games and they like it 
 to. the people arent as bad to new players as they are some games ive played. over all i think 
 its a well rounded game and the community is good as well i think if you like fast pased action 
 squad based games this is for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redzz
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 2, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  This game is fantastic. Everything from the graphics to the gameplay. The learning curve is pretty 
 easy to master. The game flows along very nicely. The storyline is above par for a shooter. Using 
 cover to your advantage is definitly the key to beating this game. Controls are excellent. The 
 use of sound and light is fantastic. That being said, I do have one grip and that is, the ending 
 is so damn difficult it's almost or is impossible to beat. The ending does not match the difficulty 
 of the rest of the game, it's twice as hard. That ruins the game for me. I've tried over a dozen 
 times to complete the ending and nothing seems to work. In the computer area, just prior to killing 
 Eleana, I've protected my guys completely and killed all of the enemies but everytime, even before 
 my guys can start their conversation the game ends by telling me that I failed to kill Eleana. 
 If it were not for the ending this game would be close to perfect but a frustating ending ruins 
 the whole experience. Ninety-five percent of this game is spectacular but the last five percent 
 makes that a moot point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccstrauss94
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  Lets get to the good stuff Rainbow six vegas from all the tom clancy from slpinter cell series 
 to way back in the day by fare this is the game I think thats is the best in the gaming community. 
 This game allows you to do the stuff people always have dreamed of doing on hte multi player action 
 from sharpshooter to co- op toplaying with friendly people in the gaming community. also the Graphics 
 holy crap the most amazin even not onthe plasma or high definition its still great if i was score 
 this gam i would give it a A+ a 10.0 perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wjkflke
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 1, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  when you start the game you look at the amazing graphics and just say this game is okay but not 
 the best. but once you hit vegas thats were all the fun missions come. One thing i love about this 
 game is sound effects. If yo have good speakers then youll realise this is one of the best sounding 
 games ever. Damage is another cool thing. you can deystroy cards blow thie doors of and leave massive 
 bullet marks everywhere. this is a good game for hardcore gamers ecause the missions are hard. 
 even on easy. Online is lots of fun although the only bad thing is you need good internet if you 
 live in places like australia because you get kicked too much. this ha to be one of my favourite 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talisac
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 1, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  First of all if you haven't read Tom Clancy's Rainbow 6, THE BOOK, do it. Just buy it and read 
 it, seriously, it's one of the best books I've ever read, and don't scarred by it's titanic amount 
 of pages lol.
  The game starts in Mexico where you must meet with the rest of Alpha Team (from Rainbow 6: there's 
 Alpha team and Bravo team in the game, so, this is alpha team) , your mission is to save some ilegal 
 immigrants who are being used as slaves by this group, however when you go after the leader of 
 the group an accident happens and you're left for dead while your partners are taken as hostages... 
 Then you come to your senses and manage to escape, etc. I cannot spoil the game.
  Anyway as soon as you board the chopter you get a new mission, you'll be leading Bravo Team in 
 a counter-terrorist mission on Las Vegas, point is it seems to be related to what happened in Mexico. 
 That's how you get to Vegas, what a nice trip heh?
  Okay really, in my opinion, this is the best graphics I've seen so far in any game (that has already 
 been released) . The clothing and the weapons are very high detailed, also, I strongly recommend 
 the player to, after killing an enemy and making sure there're none other around, sniping his face 
 to see the perfection of details, especially the eyes! This game rocks in this aspect.
  The sound is really good as well, if you have 5.1 Surround you'll REALLY enjoy the experience in 
 that you can really tell from where the shots are comming merely from the sound (only problem is 
 you'll probably be in such a mayhem of noise most of times that that won't do you much good lol) . 
 When granades blow near you you go completly deaf for a few seconds, and you'll really feel somehow 
 desorientated with the bang, which is horrible for your gameplay, but adds much value to the game, 
 after all it's realistic, and realism is what we want in this kind of game.
  Gameplay however is a bit tricky when it starts, especially when you don't expect things to be 
 SO real, for instance, when saving hostages you have to be FAST, usually you'll look down the door 
 and hear terrorists making threats, if you wait for the whole speech to end it's probably game 
 over cause they WILL shoot the hostages even though they don't know you're near, what I want to 
 know is, you must decide fast, so pick your priorities really fast, decide the course of action 
 double-check, and GO. Also you must pray that, if you throw a flash-bang in the room or something, 
 the terrorists don't start shooting everywhere, cause when they have hostages that's what they 
 usually do, and that means you have a great deal of losing the civilians...
  There are glitches in the game in terms of graphics, sometimes the game starts and the full rendering 
 doesn't, not a big deal though only happend once or twice.
  The game is way too linear, ok, you CAN choose different ways to reach a place (sometimes) but 
 they just aren't that big to count as non-linear. Also Las Vegas seems... Faker than Vegas is... 
 I mean, I've been to vegas and anyone who has enterered a big cassino knows: you can get lost in 
 there a matter of seconds, and well, they lookl way too obvious in the game, the scenario is beautiful 
 but it looks way too tidy sometimes, too linear, it doesn't make you feel as if you're in a cassino.
 
  AI is a big problem: your team is quite dumb sometimes but the enemis, even though they are hard 
 kills, they become obvious with time. So after you die in that very same spot around 3 times, you'll 
 get to know by heart where the enemies are going to show up and what will be their strategy, cause 
 they hardly ever do anything different, making the game border repetitiveness.
  The damage system is the same from Gears of War, you get shot a lot you die, so, if you get shot 
 and duck right after and wait you'll recover. The recovery however isn't fast and the vision gets 
 VERY blurry when you're hit, sometimes almost pitch black, giving an extra realism to the game, 
 since you do get somewhat hysteric in these moments...
  Also you can expect a lot of tactical commands to be available, such as placing your team at the 
 door and ordering an agressive breach and clear , frag and clear among many others; and that's 
 a BIG extra to the game.
  All in all this game is perfect as a shooter, but when you come to remeber that it's a Tom Clancy 
 game you just can't help but feel that the story is somewhat weak, however all the rest of the 
 realism from Tom Clancy IS there and much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reboundxshooter
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  As soon as you see Tom Clancy in the name of the game you know it will be realistic all the way 
 with an action packed story that usually contains terrorists trying to take over the world. That 
 is really what RSV comes down to but boy has it been revamped along the way. The game now contains 
 brilliant squad commands where with a click of a button or two you can set up an assault. There 
 is now a P. E. C (persistent elite creation) engine in the game which lets you create your own unique 
 soldier (you can also use the live vision camera to put your own face on your soldier) this is 
 only available when you go on-line with the game. The idea is you rank up and with it you gain 
 more customizable options such as weapons and armour but you will have to put a hell of allot of 
 time in to reach the top rank elite which requires around 675,000 points of exp I believe, to put 
 that in perspective you get around 1200 points for every win and 300-400 for every loss. 9.0 GREAT 
 GAME NOT FOR THE GEARS OF WAR ADDICTS WHO IN MY OPINION WILL GO BACK TO IT AFTER A WHILE OF ON-LINE 
 PLAY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FPSunionOWNS
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 31, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  this game has a great story mode with a lot of new things to do with your squad like tagging using 
 cover puting them to assault of infiltrate. The story mode doesnt so much get boring as it just 
 is hard and gives more of a frustrating feeling. Thats when you go to terrorist hunt. Terrorist 
 hunt has a lot of options enemy difficulty normal or realistic enemy density as in how many terrorists 
 and you choose your map character and equipment. The guns in the game are all customizable making 
 never a dull weapon. The ai is very good too. They are attracted to noise movement and grenades. 
 its not like any game when it comes to how long it takes to kill someone. A shot to the knee makes 
 them scream. A shot to the head drops them like that , And a shot to the stomach will probably 
 kill them. The blodd looks very real to. its dark and stains on carpets but it bright on walls. 
 The multiplayer is amazing. You can make your own guy dress him give him armor and you can even 
 give him your face. there is an expierience bar that gives your guy a rank and each rank up unlocks 
 weapons armor and clothing. Overall you can play this game till a new system comes out that makes 
 this game pointless to play but untill that happens this game has years of replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: praetorian565
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 31, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I've been a big fan of the rainbow six series for awhile. The classic games were innovative, tactical, 
 challenging to a degree, and fun.. This game is a major let down for a host of reasons.
  
  Graphics: Gorgeous, great looking textures, sharp characters and guns. This is the games only redeeming 
 quality.
  
  Gameplay: Drab. The single player campaign is uninteresting and the AI is inconsistent. At times 
 the AI can walk straight into your line of fire, other times they can single-shot you with a shotgun 
 and 400ft away. Realistic level is extremely frustrating, and even at normal difficulty you can 
 die in unexpectedly in a second which can lead to hair-pulling moments. Although the tactical controls 
 are simple, there should be more commands so that it would be possible to pull of better tactical 
 assaults. Sound: Basic Gunfire, the soundtrack isn't that amazing.
  
  Overall: In the end this game is mediocre, its a standard FPS with some frustrating elements. Stick 
 with more refined games, this one will give you nothing but sadness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 21espn
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode 
 and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good 
 ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in 
 story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this 
 has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the 
 game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicksI beat the game in story mode and tresthunt 
 this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat 
 the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt 
 this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat 
 the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt 
 this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks!! I beat 
 the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in stoI beat the game 
 in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt 
 this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat 
 the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt 
 this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat 
 the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt 
 this has good ghavicks! ry mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story I 
 beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode 
 and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good 
 ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in 
 story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this 
 has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the 
 game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I 
 beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode 
 and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode andI beat the game in story 
 mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has 
 good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game 
 in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the gI beat the game in story mode and 
 tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I 
 beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode 
 and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beI beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good 
 ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in 
 story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this 
 has goodI beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story 
 mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has 
 good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game 
 in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt 
 this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat 
 the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! ghavicks! I beat the game in story 
 mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has 
 good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game 
 in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! at the game in story mode and tresthunt this 
 has good ghavicks! I I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the 
 game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt 
 this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat 
 the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt 
 this hasI beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story 
 mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has 
 good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game 
 in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt 
 this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat 
 the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! good ghavicks! I beat the game in story 
 mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has 
 good ghavicks! beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game 
 in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game iI beat theI beat the game in 
 story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this 
 has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the 
 game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt 
 this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat 
 the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt 
 this has good ghavicks! game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game 
 in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt 
 this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat 
 the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt 
 this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat 
 the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! n story mode and tresthunt this has 
 good ghavicks! ame in story mode and tresthI beat the game in story mode and trI beat the game in 
 story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this 
 has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the 
 game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt 
 this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat 
 the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt 
 this has good ghavicks! esthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt 
 this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat 
 the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode aI beat 
 the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt 
 this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat 
 the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt 
 this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat 
 the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt 
 this has good ghavicks! nd tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt 
 this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat 
 the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! unt this has good ghavicks! I beat the 
 game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt 
 this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! tresthunt 
 this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat 
 the game in story mode anI beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat 
 the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt 
 this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat 
 the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt 
 this has good ghavicks! I beat the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! I beat 
 the game in story mode and tresthunt this has good ghavicks! d tresthunt this has good ghavicks! hi 
 bye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nymets819
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  One of the best games for the 360. A must buy for your xbox!!! One of the best games for the 360. 
 A must buy for your xbox!!! One of the best games for the 360. A must buy for your xbox!!! One of 
 the best games for the 360. A must buy for your xbox!!! One of the best games for the 360. A must 
 buy for your xbox!!! One of the best games for the 360. A must buy for your xbox!!! One of the best 
 games for the 360. A must buy for your xbox!!! One of the best games for the 360. A must buy for 
 your xbox!!! One of the best games for the 360. A must buy for your xbox!!! One of the best games 
 for the 360. A must buy for your xbox!!! One of the best games for the 360. A must buy for your 
 xbox!!! One of the best games for the 360. A must buy for your xbox!!! One of the best games for 
 the 360. A must buy for your xbox!!! One of the best games for the 360. A must buy for your xbox!!! One 
 of the best games for the 360. A must buy for your xbox!!! One of the best games for the 360. A 
 must buy for your xbox!!! One of the best games for the 360. A must buy for your xbox!!! One of the 
 best games for the 360. A must buy for your xbox!!! One of the best games for the 360. A must buy 
 for your xbox!!! One of the best games for the 360. A must buy for your xbox!!! One of the best games 
 for the 360. A must buy for your xbox!!! One of the best games for the 360. A must buy for your 
 xbox!!! One of the best games for the 360. A must buy for your xbox!!! One of the best games for 
 the 360. A must buy for your xbox!!! One of the best games for the 360. A must buy for your xbox!!! One 
 of the best games for the 360. A must buy for your xbox!!! One of the best games for the 360. A 
 must buy for your xbox!!! One of the best games for the 360. A must buy for your xbox!!! One of the 
 best games for the 360. A must buy for your xbox!!! One of the best games for the 360. A must buy 
 for your xbox!!! One of the best games for the 360. A must buy for your xbox!!! One of the best games 
 for the 360. A must buy for your xbox!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LaBrendant
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 28, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is an awesome game. There I said it. It's true. And no one can say that isn't 
 a great game.
  
  In Rainbow Six, the story is fairly good, but has some standard story elements. The ending isn't 
 as good as I had hoped it would be, but that doesn't detract from the beauty of this game. The 
 real shining star in Rainbow Six is the multi player. Using a military-style ranking system, players 
 can raise their ranks by completing matches like, Attack &amp; Defend, Team Sharpshooter, Survival, 
 Co-op Terrorist Hunt, and many more. Players can customize their armor and clothing, changing the 
 colors and basing their armor choices upon mobility and protection stats. While playing Rainbow 
 Six, you'll notice that there are a lot of guns. There are so many, that you'll want to try them 
 all out. The graphics in Rainbow Six, are very good, but could be a tad bit better. On the other 
 hand, I play on a standard definition television, and everything still looks amazing in this game. 
 The sound in this game isn't one of it's highlights, but while playing the story or terrorist hunts, 
 you can listen to the comical responses and conversations of the terrorists.
  
  In the end, Rainbow Six Vegas is one game that NEEDS to be in your library of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigonthewing
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 27, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  I picked this up a couple weeks ago and I must say i wasn't all that impressed with the single 
 player. It was solid but not quite my style. I would have given the value score a 5 or 6 if it 
 was just single player. BUT and this is a big one. The multi-player in this game is hands down 
 the best I have seen in a long time. Its been an extremely long time since i have enjoyed a good 
 multi-player game. Tribes was the last one i truly enjoyed. That was about 10 years ago.
  
  At first its a bit troublesome playing since your getting ripped apart but i found there to be 
 many players who were helpful. I had the exact opposite in Gears where i found it mainly consisted 
 of very immature people.
  
  The game play setups in multi-player are great, not just the versus type modes like attack and 
 defend but you can also do terrorist hunt with other players which is a good way of adjusting to 
 the xbox live system and gathering some people to add to your friends list if your new to it such 
 as myself.
  
  Also i love how there are ranks, it sort of lets you judge other peoples skill by their rank, though 
 this is just a basic assessment not a true rating of their skill since its very possible a new 
 player can pick it up fast and start destroying players that have been playing for months.
  
  The ranking system also lets you use new equipment, most of which is just to change your look. 
 They don't really get any real tactical advantages from rank. Its mainly for show like being able 
 to wear some cool glasses.
  
  But really it the community which sets this game apart. Sure you have your bad apples but on a 
 whole its a much more welcoming community than most.
  
  The only quibble i have with the game is the sound gets distorted or far to quiet where it shouldn't, 
 its possible its my sound system but i have never had the problem with other games so i have to 
 dock it there, but its not really annoying or game breaking just something that could have been 
 more polished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angryfodder
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 26, 2007 2:35 am PT
Review:  First off the single player. Not the longest single player content, but lots of replay value. The 
 game is very flexible and finds the good middle ground combining stealth and action. Great controls 
 that make you feel totally incontrol as you blast, take cover, rapel, fast rope and snake cam your 
 way through the levels. Your team mates are easy to control and more importantly they know what 
 they are doing. They will take cover and pretty much look after themselves most of the time.
  
  The online element of the game works really well and is without a doubt the best online shooter 
 I have played. You can kit your guy (or gal) out in a wide range of clothes, body amour and accessories. 
 The more you play, the more you rank and the more you unlock.
  
  A truely great game that I can't put down 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dodgydellboy
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 23, 2007 2:06 am PT
Review:  this game has got the be the besr online muliplayer game that microsoft has made for this machine, 
 you can have hours of fun with all the different games you can play, you never get bord of it. 
 It is the one game for the 360 i would tell anyone to buy, once youve completed the campaign the 
 fun dont end there cos you can join the online community. Also, just as think you have played everything 
 the game has, they go and make more maps and more game modes which keeps you happier for a lot 
 longer. The newer the maps, the beter the graphics, the harder the game the longer you player, 
 bring on the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 50centsteelers
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2007 10:45 pm PT
Review:  I just beat the single player campaign and here are my thoughts on the game...
  
  Gameplay -- the gameplay in the game is great. The blurred vision on the screen when you are shot 
 adds a nice effect. This game makes you have a good strategy and a good gun if you want to beat 
 it.
  
  Graphics -- this is the hard part. Although I want to, I cannot give the graphics higher than an 
 8. WHEN they are at their best they would get a ten but they take a while to load online and there 
 are problems when changing light environments or starting a mission. If you have patience, the 
 graphics are very amazing.
  
  Sound -- realistic sound from all directions. Good explosion sounds, ringing, radio transmissions 
 all very realistic.
  
  Value -- long, challenging story, great variety in multiplayer especially terrorist hunt which is 
 really cool.
  
  Tilt -- I really liked this game so I will give it a nine which is very amazing in my scoring system. 
 Rainbow Six Vegas truly is an elite game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofan1314
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  The Rainbow Six series has always been one to impress with a different setting and storyline each 
 time and with that the gamplay changes also. How? It gets better! The game's Multi-player brings 
 some new modes and many of them can be fun over and over and others just plain old boring. A new 
 one (not downloadable one) is Attack &amp; Defend, which pits players in two different team. One will 
 go ge the Intel or Disarm the bomb while the other defends for the time limit. Another fun mode 
 is Retrival (not downloable) which, if you've ever played Single-Flag Capture is similar to that. There's 
 a biohazard briefcase placed in the middle of the Multi-player Arena and you'll have to walk up 
 to it collect and bring it to the other teams base. The only way to get a point, besides killing, is 
 by putting the briefcase in a machine at the other teams base which takes about 5 seconds of holding 
 down the A Button to process it in the machine. The best feature to hit the series is the Rank-Up 
 system which lets you go from Private Second Class to Private First Class in a matter of matches. Once 
 you play a match you'll get XP win or lose, which helps you Rank-Up.
  
  The Graphics make Vegas come to life. From the underground tunnels realistic dirt to the lite-up 
 signs of Las Vegas's clubs everything comes to life in this game. The guns are captured very well 
 looking better than any other games. With the fully-customizable player creation system you can 
 make your character look like a wanna-be Rainbow Squad to Pro Rainbow Squad Member (ONLINE ONLY)
 
  
  The Sound is great also. The shots of the guns come to life with every shot soon enough the game 
 will sound like a real shoot-out.
  
  The Value of this game is high because it's one of the only good FPS's on the Xbox 360 and to me 
 is the best in the series so far. So if you liked Perfect Dark Zero or The Darkness (both FPS's set 
 in different times) then get this game because it's somehwhat better.
  
  That's why I give Rainbow Six: Vegas for the Xbox 360 9.6 shot-up slot machines out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Magical_Donuts
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 20, 2007 11:44 pm PT
Review:  gameplay- The game has a good variety of weapons.... lots of custimation the guns... very many 
 choices... The new cover system fits the game really well... the single player is spot on ... and 
 the multiplayer is even better
  
  Graphics- While the game looks good... It also looks kind of muddy or bland in spots... and youll 
 notice that the single player looks a lot better then multiplayer. but the graphics are solid
 
  
  sound- This is the weakest part of the game... The sound of the weapons dont really sound that 
 good .... i mean there just ok
  
  value- With a great single player.... Co op mode... Terrorist hunt and multiplayer ..... theres 
 plenty to do
  
  titl- overall this game comes out to be one kick ass tatical games... if your into this type of 
 game... get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViVaLaMaTT
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 22, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Well first off before this game, I have to say, all the Rainbow Six games we're horrible and overrated, 
 lol. Just look at my R63: BA Review. But this game gives the franchise a new look on life. EVERYTHING 
 is improved. Everything almost has to be, the other games were garbage.
  O. k. well this time i'm going to to this 'Bullet Style' I guess.
  
  &gt; Graphics Definitely 
 next gen. A lot of different colors and great looking characters guns and environments... even at 
 a distance.
  
  &gt; Sound I do have to admit the sound in this game can really glitch a lot and it's pretty annoying, 
 this is caused by lag, but can happen to anyones connection! This is only multiplayer though.
 
  
  &gt; Gameplay This game has the same style of play of other R6 games but a few added elements that 
 make the game renown. Like the cover 'maneuver'.
  
  &gt; Single player This campaign has a very diverse level presentation, with the basic objectives 
 you would expect in a Modern FPS. The single players shows off the games graphics and power too. 
 Plus, it's pretty fun and has an interesting story.
  
  &gt; Multiplayer This makes the game. Unlike the horrible lag and glitches in the other games, this 
 one is the opposite. (The game still has glitches, but the ones in the other games were sooo cheap 
 and sooo terrible) This game can lag like its job but if thats mostly if your connection is realll 
 bad. Any good connection can host an alright to great game. The ranking system stretches out the 
 multiplayer with a lot of ranks that take a lot of playing to get to. The online co-op is a great 
 addition and time waster too. There are some balancing issues but you can ban the weapons you want. 
 My conclusion is buy this game, your missing out on a great shooter with a lot of replay value. 
 One last thing. I put the learning curve to 4 or more hours because anyone can learn how to play 
 this game in like 1 hour but if you want to actually be half decent online, you need 4 or more 
 hours 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G-Ivanski
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 20, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Best in the series by far no doubt..... This game, however, doesnt appeal you as much, but once 
 you get to learn how to get used to the controls and what not, you'll have a lot of fun... The graphics 
 for this game is amazing! Cobra 7285: Best in the series by far no doubt..... This game, however, 
 doesnt appeal you as much, but once you get to learn how to get used to the controls and what not, 
 you'll have a lot of fun...
  
  The graphics for this game is amazing! You really get that Vegas feel for it and its really fun 
 that America's playground becomes America's battleground... a lot of places to go for cover and 
 you wont notice all your enemies all quick like most FPS... there's nothing more fun than to go 
 to Fremont Street, look around, then rescue a man's family from terror and shoot all the terrorists 
 up.
  
  Only thing I cant do is play online since I dont have xbox live but Im pretty sure its going to 
 be even more fun online.... you cant go wrong playing it co-op with a friend... thats if he/she isnt 
 stubborn enough to learn how to play the game hahaha... go ahead and give this game a rent/buy... but 
 you have to take a lot of time and cover on this game, dont expect it to be a run up to them and 
 kill them easily... noooo, this is meant to be realistic and you cant be a super hero when there 
 are terrorists in the building. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lyte_spede
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 25, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  I have always enjoyed the rainbow six games, and this one is no exception. The addition of the 
 cover system is nice, the game makes use of squad commands like previous games, and the multiplayer 
 is great. There are some quirks that annoy me though. The graphics looks nice sometimes. The thing 
 that makes the game look nice seems to be the dynamic lighting and various other visual effects. 
 The game doesn't make use of the current generations technologies to really make the game visuals 
 pop. The first few levels look like an xbox 1 game. There are a good amount of reflective surfaces 
 in the game yet they don't reflect any moving objects/characters or light like from gun muzzles 
 or grenades. The detail on about every character is not high at all. Graphics don't really make 
 the game, but come on, they could have tried harder.
  
  The addition of the cover system is nice and makes sense. You and your enemies constantly use cover, 
 the game really stresses the use of the cover system into gameplay. It does feel weird taking cover 
 at first, as you need to hold the left trigger to stay in cover, and be at the edge of whatever 
 object you are covering behind and then hold a direction to lean out and fire. When you take cover, 
 it switches to third person to allow better vision of your location and others. This makes me wish 
 the whole game was in 3rd person, like Graw. Your squadmates don't seem to care much about taking 
 cover, and the best you can do to keep them from standing in a hail of bullets is call them to 
 regroup on you or tell them to move to a location. Making them move to cover doesn't usually help 
 much, as most areas for taking cover only accommodate one person, so you end up with one guy standing 
 behind a wall with the other standing next to him getting shot. Good thing your squad mates are 
 pretty good shots. When you switch your weapon, your squadmates always do too. This makes little 
 sense to me as if you are switching weapons it is usually to make up for range or firing type (for 
 example, switching from a sniper rifle to a submachine gun to take out enemies at closer range) . 
 So if you want your team to use their long range guns, you do also, which can be a drag when trying 
 to tactically advance on your enemies from multiple locations. Also the quick switch for your weapons 
 is far from quick. I have died many times because I was rushed or flanked and emptied my clip on 
 the enemies and then was forced to reload. If you are reloading, you cannot change weapons, so 
 if you catch yourself before you reload, you have to deal with the 2 second wait time to switch 
 your weapon. How tactical. Tapping the y button switches between your main firearms, you have to 
 hold y and scroll to select your pistol or switch grenade types. Controlling your squad can be 
 cumbersome. As I stated before telling them to take cover doesn't work well. When you tell them 
 to stack on a door, if it is a double door, you can't get them to take both doors, they stack akwardly 
 on one door. when they are stacked at a location, be it a door or repelling area, the game has 
 you give further command through the directional pad. An area on your hud shows the command corresponding 
 to the direction on the directional pad, or at least it shows you a little icon. The game never 
 teaches you what the icons mean, and even after reading the manual I was giving incorrect orders. 
 There have been times when I sent my squad to their death because I didn't know what the little 
 lightning bolt command was. Words would have worked MUCH better than the picture icons. The available 
 commands change when you change between infiltrate and assault. The command menus work kind of 
 clunky. Oh, and you can't outfit your team. Who knows what weapons they will be using!
  
  The single player levels are pretty uninspired. You've got your generic kill the terrorists storyline 
 and a bunch of characters you never really care for. The maps are pretty linear, offering at most 
 2-3 ways of advancing, and these only come as different doors to a room to advance on your enemies 
 from 2 sides. Thats how every level plays out, you fight a bunch of terrorists, go through some 
 halls, use your snake cam, and figure out who goes through what door. If you are prompted to hack 
 a computer or disarm a bomb, you are usually informed that there are tangos moving up on. How come 
 they never see these guys coming till seconds before they are shooting at you? I want a better 
 eye in the sky!
  
  The multiplayer is much more appealing than the single player game, on any mode. Even on co-op, 
 since human players seem to take cover and react accordingly. Not my favorite rainbow six game, 
 but still one of the better tactical shooters around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbrittain39
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2007 11:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best shooters I have played in a while, right up there with gears of war 
 besides the obvious differences in gameplay that you have to employ. The graphics are excellent 
 and the AI works really well. all in all I enjoy this game a lot. One thing that I have a problem 
 with is with the single player story, its kind of boring and isnt very intresting. Multiplayer 
 is excellent, it is very well done and doesnt have to many things you can complain about. So all 
 in all this game is very well done and offers many our of gameplay online that is usually challenging. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: admiralvaughton
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 19, 2007 11:06 pm PT
Review:  This game was my first 360 game and it was incredible, the graphics are great and runs rock solid 
 in all but the worst situations (everyone throws incendiary grenades at once in the same room) , 
 there is nothing like having slot machines spill coins while glass is breaking, terrorist yelling, 
 machine guns blazing, and all at a consistent fps. Terrorist hunt is fun and there are a huge variety 
 of levels, u can even be pretty damn stealthy at times too. The multiplayer is where it shines 
 though, lots of people and good connections with well made maps and weapons balance. There is also 
 nothing like making your character look like anything from a hard-core spec-ops dude to a pink 
 little hippy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 19, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  The Rainbow Six series started off exciting, original and fresh... then Ubisoft started to port 
 the series over to consoles and began to get lazy with creativity. I was pretty skeptical about 
 the title at first, but after first popping it in I realized it was awesome. The single player 
 is pretty long, definitely worth playing through... but the magic is online. tons of game modes 
 and maps that will keep you playing for months at least... you can use the vision cam to put your 
 face on your character... tons of equipment to unlock and use. Best 360 shooter.... period. .
  Pros
  + Incredible visuals/audio
  + Single player is engaging, works well with co-op online
 
  + Multiplayer is great, A+++ maps (plus free ones from MP) , ranking system
  + Tons of modes and awesome gameplay
  .
  Cons
  - Hit detection sometimes seems a bit off
 
  - Cant join in mid of online match 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTSCOTT14
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  I'm a hardcore gamer and this game is one of the best i've played in a good while. the single player 
 is tough on normal and even tougher on realistic and the multi-player is funner than halo 2. it 
 has a great cover system that beats the cover used in gears of war all you have to do is just pull 
 the left trigger close to cover and you will use it. the multi-player aspect has a create your 
 own character and if you have a xbox live vision cam then you could put your face your characters 
 body.
  over all this game is one of the best out for the xbox 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKim89
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 12:06 am PT
Review:  Unlike other shooters, such as Halo and Gears of War, Rainbow Six Vegas pits you in the modern-day 
 world, shooting down naughty terrorists and the like. Vegas is your turf, and you gotta defend 
 it.
  
  Gameplay:
  Since this is a tactical shooter, you can't just barge in a room, yelling at the top of your lungs, 
 unless you're a ridiculously good shot. You have a competent team at your disposal, letting you 
 enter a room by fragging everything inside, or flashing (not mooning) and taking down your stunned 
 enemies. It's also important to note that unlike other shooters, your enemies can go down in just 
 2 or 3 bullets. This applies to your own character as well. As much as we want Logan Keller to 
 be the next Master Chief, he just cannot tolerate frag grenades and hundreds of bullets sprayed 
 at him and still survive. Also, there are tons of cool moves you can utilize, such as inverted 
 rappelling and shooting badguys upside-down. You can use the snake cam, which is quite similar 
 to Sam Fisher's dandy little tool. You also have the option of totally customizing your weapon 
 inventory before jumping into battle. Your weapons range from small pistols to deadly sniper rifles. 
 Unfortunately, there are no rocket launchers.
  
  Graphics:
  Quite impressive. Of course, there are some flaws, but they don't take away the essential fun of 
 the game. All your enemies look the same, but if you can ignore that, then you'll have a blast 
 playing this game.
  
  Sound:
  The background music is nice, but can get pretty repetitive at times. The battle sounds are pretty 
 realistic (actually I wouldn't know, since I've never fired a gun) , but it is safe to assume that 
 the sounds of bullets flying and striking hard objects is pretty good. However, your enemies tend 
 to have the same voice, and can yell the same thing over and over. You will also realize that your 
 enemies will say the f word...... a lot. I mean a lot. So, this isn't exactly the right game to 
 play with your little brother or sister.
  
  Value:
  The single player campaign takes about 7 hours on normal difficulty, and probably 10 hours on realistic. 
 However, if you don't have access to Xbox Live or any multiplayer event, then this game might not 
 last long for you.
  
  Hope you enjoy this game as much as I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BalefulSpartan
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  I started out wanting to be BLOWN AWAY . . . Which at first I was the graphics, gameplay, animations, 
 story, it just seemed to all fit. Later the game got interesting, but then kind of started dragging 
 on. Then when I got to the end it was a little upsetting, Kind of like HALO 2, it quiet frankly 
 said {SEQUEL}
  
  to be continued . . .
  
  What? I've been a Rainbow Six fan FOREVER these ARE my FAVORITE games, and Ubisoft Really got this 
 one right. A mix of all the great things from Splinter Cell, Ghost Recon, and Previous Rainbow 
 Games this one packs some amazing gameplay. I hope to see better visuals, and more freedom and 
 weapons in the next installment.
  
   LINE :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
 
  Great Game, If you are into this kind of game this is a MUST OWN.
  
  FINAL SCORE ::::: 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whyme122
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 16, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Vegas is the best tactical shooter for the 360. The graphics are breathtaking and its very realistic. 
 The gameplay is jam packed with non-stop action but with a tactical twist. Through most of the 
 game you are solo but at points your team will join up with you. The best part about Vegas is the 
 fact that there is multiple online gametypes. Although the online is basically all tactical and 
 you die alot it is the funnest part of the game no matter if you play tactically or just run in 
 and hope for the best. No matter how you play Vegas is a game that everyone can adapt to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickyiscool
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 15, 2007 10:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best FPS games ive ever played its just so amazing the online play is great 
 the graphics are awesome and the gameplay is just amazing this is a must buy to all fans of tom 
 clancy or rainbow six or even gamers that like fps this game will just blow you away its just so 
 great it makes me just play through over and over and the new unlockables like maps and things 
 like that just make things better a MUST-BUY!! its just my opinon but this game is one of the games 
 that when your bored just pick it u and play it. its just one of those games i cant put down just 
 try it out for yourselfs its just amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnerkidd
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 15, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  I LOVE PLAYING THIS GAME. (Don't worry my caps lock is fine.) I have played this game for endless 
 hours online with my friends and loved every second of action. I am generally a sniper and this 
 game is perfect for it. the graphics may not be the best but game play more than makes up for it. 
 I love S. W. A. T. and counter terrorism games the squad based action is just fantastic. this game 
 incorporates everything you want in an fps, guns (check) , teams (check) grenades (check) , slow 
 moving sniper targets (BIG CHECK) . this is a great game to yell at your friends on and have a great 
 time. I loved being able to save my friends lives over and over again. I will give this one a 9.7 
 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgt_holt5
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  The Rainbow Six series invented the tactical shooting genre. Rainbow Six: Vegas just reinvented 
 it. Vegas introduces an entirely new Rainbow Team, with Ding Chavez as Rainbow Six. You play as 
 Logan Keller, newly appointed team leader on his first operation with that position. With him are 
 two Teams. Team One is comprised of Gabriel Nowak and Kan Akahashi. Team Two is made up of Michael 
 Walter and Jung Park. The game unfolds in three areas; Mexico, Vegas, and the Nevada Dam. The story 
 telling is more like that of one of Tom Clancys books, which creates a more dramatic story. Online 
 play is amazingly fun and replaces Gears of War as the Xbox 360s top online shooter. With unlockable 
 weapons and armor this game is a gem for online fans.
  
  The graphics in Rainbow Six: Vegas are absolutely breath taking. Character models look so real 
 that youll forget youre playing a video game. The settings are incredibly detailed with amazing 
 light effects and textures. Guns are meticulously designed and detailed, and look 100% like their 
 real-life counterparts. Adding to this is the vehicles models, which are top grade and actually 
 depict real Dodge vehicles. If you think Mexico is stunning, wait until you arrive in Vegas.
  
  The Team Command menu is extremely streamline and intuitive. Move orders are effortlessly given 
 with a tap of the A button. Breach orders are just as easily given with a tap of one of the Directional 
 Pad buttons. A change in the rules of engagement is as simple as a tap of the Left Bumper button. 
 One of the coolest additions is the Tag order. With the crosshairs on an enemy, the tap of the 
 Back button will make that enemy a priority target for your team.
  
  After the debut of Lockdown, people wondered if the Rainbow Six series had lost as tactical gameplay. 
 Well, whatever tactical gameplay it lost, it regained it two fold in Vegas. With the new Snake 
 Cam from the Splinter Cell series, you can Tag terrorists for takedown, making room breaching 
 as tactical as ever. In addition, the ability to rappel and invert rappel down buildings has created 
 a more tactical experience, making you feel like an actual Special Forces member.
  
  Couple the new Team Command system and the Tag order, with the most advanced AI to date and you 
 have Rainbow Six: Vegas. Your team is amazingly smart. If smoke is in their way, theyll use thermal 
 goggles to see through it. If its dark, theyll activate night vision goggles. Often times, your 
 team will execute shots that would test your skills. And your enemy is just as smart. Theyll effectively 
 use cover and squad tactics to fight you.
  
  Speaking of cover, did I mention the new Cover System? Similar to Gears of War, Vegas gas a Cover 
 System that enhances tactical gameplay, with the ability to provide your team cover fire with blind 
 fire. If you dont want to blind fire, then you can pop out and take down your enemy. Not only 
 can you use the cover system but so can your team and your enemy.
  
  And to kill your enemy, youve got a lethal arsenal. From Sub-Machine Guns to Pistols, its all 
 here. And whats more, you can mod the heck out of your weapons. You can choose between things 
 like extended clips, laser sights, scopes, and other things to aid you in battle. Silencers are 
 carried by default, so that you dont have to use up a mod slot for it.
  
  In the sound department, Vegas creates an amazing audio experience. From the sound of a baby crying 
 in the slums of Mexico to the death rattle of a fallen terrorist, its all here in pristine condition. 
 And dont forget the guns. From the crack of an M8 Assault Rifle to the Pop of an Mk .23 Pistol, 
 each gun has its own individual and unique sound. Overall, Rainbow Six: Vegas is amazing. The series 
 that invented tactical shooting managed to reinvent it. Vegas also breathes new life into an already 
 superb series. Rainbow Six: Vegas is now the tactical shooter to beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360wishlist
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome! Im currently trying to figure out if this is the best game on the 360. The 
 graphics are amazing. It seems like you are in the beautiful hotels of Las Vegas and the Strip 
 during this game. The action is intense, and your teammates are awesome and fufill all of the orders 
 you give them properly. The game is also satisfingly difficult. This game has also a fun online 
 multiplayer. I must say this game has it all it is simply magnificent. This version of Rainbow 
 Six is by far the best in the series so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AllH3llbroklose
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutley great. The single-player mode is very fun and can be replayed over again. 
 Terrorist hunt mode is very pleasing to all game owners who do not own xbox live, and the split 
 screen co-op is great. As for the live component itself, it is very pleasing and straight fun if 
 your asking me. One of the things that bugs me though is that most online co-op consists of the 
 map LVU campus and a bunch of players who just want to increase their rank. Dont get me wrong though, 
 the co-op is absolutley amazing online and requires teamwork to succede in missions. Its just that 
 many games consist of people trying to rank up and glitching while playing co-op, just so that 
 they can boost their rank (and trust me people, we shouldnt just be playing LVU campus all damn 
 day just to increase rank)
  The team sharpshooter mode is a complete blast, and you'll be experiencing plenty of action while 
 playing other game modes away from the co-op side.
  
  The only thing that nags me about the game is that the story mode is a little scratcy and that 
 many xbl co-op games consist of people just trying to rank up and glitch. As far as everything 
 else goes, you will be experiencing many hours of gameplay both online, and offline.
  
  9.0 Superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Neptune
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 12, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  Check out FEAR if you are into first person shooters, its certainly worth a few play throughs.
 
  Graphics are awesome, with rich detailed environments both in the desert missions and the casino 
 missions. The gameplay works smoothly, but it is a lot more tactical than run and gun shooters. 
 If you aren't behind cover, you will die. It's as simple as that, especially on Realistic difficulty.
 
  The story is pretty long, checking in about 10 to 15 hours. If you have Xbox Live its certainly 
 worth checking out the online. Co-Op is also great fun if thats your sort of thing.
  The best thing about the game is the verity of level design. You will fight your way through casinos, 
 streets, hotels, restaurants and even things like train yards and mines in the early missions in 
 Mexico.
  It is because of this that the game has such high replay value. I have played through the game 
 twice now and really enjoyed it each time.
  The end is a bit of a letdown, but the words To be continued come up - so there is hope yet for 
 the story.
  I can't wait to see what happens next in the series. Check out this game, its certainly worth your 
 time if you are interested in the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtaman003
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 11, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  This is easily a 9 out of 10 in rating, the game is just purely great. It's the best Xbox Live 
 game out there right now in my opinion. The only reason I dont't give it a perfect 10 is because 
 the storyline isn't as good as it should be and the game has its glitches. I just bought the game 
 and I'm already hooked, instant classic for not only the Xbox 360 but for all of Microsoft. It 
 easily reaches my top games of all time. Just go online and look for me, B Unit 000, I will most 
 likely be on. Hell, I am right now as I'm writing this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallOfReach
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Everytime I step into a casino, I always think of this game and how I would react if I saw someone 
 walk in with a machine gun. I hope the guys in this game would be there to help me and all of the 
 innocent bystanders. The AI in this game is very good. When you're on a harder difficulty, expect 
 to be killed in 2 or 3 shots, so don't just stick your head out. The graphics and gameplay are 
 amazing and I can't wait for the next one in the series to come out. I'll be playing this until 
 then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amirsafar
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Right, I'll break it up into sections:
  
  1) Single Player Story- The single player story is great. I love how they really make you emotionally 
 attached to the characters. It is short, so be warned.. Also theres 2 difficulty setting, normal 
 and realistic, i completed it on normal, and i was stuck on one bit for almost a year, then got 
 a bit further, got stuck and said to myself that its pointless. This is VERY hard.
  
  2) Multiplayer- I have not spent long on the multiplayer. I feel that it it is quite slow and too 
 tactical for my liking. Also if you have a low rank your bound to get kicked, But the customization 
 is quite cool
  
  3) Graphics- Brilliant. Nice textures etc. I still think that Gears of War has better graphics
 
  
  4) Sound- The sound the bullet makes is very cool. Makes it a little more realistic. The music 
 in the game is also great and adds to the intensity and tension of the game
  
  5) Gameplay- I think the controls are goodt. The game plays out very nicely. Everything is fluid 
 and I have encountered no glitches what so ever so far. 
  
  Overall, this is a buy but check the bargain bin seeing as no one will be playing online, get it 
 cheap, or just rent it. Overall score, 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devil_1994
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 8, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  take cover is the name of the game you have to take cover or you will die in 2 or 3 shots you get 
 control of your team you are logan . in the first stage you have gabriel and an old man with ya 
 after mexico when irena morales the terroist bombs the place then ur team is lost and you are uncosious 
 when u wake you gotta go to the extraction point where there is the girl which gives you info all 
 the game. so your new team jung ji from japan or something i dont actually know the other one is 
 micheal from uk
  so this game is improve much from other rainbow six games it has cover and in cover you can shoot 
 while in cover blindfire and blind throw you can take cover near a door and open it in a cool way 
 now you can rappel go crash through a window,
  improved graphics great vegas desighn makes you feel you are in vegas so you battle out all through 
 the game to reach irena and kill her but there will be a battle between you and here so when u 
 kill her the thing that i like is when tell ur team to put an explosive on the nuclear missile 
 which is going to vegas so when the explosive bombs it will be a big explosion then there will 
 be and old freind i will not tell who so you can find out yourself turns out he/she cant say works 
 with irena then he/she says irena didnt do the job so ill do it then comes an unsatisfying ending 
 which makes you want more of this game.
  so i reccomend it to any1 thanks for your time hope you engoyed my review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bublinec
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 7, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  I have never played a game like rainbow six on the x360 you will spend most of your time online 
 on the co op on and offline. The single player lasts around 6-12 hours thats the ememy ai and squad 
 ai if been fixed no longer will you have to sit and watch as one of your squad runs in a room full 
 of ememy and gets killed.
  
  Another thing about this game that reduces frustation is the abilty to heal your squad mates when 
 they are down and there being no health meter makes this game easier when in a gunfight.
  
  So this game is great and the online is legend this is a must have for any x360 owiners out there! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocheno
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 7, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  Not as exciting as i thought. If only there's the thrill of emptying your magazines at enemies. 
 The AIs are predictable, which makes it easy to take them down. Team mates are too strong, seems 
 like they never get killed, and they kill almost too quickly. Compared to Gears of War, it is seriously 
 lacking in gameplay and replay value.
  
  However, great game concept and fantastic sound effect make up for what's lost. While action is 
 lost, it's interesting to see how the game is played and make gamers really look forward to the 
 next sequel.
  
  Great game, great concept. Just need more action! Kill kill kill! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtStrungOut
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2007 4:51 am PT
Review:  Games made by Ubisoft on an Xbox console usually means you're gonna have fun. Rainbow Six Vegas 
 is no exeption and lives up to the standards set by Ubi's past Pre Lockdown Rainbow titles. After 
 the disappointment that was Lockdown I had doubts on future installments. Critical Hour justified 
 my doubts. Fortunately this title is superb. The gameplay is a cross between Rainbow Six 3 and 
 another Ubi game I love, Brothers In Arms. You can order your comrades to take cover in tactical 
 positions while suppressing the baddies to allow you to flank them from the side or rear. The enemy 
 AI in this game is pretty amazing. They can do practically everything you and your squad does, 
 making it more believable. The audio is amazing. the guns have realistic sounds to them that make 
 you feel like your firing a real gun. The enviroments you explore have their own audio too. Mexico, 
 for example has a radio playing mexican music in the backround which gives it a authentic feel. 
 The graphics on the other hand are slightly a low point compared to the other areas of the game. 
 The charactermodels look great for the rainbow squad, but the civilians, enemies and hostages have 
 a generic, almost N64-ish feel to them. The physics are unrealistic to the point where one terrorist 
 lay dead with his legs around his head after i killed him. Although the graphics aren't amazing 
 ( Good graphics don't make good games but good gameplay does ) I feel this game is a game that 
 must be in every 360 owners library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big-joe-cool
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 8, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is intense. You are thrown into confined spaces with equally armed and in many cases, 
 equally skilled enemies, and it doesn't take much to get killed, even on easy.
  The scenery is excellent and varied. You'll travel from the dusty slums of Mexico, to Vegas streets 
 to bright, loud and huge casinos to the service corridors and boiler rooms beneath them. There 
 is rarely one way to enter a room. This allows for several ways to play: barge in with your team, 
 guns blazing and hope not to get hit, or through tactically beautiful flanking maneuvers and even 
 stealth play.
  The selection of weaponry is excellent. From long-range, JFK killing sniper rifles to short-range, 
 elephant killing shotguns, and plenty of things that go bang to boot. This arsenal again provides 
 for different playing styles.
  The graphics are stunning, both in the brightly-lit casinos and the dank, dark areas. The sound 
 is brilliant for the most part, however the voice acting is often a little too quiet and the lack 
 of an option for subtitles means you often miss out on important plot points.
  
  Virtually whatever you want to see, hear or do in a shooter, Rainbow Six: Vegas has it and more. 
 Buy this game and you will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HicktownMayor
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 6, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great shooter, fun to play (especially with friends) , realistic weapons enemies.
  
  The Bad: Graphics aren't the best when it comes to the bad guys dying, story isn't.... well 
 good, and it's missing something. Plus, it follows Gears of War too closely.
  
  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Vegas to me is a good game worth renting but not buying. If you are a 
 fan of Rainbow Six, then by all means go out and get it! You'll love it, best Rainbow Six ever. 
 I rented it because I like shooters and was interested in it when it got such a high score in Gamespot's 
 reviews. However, I wasn't as impressed as Gamespot was. I found the game, well a bit too like 
 Gears of War without the sparkle of it's competitor. The shootin' styles are the same (duck behind 
 cover... walls, signs, trees, concrete slabs, etc.) except for this one was in 1st person. The 
 game is fun, don't let me discourage you but it's just missing something, a good story, more action, 
 I'm not exactly sure what it is but it's just missing something. The graphics are impressive but 
 except for the bad guys. When you shoot a terroist and walk up to their rottin' corspe it's just 
 not the same like it is on Gears of War. If the game really wanted to impress me they should make 
 the heads of the people move around with the screen. Such as if I look at 2 Player and he/she is 
 movin' their head I ought to see that. Stuff like that is just missing. I don't know maybe I'm 
 picky.
  Now, I haven't played this game online but I have played the split screen co-op and after doin' 
 so I give this game a Ok. 
  
  Final say: If your a fan, go get it! If you have Gears of War, rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mntnbkr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 6, 2007 6:06 am PT
Review:  The Rainbow 6 series, which started back on the PC way back when, has come a long way. The game 
 play has been tweaked, the graphics have been greatly improved and the strategy of before hand 
 planning has been taken out completely. Normally that would leave you with an empty shell of a 
 game but not in this case. With the addition of the cover system the game has taken on a whole 
 new aspect in my opinion. It makes the game look more realistic. Add to that the fact that the 
 player animations (walking ,crouching, lips moving while talking in multi player) have been revamped 
 and the death animations with rag-doll physics have been added and you have one heck of a game. 
 There has been two additions of DLC released for this game so far (Red Pack and Black pack) that 
 have added new multi player maps and some new game play modes as well. If the DLC keeps coming 
 then this game could be around for a while because as of now it isn't hard at all to find a multi 
 player game and this game has been out since December. Definite buy in my opinion even this late 
 in the games life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VIKINGS1600
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 5, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is EASILY the best online multiplayer game for the 360, and it easily ranks with 
 the best of all time. great maps keeps the action fun, and fast. with the cover system, any old 
 box becomes a safe haven in a gun fight. easily some of the best graphics to date on the 360, with 
 loads of great looking guns, unending customizable features for ur online character, weapons are 
 powerful, and grenades are incredebly realistic. this game is truly something special, it just 
 might be the best game ive ever played, and im sure im not alone in this conviction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Nexus3367
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 5, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six is a franchise that has consistently left its mark on the gaming industry. Rainbow Six 
 Vegas seems to add to the list. Set in modern day Las Vegas, the Rainbow team is tasked with stopping 
 a terrorist group from destroying the city. The game starts you off with a training mission in the 
 Mexican border and proceeds to the streets of Vegas. Now, obviously the levels aren't modeled on 
 actual locations because of the issues the city had with the developers. Regardless of that, the 
 level design, while linear, is very well done and the AI makes sure that no one situation plays the 
 same way twice.
  The graphics are very well done, and the character models and environments are very detailed. The 
 game is easy to get into, but mastering the cover system, which is borrowed from games like Kill-switch 
 and Gears of War, is very intuitive and works well with the game. The audio is good, but could use 
 a bit more in terms of the music. The voice acting is decent, and the story is done in the usual 
 Tom Clancy fashion. The on-line is unbelievably fun and full of great multi-player modes such as 
 Sharpshooter (death-match) , Team Sharpshooter (Team DM) , Survival (No Re-spawns) , and Attack &amp; Defend, which 
 speaks for itself. This game is a great step forward for the Rainbow franchise and the on-line will 
 keep you playing for months to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihaveadreamcast
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 5, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Okay, To tell you the truth. I have never really liked the Tom Clancy games. I am not really into 
 stealth based games at all. But for some reason I picked this game up and I actually enjoyed it.. 
 alot. Really nice Graphics capture Las Vegas nicely. The controls were shockingly easy to learn. 
 Enemy AI as well as Friendly AI are really good. And the best part is. It's not all stealth based. 
 And it's First Person. I cannot wait for whats next in the Rainbow Six series. And when it comes 
 out i will most likely get it. And hopefully it's as good as this. I really enjoyed this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoogleDragoon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 5, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  After playing the game for several months (Mainly online) I just finished the Single player campaign 
 and I thought it was time to talk about it. I was a fan of the regular Xbox versions that had came 
 out. Rainbow Six and Rainbow Six: Black arrow are amazing games. I loved them and spent plenty 
 of time taking out people and terrorists. Then lockdown came out, a terrible game in my opinion. 
 So with a version coming out for the X360 I knew I had to get a 360. I'm glad I did. Rainbow six: 
 Vegas is just as good if not better then it's predecessors. The graphics in the game are top notch 
 some of the best I have seen on the 360 yet. The city of Vegas just looks beautiful from the characters, 
 buildings, weapons and level design.
  
  The story is pretty basic nothing that will wow you but the neat thing is that unlike the other 
 games where you are fighting terrorists all over the world you fight them in Vegas. This adds a 
 little flavor the game, a little spice if you will. The city of Sin is in terrible danger from 
 attacks by the evil organization Cobra....
  
  The music and sounds aren't anything to jump up for joy on but at the same time they aren't bad 
 either. The game really shines in all the different type of game modes they are it ranges from 
 Single player story, Co op story, Terrorist hunts single or co op, Battles, Team battles and Assassination 
 to name a few. Even though it's time consuming you create a character for multiplayer where you 
 can level up by playing the online modes. The higher in your rank the different weapons and gear 
 you unlock. The only problems that I have with the game are few but here they are. The game isn't 
 short by any means but they leave you with a lack luster ending. I don't want to go into but it 
 leaves you hanging. I'm not a huge fan of that and it almost ruined my day. The other is the characters, 
 I didn't like them nearly is as much as I did past Rainbow six games. The main character has a 
 terrible Texas accent on top of that he is running along with two teammates who also have terrible 
 sounding accents and they just don't give any useful information and I feel they are poorly developed. 
 The characters look ok, but they don't talk enough to give you any reason for them to grow on you. 
 The achievements range from killing spree's online, hitting a certain level or using an Xbox live 
 cam to create a character that looks like you. I haven't used this feature myself, I do however 
 have a friend who used it and I played along with him. It did resemble him pretty well but to be 
 honest he looks like some of the characters in the game already. All in all the game is great, 
 it has good graphics, a decent story, amazing game play, tons of replay value with many things 
 to keep you interested in the game for a long period of time. A game that lives up to the Tom Clancy 
 name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N0oB_PwnZor
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 5, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  From the word Go this game seems to deliver. Its very entertaining and its really enjoyable. The 
 single player runs very smoothly and its packed with plently of bullet spraying action sequences 
 for even the most Pro gamer. The multiplayer seems to lack the pretty visuals that the single player 
 has , but thats not saying its bad. The multiplayer is quite satasfing. When you snipe someone 
 in the head with a counter sniper rifle from across the map theres a lot of satisfaction in doing 
 so. Ubi have the grades spot on and over the course of a few months of me playing multiplayer I 
 have obtained the rank of elite. You will be truly hooked when you want to rank up simply because 
 its fun and enjoyable. I would recomend anyone to buy this game. Its a must buy for any casual 
 - hardcore gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icabog
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 13, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  the good:
  
  Great gameplay and you will have to use real military tacts in order to survive, realistic, well 
 detailed graphics, incredible multi player and realistic sound effects
  
  the bad:
  
  The story was a bit dull and the ending wasn't super satisfying.
  
  I love playing this thing 
 on live and with my friends and is just one of those game that if you're gonna have a big party 
 and a lot of people over this is the game to pull out of the shelf. It wasn't very hard for me 
 but i am baseing the difficulty on what others have thought. The military tactics are just so realistic 
 of how you can order your teamates where to take position. The story didn't have any real big twists 
 or thrills or what ever it just stuck like a straight line with no curves or anything. BUY IT!!!! 
 IT IS AWSOME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SCFNameless
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 4, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  very good graphics and sound, very exiting and really tactical FPS and third PS.
  A must buy game 4 every 360 owner. It has a touch of cool guns outfits, etc.
  very good graphics 
 and sound, very exiting and really tactical FPS and third PS.
  A must buy game 4 every 360 owner. It has a touch of cool guns outfits, etc.
  very good graphics 
 and sound, very exiting and really tactical FPS and third PS.
  A must buy game 4 every 360 owner. It has a touch of cool guns outfits, etc.
  very good graphics 
 and sound, very exiting and really tactical FPS and third PS.
  A must buy game 4 every 360 owner. It has a touch of cool guns outfits, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipppvix
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  In Rainbow Six Vegas you are Logan Keller and you are trying to stop are terrorist group in Las 
 Vegas. At first you start out in Mexico hunting down a woman called Irena. But then you are need 
 in Vegas so you go up there and it turns out it's Irena and her group. So now you and your team 
 nust travel through the Vegas streets and buildings. And stop the terrorist.
  
  Once you land in Vegas you must fight your way up the street, till you get in the Calypso Casino. 
 And then from there you will go to a few other places including Dante's Casino and Vertigo Spire. 
 All together there are six levels.
  
  There are a lot of weapons in this game you get to restock everytime you get in the helicopter 
 or if you find a green box you should go up to it and be able to reload.
  
  The Multiplayer for this game is very good. There are a bunch of rank you have to go through in 
 order to get to Elite, the highest. And everytime you rank up you can get new weapons, armor, colors, 
 ect. And when you start out you do not have as many weapons as you do in Single Player. They will 
 be there eventually, but you have to earn them by ranking up. And it isn't as hard to rank up in 
 this game as others, because even if you lose you still get experience, just not as much.
  
  There are two noteable packs the Red and Black Editions they both come with new maps. And Red 
 comes with two new gametypes.
  
  I would say if your looking for a Xbox 360 shooter get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muzikdotcom
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 4, 2007 12:55 am PT
Review:  im a HUGE fan of las vegas in the first palce. and when i found out the next rainbow six was going 
 to be based in vegas, i was totally pumped for the game. this game in increadible and every way. 
 the sound is amazing, the graphics are stunning, the gameplay is intense, and the multiplayer is 
 everything i wanted it to be.
  
  one thing i notice about this game that really sticks out in my head when playing is that the guns 
 are dead on. theres no lag as to when the bullets come out and when the bullets make sound. its 
 something small i know, but it shows me they spent alot of time making this great game.
  
  the graphics... if set right (which i play in 720p) they are GREAT. vegas is the city of lights, 
 and this game is lit up!!! the glare, shadows, detail, its all here. they facial expressions in 
 this game are on target also. intense battles are always a good thing in games. in vegas it seems 
 like everytime you turn a corner there is someone shooting at you. vegas is close quarters battleing 
 (which i favor over GRAW) so more things go on in a smaller space, making it seem like MUCH more 
 is going on that actually is. but it makes for a great experince.
  
  multiplayer is amazing. the number one thing that stands out over graw2 is that u can take cover 
 in multiplayer. the cover system is awesome, and you actually have to work together, or have some 
 what of a plan. you cant just run and gun in this game (multi or story) . its alot of fun to get 
 online with a buddy and go on some T-Hunt missions and set up a plan together. its awesome
  
  the ONE and ONLY thing i can complain about in rianbow six vegas is that they didnt get (or 
 didnt wanna go through the trouble) of getting the rights to use actual casino names. all the big 
 name casinos are there, just named differently, and a few things are different on the outside. 
 you dont get to go into any of the big name ones either. this is the only thing i could find to 
 complain about in rainbow six. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpimppapa
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 3, 2007 10:06 pm PT
Review:  THE BAD -- Ok I played this online and earned armor and weapons , which are a big disappointment. 
 Now you would think the guy wearing the tank top and the baseball cap would die first ina shoot 
 out, wrong . The guy with the best armor is the one who dies first in a shoot out. Many gamers 
 I spoken with said the same thing. Master Sergeant earns Freedom Fighter weapons: AK47, Raging 
 Bull, SV98 well the AK47 is useless and it takes time to earn it. At least give us accurate weapons 
 as we rank up not a Bonnie Hat, Beret, Tinted Goggles at First Sergeant. Junk give good useful 
 stuff at least. Same as when you play online you get flash bags which most of the times only work 
 on your selfs not the enemy. Sometimes a guy in a tank top runs by you unload a clip in his back 
 he lives. I dont want to hear head shots! if you put one bullet in someones back he will hit the 
 floor now kevlar in a tank top how come hel ived?? This is what it takes to become Elite
  675000 points
  Camo 5: Custom 1, Custom 2, Custom 3
  This is your reward junk come on after 
 days of putting up with the new guys and losing over and over again you hope you are on the winning 
 team to rank up faster then you find out you earned a hat or camo come on give me a one shot kill 
 rank as elite not color full junk.
  
  THE GOOD -- Fun trying to earn your rank in this game nice cover system Great when you learn the 
 maps and have your little pattern set up throw frag shoot hide behind cover move to new location 
 use smoke and heat vision great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lewishhh
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  PRO's
  
  - Very fun cover system, which is one of the best.
  - Realistic gun sounds
  - Very good textures and character models.
  - Bright neon lights, make the game seem very interesting
 
  - Realistic Physics, and a fair amount of destructible environments
  - Multiplayer is a blast, with a nice ranking up system
  - CO-OP is great fun, even on split 
 screen
  - Easy to command your team, and the controls are nice and easy to pick up.
  
  CON's
  
  - Slightly washed out graphics
  - Bad story with a very bad ending
  - Checkpoints 
 are too spaced apart.
  
  Overall
  
  Slightly disappointing singleplayer, but fun nonetheless. Multiplayer is a real blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheezisgoooood
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 2, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  There's two types of excellent, must-play games out there these days. There's the ones that innovate 
 and try something new, and then there's the ones that do absolutely nothing terribly new for the 
 genre and instead refine and mold tried-and-true gameplay to perfection. Rainbow Six Vegas is a 
 perfect example of the latter, and the result is a worthwhile shooter that despite its familiarity 
 will keep you coming back because of just how well-made it is.
  
  The gameplay combines adrenaline action with tactical gameplay in a satsifying way, always giving 
 you a chance to observe what you're up against before you go in guns-ablazing. For example, if 
 you're about to enter a room and you can hear enemies talking to each other on the other side of 
 the door, all you have to do is use a snake cam under the door and maybe some heat vision and you 
 can see whatever is immediately on the other side of the door, and from there you can either just 
 go in and blow them all to hell, or you can make your squad mates do it. If the situation calls 
 for it, you can send your teammates to a door in another location while you find a separate entrance, 
 then you can quickly flank them from multiple sides. This is really all there is to the tactical 
 side of things.
  
  No doubt those who expected a bit more in terms of thought-based action will be sort of disappointed, 
 but the real reason the game is so fun to play is because its gameplay and cover system are both 
 very well done. The cover system feels perfect and every bit as good as the system used in Gears 
 of War. It works in the same way, but instead of pressing A you hold L to press against the object 
 and move your analog stick left or right to peek out and pop a few terrorists in the head. It may 
 sound easy to do these things but it's really not. Beating these terrorists is no cake walk and 
 it takes immense skill to get through the single player, especially on realistic difficulty. One 
 badly timed peek over the corner and you could find yourself on the floor dreaming of lead and 
 gunpowder. The single player campaign provides a nice challenge and plenty of entertainment, although 
 it may eventually get repetitive if you're trying to get the single player achievements.
  
  The main event in this game is the multiplayer though. Online on this game is very functional and 
 works quite well in comparison to the single player and the gameplay works in much the same way. 
 The most entertainment you'll get out of it is trying to achieve Elite rank and completing cooperative 
 Terrorist Hunt missions on realistic difficulty. The multiplayer provides a lot of depth and plenty 
 of options to choose from, and it's one of the more popular games on Xbox Live so it won't be a 
 problem trying to find a good-sized game to join.
  
  The visuals in Rainbow Six are not quite as good as other shooters available now on 360, like Gears 
 of War or GRAW 2, but they still do the job well enough. Some of the environments are appealingly 
 shiny and glittery to help add personality to the firefights. The character models are also highly 
 detailed and realistic. The guns and some of the environments look very washed out though, and 
 could've used a bit more color to make them prettier to look at, but then again this is supposed 
 to be a realistic shooter and not a shiny colorful. Overall the visuals are an above-average spectacle 
 of shiny lights and washed out textures.
  
  Guns are supposed to sound like guns, and Rainbow Six Vegas is no exception to the rule. The guns 
 sound like guns, and when you shoot them it will sound like you are shooting them. What the hell 
 else am I supposed to say? The casino areas have some added sound effects of electronic beeping 
 and coins plinking about, and the music is heavy techno and some grand opera music near the end 
 of the game. The voice acting's pretty good too. Logan's heavy southern accent is hilarious.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas is definitely worth whatever money you're paying, especially in comparison 
 to other games on the market that seem to be getting shorter and shorter as we go deeper into the 
 expensive next generation of gaming. The campaign is about as long as you'd expect, around 10 hours, 
 with achievements for beating it on each difficulty, going through on co op both split screen and 
 online, and getting kills online. The online will suck up the majority of the time you're playing 
 the game and will keep you coming back, especially if you've got someone to play co op with you. 
 Online mode comes with a bunch of maps and lots of customizable modes. There's plenty of hours 
 to be spent on this game.
  
  There may be plenty of different ways to kill terrorists these days, and plenty of ways to shoot 
 people online, but among the choices you'll have in figuring out which action shooter to get for 
 your 360, Rainbow Six is probably the most playable and refined game in the bunch. You may not 
 get much that's new to you in the shooter genre, but it plays so well both online and off that 
 it's an easy thing to forgive. Insert stereotypical joke about Las Vegas here and I'm done. Highly 
 recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayervorge3000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 2, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  This is my first Rainbow Six game that I have ever played, and I can tell you that the game was 
 the best. The graphics looked amazing, the sound was really nice and the storyline well put together. 
 You start the game in Mexico on a little exploratory mission. Logan Keller -- the character you 
 play as -- is really angry because he left is two teammates back at Mexico, while he was heading 
 down to Viva Las Vegas! You get to fight terrorist with two new guys who are Jung Park and Michael 
 Walter. The Single Player campaign is really fun but a little difficult, even on Normal (I wonder 
 what realistic is like?) . The Co-op is fun, and if you get board you can always kill you teammate 
 like I did when I had a friend over. Grabbed my shotgun and shot him in the game.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas is a must play game for all thoughs shooter/strategy gamers out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lancealot325
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Viva, Las Vegas! Viva, Las Vegas! After just beating Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas, that's just 
 what I was thinking about. Ok, anyways, Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six takes a new direction in the series 
 as we head to America's Playground or quite simply, Sin City.
  
  You begin the game (not in Las Vegas?!) across the border in Mexico on a simple exploratory mission. 
 You start out with one rookie cop and a old guy. But by the end of the mission, your character 
 -- Logan Keller -- is pissed off because his two guys got left behind in Mexico, as you depart 
 for Sin City to kick some more terrorist butt. The gunfights in Vegas can be exhilarating.... and 
 frustrating. The difficulty can be quite hard, even on normal mode. But anyways, you've got some 
 pimped-out guns, grenades and your new buddies to help you along the way. At least the gameplay 
 isn't as bland as Lockdown was. Also, you can even rappel in this game. Basically, you're like 
 a one of those highly mobile commandos that can do some pimped-out moves at a moment's notice.
 
  
  To sum it all up, Rainbow Six Vegas is a very addicting game that you'll want to finish up quickly. 
 But it isn't over there. The multiplayer is even better. Grab your friends and frag them, or, grab 
 'em and frag 'em. Anyways, Vegas is the best Rainbow Six game in the series. Also one of the best 
 shooters I've played in a while. One last thing, I love the cover system that Ubisoft used in this 
 game. Its awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mario2295
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 1, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  I own this game and it was very fun. Ubisoft has released two DLC packages of which one is free. 
 Gameplay wise it is very fun but there are alot of glitches that are fun, but some can ruin that 
 match. The game is still very nice even at about 6-months old, but it still isnt the best out there. 
 The sound quality is great other than coop terrorist hunt where the terrorists like to cuss a little 
 too much, the game is rated M so..... The value is great, the singleplayer is very fun, but its 
 true value comes from its amazing multiplayer. If you have an Xbox360, PC, or....... PS3= ( you should 
 get this game now!!! - mario2295. xbox live gamertag - wario2295 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bringndaheat08
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 1, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is the newest installment in the long running Rainbow Six franchise; it also 
 reinvents the series for the new age. It has reinvigorated the series by including the most intense 
 combat sequences ever seen in a tactical shooter, whilst pitting you up against some of the smartest 
 AI seen in any game. Add in an enthralling multiplayer experience and you have one of the most 
 complete tactical shooter packages available to date.
  
  The Single Player campaign will have you play as Logan Keller, leader of a Rainbow counter-terrorist 
 team who has been called to investigate a terrorist cell lurking in Mexico. Things go bad for Logan 
 in his first assignment and what follows is the multiple and coordinated attacks on various fictional 
 casinos in non-other than Viva Las Vegas. Your aim is to stop the terrorist from killing millions 
 whilst discovering how they managed to coordinated these various attacks without any cause for 
 alarm or suspicion. The plot includes the same structure and plot twists found in any recent Tom 
 Clancy game, unfortunately it is short and it lacks any real conclusion. The short coming of its 
 story is easy to look past, as Rainbow Six includes some fantastic combat sequencesthat will engage 
 as you progress through the single player campaign.
  
  In previous games in the franchise, your strategy has normally been a steady as she goes approach. 
 Rainbow Six Vegas turns this philosophy completely upside down, by adapting a more forgiving health 
 system seen in games such as Call of Duty 2 and Gears of War. It also contains a cover system similar 
 to Gears of War and uses a third person camera angle to present this. These mechanics work well 
 together as you can storm into a room take out a couple of enemies, take a few hits, find cover 
 and prepare yourself for the remainder of the battle. But dont think that you can enter each room 
 blindly, as your fellow team members will rely on you to gather the appropriate intelligence, by 
 using the snake cam to pinpoint enemy locations beyond each door.
  
  The AI does a fantastic job at controlling your team mates, very rarely is there any navigating 
 problems and they are always smart enough to find the nearest cover if you accidently place them 
 out in the open. The command interface is identical to the one used in the more recent Ghost Recon 
 games, but there is also a variety of context sensitive actions that are used such as stacking 
 up against doors, rappelling down buildings and fast roping from an overhead rail or rooftop. 
 These actions really do give you a sense that you are an elite and agile counter terrorist soldier 
 and these simple mechanics set Rainbow Six Vegas apart from the standard tactical shooters found 
 in the marketplace today.
  
  On top of its intense tactical combat sequences, Rainbow Six Vegas also showcases the most incredible 
 and photo-realistic visuals seen on the 360. Each casino is unique in its layout but features all 
 the bright lights and noises you would expect to hear and see. The Rainbow units and terrorist 
 character models look, move and interact with the environment with excellent realism. Selected 
 objects within the game are destructible and use every bit of detail to show it. Blowing up slot 
 machines has never been as satisfying, as you may think you have hit the jackpot with the amount 
 of coins flying out of the machine when presenting it with some form of explosive.
  
  The sound quality of the weapons and explosives are incredible realistic, but they dont break 
 any boundaries when it comes to realistic shooters. The voice acting, however, doesn't come close 
 to the quality level seen in other aspects of the game. It has a real hoo-ha-ya, Im in love with 
 my own voice feel, with lots of unnecessary shouting from both the Rainbow units and the terrorists. 
 There are moments when the voice acting does take itself seriously, as you will get some helpful 
 communication by your team mates as to where they are, when they are reloading and when they ready 
 to enter a room. But for the most part of the game you will probably pay more attention or laugh 
 at how they say their words rather than what they say.
  
  Whilst it wont take you that long to play through the single-player mode, there is plenty of replay 
 value when you add in two difficulty levels, the ability to play the campaign cooperatively offline 
 and online and other online components. These components include your standard deathmatch, team 
 deathmatch, elimination modes, retrieval mode which is the Rainbow Six Vegas take on capture-the-flag 
 and there is also the Terrorist Hunt mode which places terrorists around the level randomly and 
 your aim is to eliminate all terrorists in the level.
  
  One of the most interesting features of the multiplayer aspect in Rainbow Six Vegas, is the Persistent 
 Elite Creation tool. The P. E. C enables the user to create a character that will represent them 
 in the multiplayer modes. Whilst this may be nothing new, one of the interesting features of the 
 P. E. C is if you have an Xbox Live Vision Camera, you can scan your face and put it in the game. 
 Whilst it may not do your good looks the justice they deserve, it doesnt make you look like a 
 monster either. Your P. E. C will also keep track of all the matches you play and as you progress, 
 you will gain experience and increase in rank over time. You will also unlock new weapons armor 
 and clothes to customize you character with as you progress in rank. And with most of the achievements 
 focused around the multiplayer portion of the game, there is an incredible depth here that will 
 keep you entertained well past completing the single player portion of the game.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas is an immersive tactical shooter that will attract fans and newcomers alike. 
 Its intense combat sequences coupled with the enjoyable, deep and highly customizable multiplayer 
 modes, makes Rainbow Six Vegas one the most complete shooter packages available on the market. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irmeleeman5995
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 1, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Outstanding visuals, excellent, tightly controlled gameplay, cover system works well 
 and is very useful, you feel very tactical with all the crazy stuff you can do, multiplayer is 
 outstanding, level design is usually very good, enemy AI can be very smart at times, some nice 
 object physics (that arent always perfect) , great selection of guns and gadgets, the blood looks 
 really cool, its Las Vegas baby
  
  The Bad: Since you cant pick up gadgets off the ground and therefore refill your stock, it would 
 be nice if it automatically switched to your other gadget type when one runs out so you dont get 
 trapped not throwing a grenade, can be a tad glitchy in many different ways (but never makes it 
 unplayable) , its annoying when you join a game in progress that you have to wait until its over 
 to play, some menus take you backwards an annoying amount when you cancel out
  
  Rainbow Six: Vegas is the newest installment in the widely known series of tactical first person 
 shooters. When first announced, many people (including myself) were a bit worried that maybe they 
 were running out of plot ideas for these games becauseLas Vegas? Sounded a bit outlandish, right? 
 Also, the promise of a newly introduced cover system, fast roping, rappelling, and extensive door 
 breaching opportunities sounded like they could either be hit or miss. Rest assured, this is one 
 game that exceeded any expectations I had for it, and its easily one of the best 360 games to 
 date.
  
  The game starts out with your character, Rainbow operative Logan Keller, and his team investigating 
 terrorist activity in Mexico. Without spoiling anything else, lets just say you wind up in Las 
 Vegas as the same terrorists you were after have now taken the whole city hostage. Your job as 
 the ultra awesome and effective military squad is to find out what exactly is going on, and, of 
 course, stop it. That involves you making your way cautiously through levels filled with terrorists 
 who want nothing more than to see you and your squad dead. Enter the first rule of combat: shoot 
 them before they shoot you. The basic gameplay consists of shooting the guys shooting you, level 
 after level. Dont worry though, that is neither bad nor repetitive.
  
  The locales are pretty varied with old trainyards, a dam, casinos, restaurants, and so on. All 
 of the levels are meticulously detailed and almost every room has multiple entry points, meaning 
 that you and your squad can assault rooms from any number of points, even at the same time from 
 multiple areas if you choose to split yourself up from your squad. Once your squad is stacked 
 up at a door, you can choose from any number of breaching choices to clear the room of hostiles. 
 You can use a tiny camera to peek under the door to assess the situation before you go in and even 
 tag targets that you want your squad to eliminate first. As I said before, you can leave your team 
 stacked at the door and find another way in by yourself to attack the room from multiple points. 
 Its satisfying, its realistic, and its fun.
  
  But sometimes, that just cant do the trick. So thats where the cover comes in. Approach anything 
 you can think of and hold the left trigger to place your back to it and use it for cover. Once 
 youre on cover, you can lean around the side or pop up from the top to take shots at enemies or 
 throw grenades, or you can hold your gun out and hose the area with blind fire. While not accurate 
 enough to dispatch most enemies, it can keep them suppressed or behind their own cover long enough 
 for you to take further action. And yes, I did say their own cover. Vegas is one of those games 
 where your enemies can and do apply almost every tactic you do (the exception is really all the 
 door breaching stuff) . They can use cover, blind fire, ropes and rappel lines, the works. Fortunately, 
 they arent ever impossibly hard to take out from cover, especially if youre good at flanking.
 
  
  Yet it seems even cover is fallible or unavailable at times. In Rainbow Six: Vegas, your health 
 system is similar to what lots of games are changing to lately. When you begin to take damage, 
 your screen starts to blur. If you continue to take damage, the contrast gets really high and things 
 start to look trippy and weird. Then, your screen gets very dark, sometimes to the point where 
 you cant see, before you finally die. Granted, all this can happen in under a second, so its 
 helpful to be a quick shot and always know where some cover is to fallback to. If you dont die, 
 your screen eventually returns to normal and you can continue on. In single player, if you die, 
 thats the end of it, and you restart from a checkpoint. If a squadmate dies, though, you can order 
 your other squadmate to inject him with something to heal him or do it yourself. Although, technically 
 hes just kinda incapacitated and if you wait too long to heal him then he dies for real and you 
 lose. In multiplayer, youre out of luck regardless; dying is dying. More on multiplayer in a bit, 
 though.
  
  The controls for Rainbow Six: Vegas are responsive and make sense. The joysticks follow the standard 
 console FPS layout with the left controlling your characters movement and the right controlling 
 where youre aiming. The A button is your action button. Use it to tell your squad where you want 
 them to go just by looking there and hitting it. Also use it to mount rappel lines, fast rope when 
 available, and do other assorted actions. The B button is your gadget button. Frag, smoke, and 
 flashbang grenades are utilized here instead of the traditional trigger, as well as C4, breaching 
 charges, and some multiplayer only items like GPS devices and motion sensors. While the fact that 
 grenades arent on the convenient trigger is disappointing at first, you quickly come to appreciate 
 that the left trigger being the cover button is much more useful and important. The X button is 
 your reload button in Vegas, and if you hold it down your bring up a tiny weapons menu where you 
 can choose whether or not to silence your weapon, change the rate of fire, and activate a laser 
 sight if you have one mounted. Tapping the Y button switches between your two main weapons in single 
 player or your weapon and sidearm in multiplayer, and holding it brings up a menu where you can 
 select which gun or gadget you want manually. Its slightly clumsy in hectic scenarios, but its 
 really the only logical way to have done it, so I dont really mind it. Further, your Right Bumper 
 changes your vision mode between normal or Thermal/Night vision, depending on what you have selected. 
 The Left Bumper sets the Rules of Engagement. The RoE changes whether your squad will fire at a 
 target on sight or wait to fire until fired upon. The RoE also alters your door breaching options. 
 The right trigger is the fire button, and the left trigger is the cover button. The back button 
 brings up your map or selects a target to prioritize for your squad to dispatch. The d-pad handles 
 assorted squad commands. Lastly, clicking in the movement thumbstick is crouch and clicking in 
 the aiming thumbstick is to zoom in with your sight, whatever it may be.
  
  Speaking of sights, one cool thing about Vegas is the customizable weapons that the series is known 
 for. You have a some-what large assortment of Assault Rifles, Sub-Machine Guns, light machine guns, 
 Sniper Rifles, Shotguns, and pistols. Once you have your gun chosen, you can customize it with 
 different mounted goodies. Whether its a large scope, a tiny reflex sight, a laser pointer, or 
 the good ol iron sights, your gun always has something on it to assist in aiming. While its significantly 
 dumbed down from previous entries in the series, its still something to set it apart from most 
 shooters and offers a unique spin on the gameplay depending on what you take and the environment 
 youre using it in. Say you have a tiny reflex sight and youre in a large and open map, you wouldnt 
 fare as well as if you had a large scope to even the odds. Likewise, if youre in close quarters, 
 a large scope will do you no good, so its better to opt for a reflex scope or iron sights.
  
  The multiplayer in Vegas is outstanding and really brings the whole package together. Your 
 squad AI is really neither good nor bad, so its excellent fun to be able to coordinate things 
 with real people. Aside from the standard adversarial game modes like Sharpshooter (Deathmatch) , 
 Survival (One life) , Retrieval (more or less CTF) and the like, you also have an extensive catalogue 
 of co-op gametypes. You can play through the single player story with a friend or three online 
 or system linked, and you can play Terrorist Hunt on the same screen, system linked, and online 
 with friends. Terrorist Hunt places you in a map that is either lowly, medium-ly, or highly populated 
 with terrorists. Your objective is simply to kill every single one and you win. So aside from these 
 co-op gametypes, you have a bevy of others, all of which are slightly tactically approached due 
 to the games nature. The games multiplayer maps are very detailed and well laid out. Some of 
 them are borrowed from the games single player campaign, and others were constructed solely for 
 multiplayer. Both kinds are suited for multiplayer frenzy equally and only further improve the 
 game.
  
  Also in multiplayer is the Persistent Elite Creation, which is a fancy way of saying your customizable 
 character. As you gain experience points from online play, you unlock new guns, armor, and clothing 
 for your character to further personalize and upgrade him or her. You can even put your digitized 
 face on it thanks to the Xbox Live Vision Cam. The PEC sounds unspecial and tacked on, but its 
 actually a very interesting addition to the game and is useful for setting yourself apart from 
 other people in the way you look.
  
  The games graphics are a sight to behold. Whether its incredibly detailed characters, maps, or 
 guns, this game just looks amazing. The gun models in particular look absolutely fantastic. They 
 are all incredibly and meticulously detailed, operate realistically, and kill nicely. Light realistically 
 reflects and bends around the curves or your weapons as you walk under bright lights or turn around 
 a corner. Flashbangs, when all conditions are met, serve to burn the image of whatever you saw 
 when they detonated into your screen temporarily to leave you susceptible to attack, and it plain 
 looks awesome. The glass in this game in particular stands out to me. It fractures and comes apart 
 realistically and even shows hundreds of spiderweb like cracks in broken-but-attached glass. It 
 also realistically shines light that alters depending on your angle. Some of the glass is also 
 textured crazily and it always looks amazing. Another cool looking thing in Vegas is the blood. 
 Call me sadistic, but I love how blood splatters all over the walls and even ceilings depending 
 on your angle of firing. Something about it just looksright. Red wounds even appear on bodies 
 where you shot them (only if theyre wearing clothes not covered with armor) , so you can brag about 
 miraculous headshots due to where the wound appears! Its pretty cool, and I like the detail the 
 developers put into that. It shows just how hard they worked to make this game great, and it paid 
 off.
  
  Other things in Vegas look beautiful as well. Wisps of sand slowly drifts across the ground in 
 Mexico. Reflective tile that completely covers walls in the Spires casino looks jaw droppingly 
 gorgeous. Plastic wrap of some sort contains unused building materials in an under-construction 
 casino and it looks brilliant. In some places, water pools amazingly reflect images and the puddles 
 themselves just look awesome. I also love how bright the muzzle flash gets on some guns. In short, 
 Vegass graphics look outstanding and really show what the 360 hardware can do, even at a silky 
 smooth framerate.
  
  The sound in Vegas is equally impressive. Almost every single gun has its own unique sound, and 
 if you listen closely you can identify each one just by hearing it. Grenades go off with a loud 
 boom, flashbangs leave your ears ringing. Helicopters sound great, and terrorists shout profanities 
 as you tear them apart. The voice actors for the squad sound alright and fit their parts, except 
 Logans slightly southern accent becomes annoying after a while. The actual dialogue in and of 
 itself isnt bad though, especially some of the terrorists quips can make you laugh outloud when 
 you first hear them. And in this reviewers professional opinion, this games sound is truly dynamic 
 in surround sound. Its great! Grenades reverberate with a dull thud from the sub, while the cough 
 of suppressed weapons sounds great when coming at you from three different speakers. I love how 
 doors squeak as they come open from behind you and you know youre about to get screwed. In the 
 famous Calypso Casino level, on top of the roof is a helipad along with a helicopter, and that 
 thing sounds amazing in surround sound. Spin around in circles and listen to the things sound 
 rotate around you. Its stunning. Although I have to say, my personal favorite is the tiny tmp 
 tmp tmp that you hear when a grenade lands and bounces on the ground before going off at your feet. 
 It gives you just enough time to say, Aw crap.
  
  With Rainbow Sixs great and some-what replayable campaign, solo terrorist hunt if you want to 
 do it, and its extensive multiplayer options, the game has a lot of meat to it. Some  
 achievements to unlock will spur some on to play harder than others, but the variety in the achievements 
 is pretty good so you wont get bored of it. To put it shortly, this game has a lot to do in it 
 and its easily worth 60 bucks.
  
  Bottom line: If you like shooters, Rainbow Six, other Tom Clancy type games, or some awesome online 
 play, Vegas is definitely worth giving a shot. Sorry that review was so long, but I hope you liked 
 it and it helped you out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: horariovandalas
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 1, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  There are certain things Halo 2 lacked. Well, we all know Halo 2 wasn't a masterpiece, it was missing 
 certain things. The original Halo, with lack of online play aside, was the one that opened peoples 
 eyes to FPSs on game consoles. Valve invented and innovated the FPS style, Halo modified it, and 
 Rainbow has finally perfected. I never liked the original Rainbow's at first. They were annoying 
 because you didn't have the regenerating health. This makes the games, semi more-realistic, with 
 the fact that if you're in a desolate hallway, I think you'll patch yourself up, and not just sit 
 there and bleed. I strongly believe that Rainbow implies the fact that that's what you're doing, 
 although use of an item to restore health would be to fancy. None the less, I enjoyed not having 
 to anticipate the end of the level just so I could get my health back just to lose it in the sometime 
 near future of the upcoming level. So, we've covered one thing, on to the next billion. Now, when 
 you make a game, you always want to put realism into it to get people to feel more like they're 
 part of it, and actually envisioning themselves in the characters position. This gives it that 
 extra entertainment, and separates interaction from just watching something. This game is basically 
 as real as you can get without going overboard, in order to keep it fun, and reasonable. The regeneration, 
 as I've debated with my friend, is a little out there, there should have AT LEAST been an animation 
 or item usage to restore the health. This way you'd get that extra feeling. This is one of the 
 games only maybe three faults. You also get that feeling just by movement. There's nothing left 
 to the imagination. Depending on your character you move differently depending on armor usage. 
 If you've got heavy armor on, well, respectively, you're going to end up moving like a turtle if 
 you got a shell like one. The maximum bullet intake is also reasonable. You can take up to five 
 bullets if you're hit in non vital areas. Also, the animation you receive when you're hit is great. 
 The screen blurs and flashes according to the amount of damage you've received. One of them actually 
 blinds you for about 3-5 seconds, making finding cover again challenging. All in all, the game 
 gets at 99/100 for realism I'd say. Onto game play. There's nothing better than burning down to 
 your friend's bone after throwing an incendiary grenade at him, well, in the game of course. Coverage 
 taking... ahh, Gears has created such a beautiful thing. I don't know how many times you've seen 
 a clip from Iraq, where you see four guys running around, standing up, in full view of the enemy, 
 but I know I've never seen any. I'm a fan of realism, and this adds to both realism and game play. 
 This creates great sneak attacks for online, but adds to the camper problem for most of you. You'll 
 get used to it, but I hope it's not just a fad like bullet time, because bullet time blew, and 
 coverage taking blows... me away. Coverage is vital to the game play to, especially if your customized 
 online character has a lot of armor and moves slow, this makes taking cover vital. Also, accuracy, 
 has become more realistic. Guns don't hit there mark every time. Thank God. I have never seen an 
 soldier take out 12 guys on half a clip in my life. Now, I may not have caught on to the recoil 
 of the gun yet, but the reticule isn't always spot on anyway, so it can't just be my noob ability 
 solely, there has to be some inconsistency with the bullets and the reticule. After you get the 
 hang of that though, the game becomes fun and highly enjoyable online, and in single player. Movement 
 is casual, and it doesn't feel like you're floating all the time. Counterstrike=unreal movement. 
 I don't think Terrell Owens sprints that fast, let alone jogs like that. But this game hit the 
 nail on the head. Game play=10/10 Graphics aren't eye rendering, but none the less, stunning. They're 
 great, but nothing new and over the top. Bullet frames per second count is nice, sure, border line 
 impressive, I'll go for an 8 or 9/10. Good job Ubisoft. The sound is amazing. The score, is nice, 
 it's not incredible like The Godfather's score, or Pulp Fiction's, but hey, it's in line with the 
 action of the game. The correlation of the score and the game play are by far amazing, and they're 
 most definitely right on time. Spot on. Oh **** a guy!!! Watch out! *Que 007esque rhythm* Bullet 
 ticking is beautiful. You can hear how close the bullets are, and how far your enemies are from 
 you. Sound gets a 10/10. Value... meh. $60 is still a lot for a game, but this is not an ordinary 
 game either, plus Microsoft and Sony need all that money back they've lost. So get a job, because 
 this games worth it all (except the tax) . 9/10. In conclusion, I've fell in love with this game, 
 despite the rough start at my cousins house where I wasn't completely fond of it, but only interested. 
 The interest got me a long way, because this is on my top 5 action games list of all time. It's 
 up there with Counterstrike, Halo/Oblivion (if considered an action game over RPG) , GTA 3, and Gears 
 of War.
  
  MY CURVE=10/10 :)
  
  Good job Ubisoft, I'm looking forward to a juiced up clone next year. :)
  
  ~Horario VanDallas (is 
 cool+Chuck Norris' #1 Fan) ~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halolegend35
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 1, 2007 6:25 am PT
Review:  las vegas is a superb tactical shooter. the game uses the unreal engine 3 so the level of detail 
 in its perfectly desighned levels are astounding. every battle has bullets tearing through doors 
 and casino machines leaving coins rolling across the floor and the player on the edge of there 
 seat. the simple and effective squad commands make the campaign a truly enjoyable whilst challenging 
 experience. choosing the wrong way to burst into a room could leave you with half your team dead 
 and you looking at the end game screen. whilst not as frustrating as the ghost recon series it 
 still requires a use of tactics to survive each level even on the easy difficulty. so taking your 
 time is crucial as is quick reactions in gunfights as the ai attempts to keep you in cover and 
 flank you which all creates a superb single player experience while the offline multiplayer only 
 offers one option terroist hunt i personly have spent hours trying to beat the ai alone. overall 
 the game is superb and in my opinion beats gears of war hands down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keith22
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 1, 2007 4:48 am PT
Review:  i am fan of tom clancys series. enyed every single game to now dated . This game is no exeption 
 (best in series) . The game is very well constructed the missions are well ploted the graphics are 
 stunning. the multiplayer is no exaption although i could have benn better the third to first person 
 view is marvouls as we are now used. this year the developers really amused me cause iv been waiting 
 for a vegas location in the series, I did'nt actually beleive they would do such a good job Overall 
 this game is a must have for every hardcore gamer (even the casual ones) . [true work of art ] :) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameGodDerek
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 30, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Incredible game, leaves you begging for more, online is outstanding.
  
  Graphics: The graphics, lighting and explosion effects, are incredible.
  
  Sound: Really realistic 
 sounding weapons and explosives.
  
  Gameplay: Best part about the game, utilizing the environment is key, which had left other tactical 
 shooters in the dust. Team mechanics and and their AI is awesome.
  
  Interface: Nothing wrong with it really, basic HUD, doesn't get in the way.
  
  Genre: Out of 
 Tactical Shooters or FPSs, this one can roll with the big dogs.
  
  Online: Almost enough to make you buy the game by itself.
  
  Series: One of the best Tom Clancy 
 shooters in a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grassgreener12
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 30, 2007 5:53 am PT
Review:  rainbow six vegas is an awesome game.... period.
  
  gameplay ---you play as a badass commando who gets to kill terrorists in Vegas. you can control 
 2 other teammates who are highly intelligent to take out these threats. the squad command is easy 
 to use so you can feel like a real counter-terrorist team, because if you tell them to go to a 
 door, they will go and hug the sides around the door, allowing for a quick breach. the gameplay 
 is what shines in this game.
  
  graphics ---the graphics are absolutely amazing.... the explosions are great, the casinos look awesome, 
 and the character animations are lifelike.... no comparison except to Gears of war and Call of duty 
 3.
  
  Sound ---the sound in this game is awesome. the guns sound powerful and the casinos sound like casinos 
 so no harm there. the voice acting is kind of off, since terrorists will yell out random cuss words 
 when your fighting them which is odd, and the terrorists will also yell out everything they're 
 doing, which is pretty stupid on their part
  
  value -- there is a ton of value in this game..... you have 4 player cooperative over xbox live in 
 either story mode or terrorist hunt mode, which gives you a level and puts terrorists in random 
 places. there is also 16 player multiplayer in several modes like deathmatch, team deatchmatch, 
 VIP, extraction, etc. that's probably the best part of the game
  
  R6 Vegas is an awesome game that shouldn't be missed by any shooter fans!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miningguy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 29, 2007 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow six has never been this great! From custom faces to mexico to tactics, this game has it 
 all! This game is a blast to play online and also offline. Online is the best with customizing 
 your character and also picking all of your gear including your gun, grenades, and armor. Some 
 flaws of online are of course the spawn killing, and also not being able to get guns till next 
 rank. Overall this game is sweet. if you like tatical shooters buy this game at ebgames for $59.99 
 or try and find a used one. Also avalible for psp, pc, and ps3. see you online 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 12elic_
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  whats next tom clancy rodeo drive 
  dumb worst ever face mapping is a joke wow next people will want thier face on a milk carton
 
  and rumble is weak always was just throws of aim who jolts constanley any way in real life. . 
 . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . .. . 
 . .. . . . . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . . . .. . . . .. . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . .. .. 
 . . . . .. . . . .. . . . .. .. . .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assbubbles
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 29, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  If you are a fan of G. R. A. W. and Gears of war this game is a Must. Worth every penny of that 59.99 
 price tag. The gun fights are very intense and if your skilled enough to play on the realistic 
 setting just imagine being dropped into the middle of a film that was written by Jon Woo and directed 
 by Jerry Bruckhimer. The Graphics, Sound, Gameplay, Character Movment and Controls could all score 
 a 10 out of 10. The only knock i have is there are a few momments in the game as there is in any 
 game where the camera is a factor. This game is just an absolute masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vicon1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Spectaticular, ammazing, brethtaking, godly pick one this game is just so perfectly well rounded 
 and amazing its just wow thats all i can think of wow.
  I never loved a first person shooter like this one.
  
  
  
  
  
  ..... .. .. .. .. .. 
 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ... .. . .. .... ...... . .. .. .. .. .. .. 
 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. ...... .. .. .. .. .. .... .. .. .. .. .. ... .. .. .. .. .. .. 
 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 
 .. .. ... . ... .. .. .. .. .. .. ... .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ... 
 . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaluaj
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  If you are a fan of G. R. A. W. and Gears of war this game is a Must. Worth every penny of that 59.99 
 price tag. The gun fights are very intense and if your skilled enough to play on the realistic 
 setting just imagine being dropped into the middle of a film that was written by Jon Woo and directed 
 by Jerry Bruckhimer. The Graphics, Sound, Gameplay, Character Movment and Controls could all score 
 a 10 out of 10. The only knock i have is there are a few momments in the game as there is in any 
 game where the camera is a factor. This game is just an absolute masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XBOX_360_PLAYER
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 26, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  I love this game. I haven't played the whole single player but I think its really good for what 
 I played. The characters animations are amazing and the environments look really sharp.
  
  My favorite thing in this game is the multiplayer. I love the weapons and the awesome customization 
 abilities that you can do to your character. The graphics are still amazing and the environments 
 look good and are fun to play in too. The only downside is sometimes there's alot of glitches in 
 the online maps where people can cheat to get kills. But thats pretty much how it is in every online 
 game.
  
  But overall this game is a definite buy for anyone who's looking for an amazing fps that has good 
 single player and online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burnbird1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 25, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  The production value of a virtual Las Vegas looks better in a fire fight. The sound reminds you 
 to use the cover-system. Each gun in a class feels different and warp the learning curve. light 
 machine guns are high on recoil and remind you that they are destruct with noise. In multiplayer, 
 what weapon you use will define you. Like any another First Person Shooter, singleplayer and what 
 you learn in it will be your best assisstant multiplayer. The Plot is setup enough for you to understand 
 why terrorists are in Las Vegas until one or two plot twist come up. You'll come to understand 
 that some weapons are best friends and others are wastes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abubabu
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 25, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Rainbow Six Vegas has stellar gameplay in its campaign single player mode. In the single 
 player the classic storyline is getting a little old. You control and command your team to take 
 out certain targets and how to do it. cBut the game really shines in its almost perfect multiplayer 
 that has its different classes of guns, grenades and other weapons that you could want. There are 
 also some different game type modes and characterization that alll around makes the multiplayer 
 just about flawless except for a couple first-to-third person glitches and lags that just have 
 you stand there for a couple seconds but it really doesn't matter. Graphics: This game is just 
 the best looking shooter on the xbox 360. Maybe eventhe best looking game on the console. THrough 
 all the shooting and explosions this game just looks beautiful. Textures and shadows in the game 
 are very deep and detailed and all around another reason to buy a HDTV.
  
  Sound: Sound matches image quality. It fits well and with the stellar graphics comes the stellar 
 sound effects.
  
  Value: This game maybe one of the only games thats actually worthe the 60$ for a 360 game. With 
 stellar graphics and sound and just minor flaws in gameplay make this game not too far from the 
 perfect shooter with tactical goodness.
  
  Tilt: All around this game just plays right. When graphics, sound and gameplay come together this 
 well in one game its a simple must own to anyone with the xbox 360 console, and this is yet another 
 great reason to buy an HDTV and xbox live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McDove
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 1, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is the newest installment in the long running Rainbow Six franchise; it also 
 reinvents the series for the new age. It has reinvigorated the series by including the most intense 
 combat sequences ever seen in a tactical shooter, whilst pitting you up against some of the smartest 
 AI seen in any game. Add in an enthralling multiplayer experience and you have one of the most 
 complete tactical shooter packages available to date.
  
  The Single Player campaign will have you play as Logan Keller, leader of a Rainbow counter-terrorist 
 team who has been called to investigate a terrorist cell lurking in Mexico. Things go bad for Logan 
 in his first assignment and what follows is the multiple and coordinated attacks on various fictional 
 casinos in non-other than Viva Las Vegas. Your aim is to stop the terrorist from killing millions 
 whilst discovering how they managed to coordinated these various attacks without any cause for 
 alarm or suspicion. The plot includes the same structure and plot twists found in any recent Tom 
 Clancy game, unfortunately it is short and it lacks any real conclusion. The short coming of its 
 story is easy to look past, as Rainbow Six includes some fantastic combat sequencesthat will engage 
 as you progress through the single player campaign.
  
  In previous games in the franchise, your strategy has normally been a steady as she goes approach. 
 Rainbow Six Vegas turns this philosophy completely upside down, by adapting a more forgiving health 
 system seen in games such as Call of Duty 2 and Gears of War. It also contains a cover system similar 
 to Gears of War and uses a third person camera angle to present this. These mechanics work well 
 together as you can storm into a room take out a couple of enemies, take a few hits, find cover 
 and prepare yourself for the remainder of the battle. But dont think that you can enter each room 
 blindly, as your fellow team members will rely on you to gather the appropriate intelligence, by 
 using the snake cam to pinpoint enemy locations beyond each door.
  
  The AI does a fantastic job at controlling your team mates, very rarely is there any navigating 
 problems and they are always smart enough to find the nearest cover if you accidently place them 
 out in the open. The command interface is identical to the one used in the more recent Ghost Recon 
 games, but there is also a variety of context sensitive actions that are used such as stacking 
 up against doors, rappelling down buildings and fast roping from an overhead rail or rooftop. 
 These actions really do give you a sense that you are an elite and agile counter terrorist soldier 
 and these simple mechanics set Rainbow Six Vegas apart from the standard tactical shooters found 
 in the marketplace today.
  
  On top of its intense tactical combat sequences, Rainbow Six Vegas also showcases the most incredible 
 and photo-realistic visuals seen on the 360. Each casino is unique in its layout but features all 
 the bright lights and noises you would expect to hear and see. The Rainbow units and terrorist 
 character models look, move and interact with the environment with excellent realism. Selected 
 objects within the game are destructible and use every bit of detail to show it. Blowing up slot 
 machines has never been as satisfying, as you may think you have hit the jackpot with the amount 
 of coins flying out of the machine when presenting it with some form of explosive.
  
  The sound quality of the weapons and explosives are incredible realistic, but they dont break 
 any boundaries when it comes to realistic shooters. The voice acting, however, doesn't come close 
 to the quality level seen in other aspects of the game. It has a real hoo-ha-ya, Im in love with 
 my own voice feel, with lots of unnecessary shouting from both the Rainbow units and the terrorists. 
 There are moments when the voice acting does take itself seriously, as you will get some helpful 
 communication by your team mates as to where they are, when they are reloading and when they ready 
 to enter a room. But for the most part of the game you will probably pay more attention or laugh 
 at how they say their words rather than what they say.
  
  Whilst it wont take you that long to play through the single-player mode, there is plenty of replay 
 value when you add in two difficulty levels, the ability to play the campaign cooperatively offline 
 and online and other online components. These components include your standard deathmatch, team 
 deathmatch, elimination modes, retrieval mode which is the Rainbow Six Vegas take on capture-the-flag 
 and there is also the Terrorist Hunt mode which places terrorists around the level randomly and 
 your aim is to eliminate all terrorists in the level.
  
  One of the most interesting features of the multiplayer aspect in Rainbow Six Vegas, is the Persistent 
 Elite Creation tool. The P. E. C enables the user to create a character that will represent them 
 in the multiplayer modes. Whilst this may be nothing new, one of the interesting features of the 
 P. E. C is if you have an Xbox Live Vision Camera, you can scan your face and put it in the game. 
 Whilst it may not do your good looks the justice they deserve, it doesnt make you look like a 
 monster either. Your P. E. C will also keep track of all the matches you play and as you progress, 
 you will gain experience and increase in rank over time. You will also unlock new weapons armor 
 and clothes to customize you character with as you progress in rank. And with most of the achievements 
 focused around the multiplayer portion of the game, there is an incredible depth here that will 
 keep you entertained well past completing the single player portion of the game.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas is an immersive tactical shooter that will attract fans and newcomers alike. 
 Its intense combat sequences coupled with the enjoyable, deep and highly customizable multiplayer 
 modes, makes Rainbow Six Vegas one the most complete shooter packages available on the market. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dfoboost
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  This game is awsome i love it. What i like about it is that you always have a choice in what weapons 
 you want to use or what add-ons you would like with your weapon from lasers to sniper scopes for 
 the really zoom in time. I also liked how you get to change all the cloths and armor online from 
 tactical helmets and vest to berets and gas masks. What i didnt like about this game is the campaighn 
 whic can be really hard at times especially when your alone. I also didnt like how you dont have 
 a teamate when you do the terrioist hunt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeanCorleone
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 23, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Vegas is a very well done tactical shooter. Its a highly detailed game as well, you are able to 
 put upgraded armor and so forth onto your chatarer, change their color, even accessories on your 
 weapons as well, from laser-sights, 6X scopes, and optics. The cover button is what makes the game 
 also decent - its very nicely done. The only thing that I could suggest to avoid some of the repeative 
 shoot outs (after awhile you know where they will pop out at and you just wait for that, which 
 adds to a stand-off) is that if you had it so you could also pick options on how you take cover 
 - different character sizes as well, height, and weight - would help the game greatly. The game 
 has a ok story line, which I'll give you notice - ITS NOT COMPLETED WHEN YOU COMPLETE THE GAME, 
 you'll see what I mean. After that though you'll quickly forget about the storyline once you get 
 involved in the insane time taking ranking system they pit you up against. As also though, from 
 UBI there is afew bugs - glitches as they are known in the game - some areas on some maps have 
 places that players can stand behind and fire at other players - without the problem of getting 
 shot themselves - invisable walls if you will, which is very annoying when you go up against players 
 that know where the glitches are and how to abuse them to their full ability.
  
  Either way you'll get your moneys worth - but don't waste your money on the red edition pack, alot 
 of people don't have them, and no clans really even play on them - so you'll see limited play on 
 these maps. They are well put together though... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackyripper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Well to start Rainbow Six Vegas has a huge array of weapons you can choose from to dipatch your 
 enemies in any way you choose. From the Desert Eagle to the SPAS 12 to the MP5 to the G3C6 all 
 the way to C4 mines. The detail that has gone into the game is imense. Single player campain hosts 
 a range of great levels that range from casino's in las vegas to the Nevada dam. You can use cover 
 to your advantage while your team heads round a different way to clear the room out. Multiplayer 
 is also excelent as unlike Ghost recon you can still use cover during the multiplayer. Also action 
 is more intense than Ghost recon as you are usually in a confined space with nowhere to go so have 
 to improvise fast. Where as Ghost recon you are in open warfare with no cover to hide behind. You 
 can choose which you like better but i prefer this game by far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizkid2029
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 22, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  When I first found out about a redesigned R. S. game I was both happy yet scared. R. S. 3 had really 
 disappointed me so I was happy for the change yet I hoped that they would not lose its central 
 idea of a team based shooter. In my thought... R. S. V. is just what everyones been waiting for. 
 The realism in weapons AI and visuals is aweinspiring. I was shocked and amazed (in a good way) 
 to be killed by an enemy when both he and his buddy flanked my position or threw grenades (and 
 in the right direction too!) . The new cover system may be, as others say, a copy of Gears of War 
 but I believe its an idea on its own. The realism in weapons in terms of recoil and inaccuracy 
 is incredible minus the idea that a shotgun can kill people down the hall as if an assault rifle 
 but no biggie. Online is another idea of sheer genius with its great balance of players and time. 
 Although now the Online has been more about points than fun, I'm willing to accept that. In closing 
 all I have to say is to BUY THIS GAME!!!!!
  
  -WK2029 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobothegolfer
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 22, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  I would definitely recommend this wondrous game to anyone looking for a fun, enticing, and addictive 
 First Person Shooter. The campaign is great and because of the multiple techniques available to 
 the player, the game is able to be played over and over again. However, most of the enjoyment that 
 I receive stems from the online play. It has the power and variety to satisfy any and every shooter's 
 personal style. Sniping, fragging, gassing, shooting fast, shooting slow, and even using a shield 
 are all options!! You need this game, and you won't regret buying it. I paid $60 for mine and it 
 was worth every penny.
  
  Adios 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pycho22solid
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 22, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  Rainbow 6 Vegas is just an all-around awesome game. It's single player is fun and will keep you 
 occupied for a good amount of time. It isn't very easy though, no matter what difficulty it's on. 
 It has you gunning down terrorist all around Sin-City, and damn does it look good! The lighting 
 and detail really show off the power of a next-generation console. Also the developers REALLY improved 
 the gameplay ( no more stupid teammates) .
  
  But It's the game's multiplayer that really shines. What started to get boring with other titles 
 in the series is fun again thanks to excellent character customization options and great level 
 design. It also helps that you don't need to BUY your equpment anymore (Good riddance Lockdown!) .
 
  
  Even if you're not into squad games this is a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellrant
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2007 10:18 pm PT
Review:  This game has a great story of what I've seen and played... the demo also isn't bad and seems that 
 the game is way better overall ( but what games aren't ) .
  The point is that this is a great game if you like real life situational gaming.
  If you don't 
 like shooters I would recommend playing this game for a chance to get a good gamer experience at 
 what one really has to offer. The graphics are superb and the multiplayer goes over very very well. 
 I rented this game, but I think it really could get addictive. If you do not like this game get 
 a new T. V. , new speakers, a new 360, because this game is probably the most interactive shooter 
 i have seen in a while. You can jump through windows for ****sakes. To sum it up on this review 
 It's near one of the best games of all time.
  Truly extreme 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Multi-Magic
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2007 2:51 am PT
Review:  Considering the last Rainbow Six game I played was Rainbow Six 3 on the xbox, I decided to go back 
 to the series to see what had changed.. and god damn, it had changed.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas is one of the best shooters out there at the moment on the xbox 360 not just 
 in my opinion and of thousands of peoples opinions, any fan of shooter games will totally love 
 this. It has quite a long single player - levels just seem to go on and on and top it all off, 
 the multiplayer is one of the best I have seen to date.
  
  Graphic, sound and gameplay wise it has exceeded what I suspected. It has tons of replay value 
 with the single player story offering a challenging Realistic difficulty once Normal difficulty 
 has been achieved and one multiplayer that will keep you entertained for weeks!
  
  Cannot wait for the next instalment :D
  
  Overall, Rainbow Six Vegas is a must for any shooter 
 fan, actually screw that, its a must for any xbox 360 owner! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: white_sox
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 20, 2007 2:30 am PT
Review:  Now I've never been the biggest fan of the Rainbow Six series. It was really a niche game that 
 I was just never into. But this, this is something entirely different. Ubisoft strikes a perfect 
 blend that welcomes newcomers to the genre, as well as a perfect place for returning fans of the 
 series. It's improved on every aspect of it's predecessors and deserves a spot in your 360 collection.
 
  
  The game offers a lot and is definitely worth the $60 price tag. First off, there is the campaign 
 which is pretty basic. It has some really great elements to it, but the lack of character development 
 and a very by the books story doesn't make it the game's main appeal. It is, however, a blast to 
 play through. This is enhanced by being able to go through the campaign via xbox live. You can 
 play with up to four people and these three will replace your other two AI sidekicks. The game 
 is best played with four people because of the difficulty; especially in realistic mode. It's good 
 to see games still having a good level of frustration added to them and Rainbow Six does that well. 
 The story mode won't take you long; about 6 hours on normal will get you through the six different 
 sections of the game. Co-op play is even shorter, which is to be expected.
  
  There is also a multiplayer mode and this is probably what fans of the game will jump right into 
 first and ultimately spend most of their time on. The thing is this isn't your basic online shooter. 
 The customization of everything has so much depth to it. There's so many modes which includes your 
 basics like deathmatch and variants of capture the flag. There is also many other modes to explore. 
 This is all enhanced by the level up system used in Vegas. You'll customize your own character 
 and every single game you play you level up to the next rank. It's ultimately one of the most addicting 
 things in gaming; you'll find yourself playing a lot more just to see what your next rank brings. 
 It really keeps progressing as you have more incentive to level up. For instance, when you get 
 a higher rank you unlock things like guns, camo, and accessories. Every new rank has something 
 that is unlocked at the end of it. The host also has cool customization options; like being able 
 to block 5 items. If you don't want to play with explosives, you can turn them off and many different 
 things like that. It's a really deep multiplayer; and the game itself could have sold with just 
 this portion of the game.
  
  There's only one drawback of this and it's that the game is extremely frustrating until you get 
 a higher rank. Partially because you can be kicked off ranked matches; some people are nice enough 
 to keep lower ranks, but many will toss you for no reason whatsoever. Plus, there are many clans 
 on the game; so you can imagine how unfair it is to be put on a team of people you have never met 
 versus a group of people that may play together every night. It's really a shame, because the first 
 three weeks I spent on the game were hell. It does get better though, but the beginning is quite 
 a grind.
  
  The final mode in Vegas is known as Terrorist Hunt. It's pretty simple, all you have to do is eliminate 
 all the enemies on a particular map (there are about ten different maps) . Like the story, you can 
 do this on live which seems to be the best way to play it. It's extremely challenging especially 
 on realistic difficulty. The AI is much better in the campaign, not saying the regular AI is bad, 
 but in Terrorist Hunt they are more intelligent and more aggressive. This little addition is fantastic 
 and makes the game even more of a great value.
  
  Vegas uses a nice, very accessible cover system. It's good to see this being implemented instead 
 of the basic run and gun styles found in many games today. Cover is needed to get through the game 
 and it's not like you'll be able to just run through levels plowing enemies down. It really makes 
 the game feel very tactical, and fits with the game very well. You'll also get to do things like 
 rappel down windows and hang backwards while eliminating enemies. These minor additions really 
 help Vegas come together, and the best part is that many of these things can be used in multiplayer.
 
  
  Graphically, Vegas is a real win. The game has fantastic lighting and keeps a consistent framerate 
 throughout. The campaign seems to look better than the multiplayer. It's not a big difference, 
 but you can see the guns look better and there are some other minor details. It still looks really 
 good in multiplayer though; and it really makes the Unreal Engine 3 shine.
  
  Vegas also sounds great. You'll find a lot of variety in the guns; and they all don't make the 
 same basic machine gun noise. It's very nicely detailed all throughout; despite some relatively 
 so-so voice acting. The enemies will yell back and fourth various things, mostly obscenities or 
 taunts directed at you. It would have been nice to have seen them capitalize on the Vegas theme 
 a bit more; but it keeps things basic which isn't necessarily a bad thing, just something I felt 
 could have been utilized to give you more of the sense that your in Vegas. It's good that they 
 didn't go overboard which wouldn't have been good either. Rainbow Six: Vegas isn't isn't just another 
 shooter. It's tactics, combined with it's great customizable options make it a must for anyone 
 who is a fan of the genre. There is a lot of game here, and it'll be the only game you'll need 
 for a good six months or so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobby_thomas
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 19, 2007 10:18 pm PT
Review:  I think that the level of realism in this game is crazy! All the guns and items are realsitic and 
 act as they should. as i said the multiplayer is alot better than campaign and way better than 
 halo 2 because you have to think about what you will do instead of running and gunnig. BEST GAME 
 ON 360. MAYBE BEST SHOOTER EVER!! This game pulled off tactical shooter well. The cover system 
 isn't completely flawed, like GOW. The blind fire actually works, and there is a wide veriety of 
 guns and weapons to choose from. If you own a 360 and want a good game buy this one. If you have 
 live then you NEED this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 19, 2007 10:08 pm PT
Review:  A fantastic game that brings the joy of killing terrorist and great online play is the best way 
 to describe RSV!
  
  gameplay - FPS dont have much to describe besides points and shoot. but RSV gives you the ability 
 to strategize before you go into the combat zone with different types of weapons. how you use you 
 thermal or night vision googols. how you enter a room. control a 3 man team and how kill terrorist. 
 is a great gameplay only know by playing it.
  
  online - fantastic! this game is months old and still you have many gamers playing this game, because 
 its just the one game online its just fun!. multiple game types such as sharpshooter, assassin, 
 terrorist hunt and all apply to single or team gameplay. overall - while the graphics won't knock 
 you off you seat its a game that you won't be able to put down. its realistic look and action equals 
 multiple hours of gameplay making it s well worth buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomjay31
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  Beginning with the single player campaign, R6V starts you in Mexico and with the help of fluent 
 story, carries you all the way through Vegas. R6V is loaded with real world weapons. Team commands 
 are relatively simply and imperative to completing tasks with ease as opposed to going Rambo. The 
 graphics are very impressive with very life like Nevada Dam replica. The AI is corresponds well 
 with which ever setting you have on (Normal or Realistic) . R6V puts to work one of the best (if 
 not the best) cover systems I've ever came across. It allow for shooting while protecting your body 
 and provides the element of surprise when playing online. Also for all the non online gamers, you 
 and a buddy go do co-op story (which is the same as single player story) and terrorist hunts.
 
  
  Probably the best thing about this game is it's multiplayer abilities. First and most impressive, 
 is the ability to fully customize your character. You choose your face (or scan your own face if 
 you have a Live Camera) , camo, armor, and weapons. The addiction comes in that with each move up 
 in rank, new weapons, armor and camo patterns are unlocked. Upon the reaching Elite (the highest) , 
 you get to design three of your own camo patterns from scratch. There's a sufficient amount of 
 maps and fame types to play and with the addition of the Players Pack, there are even more to choose 
 from. Online gamers also have the ablility to play the co-op story and terrorist hunts. In all, 
 this game hits on all cyclinders. It's one of those rare games you play hours day in and day out 
 until the next one comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha172
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 16, 2007 3:04 am PT
Review:  This game is a masterpiece in someways, now how do I start off and why..
  Campaign: Realistic, intense, tactical shooter as the gameplay has nice characters, missions and 
 gameplay and moderate blood/gore popping out of the terrorists which you really wanted to see more 
 blood dripping all over them. Could have expected a extended campaign which would be really, really 
 nice. What else? Theres hardly any bugs found in it, since I've played the campaign several times 
 for the achievements.
  
  Multiplayer: Just like the campaign except they needed to fix alot of stuff..
  For example, why 
 do guns pop out of doors when the door is closed? When throwing incendaries in terrorist hunt maps, 
 the terrorist either dissapear into a nether world or simply scream like they've been poked a thousand 
 times all over their bodies when theyre supposed to light up in flames like the campaign. Expected 
 alot more custom helmets, vests, weapons (like m4a1 assault rifle carbine and anti tank even if 
 its not necessary but would do nice massive area effect damage) for unlocking when being a higher 
 rank and attachments for the shield, like lights? Also expected to see a In box which tells you 
 where the host is from instead of the ping, so people dont accidently get kicked for being in a 
 international country (i've searched a terrorist hunt game for a aussie host with a red ping, which 
 its supposed to be green as the gameplay with him worked out fine) . Now, overall the multiplayer 
 is great, hundreds of players still playing it since its release date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metheloon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 14, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  The multiplayer is the best part of this game, the ranking system brings in a whole new level. 
 You become addicted to gaining points and unlocking the new stuff with the next rank. And the best 
 part is it's a whole lot of fun too. There is a great variety of guns and maps to use them on. 
 Many people use the microphones and team tactics are often brought into play which makes you feel 
 more importamt rather than other games where you just run around shooting whoever you see. I'd 
 recommend it to anyone interested in fps's and if you have a 360 at least rent it because it truely 
 is a great game and I think is much better than Halo 2 or Halo 3 can be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: all-star16
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 14, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas is probably one of the most realistic shooters available for the 
 Xbox 360. It has a great cover system in which the game goes into a 3rd person view. The single 
 playe story mod gives you many new options of rules of engagement neve before seen in a video game. 
 Ubisoft created a revoulutionary 1st person shooter with innovative features. The environments 
 are stunning and inlude beautiful casinos. The online multiplayer is very exciting and incudes 
 many modes including CO-OP Terrorist Hunts and CO-OP Story mode. There are many weapons, attachments, 
 and armor equiptment pieces to choose from. There are many ways to customize your charachter online 
 incuding taking a picture of your face and making it your characters if you have an Xbox Live Vision 
 camera. Overall, this game is amazing and if you like shooters or any game that is god, BUY THIS!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 300_Spartans
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 13, 2007 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Story: The story unfolds as you play, but its mostly about the gameplay and scenery.
  
  Sound: All guns sound accurate and terrorists say hundreds of different things, i always hear something 
 new. The environment could have been louder though.
  
  Graphics: Scenery is amazing, characters are amazing, the graphics could have not been much better.
 
  
  Gameplay: Very very fun, theres many different ways to complete each mission, and the missions 
 are all fun. I personally liked the Vertigo Spire level (Stratosphere)
  
  Multiplayer: Awesome. You can customize you character, and unlock new things as you character ranks 
 up real ranks. There are many game modes, but it does take too long to rank up.
  
  Overall, my favorite game, and ive put way too many hours into it, and im only Captain. I highly 
 recommend it to anyone buying a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HummaKavula
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 13, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  In this new edition in the Rainbow Six series you play as Logan Keller, squad-leader of a three-man 
 team, sent into Vegas to stop terrorists from bombing the entire city. Lackluster, yes, but enough 
 to keep you satisfied throughout the campaign.
  
  The story is not the reason to play Vegas, in fact, that's probably the last thing you're looking 
 for in this game. It's all about the action, it's fast-paced, it's tactical, it's awesome.
  
  The campaign is linear, but fun. You get to choose from a wide arrange of weapons including 
 sniper rifles, pistols, submachine guns, grenades etc.
  Gadgets are also fun to use, snake-cams for example, you slip it under a door and you get to see 
 what's behind. Rappels allows you to, well, rappel down walls and infiltrate through windows. There's 
 all kinds of stuff I'm not bothered with telling you, you'll just have to play the game instead.
 
  The gameplay works great too, you have one button to use standard issues and orders. Opening doors, 
 setting your teammates positions, issuing orders all that stuff is controlled from the A-button.
 
  The game also features a cover-system that works very well and rivals Gears of War, it adds to 
 the gameplay as well as the realism.
  
  The multiplayer is also alot of fun, but there's no particular variety, especially in what the 
 level designs offer. Almost everyone plays Calypso Casino, and that map got old fast. I haven't 
 even got the chance to play through every multiplayer map because, well, nobody wants to play them.
 
  So that's kind of disappointing, but it's still fun.
  
  The games graphics look kind of washed out, especially in the multiplayer component, but nonetheless 
 there's no denying it looks very good.
  The textures are sharp and the character models are excellent, great art design, but it looks a 
 little bland, it's hard to describe.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas is most definitely a game worth checking out if you're thirsty for some tactical 
 action, with a fun, engaging campaign and a fun multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shifty_saint
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 13, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  From the old Ps1 version, to the great 360, and the change is amazing.
  
  As a squad leader, it gets difficult sometimes, but games get more and more realistic, which brings 
 us to Vegas, land of money, wealth, and terrorists?
  
  Rainbow six, ive never been a big fan of RB6 games, but when me and my friend decided to take it 
 head on, we found a magnificant action packed, tactical FPS game. New weapons, which are fully 
 customizable, and suits to choose from gives this game that unique quality everyone looks out for, 
 and yes the missions are imersive, and highly detailed.
  
  RB6 Vegas is hard, it is, unless you know what your doing, unlike MOH games, you cant run up to 
 someone and shoot them, you cant survive 6-8 grenades going off next to you! thsi game makes you 
 think, makes you move stealthly and tactically to accomplish your mission.
  
  The game A. i is great aswell, there accurate, and deadly which gives you the chance to get better 
 at thinking tactically, you must outsmart the enemy, with your team.
  
  The game begins in Mexico, and you proceed from there to terrorist town (vegas) with great attention 
 to detail, and a sense of Atmosphere gives the single player missions a unique and very addictive 
 gameplay.
  
  Multiplayer!!
  
  WOW, great mulitplayer quality, using your own tactical mind to take your ememies, and get top 
 of the scoreboards.
  
  Your player online is fully customizable, uniform, helmet, everything giving your player his own 
 identity. Also your weapons and equipment are customizable, adding scopes, lazers, and silencers, 
 onto weapons you want to use. Personally, i love that in this game, and thsi game is is worth buying, 
 but download it over xbox live first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegaJSF
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  The Game Itself, Is Decent to the Tom Clancy Rainbow Six Series, but the game itself does not reach 
 to its first brethren. Vegas lacks in some game play issues but makes up for it with a HUGE selection 
 of weapons and accessories to choose from. Its an Average game is worth renting first, The multi-player 
 isn't that different either, Multi-player has ranks and those Ranks are Required to unlock Weapons, 
 Armor, And otherwise, Things you Really need. And Most the Missions you start with are Extremely 
 Difficult. Playing the underground tunnels, Makes you fight terrorists head on, With an MK.23 and 
 a Shotgun... I took me about 15 Tries before I actually got past that mission and unlocked some 
 great pistols... The Graphics are amazing at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuscleCarMan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 12, 2007 1:23 am PT
Review:  This game is not for the green horns i can say that now. If youve never played a shooter or youre 
 used to halo. Youre going to die a lot more than you like. -Gameplay - Cover is even more essencial 
 in this game than it is in GoW, since its much more realistic. Head shots mean instant death, there 
 are no free shots with blind fire. You stick your hand out and its going to get shot off. Your 
 team is pretty smart and can handle themselves with the best of them. This game is fast and frantic. 
 Be prepared to actually think before you leap cause once again, if you dont YOU WILL DIE. Multiplayer 
 is a blast, the graphics are toned down slightly to handle all the action. The only gripe i had 
 about MP is that if youre playing vets, they will have better gear than you. So be prepared for 
 a challenege. 4 player split screen co-op or online. Same with terrorist hunt, which is also a 
 fun mode.
  
  -Graphics - Nothing short of amazing. Colors are vibrant and brilliant. Weapon and player models 
 are insanely realistic. You can actually see the chambered bullet in the gun if you look down the 
 barrel. Eyes get shot out, change cups fly, and slot machines spit out coins when shot at. -Sound- 
 Guns sound realistic, people swear and dont hold any punches (when rainbow says drop the F*CKING 
 gun they mean drop the F*cking gun) . The casinos sound just like vegas even with the cheesy music 
 at the slot machines.
  
  -Value - A must have for tactical shooter fans ( i. e. old splinter cell, original RB6) . -Reviewer's 
 Tilt - I love RB6 (except 3 and lockdown) , nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jemimah666
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  Having been a Rainbow Six fan on PC for nearly 10 years now, this is certainly the most exciting 
 and immersive one yet. Although a far cry from the tactical shooter it was before the disgrace 
 that was Rainbow Six Lockdown, it blends hectic gun battles and tactical play.
  
  Graphics : Visuals inside buildings are on the most part impressive, however it is hardly pushing 
 the boundaries here on the Xbox 360. Outisde however, they are often bland and look a little unfinished.
 
  
  Gameplay :
  
  Frantic gun battles can be exciting and immersive, the game holds up well with no noiticeable framerate 
 drops. You cannot complain that the enemy AI is not challenging, espicially on hard as they are 
 deadly accurate even when firing on full automatic. Perhaps unfairly, they do not react to bullets 
 when hit, whereas your vision blurs realistically. Your team-mate AI is poor and often becomes 
 a liablilty, having been downed in the middle of a firefight, you then have to throw yourself into 
 the line of fire to recover them before they 'bleed out' , this often results in you being killed. 
 Save points are too infrequent and trial and error gameplay becomes a redgular occurence due to 
 the insane numbers of terrorists in each particular gunfight. Coupled with your team-mates poor 
 AI it can become mightily frustrating. However, gameplay is very engaging as well as exciting on 
 the most part, just marred by the ocassional extremely frustrating moments. The Single -player 
 compaign is longer than average and on hard difficulty your looking at 15 + hours easily
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  A huge host of options and gametypes coupled with frantic online play makes 
 this highly recommendable, however the visuals suffer hugely and they are reduced considerably 
 for multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crypto-236
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 10, 2007 2:57 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas, to sum it all up, it's a disappointment. The game is a First person tactical 
 shooter that takes place in Las Vegas. The single player campaign is solid, even if a bit hard 
 at times. You will fight in fictional casinos around Las Vegas killing terrorists to try and stop 
 them from killing tons of people... you know the story. It's a very uninteresting story, even for 
 a Tom Clancy game.
  
  The gameplay is pretty good, even though it can get repetitive. You will find yourself ordering 
 your team mates to clear a room far too often, and your team mates are practically useless. They 
 will clear a room of a limited number of terrorists fine, but any more and they will be wounded, 
 leaving you to kill the terrorists while making sure they don't die at the same time. If one dies 
 you can order your team mate to heal him but if there's just 1 terrorist remaining he will get 
 wounded, leaving you to kill the remaining terrorists and revive your useless team mates. By the 
 way if you want them to kill guys efficiently, don't get your hopes up.
  
  The graphics are good in single player, mediocre in multiplayer. The graphics have been downscaled 
 significantly in multiplayer for god knows what reason, which leads me into my next point. The 
 online multiplayer is a travesty. Don't bother trying to play anyone outside your own country because 
 the game will lag like you've never seen it lag before. I can play Gears, GRAW etc fine in American 
 servers, but Vegas, no way. Even if I wanted to I couldn't play in a yank's server, I get booted 
 for having a bad ping. And that leads me to my next point - the online community is garbage, it's 
 not as bad as Gears of War but it's the second worst community I've ever seen on Live.
  
  The game's single player will keep you entertained, it is very challenging especially realistic 
 difficulty. However the multiplayer is mediocre, it lags, the community is very average, and you 
 will find yourself getting booted from servers for lag, even if you aren't a high rank, you might 
 get booted.
  
  Anyway I would recommend GRAW 2 over this by a long shot, for single player alone. The multiplayer 
 in that game is too clan based and you will get kicked for not knowing the host which is completely 
 ludicrous.
  
  If you are looking for a good single player tactical shooter, you may like Vegas. If you are looking 
 for a good online experience, I would not recommend Vegas or GRAW 2 really, I would suggest a COD 
 game or Gears of War.
  
  Final score - 7.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 9, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  I loved the Rainbow Six series right from the beggining when the original came out on PC. This 
 game was a classic and it has evolved amazingly over time. This is not only the best Rainbow Six 
 in the series but the hardest. I have never been killed so many times in a single player campaign 
 game. I though Ghost Recon was hard untill I managed to master it but this is ver unforgiving. 
 TAKE COVER OR DIE!!! should be the tag line for the game. The graphics are absolutely incredible 
 especially when you get to Vegas all the lights and glamour really add to it. If your a big fan 
 of Clancy or GRAW and want a real challenge buy this. You wont be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RiseAgainst12
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 9, 2007 6:48 am PT
Review:  this game is great!! best multiplayer game out there and i love it but i have been a big fan off 
 all the rainbow six games and this ones story really lets it down compared to the rest.
  the thing that made this such a great first person for the ps2 was the challenge involved. the 
 fact that ur health bar couldnt be rejuvenated and u had to maybe beat a level dodgin any bullet 
 that came ur way was what made it so fun. i would love to see this feature put back into this great 
 series!
  you cant beat the classics. Tom Clancy games rule so much and i can't wait for endwar! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Motara
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  I have enjoyed Rainbow Six immensely. It is probably the best tactical first person shooter on 
 the market. The amazing quality of the weapon effects and firing -- to the decent amount of variety 
 in levels make this game a must have for 360 players. There is just no replacing the sheet joy 
 of firing off a full clip from a submachine gun of your choice while terrorists cower in fear. 
 The online play might be a bit intimidating, there are some very good players online, but get settled 
 into a niche and I am sure you will keep up with the crowd. I have personally enjoyed the achievements. 
 The storyline is well done, although I must say that the ending is not the best moment in gaming 
 history. Multi-Player has enough options to fill plenty of lonely hours of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djsaskdja
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 8, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit I've never been a big Rainbow Six fan. The tactical shooting genre just always seemed 
 kind of boring to me until recently. After playing G. R. A. W. and Gears of War I thought I'd give 
 this game a shot. I am happy to say I wasn't disappointed at all. Vegas has all that I could ask 
 for in an FPS plus more. The cover gameplay is tight and works extremely well. The many weapons 
 all have a very different feel to them and can all be somewhat customized. The graphics are solid 
 at best and just seem to have that kind of weird look that almost all Unreal 3 engine games seem 
 to have although they still look good. I would also say the sound is on par with the graphics. 
 The singleplayer story mode is definitely not worth the purchase if you don't have Xbox Live though. 
 It's decently fun and does it's job but doesn't even compare to the amazingly awesome multiplayer. 
 It's got all your basic game modes with many fun maps but the game modes that stick out for me 
 is the cooperative terrorist hunts and the cooperative story missions with up to four players. 
 There is just something really fun about teaming up with three people on Xbox Live and killing 
 some terrorists. The ranking system is also a lot of fun and beats the crap out of Halo's lousy 
 ranking system. Your rank never goes down and going up in the ranks actually has benefits like 
 new weapons and armor. Which is nice but even if a Private and an Elite go head to head skill will 
 almost always decide who wins in a match even if the better equipment helps. One thing that I absolutely 
 hated about the multiplayer is that in sharpshooter (deathmatch) and team sharpshooter grenades 
 have way too short of a fuse on them and if ones coming your way and your behind cover... BOOM your 
 dead. Also the game has TONS of glitches and it seem I can't get through three matches without 
 some ten year old who plays the game 24-7 and finds all these crazy wall glitches and starts killing 
 me from somewhere I can't see. Otherwise this game lives up to its predecessors and is a mustbuy 
 for any shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: basskill2000
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2007 5:59 am PT
Review:  some friends have been nagging me to get this game, I finally broke and went to to pick it up, 
 I am extremely glad I did, this is a great game and multiplayer is a great time. I started doing 
 more multiplayer for ranking up and getting more weapons. the more i do it, the more I am addicted 
 to this game. The Single player missions are great as wel. the team is very aware of their own 
 surroundings and can usually take care of them selves. nice breaching engagements. AI is not dumb 
 like other games I have played, AI can change their path at any given time to try and ambush you 
 especially in T-Hunt missions in multiplayer. Fantastic Shooter. definately recommended to all. 
 A must have 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhomes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas is an amazing shooter. The gameplay is very smooth and the offline single player 
 is very well played out and actully very fun. The ending is very unsatisfying. But we've been there 
 before. Offline co-op is decent. but not much more.. I would of liked if the offline co-op was 
 a little more organized like single player. as it does sometimes get confusing (you'll understand 
 what I mean if you played it) Xbox live is great. I love the ranks you can get... as it keeps you 
 sucked in and makes it addictive. of course they have the Sharpshooter (deathmatch) Team Sharpshooter 
 (team deathmatch) Survival &amp; Team Survival (one round) I wish they kinda woulda made it first 
 to win 10 or 20 or something. Attack and Defend (attackers rush in and try to steal the briefcase.. while 
 the defenders.. well.. defend) Xbox live is no doubt the funnest thing about this game and you will 
 find extreme replay value out of it. The sound is nice, not perfect but its what you pretty much 
 expect. Graphics are very pretty, espiecally in the casinos as theres so much lighting effects 
 going on in there.. and trust me there all here. Im sure ive missed a couple things but I hope off 
 this review this has helped you with your purchase or rental. If you enjoy shoooting games.. this 
 game is definatly one you should pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbeen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 4, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  Like most Ubisoft games the single player game is ok in spots but the real meat of this game is 
 the mulitplayer. In fact after playing the single player for about 6 hours and just about finishing 
 it I started to play the multiplayer and have found I have not gone back to the single player. 
 This is not a suprise for me as that is what happends in most Ubisoft games. Don't get me wrong, 
 the single player is good but the replay is in the multiplayer. I got the game for Chistmas and 
 of all my 360 games this gets the most replay. So if you are into multiplayer shooters this is 
 as good as it comes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bond21
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 4, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas, to sum it all up, it's a disappointment. The game is a First person tactical 
 shooter that takes place in Las Vegas. The single player campaign is solid, even if a bit hard 
 at times. You will fight in fictional casinos around Las Vegas killing terrorists to try and stop 
 them from killing tons of people... you know the story. It's a very uninteresting story, even for 
 a Tom Clancy game.
  
  The gameplay is pretty good, even though it can get repetitive. You will find yourself ordering 
 your team mates to clear a room far too often, and your team mates are practically useless. They 
 will clear a room of a limited number of terrorists fine, but any more and they will be wounded, 
 leaving you to kill the terrorists while making sure they don't die at the same time. If one dies 
 you can order your team mate to heal him but if there's just 1 terrorist remaining he will get 
 wounded, leaving you to kill the remaining terrorists and revive your useless team mates. By the 
 way if you want them to kill guys efficiently, don't get your hopes up.
  
  The graphics are good in single player, mediocre in multiplayer. The graphics have been downscaled 
 significantly in multiplayer for god knows what reason, which leads me into my next point. The 
 online multiplayer is a travesty. Don't bother trying to play anyone outside your own country because 
 the game will lag like you've never seen it lag before. I can play Gears, GRAW etc fine in American 
 servers, but Vegas, no way. Even if I wanted to I couldn't play in a yank's server, I get booted 
 for having a bad ping. And that leads me to my next point - the online community is garbage, it's 
 not as bad as Gears of War but it's the second worst community I've ever seen on Live.
  
  The game's single player will keep you entertained, it is very challenging especially realistic 
 difficulty. However the multiplayer is mediocre, it lags, the community is very average, and you 
 will find yourself getting booted from servers for lag, even if you aren't a high rank, you might 
 get booted.
  
  Anyway I would recommend GRAW 2 over this by a long shot, for single player alone. The multiplayer 
 in that game is too clan based and you will get kicked for not knowing the host which is completely 
 ludicrous.
  
  If you are looking for a good single player tactical shooter, you may like Vegas. If you are looking 
 for a good online experience, I would not recommend Vegas or GRAW 2 really, I would suggest a COD 
 game or Gears of War.
  
  Final score - 7.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Louisville18
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 7, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas may be the best of the Tom Clancy series to date. Besides looking amazing, Rainbow 
 plays great with a good story mode and an even better online multiplayer mode. The new cover system 
 makes the game even more realistic, and just the fact that you need be a little tactical makes 
 the experience even more enjoyable, whether it's infiltrating a hostage site with an assault rifle 
 or suppressing down the enemy with a light machine gun.
  
  Overall the story mode is typical Tom Clancy and will probably keep most people entertained. Even 
 just playing through the game to see the graphics and visuals is well worth it. The only problem 
 with the story is that there are only two difficulty settings, with the hardest being called realistic. 
 That should probably say enough, as you'll need to be smart and very tactical to beat the game. 
 Though not impossible, it's definitely not easy, especially since there is no medium difficulty 
 setting.
  
  However, what makes this game even better in the multiplayer aspect. Offline, you and another friend 
 can take on the entire story mode together in either difficulty, plus having another person makes 
 the terrorist hunt game option a lot easier. Online, Rainbow Six may be the best game out there. 
 The Persistent Elite Creation, or PEC, lets you create an online avatar and after building up you 
 rank, you can unlock new outfits and weapons, allowing you to choose the best weapon for you as 
 well as a sweet look. Once you enter the game, there are many different maps to play from and different 
 games types, too, that should keep you entertained for hours at a time. Online also supports larger 
 scale matches from 14-16 players, which makes the game a lot more fun since your teammates can 
 split up to flank the other team and each person can bring their own style of combat to the table. 
 Online also has the co-op story mode and terrorist hunt that lets you play with 3 other friends.
 
  
  Overall, Rainbow Six Vegas is one of the best games out there and if your a fan of Ubisoft, FPS, 
 and tactical shooters, this game is a must. Even though there are few minor complaints here and 
 there, there is absolutely no way they can stop anyone from playing a game that not only looks 
 great, but plays great, too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbird991
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 3, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas returns to form as an excellent tactical shooter, but is much more accessible 
 for the average shooter fan with streamlined controls and a simple health system. The sprawling 
 levels like the glowing Fremont Street or the Hoover Dam open up Rainbow like it's never been before, 
 and the result is a balanced shooter that is as much close-quarter combat as long-range head shots. 
 The new gameplay mechanics, notably the intuitive cover system and inverted rappelling, are simply 
 outstanding. While the visuals are solid, the textures and colors are muted and appear washed out. 
 The sound, on the other hand, fuses a pulsing anti-terrorist soundtrack with gritty dialogue -- 
 I will f***ing shoot you! -- and even some humor -- Hey man, you play videogames? The multiplayer 
 options feature huge, well-designed maps, a variety of modes and four-player co-op. In total, Rainbow 
 Six: Vegas is the best first-person shooter on the Xbox 360. Viva Las Vegas indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nasir500
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 3, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  one of the best rainbow six games to hit the platform. there are some glitches but it doesnt matter 
 because its the best shooters on the 360.
  The multiplayer is so fun. xbox live is the best way to play this game. You and your friends can 
 go through the whole story mode together on co op. Or just vs others in sharpshooter matches. there 
 are so many weapons to choose from and also the levels to play in have so many diffrent looks and 
 all have there unique scence of gameplay. 5 out of 5 stars. 10 out of 10. 100%. LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JS92
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 4, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  Yes, this is the greatest Tom Clancys Rainbow 6 game ever. I have virtually spent a whole day on 
 it playing online.
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay is massively long and it will take you hours to complete, with many different 
 levels all ranging from a casino to the casino car park, from the construction zone to the terrorists 
 base. It is so much fun running around a casino with an AK - 47! there is also a wide range of 
 guns to choose from, atleast 12 different assault rifles, 5 different pistols, 4 snipers, 5 shotguns, 
 a dozen different throwable objects, ect. The feature of placing your character on a wall then 
 popping out to shoot or frag enimies to death is sheer amazement and is really exciting, not only 
 does this give you cover but it also gives you time to find enimies and have a look around at the 
 amazing scenery. When you get shot your screen (HUD as it is known on other tom clancy games) will 
 go from a light black, slowly getting darker as you are shot more, to a black screen and all you 
 can see is your gun and maybe some other bits.
  
  Graphics - I play my copy of R6V on a SDTV (Standard Definition TV) and it is truley amazing with 
 lots of high detail in all of the casino's and other areas, including the rainbow team (you and 
 some 2 other friends) and the terrorists. The head shots are not too gorey, but it is a 16+ game 
 so there is bound to be blood (heck its a shooting game duh) . Sound - The quality of the sound 
 is not too shabby as online all you hear is gun shots and bombs. But in the story mode there is 
 not alot of songs or sound of the like, what you can hear though it shooting, bombs, the terrorists 
 shooting, and if your in the casino, then you can hear the slot machine's going off (coins dropping 
 and music) .
  
  Value - The value of this game is excellent, it will keep you entertained and playing for hours 
 on end! Especially the online mode, oh yes! Definatly worth getting and playing, dont just let 
 some other game make you put this game away, oh no, this is truley a great game!
  
  Online? - Yes this game has a great online service with many downloads available, my only problem 
 is the facts that there are so many glitches and that people who cant win at the game will use 
 these glitches to their advantage, so my advice to avoid people glitching is either tell the host 
 to kick them (little harsh) or guard that spot and make sure they dont get the glitching spot, 
 plus then you can many kills as most people like to use them ;) however besides the glitches abusers 
 everyone else is great to play with (By the way i have had many, if not dozens of friend requests 
 from playin with such great people)
  
  Verdict - 9/10, my only gripe is the fact that the levels online can get a little glitchy and annoying 
 to some! So get this game soon and get online, if you dont have live then your are missing out, 
 big time!!!
  
  Hope this review helped! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laxboy65
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 3, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games you suck at, but you play it all day and you like it. There so many 
 weapons and custom parts. The game is revolved around going into a casino clearing rooms or lobbies, 
 saving some people and taking cover. The graphics, let's just say you don't need to worry they 
 are awesome and have great detail. There are two difficulties normal :) and realistic : (. The normal 
 is just right. On the other hand, realistic is one or two shots and you are dead. The first person 
 mode is fun because if you get shot a couple of time on normal the screen fogs up like in real 
 life. The game is all around superb. thats why I give it a nine point five. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paradise19
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 3, 2007 6:18 am PT
Review:  x x x x xxx x x x x x x x x x x x x xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x  
 vv v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v vv v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v 
 v v v v vv v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v 
 v v v v v v v v v v v vv v v v v v v v vvvv v v v v v v v v v v v v 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whirlbat
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 2, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  Lets get one thing straight Im all for people forming their own opinions, but if you cant enjoy 
 this games multiplayer, you are not meant to play FPS games. With regard to multiplayer, this 
 game takes Halo to school and makes the whole TimeSplitters series look like a college-drop-outs 
 project. The only thing its really missing is Oddball (which without the ability to jump or melee, 
 wouldnt make much sense anyway) . Lets start with the lesser aspects of the game, shall we?
  
  Could Stand Improvement: The single player story, while creative, is simply unrealistically 
 hard at some points (especially on the realistic difficulty) . It becomes not so much a matter 
 of skill as a matter of luck, in some points, because your team doesnt always follow your orders 
 (what do you mean you cant move to that location?! Its right the **** in front of me!) or youve 
 run out of those ever so essential smoke grenades. While realistic, the enemy getting headshots 
 on you isnt exactly a fun thing to experience, after a long, arduous battle up a hotel either.
 
  
  Neutral: Your teammates, while helpful, are occasionally kind of dumb. Their fighting AI isnt 
 all that bad, but once in a while, you may try to give them an order (such as to go up a ladder 
 or to heal the other teammate) , and they will just stare at you stupidly. Co-op story mode doesnt 
 actually tell you the story as you go along. Human players cant be revived when they take too 
 much damage (unlike the computers) .
  
  That Which Makes Up for the Previous: The gun selection in the game is reminiscent of Goldeneye 
 64, with a vast number of weapons to choose from, all being relatively balanced, but some better 
 than others in different situations. The weapon selection, also, very much caters to just about 
 every style of player. For example, perhaps youre the John Wayne type and all you want is a powerful 
 gun that puts people down; there is a fast-reloading, automatic shotgun just for you. Or maybe 
 youre the guy who guards the flag in capture-the-flag games. There is a more powerful SPAS-12 
 shotgun for you. Maybe you hate to reload and like to just bum-rush your opponents right in their 
 base; there are light machine guns with 100-shell magazines for you. Perhaps you prefer to hide, 
 out of harms way and just blow away any unfortunate enemies who happen to cross into your zone 
 (like me) ; there is a fine selection of sniper rifles, including one that is slightly weaker than 
 the others, but also, isnt bolt action. You can really experiment and come into your own style 
 of playing with this game. Theres also rarely a shortage of players on XBox Live, at just about 
 any time of the day. The achievements are challenging, but fun to get. The multiplayer game modes 
 are all fun, in their own right, and some are quite novel.
  
  There are many good points to this game that Im sure Im forgetting, but by this point, youre 
 probably tired of reading my review anyway. This game is well worth the $60 tag (though you can 
 probably find it cheaper than that, by now) and is easily the most fun multiplayer experience the 
 XBox 360 has to offer, to date, in the FPS realm of videogames. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdub1993
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 2, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  In Rainbow six vegas the sigle player is okay, it isn't all that long and unless you're on realistic 
 it is very easy. Xbox live muilty player is a different story. It has you in ranks (Privete Second 
 Class to Elite) and the higher your rank the more things you can unlock to custumize your charecter. 
 They have alot of game modes, you can play with respawns or not depending on the host. My one problem 
 with the game is it's not all that realistic, I have shot people in the face and they didn't die, 
 and aswell as the bad lag that can sometimes happen were you can't even move out of a room. This 
 is a great game overall but if you don't have Xbox Live don't bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJPasadena
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 1, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  Ready? This is going to be quick. A must own if you're over the age of 14 and you own an Xbox 360. 
 A perfect combo of what makes a fun game, well, fun. It does everything well. Just the way they 
 introduce you into the game after inserting the disc, told me right off the bat that this game 
 was going to bring it. Oh and while I'm here and just as an added reason you should but this latest 
 R6 incarnation... never before in a R6 game has head shots from a sniper looked so good. There... that's 
 all you need to know. There's quite enough reviews out there that cover all the other stuff in-case 
 you were wondering. Let's put it this way, had there been (in some other aspects of the game) problems... I 
 would have totally brought them to life. Okay, fine... I'll share one knock eventhough it's not 
 really something that would make me think twice about buying or not buying the game. That would 
 be the plot... at times it lacks originality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebornInFlames
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 4, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Before Rainbow Six Vegas, I had never played a Tom Clancy game, and this was a good place to start, 
 I think. This is a first-person shooter with a twist - a good cover system. Very reminiscent of 
 Gears of War in fact, since when you take cover in R6V the view changes to 3rd person. From cover, 
 you can peek out in any direction available and pop off shots, and quickly return to safety. Blind 
 firing is another feature of the cover system and is very useful, although only at close range, 
 since the game's ballistics are very realistic, and pointing a gun blindly around corners firing 
 doesn't usually result in pinpoint accuracy. On the tactical side of things, you have 2 teammates 
 (guess it's rainbow 3 really) who are decidedly lethal, and can take out a fair number of tangos 
 for you. If you are to cavalier with their lives though, they will be downed and you will have 
 to heal them before they bleed out or it is mission over. Unfortunately, your guys can't be ordered 
 around seperately, which would have been a lot more fun. Your squad can be ordered to fire at will 
 or only after being fired upon, and you can tell them to silence weapons. Breaching rooms is good 
 fun. and you have more options here: you can have your team stack up at the door and rush in, toss 
 grenades or flashbangs first, or simply attach a charge to the door and blow it in. You also have 
 a snake cam which will be your best friend when going into new areas. As is the trend now, there 
 are no healthpacks, just a regenerating health system. When you take damage there is no health 
 bar or indicator. Instead your vision will get muddier and distorted until it is nearly completely 
 dark and will gradually restore if you make it to cover and rest. Death comes extremely quickly 
 in realistic (hard) mode, where you can die in one good shot. The combat is great fun, although 
 can get repetetive as you are facing the same enemy the entire game, in similar scenarios. The 
 AI is good but not great and could flank you a bit more than it does. You'd think Ubisoft would 
 do more to mix up the action than the occasional rappelling segment or the generic 'protect your 
 teammate while he downloads such and such' scenario. The game can also get supremely frustrating 
 at times. Graphics are amazing, on par with Gears which is not surprising since they use the same 
 engine. No complaints there. Sound is pretty good - guns sound amazing, music isn't great, kind 
 of like action elevator music, and your team says a lot of things over and over. Multiplayer is 
 fun, but the damage you are able to take seems to be too low in my opinion, and often you will 
 die without warning as someone pops you quickly from behind. Spawn camping and grenade spamming 
 also plague the game online. If you can get into a decent game with a decent group of players however, 
 this game is great online, and has plenty of maps and modes (most of which are hardly played) . 
 If you don't like online, the splitscreen coop and terrorist hunt modes should last you. If you 
 don't have any rainbow six games, get this one as it is a great intro. If you do, get it anyway 
 because of the supersharp graphics and the wide array of guns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lianne0304
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 1, 2007 3:27 am PT
Review:  cool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool 
 cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool 
 cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool 
 cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool 
 cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool 
 cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool 
 cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool 
 cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool 
 cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool 
 cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool 
 cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool 
 cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool 
 cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leewizza
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 31, 2007 9:33 pm PT
Review:  From go to woah this game is spot on in every way.
  I havent tried the multiplayer option and I am still amazed at its quality and value. There are 
 so many options (eg, weapons, commands, sights, interactions) and yet it is so easy to play and 
 enjoy.
  The graphics (especially while in transit between scenes) are awesome to say the least. On my 50 
 plasma I felt like I was actually there, something you cant say about a lot of games.
  
  If you dont play this you're crazy. One of the best games I have ever played on any system.
  
 Great effort guys and I cant wait for the next in the series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bananawaxer
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 11, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Tactical team Rainbow lands in the streets of Sin City: Las Vegas. The legendary city is a siege 
 for terrorists who want to rule the world. You must defend human lives in classic Vegas locations 
 such as Fremont Street, the Strips and Casinos before its too late! Ive always been a huge fan 
 of Tom Clancys Rainbow Six series, so of course I didnt hesitate a second before buying the game 
 as soon as it came out. In my opinion Rainbow Six Vegas is by far the best of the series. The graphics 
 are stunning and the environments are realistic and detailed. If you take a look at all the different 
 gameplays offered, the campaign mode is interesting but the strength of the game is its multiplayer 
 mode. The online mode is one of the best Ive ever seen. You really get pulled into the game, and 
 actually feel the stress of the game environment. The only flaw is the Chasing terrorists mode. 
 It may be a bit difficult for those whove never played this king of game, but fans of the series 
 will be amazed! Rainbow Six: Vegas is without a doubt a must for all the fans of the series as 
 well as for all gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zabuza318
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 31, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas offers a new step into the world of shooters as it combines fast 
 paced first person gun-fights with advance and in-depth squad command and even its own cover system 
 to draw in players.
  
  The story of the game is a interesting one, although commonly overused, Rainbow Six: Vegas still 
 manages to pull it off offering new developments and of course a large variety of ways to overcome 
 obstacles.
  
  Vegas also offers an amazing multiplayer as people have to play through the game with friends and 
 work their way up from Private to Elite. And unlike most other Tom Clancy games that Ubisoft has 
 made everything has been brought forward from the campaign to be used in game-modes such as Sharpshooter, 
 Team Sharpshooter, Attack &amp; Defend, Terrorist Hunts and of course an online version of the 
 story.
  
  The ability to customize your character for online play is an added treat to everyone which allows 
 them to have the unique look that everyone wants and even stand out by using the Xbox Live Vision 
 Camera to map your face on to the model.
  
  The only thing i was disappointed with in this game is how Jo's briefings and messages always got 
 cut because they had to include either Logan's voice due to replies or actually refer to him or 
 his team which obviously aren't in the co-op story since you take there place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StermerCody
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 30, 2007 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow six is back with a new job. Rainbow six vegas is a First person shooter set in diffrent 
 places. First you will be deploying in Mexico City and then all hell breaks loose. Then Terrorist 
 take over Las Vegas and team Rainbow is called in for duty and you will go on from there. The AI 
 in Rainbow Six Vegas is amazing. Then the multiplayer is typical. You have your CO-OP, Survial, 
 Sharpshooter, Team Survial, and Team Sharpshooter. Its 16 player online match. The achievements 
 in the game aare easy at sometimes some a hard. This is the far best Tom Clancy's shooter out there 
 at the moment. If you are looking for a shooter that is tatical. You might want to pick this one 
 up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamessports
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 30, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  As a shoot em up gamer myself, It was sorta a challenge for me to play this game. Halo is possibly 
 the best game ever created, but this does come pretty close. AS there are parts in this game that 
 just involves shooting as many bullets as you can, but you get much farther, and move much faster, 
 if you use tactics and smarts. Rainbow Six Vegas is one of the bet games just for that. And that 
 is not included the good graphics, great gameplay, and the great overall game.
  The setting of Vegas is a fun place to be. As you can see in the screen shots on gamespot, this 
 is a good setting. Compaired to other Tom Clancy's games, this has to be the best just because 
 of the gameplay. This is not much just like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_elmar
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 30, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  Well first of all lets star by saying this.... IN MY EYES THIS GAME IS FREAKIN GREAT!
  
  Well now with that out of the way...
  
  Tom Clancy's Rainbow 6 Vegas, is currently in my 360's 
 great pile. The game play alone hooked me to play online for countless hours a day neglecting to 
 remember that all Team/Sharpshooter ranked matches are Twenty Minutes.
  
  The game modes are great, and so are the people you jump online with. Unless you get into the room 
 with some 12 old dumbass who wont shut acts like there pro, wont shut up, profusely curses, and 
 then leaves after getting killed a few times. Or people who take advantage of Ubisoft releasing 
 the updates but neglecting to fix little glitchs in the game that people love to take advantage 
 of.
  
  But still, the game is greatness, If you don't have it, GO BUY IT, of you got it, PLAY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xbox360-gamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  Rainbow six vegas is an amazing shooter. The caimpain is amazingly long and takes about 15-20 hours 
 to complete. One the the best qualities in this game is the co-op terrorist hunt. This is where 
 u get to choose from 15 lvl and you have to kill the certain amount of terrorists to win. The good 
 thing about this is that its not the same. Every single time, the terrorists hide in different 
 place and it is up to u and ur friend to find them and kill them. U may look and freek out, since 
 it is 2 against 50... but... ull get used to it. It is really disappointing for me because my friend 
 keeps on dying when theirs like 3 more enemies left. Rainbow six vegas is a must buy for any one, 
 even if ur just a little bit interested at shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: esperienzalunar
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 28, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  one of the best to ever come out. This is one of those games that you just can't put down. A must 
 get if you own a 360. Extremely addicting from the beginning. Enjoyed every second of it. Can't 
 stress it enough GET THIS GAME. If you don't have a 360 get one, you won't be disappointed. I love 
 how realistic it is. This is one of the best FPS out there. Its basically military based action 
 combat. If you love Tom Clancy's work then you'll definitely love this one. Ubisoft is doing big 
 things, coming out with great titles for all of us to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NDIrish640
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 28, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. When you first get it make sure to play a little campaign first to get the 
 feel. Once you go online its a experience like no other tactical shooter ever. The experience and 
 feel of the game is amazing it feels like you are right there in the battle. You will get frustrated 
 at first when you start out as a private but once you get better this game will be hard to put 
 down. The atmosphere's of some of the level actually feel like you are in a vegas casino or in 
 a campus of a college, they designed this game knowing what they wanted to do and they did it. 
 Once you start you wont stop, trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRookieGB
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 28, 2007 5:25 am PT
Review:  If you own a xbox 360 this game is the best FPS you can buy. WHY?
  
  Simple, you will never get bored of it. The hide/cover feature in the game makes this game so realistic 
 compared with other FPS games.
  
  Yes GRAW and GOW are very good, but with the poor Multiplayer game in GRAW and the futureristic 
 feel of GOW, they just fall short of beatting R6V IMO.
  
  Team work/Deathmatch/Co-op story and terrorist hunt modes all add to this games excellent feel 
 and options. Full Face mapping with a Xbox camera is just the start of the kit options which upgrade 
 with expericence online.
  
  Get the demo/Hire the game/Download the demo or JUST BUY IT, as soon as you play this you won't 
 be disapointed.
  
  I have two mates that come round, I own around 8-10 Xbox 360 games including GRAW, GOW, Halo 2, 
 Battlefront, COD2, Splinter Cell DA .......
  
  BUT ALL THEY WANT TO PLAY IS SPLIT SCREEN CO-OP MISSIONS!
  
  THE SPLIT SCREEN GAMEPLAY ANDGRAPHICS 
 DON'T HARDLY SUFFER AT ALL FROM THE SINGLE PLAYER GAME.
  
  For them and me this game is a 360 owners MUST BUY.
  
  Online its even better, Meet friends 
 online and play terrroist hunts against the Console. Join a game online and just shoot everything 
 in-sight.
  
  This can be a tatical shooter with a team or just a good old shoot'em up.
  
  Need I say anymore?
  
  Miss this and miss out! Roll on Vegas 2!!!!
  
  Cheers All 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whoopdebejesus
Rating: 4.2
Date: May 27, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  I love the original PC Rainbow Six, own all the copies of Rainbow for 360, and (even the awful 
 Critical Hour and Lockdown titles) . Vegas is the WORST of all of these! Why? Well, if youve been 
 frustrated by AI programmed to see you through walls, respawn behind you in rooms you just cleared 
 and appear in the same place over and over, WELCOME TO VEGAS! I quit the campaign because I died 
 in the same place so many times no matter what I did (on realistic mode) and I routinely beat PC 
 and 360 shooters on Hard mode. Multiplayer might be great, but repeated attempts on different days 
 yielded unplayable lag, I tired even though Ive had no problems with any other game I play (GRAW 
 2 works fine) . There is a sound glitch that sounds like a JACKHAMMAR that just goes on and on. 
 I tried lone wolf mode and found the sniper rifle useless because the NPCs dont patrol, they jump 
 out around corners at you and burst through doors behind you. Like stealth? Forget it! A silent 
 pistol/rifle is a waste of time, as they NPCs know were you are before you get in sight. I could 
 go on and on about why this game is awful, but youll probably buy it based on hype anyway and 
 learn the hard way (like I did) or hopefully your standards arent as high as mine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IGDetail
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 15, 2007 8:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is like every FPS you've ever played. It won't raise any bars for being one of the next-generation 
 shooters, but if you were like me and missed it.... now might be the time to go back and pick it 
 up. The numerous weapons will have you wondering why there are so many (some are similar in stats) , 
 but who would argue in having a personal armory? The game flows well, despite a handful of tough 
 parts that you will have to repeat to get the right vantage points. The AI players are not exactly 
 sharpshooters or super intelligent (I found myself thinking that I will just get mauled by grenades 
 at certain points, but nothing worse than smoke came) , but if you play run-and-gun you will often 
 times find yourself dead very quickly. Like I said earlier, if you find yourself without a game 
 to play, check this one out.
  
  Latest addition: I've docked a few points from this game because of several reasons...
  
  1. 
 During the final stages, when shooting got tight, my character failed to cling to the wall that 
 I wanted him to after several tries. To think that the game wouldn't know that I wanted to look 
 into a door rather than a blank two-foot section of drywall is a travesty. There were also occassions 
 where the character stuck out waaay too much when it was definitely possible to hide fully.
  2. As a note to developers, could we please make it possible to go under an obstacle if there is 
 space? My character died several times because he was forced to slide around an object with about 
 four feet of clearance underneath.
  3. Also, make sure that the sight lines are visible to the player if they are visible to the character. 
 Several times I found myself looking directly at a bar in a window even when my character was well 
 through it.
  4. I read from one reviewer that there was a high-pitched whine during parts of the game. I also 
 heard this while playing near machinery... very, very, annoying and probably not good for my television 
 either.
  
  There, I feel better already :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwdthunder
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 27, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I've played the Rainbow days since the first one came out for the PC in like '97 or '98.
  
  They have always been great games but I picked this one up for the Xbox360 cause it was released 
 before the PC version.
  
  Fabulous game... the boys/girls in the Montreal studio have made this series great again.... the 
 last few were getting really sloppy with nothing new being brought to the table.
  
  Vegas has given the R6 games a new spin and it's awesome.
  
  Graphics are fantastic, but the 
 cover system is what's made this version so playable with the Xbox360 controller... I will always 
 love the Keyboard and Mouse for aiming, but this game is really fun with a contoller too.
  
  The fact there's no health meter is really cool.... if the screen goes black as your getting 
 shot, you die.... but, if you can get to cover, your vision will return to normal once you've completly 
 regenerated.... This is very cool, and eliminates a health meter.
  
  buy it if you like great shooters.
  don't buy it if you love the hyper frenzy of a game like 
 Gears of War, cause R6 is much slower with a real nice pace to it.... this is based on reality 
 (as real as you can get in a video game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stanhigareda
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  One of the main reasons why old-schoolers avoid this kind of games is because they see very difficult. 
 Manage a lot of commands and movements can scare someone who has not been around action games for 
 a while. The simple control and gameplay on this game is amazing, but not because of that the game 
 is not worthy... it is an amazing experience playing it alone or with companion.
  
  The game is not as linear as it might appear. The enemy is not stupid and they can think fast enough 
 to make you suffer to succeed. The history on the campaign is good enough and it has a lot of turnarounds 
 that can make the game enjoyable. And it is not difficult to learn and master it.
  
  Obviously the best is yet to come when you play it with your friends. It is a very tense experience 
 when you wait for the enemies, and try to get in control along with your partner for strategies 
 and movements.
  
  IT HAS IT ALL! Good gameplay, amazing missions, good cooperative options, good difficulty... I 
 have played it a while and I cant stop doing it.
  
  I have never realized how easy is to play this kind of games, though look difficult to learn to 
 play, it is an amazing experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbond904
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  After playin gears of War with my friend (williedog30) , and after we were practiclly unstopable. 
 we began to grow old of gears so we yook turns on rainbow. The game is awsome! almost no flaws 
 except for you can't do 2-player Xbox live. the graphics are amazing, the guns are awsome (and 
 you can custumize them, levels rule, maps rule, terrerist hunt rules, ect. The only other promblem 
 with this game is that the older rainbow six game had more stealth and stradegy involved, but this 
 game is more... assaultish. I mis the onld games where you hide and attack or let them walk into 
 ambushes. yet I can almost see the day when rainbow turns into halo (you charge and the one who 
 wins had the best guns and the best aim and the first shot) . But let's hope that day doesn't come. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomacres
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Rain bow Six games had hit a bad patch, there didn't seem to be room for them anymore with GRAW 
 and Splinter Cell dominating the Tom Clancy franchise. However, now the Rainbow Six team is back 
 and ironically creates THE best Tom Clancy game ever created!
  
  Gamplay: The tactical shooting genre has never been done as well as this. Ths shooting is intense 
 and the cover system is even better than the one in Gears of War. The AI is smart and controlling 
 your squadmates is a sinch. The storymode is super fun and terrorist hunts will keep you occupied 
 too. However, you can't consider to of even played this game properly until you get on Xbox Live. 
 The amount of game modes is staggering and every single one of them is superb.
  
  Graphics: Some of the best graphics to date. The character models and animations are excellent. 
 The detail in the weapons is staggering and the environments look beautiful. Everything about this 
 game looks awesome.
  
  Sound: A great action soundtrack rings throughout this game. The voice acting is also surprisingly 
 good and you really feel the urgency in both your sqaud and the terrorists voices. The sound effects 
 for the weapons and everything are also superb.
  
  Value: This could be one of the longest lasting Xbox 360 games. The story mode is a bit short, 
 weiging in at about 6-8 hours. The multiplayer, online and off, will last for ever. There is so 
 much to do it's incredible.
  
  Overall this is probably one of the best FPSs ever and the best 360 game to date. In fact it's 
 probably one of the best games to come out in the last 5 years and easily one of, if not the best 
 game to come out on a next-gen system. If you have a 360 then you should get this game. If you 
 have Xbox Live, then there's no excuse in the world not to have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willb1983
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 23, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Im not that big on FPS but this has to be one of the best FPS I have ever played. The gameplay 
 is amazing and the online mode is leaps and bounds better than any game I have played. There are 
 some online glitches that take away from the game. The single player mode is great if you dont 
 like to play online or if you dont have high speed internet, but once you play online then try 
 to play the single player it tends to be a liitle dull and boring. In the end Vegas revitalized 
 the Rainbow Six series which seem to be on the decline 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ndrewn
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 22, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is one of the best multiplayer game around. The blood splatter on the wall and 
 the P. E. C. its just amazing. The campaign is kind of boring but has a lot of achievements. The 
 multiplayer is were its at though. It has a lot of game types. The weapons in the game are realistic 
 and all together about 25 around there. The grenades are cheap and very sensitive. The ranking 
 system is very fun also. Each time you rank up you get mor stuff to customize your character with. 
 But this is a very fun game that once you start playing you wont let go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ek11sx
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 22, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who gives this game a bad review should be shot on the spot. Its a great all around game. 
 you don't need to have xbox live to get a whole lotta play either. The terrorist hunt and splitscreen 
 action is great, with many achievements you and your buddies can spend hours grinding for. Online, 
 not so good graphics, but it gives you higher frames per second so your good ole bad-wireless-connection 
 friend can still get some nasty headshots with the MTAR 21. Comparing this game with its neck-to-neck 
 competitor GRAW2, RSV wins, by a little bit. Graphics wise GRAW2 owns, but RSV has a certain smoothness 
 that makes this game loveable from the get-go. Overall, a game that will satisfy you until your 
 live subscription is cancelled. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BansheeRider
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 22, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  If you love FPS games, fun online games with strategy, or Tom Clancy. Then youve have got to try 
 Rainbow Six. The games story mode is pretty good, But I wont tell you anything of it, but it may 
 seem short but its no doubt fun.
  
  The graphics are very good and realistic looking, the lighting effects and sounds of gunfire and 
 slot machines immerse you into the game as if vegas was under attack.
  But the games strong points lie in the games mutliplayer, you have a variety of game modes to choose 
 from coming from Attack and defend to Assassination. Not only can you choose from these game modes 
 but you can also play the story mode with a friend where the real fun is.
  
  The game allows you to customize and create your own character for multiplayer, letting you choose 
 from different faces and allowing you too add your own camoe for his look. Armor and different 
 types of clothing and headgear will help you not only look cool but also give excellent defense 
 depending on your choices.
  
  If you think your character is the only thing you can customize your wrong, Vegas also gives you 
 the choice of choosing from a variety of different weapons each put into it's own categories of 
 firepower, gadgets and different types of explosives can also be chosen for your player, but you 
 can also put add-ons onto your weapon to increase your accuracy and aim.]
  
  Rainbow is a very fun game with great atmosphere, strategy, and a fun sense of style all games 
 need to write down on their notepads. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tree-branch
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 22, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Well, i bought this game in december and it entertained me for about 4 months which is a good lasting 
 time if you ask me. The single player on normal is very fun and takes about 6-8 hours. On realistic 
 this game takes much longer due to it being to hard. The graphics are alright and the game-play 
 is just right. The on-line is very fun with lots of maps and lots of cool weapons. You can unlock 
 more weapons and clothing as you get better in the game. The loading times on on-line does take 
 a while and sometimes you might get kicked off. In conclusion this is a slid game and is worth the 
 sixty dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonutTrooper
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 22, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is truly the best Rainbow six made. it was redone with wall press and multilayer. 
 Most game redoes are terrible but this is great. I think that this and Gears are both the best 
 shooters of the New consoles so far. This was the game that Blew me away from halo 2 and gave me 
 a great game waiting for halo 3. Ive had this game for a while and it usually never gets old. I 
 thought the single player mode was really fun until you get to the Nevada damn. After that i lost 
 interest in beating the game. The multi player though is great with a variety of original game 
 modes that are very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: admiral_picard
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 1, 2007 1:23 am PT
Review:  If you've played one Rainbow Six game you've played them all. The save points are so far apart 
 that it makes the game entirely aggrivating to play if you're not a master at it. You get so far 
 only to get sniped by a shotgun no less and then start ALL over. This loses the fun factor after 
 the 3rd time or so and then is tedious and annoying. The graphics are fair, but they don't look 
 as good when you get up close. Most of these games are the same game just recycled, put somewhere 
 else, slightly touched up graphics, and tada, same old game you've played before but it's got a 
 new name. I'm just not that impressed with the gameplay. The past ones were even worse because 
 they were just so ugly to look at on the Xbox. Still, I'd not recommend this, there's better games 
 out there instead of just following the mainstream and blindly agreeing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShattyFattmas
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 21, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  The strong point of this game is the multiplayer. It's easily the best multiplayer game out there 
 for 360 right now. The single player is strong to.
  Getting good at this game takes some time, and alot of matches. Once you have it down thought everythings 
 awsome. The story mode alone makes this game worth a buy, also the multiplayer alone makes it worth 
 a buy, You really cant go wrong here. Id recomend this game for people who dont usually find themselves 
 liking fps.
  The graphics are good, but not as good as most people make them out to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tombrady1234
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 21, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow 6 vegas is simply a great shooter. Its multiplayer feature is excellent. But the 1 thing 
 this games multiplayer is all about throwin frags. if u cant throw frags u will suck at this game. 
 This games gameplay is awsum except the frag thing gets a tad annoying. But what makes this game 
 is its multiplayer. Its fun designing ur character and then goin inoto battle. Now the graphics 
 on this game are also great. The guns and camo look good aswell. now the sound is also a great 
 feature as it needs 2 b in a game such as this. so anyways tom clancys rainbow 6 vegas is a good 
 shooter that u should at least think about playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TuBzZ
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  amazing personally the best game i have ever played the only game that has had my attention for 
 this amount of time i have bought about 5 games after this one and still never took my attention 
 off of this wonderful game best shooter im jus waiting for halo 3 to come out i want to compare 
 the two and see how halo 3 will compare ecause if it is better that will be the best game of all 
 time. Because this game is amazing good guns good maps multi-player is amazing and the story is 
 really deep and exciting this game is just wonderful all it needs is less glitches and 1 more game 
 mode like hide and seek 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitar35
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 21, 2007 1:21 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is one of the best titles released in the Tom Clancy franchise. The gameplay 
 is incredible with an excellent single player mode. However the single player mode is not what 
 gives it its value. R. S. V. has an excellent online multiplayer mode. You start off as a recruit 
 your work your way up through the rankings until you can finally reach elite. On your way to this 
 desired rank you unlock special goodies such as new guns, armor, clothes, and even camouflage. 
 This not only gives meaning to the multiplayer mode but makes it addicting. With many multiplayer 
 scenarios to choose from such as sharpshooter and capture the flag you wont want to stop playing 
 online and competing with your friends (and enemies) . This game has beautiful graphics and is the 
 most realistic shooter I have played in a long time. It requires skill, teamwork, and even some 
 dedication. The single player career, however typical it is, is very fun and difficult at the same 
 time. Your three teammates help you along the way as you command them. UBI soft has created yet 
 another Tom Clancy masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hextall
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 20, 2007 10:50 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about R6 Vegas, that already hasen't been said. I loved how realistic it was and 
 how smart your helpers are, anybody who dosen't think there very smart has not played SOCOM. My 
 favorite part of the whole game is on-line. I play with my clan and I never get tierd of it. The 
 only complaint I have about this game is how many grenades you get or other thrown explosives you 
 get and the fact you can't pick any up of of the dead guys like you can with guns. It is deffinatly 
 a must buy. I highley recomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lghtsbr
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 20, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  Possibly the greatest tactical shooter I've played in my day. Better than Ghost Recon Advanced 
 Warfighter. Having a tough choice about which to get? This is undoubtfully the right choice.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Great use of the Unreal Engine. Everything seems great. Nice fluid animations, 
 and unforgettable multiplayer! You'll love this game from the moment you put it in the tray!
  
  Graphics: 9
  Everything looks amazing. While flying over Vegas you truly believe its Vegas. 
 Lights and all. But if you look out the helicopter while flying to some missions you notice the 
 lack of skinning detail on some of the environment. This can't be faulted, because none of the 
 actual fighting areas have these flaws.
  
  Sound: 9
  Great sounds, all the guns sound perfect, silenced and not. Everything sounds alot like it is meant 
 to be. Sounds, like the car alarms on the strip, or the copy machines in the buildings, get a bit 
 annoying at times. Don't get stuck out there for 5 minutes listening to that alarm, you'll want 
 to hang yourself.
  
  Value: 9
  Great, the co-op is nice, and the LIVE keeps you coming back, despite some occasional poty mouths.
 
  
  Tilt: 10
  Perfect FPS. Great tactic's, nice cover system, easy to pick up and play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drinkz
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  Bieng Honest I have not completed this game yet by myself, this is because I have not even given 
 it a proper looking, I spend a lot of time on multiplayer because it is fun, and rewarding, you 
 play a system where you start as a private second class and work your way up, eg private first 
 class, specialist,,,, sargent ,,, and eventially elite and as you work your way up you unlock guns, 
 armor, camo types, clothes, headsets etc. I would recomend this to anyone who wants a shooter that 
 makes them think, and a person who has xbox live in mind. plus from what i've played the campaign 
 is pretty cool too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jebusxxl
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 20, 2007 5:39 am PT
Review:  Originally I had a friend bring this to my house and played it for the first time; I was amazed 
 with how much fun this game actually is so I bought it. I personally think that it keeps the reputation 
 of the name 'Rainbow Six' I think that this game is excellent and would advise it for anyone. I 
 just wish I had found this game earlier than i actually did lol. This game is a massive improvement 
 from the previous rainbow six games ALLTHOUGH the pervious rainbow six games where excellent this 
 instalment blew me away. Overall I think this is an excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetraitor
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 19, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  This is my favourite 360 title to date, The wall lean is very responsive and adds a whole new element 
 to the FPS, whenever I play crappier FPS like FEAR I miss the wall lean function. although it may 
 not be as pretty as Gears of war but it definitely has a much more rewarding online experience 
 that allows you to customize your own mercenary with cool realistic gear. The single player is 
 good fun and allows for 2 player local co-op and four player online co-op, but good luck finding 
 anyone online playing the storymode. R6V is an around improvement on a great series of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jac494
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  Arguably the greatest tactical shooter ever made. The gameplay is perfect, the graphics and sound 
 are perfect what can I say? Its perfect. I love everything about the game its amazing. The only 
 complaint I have is I want my M16. I hate that there is no M16 or variant in the game. So what 
 if Colt is crying about money? They should be grateful for the exposure, just use the HK416/HK417 
 same gun, better design tweaks. If it had an M16 it would make me so happy I wouldnt know what 
 to do with myself. I loved the customization and the accessories. Not enough can be said about 
 how great this game is, dont bother renting it just buy it. My only complaint is while covering 
 you can see even if your character cant. Other than that, its a MASTERPIECE. So pay no attention 
 to people who admit they suck like whoopdebejesus. Read his review, he admits he died a lot, so 
 it shows he just sucks. Same with admiral_picard. He just sucks too. What can I say? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jzm95
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 15, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is a great game for all gamers who like first-person shooter games. It has realistic 
 gameplay like taking cover on a wall or object, shooting through open space unlike other games 
 it doesn't do that. Rainbow Six Vegas is worth its value and gameplay. The only thing I think they 
 should have done was enable you to shoot through shallow objects, for example, like wood, that 
 would have enhanced your gameplay. Doing that would make the Rainbow Six Vegas gameplay even more 
 realistic like Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 1 and 2. Its gameplay allows you to shoot thruogh 
 objects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordsman117
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 15, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  When Ubisoft released GRAW for the Xbox 360 last March 2006, it defined of what the 360 can handle. 
 GRAW actually gave gamers and Microsoft to look forward to and buy the 360. But it does not stop 
 here, a few months after GRAWs released it was followed up by one of the most anticipated titles 
 for the Xbox 360. When Ubisoft released Rainbow Six Vegas during the holiday season it did not 
 disappoint. Aside from being yet another tactical military shooter on the market, Rainbow Six Vegas 
 is more action oriented and adrenaline driven shooter. It does not mean that the game strayed away 
 from its roots but it has actually became more user friendly now than the other previous games 
 of the series. Although this might turn off some veteran Rainbow Six players, rest assured that 
 the series is in good hands. In a graphical standpoint, Rainbow Six Vegas looks gorgeous and stunning 
 thanks again to the use of Unreal Technology. The environments are well diverse from Mexico to 
 Vegas. Mostly youll be fighting in tight and cramp spaces of office buildings, casinos and restaurants. 
 Yet youll also be fighting in open areas like the famous Vegas Strip and Mexicos Train Yards. 
 Its good to see that the creators paid really good attention to detail, not just the environment 
 and character textures but also how things should be. Like in the real world, when you shoot something 
 it makes a dent or even blow up. Same goes for the game; the physics of blowing up slot machines 
 has never been so satisfying. Coins, chips and cards would fly up in the air as you shoot the place 
 up. Overall this makes the game a bit more realistic than just your standard shooter.
  
  How you play the game is up to you. There are multiple paths set up for the player, how you take 
 out the bad guys is entirely in your own hands. The game gives the player a sense of control in 
 every situation that youll encounter. You can go out all guns blazing but that would definitely 
 get yourself killed quickly or you can find a way around the obstacle and take them out silently, 
 either way as long as you get to your objectives the game does not punish you. However there are 
 critical moments that you should act quickly and decisively. These instances would relate to a 
 hostage situation. You know, bad guy taunts hostage, hostage begs for his/ her life. And we all 
 know that the hostage needs saving and yet again Team Rainbow must serve and protect at the same 
 time kick the bad guys asses. The three man team, including you, is composed of a Electronics/ 
 Computer Expert, a Heavy Weapons/ Demolition Expert and of course, you, the team leaderthat will 
 lead your teamto battle. Anyhow whatever situation there is, you make decisions that does not 
 change the story. Rainbow Six is very story driven so there is little thing that we can do about 
 it. The plot basically starts out to be a terrorist hunt in Mexico and goes horribly wrong at the 
 worst possible time. Next thing you knew, you are fighting for your life. After getting out barely 
 alive, you end up being pulled out of Mexico. Hence you end up in Las Vegas because you are called 
 to suppress another threat that is already starting to go out of control.
  Rainbow Six Vegas promises to be an intense and a satisfying shooter, which in fact really delivers 
 on all fronts. However one of the down sides of the game is predictability of the enemy. AI is 
 not brain dead and it would take cover, chuck grenades at you and some instances flank your team. 
 But thats about it; once you figure out how they respond to the threat its just a walk in the 
 park. Its really challenging on the first play through but after that it takes away all the surprise. 
 It does not mean though that the AI does not put up a good fight. In fact, its challenging enough 
 that you want to find a different approach every time that there is an encounter. Another downside 
 is enemys come out of thin air, this is not frustrating but its just irritating to see enemies 
 pop up out of nowhere. Overall, Rainbow Six Vegas delivers its promise to be one of the most intense 
 and satisfying military shooter currently out there. Its also one of the best looking games that 
 do justice to the Xbox 360s hardware. So, if youre into shooters, Rainbow Six Vegas is definitely 
 the game that wont disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Murphy_Me
Rating: 10
Date: May 15, 2007 2:15 am PT
Review:  this game is the best game ever online play for hours the best ever get it now
  this game is the best game ever online play for hours the best ever get it now
  this game is 
 the best game ever online play for hours the best ever get it now
  this game is the best game ever online play for hours the best ever get it now
  this game is 
 the best game ever online play for hours the best ever get it now
  this game is the best game ever online play for hours the best ever get it now
  this game is 
 the best game ever online play for hours the best ever get it now
  
  100/100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hillelslovak
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 14, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  From the moment I saw screenshots and the trailer for this game, I knew I had to get it, and I 
 am so glad I did. It has an excellent, if a little short campaign, and visceral multiplayer mayhem.
 
  
  Gameplay- This game reinventes the Rainbow Six series, while adding new twists to the game that 
 make it much better. The game is rooted into a more tactical approach this time around, with a 
 wide array of commands and manuevers you and your team can use. The health system is one of the 
 new features that isnt all that realistics, but is used in an excellent way. When you start to 
 take shots, you vision becomes blurry, and the more you take the more blurry, and dark it becomes, 
 until, if you keep taking shots, you die. But if you take cover and stay out of harms way for a 
 limited time, you can jump right back into the fray. Its an excellent new health system. Some new 
 tactical manuevers are awesome as well including fast ropping, and rappeling Splinter Cell styles. 
 These elements freshen up the gameplay a bit, and give a nice change of pace.
  
  Graphics/Sound- Both are done very well, the graphics are almost photo realistic, with everything 
 from particle effects to the view of Las Vegas from your chopper done beautifully. The sound is 
 done well too, all the guns fire realistically, and have a good punch to them. The voicework is 
 decent, but not the best Ive ever seen in a videogame, but its a taxtical shooter so the voiceovers 
 take the back seat.
  
  Value/Fun- The single player is awesome while it lasts, but the multiplayer will keep you coming 
 back for a long time, it really is very addicting and fun. If you like Ghost Recon, tactical shooters 
 or shooters in general, you need to play Rainbow Six Vegas. This game is a definite AAA title. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armeniankid
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 14, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game is freaken sweet!!!!!!!!!!!! all those haters out there you guys dont know wat u talkin 
 bout game not good pffffffftttt ya right playing online owns and lvu campus on terrorist hunt is 
 awesom!!!!!!! if u do it right u can get my record me and my freind alone made the time 1:57 its 
 a really great game wat i dont like is the ranking system takes a lil long which is a headache 
 but get the game trust me and this game is really addicting!!!. get the game u will love it! and 
 playing ppl is fun cause killing them in creative ways is so cool lol well this is my review so 
 ty for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josue8549
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 13, 2007 6:03 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is great, the graphics are great, and the character and team controls are probably 
 the best Ive seen ever in a shooter. You can peak under doors like in splinter cell. You can take 
 cover and shoot blind like in Ghost Recon. You can peak under the doors with the snake cam and 
 tell your teammates which tangos to take out first, second. I really cant even touch on the things 
 youre able to do so easily in this game. Simply stated, Ubisoft nailed it. If you own a 360, buy 
 this game now. If you dont own a 360, buy that first, then buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walbeb
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 13, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the very few 360 games that i still can play everyday and not be bored, the 
 single-player while lacking in story can be played numerous times to check out all of the tactical 
 options that you know after playing through it once. Multiplayer is like counter-strike in my eyes 
 and that is a good thing. Best cover scheme ever in a 1st person shooter. Visually amazing to look 
 at as well. If u have a 360 and love shooting games with a little tactical edge this game has everything 
 and more. The selection of guns is very very good even though some old time favs. are missing, (M4, Socom) 
 and most guns have a differnt feel then others making the stats they give them useless, you just 
 have to try them out to fit your style. I bought this game 1 week after it came out and i still 
 play it everyday like an addict, the ranking system online is quite fun being able to create your 
 own guy from scratch and the many many differnt modes makes it all the better. Team Sharpshooter 
 (team deathmatch) Team survival, survival, retrieviel, attack and defend co-op Terrorist hunt, 
 co-op campaign and 2 new if u get the red pack. All in all this is the best game for the 360 with 
 its huge replay value and amazing gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 12, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  There are some things I have to admit about gaming; racing games bore me to death, I dont have 
 the patience for stealth games, I suck at RTSs and to add to my list, I dislike tactical shooters. 
 Theres just something about relying on two computer controlled walking bullet sponges which decide 
 whether you live or die, beat the game or not, that just bothers me. Putting that aside I do have 
 to give Rainbow 6 Vegas its props that it does deserve. It does tactical shooter outstandingly 
 well.
  
  The voice acting is perfect, sounds effects are dead on and the music compliments the action and 
 drama sequences. Theres not too much to say on about sound besides the fact that with a nice surround 
 sound system, the firearms sounds great. Sniper rifle shots echo out, bullets whiz by your head, 
 and flash bangs will actually make you think your ears are ringing. The only thing I can say bad 
 about the voice acting is that the terrorists taunts are used way too often. Since youll be Committing 
 genocide against 60,000 Mexicans during this game, you will hear the same 20 lines over and over 
 again.
  
  The story places you as a lead member of a three man squad on a mission to stop this female terrorist 
 and it all goes downhill from there, not literally of course. The story is the typical military 
 doomsday type plot where you have to stop the villains from doing something terrible to countless 
 innocent people. Also thrown in is some missing teammates, some deception and the worst cliffhanger 
 ending this side of the Lord of the Rings movies. Overall though the story was pretty enjoyable.
 
  
  The graphics were pretty damn good. The lighting, physics and environments were brilliantly done. 
 Each level had multiple ways to handle the various situations and such an immense attention to 
 detail was spent making sure every stage catered to the cover system and tactical aspects of the 
 game. There was little to no slowdown and very little pop up. (besides the spawning enemies which 
 I mention later) However the game did freeze on me a bunch of times both online and off, and there 
 were a few glitches such as doors not opening or textures not being loaded but these were very 
 rare occurrence. My only other complain would have to be that, if you expect me to shoot 60,000 
 terrorists, they can at least have some variety to them. By the end of the game youll have seen 
 some of the same models countless times. Other than that, the models were detailed and animated 
 fairly well.
  
  Gameplay did take some time getting used to. Running and gunning is a quick way to make sure you 
 get to see the reload screen often so it takes some time to learn how to effectively use the two 
 guys youre in charge of. In the beginning, I used them mostly as bullet shields and decoys; if 
 I sent them ahead and they died in a certain area, at least I knew I had to be on my toes. Of course 
 that only lasts so long and I had to actually learn how to use the computer allies to lay down 
 cover fire, flank, distract and to clear rooms. Of course Id send them to their deaths every once 
 in a while but hey, they never complained. I played on the realistic difficulty setting so I have 
 to say the game can be quite unforgiving and a bit cheap at times. Enemies will know what youre 
 aiming at, when youre moving cover and they have terrific aim. Another issue I had with the game 
 is the way the enemies spawn out, most of the time rendering the sniper rifle useless. There are 
 a few levels where youre given a birds eye view of the level only to realize that its empty. 
 Not until you hit certain locations do the terrorists appear, and sometimes its out of thin air.
 
  
  Other than that, the game has a terrific cover system, a simple and effective bunch of squad commands 
 and a wide variety of weapons and tools. Unfortunately the gameplay is mostly about shooting Mexicans 
 with little else to do. There are a couple escort scenarios, a few bomb disposals but for the majority 
 of it youll be shooting terrorist after terrorist while trying to get to point B.
  
  Im really not a fan of Vs. Multiplayer so I cant really comment about that, what I do know is 
 that R6V offers a lot to do to fans of co-op. The terrorist hunt missions put you and some friends 
 against a variable number of foes for what ever time you set. I had a fun few weeks playing through 
 this mode and just messing around. The single player story can also be played co-op but unfortunately, 
 they took out the story. This mode feels like a bunch of levels strewn together with really no 
 order or meaning. Just get to the objective and complete it is all there really is to it. I have 
 to say its a strange decision to butcher the story like that.
  
  While I did struggle to play this game because R6V goes against my taste in games, I have to say 
 the time spent playing it wasnt all bad or chore-like. Its easy for me to see that this is a 
 very good tactical shooter, probably one of the best, but its just not my style of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shmiity
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 12, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas recieved very good reviews, so I decided to pick it up.
  
  I ultimatly got an experience that was intense, but way too frustrating.
  
  I'll point out 
 good features now:
  
  Graphics are very nice, especially inside the casinos.
  Sound is good, gives a vegas feel.
  The phrase Double-time! has never sounded this good.
  
 
  The Bad:
  
  Save points are so spread out that this game is way too challenging, even on easy mode.
  
  
 FRUSTRATING, very!
  
  You can get hit while blind firing as well, go figure.
  
  Campaign is just way too much of a challenge, needs more frequent saves.
  
  I basicallly killed 
 about 7 terrorists myself, I just send in my party members, because it is just plain too difficult.
 
  
  Multiplayer is good, lots of different modes. Terrorist Hunt is especially fun.
  
  Thats it, good game, but is it worth the frustration? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutta27
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 10, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  In this game you play as a member of a anti terrorist unit called rainbow, in the start of the 
 game your unit is in Mexico where you are trying to track a known terrorist. To cut a long story 
 shot (if you want the long story play the game) Your team get kidnapped by the terrorists and you 
 are left. So the main game is you with a new team trying to figure out where your team is and how 
 to save em and also stopping the terrorist who kidnapped them from detonating a bomb and blowing 
 up Vegas. The Story pulls you in and is very fun. But the main draw is the Multiplayer this is 
 a whole lot of fun playing in casinos on the normal multiplayer game modes. The real big thing 
 on the multiplayer which makes it a whole lot of fun is the ranking system, the ranking system 
 is lifted straight from battlefield where you get experience for ranked matches and you go up ranks 
 and for each rank you unlock new weapons.
  The Graphics are pretty cool in fact some of the best on 360, the graphics go down a lil on multiplaer 
 but still pretty solid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heisman67
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 10, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is money!!! if you like fps you will love this game!!! I have been playing Rainbow six 
 from the beginning and by far the best one out!!! The game has a great offline and online game 
 play! The nice thing is also has co-op story mode and other co-op games on top of its other games 
 like survival, sharpshooter, assassination, capture the flag style game called retrieval, also 
 a position hold game that you hold 3 satellites for a X amount of time, and also a game called 
 attack and defend where a team tries to get something or someone from the opposing team and try 
 to bring it back to their base while the other team tries to stop them. This game has a lot of 
 features like grabbing walls with the ease of holding L trigger!! this game is not really a run 
 and gun like of old ones makes you use strategy. GAME IS THE BEST FPS to date get it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omega_Thirteen
Rating: 9
Date: May 8, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, it feels so realistic... Like I'm there...
  
  After the first few games you will definitely be hooked. The story is ok, it acts as a suitable 
 extended tutorial for all the functions of the game to help with playing the game online, which 
 is where this game really shines. The controls are near perfect, but a steady aim is a must. Shooting 
 wildly will not get you very far compared to a swift headshot. *Believe me, i know!!*
  
  There are plenty levels and game modes included in the core game, and more from a marketplace download. 
 Plenty to keep you occupied for days on end.
  
  The achievements are varied, and with practice can be achieved... some obviously will take more 
 work than others. But there are none requiring 100s of kills with a single weapon a la gears of 
 war. Mainly rewarding good players for their skills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeyruler12
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 8, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas is the latest tactical FPS from the folks at Ubisoft. However, it was overshadowed 
 at release by Gears of War, the flagship title from Epic Games. I think that overall, this game 
 is just as good if not better than Gears of War.
  
  Gameplay: The tactical elements are spot on, and while the cover system is similar to Gears (take 
 cover, pop out, shoot) it has a lot more freedom. When you go into cover, the game switches to 
 3rd person view as well.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are great in single player, however they are dumbed down a bit for multiplayer. 
 This seems to be a trend in Tom Clancy games, and is present in this one. The city of Las Vegas 
 looks amazing, and the lighting effects work very well.
  
  Sound: The sound is decent. The guns and sound effects are great, spot-on. But the voice-overs 
 are just downright annoying. The woman who talks to you through the entire game sounds like she 
 is talking through her nose. Value: The online play is simply amazing. The customization and ranking 
 up system will keep you busy for dozens of hours. You can also use the Xbox Live Vision camera 
 to put your face in the game. A feature that works EXTREMELY well. The face it made for me looked 
 exactly like me. However, it mats your hair down on your head, and that is the only problem.
  
  Tilt: This is probably the best overall game on the 360, and is a must-have for shooter fans. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brmarlin
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 8, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Everything about this game is amazing. With one exception. The storyline is shallowish and rather 
 thin, but the game play makes up for it so much that it doesn't matter. Your teammates are useful, 
 smart, and deadly - unlike the other members of Delta Squad or Ghost Recon. The game seems like 
 an FPS at first glance. Two seconds into the first gunfight, you realize otherwise.
  
  The game is rather challenging, albeit short. Its got plenty of replay value, just so you can try 
 taking new ways through each level - Ubisoft Montreal did an amazing job of setting up the levels. 
 They are straightforward, yet intricate, allowing many paths. The multiplayer is also great- the 
 Attack and Defend mode is where I find it shines the most. The objectives are different from level 
 to level - some have bomb diffusing/protecting, others have hostage situations, and a few others 
 have intel retrieval. The game is visually not as impressive as some other games, but it does surpass 
 in terms of raw detail. Bullets leave bloody marks in people, slot machines have coins flying out 
 when shot as smoke rises from it, and almost everything reacts one way or another to bullets. The 
 in-game adverts are a bit annoying, although it is rather fun to shoot Axe billboards with a Scout 
 Tactical Sniper Rifle. Pick this game up sometime soon, if you like challenging yet rewarding tactical 
 shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etiennec9
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 7, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Everything about this game was spectacular. The controls were spot on; the scenarios were beautiful; 
 the enemies were difficult and plentiful. I can't say the plot meant anything but who cares when 
 you're having that much fun. Oh, and the cliff hanger. That jerk took my ride. Seriously, the game 
 was amazing like most third person shooters are not. It soared above GRAW 2 and Call of Duty 3. 
 It is superior in many ways. My one major criticism is that the AI was not actually intelligent 
 but well programmed. The enemies always took the same paths. Their actions were routine. If I had 
 to retry a level ten times, by the end I knew exactly what the enemy would do and where they would 
 be and that was why I succeeded, not because my skill increased or because I got lucky, though 
 there was often a lot of luck involved. If the enemies had been truly intelligent, I don't know 
 that I'd have finished the game. It was pretty difficult as it was. And I loved every minute of 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Turkman
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 6, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas offers XBOX 360 players a significant value with both its single player and Xbox 
 Live game play. Xbox Live gameplay is stable and enjoyable, with custom appearances available for 
 your avatar. It experiences none of the linkage issues seen in GRAW titles.
  
  The variety of game modes in multiplayer ensures a rich experience, whether you prefer playing 
 against other gamers or against agressive and tactiacally adaptive artificial intelligence.
  
  As a lifelong gamer (25+ years) , I can say this is a very rewarding experience.
  
  If playered 
 with 5.1 or 7.1 surround, get ready for automatic gunfire to ring your ears and drive your room 
 mates/spouse/fill in blank to buy some bose headphones for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinida
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas, wow what a game. Honestly I was questionable buying this game, sure it got great 
 reviews and its a new game on the 360, but I was worried about the game just being another FPS 
 (First Person Shooter) . Well, if your thinking this, and your still not sure whether to get it 
 or not, I highly suggest you get the game, here is why.
  
  Main Story
  Great main story, not quite impossible but not easy neither. You control a team of 3 including 
 yourself, you can have your team but through doors, or take cover behind walls. You can set breaching 
 charges, throw flashbangs, and much more. There are a number of grenades and weapons to choose 
 from. You can also modify your weapons to have different scops and such. The only problem with 
 it is that as most games, your a team of 3 or 4 who goes in and kills hundreds of enemies. So it 
 does get the un-real sort of sense to it. But like I said I believe this is a problem for most 
 shooter games. But every enemy proposes a threat to you, so it is aimed in the right direction.
 
  
  Multi-player
  The multi-player for this is phenomenal. You can create your own elite character, and you upgrade 
 him as you play more and more. The more you play, the better weapons you unlock, as well as the 
 better armor you unlock as well. The multi-player maps bring a strategic setting to the game, you 
 can set motion sensors to see where the enemies lie on the map to give away their position. there 
 are different ways you can approach the game, the armor gives you a choice to choose between the 
 extremes of protection, or speed. The better the armor, the more extreme the armor changes get, 
 also the cooler they look . You can use tear gas, or you can counter that by equipting your character 
 with a gas mask to help prevent the blury vision caused by tear gas. There is a sense of teamwork 
 when playing online, as the xbox live microphone allows you to communicate with your teammates 
 where the enemy is or where they are headed.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas is quite the game, and its not just another one of those shooter games, its bringing 
 new ideas to the next gen games, and will set a higher standards for those to come. 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: og_lawz
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 4, 2007 12:09 am PT
Review:  Story  The Rainbow Six team has been deployed to Las Vegas after carrying out their first objective 
 in Border Town, Mexico which is where the game starts off. Terrorists have taken the city hostage 
 and its up to you  Logan Keller and the other members of the elite Rainbow Six team to put a 
 stop to it. It may not sound so original and groundbreaking, but either way theres a primary objective 
 that needs to be carried out and once you start playing this game, youre more than likely going 
 to want to keep playing, even if youre not taking a real interest in what is going on.
  
  Gameplay  The gameplay in Rainbow Six Vegas is nothing short of intense fun. Sure, things get 
 rather repetitive with you taking cover and firing away at loads of terrorists. Shooting blindfire 
 while in cover is a really cool gameplay element, and something that is really a plus when youre 
 faced with countless terrorists fast roping down from the roof, throwing flashbangs and smoke grenades. 
 Needless to say, some of the moments like this are simply the most exciting and extremely fun parts 
 in the game. That brings me to another awesome element of gameplay  the effects of blurred vision 
 look amazing and very realistic. The only way they could improve on this further was if, like in 
 Counter-Strike: Source you get the whole lose of vision happening and the annoying beeping noise 
 as you are stunned and cant hear anything for a few seconds. The AI is not the least bit stupid. 
 Just like you, the enemies you fight will take cover, or change positions so they can get a better 
 vantage point of you. Also being able to control where your team mates take cover and using the 
 snake cam underneath doors before you enter a room, allocating certain terrorists with a maker 
 on who you want your team to take out first also really comes in handy as you progress. You can 
 even surprise enemies by entering from more than one area. Another great feature I should mention 
 is the ability to determine what your team will do once they bust down a door. You can set up a 
 breaching charge or have team mates frag and clear out a room. Having more than one option available 
 to you allows for much more diverse and dynamic gameplay.
  
  Online multiplayer  A lot of variety and insane fun is the first thing that comes to my mind when 
 describing the multiplayer of this game. First up, you have to create your own character and from 
 then on, each time you play online, you will earn experience points, which in turn will raise your 
 rank. There are more than enough multiplayer modes to keep you coming back for more. Attack &amp; 
 Defend involves two teams. One team must defuse the bomb while the other team tries to stop them. 
 Then theres the Team Sharpshooter match which is really fun when you play with some friends on 
 your favorite maps. Streets and Kill House would have to be some of my favorites. So if you like 
 tactical shooters with awesome online multiplayer modes, then look no further.
  
  Graphics  The graphics in this game are just stunning on the Xbox 360. The lighting effects look 
 great and are very realistic, (also giving you a good opportunity to use nightvision on more than 
 one occasion) . The environments are nothing short superb, whether you are looking down on the city 
 of Vegas or the Nevada dam from a Black Hawk helicopter, or making your way through the deserted 
 looking streets of Border Town or a deserted casino. Sometimes, even amongst the gun battles going 
 on in front of you, it may be hard to stop looking around at some of the gorgeous looking scenery 
 and the amount of detail is just incredible.
  
  Sound  The music in the game is well suited to a lot of the scenes and builds up to some of the 
 more intense moments throughout the game, which is very fitting in a lot of situations. Various 
 weapons sound very different, reloading a gun, and other sound effects such as big explosions all 
 add to an already very impressive game.
  
  Value  Rainbow Six Vegas is one of those games you can always go back to regardless of having 
 finished the single player story. FPS titles usually arent very long games, but when you have 
 the option of also completing Terrorist Hunt missions which require you to eliminate a certain 
 number of terrorists on a particular map on your own or co-op as well, this game wont get boring 
 anytime soon. Also, having so many options available to you in multiplayer mode over Xbox Live 
 only adds more to the replay value of this game.
  
  Tilt  I really enjoyed this game and would definitely recommend it to anyone who likes first-person 
 tactical shooters. The storyline, as I already mentioned may not be all that great or innovative, 
 but gameplay wise, as well as the online multiplayer, make this game one that anyone who is interested 
 in this genre definitely check out.
  
  Overall  Rainbow Six Vegas is a solid game on more than one level and will allow for hours of 
 entertaining gameplay. If this game sounds even remotely enticing to you, then do yourself a favor 
 and try it out  you dont need to have played any of the previous titles to fully appreciate this 
 game either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_K-lashy
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 3, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Well the games are quite similar in gameplay terms both games require you to use cover in order 
 to stay alive and both use this new health system that seems to be in every single shooter now 
 which is good because its a great system. But personally Rainbow Six: Vegas has its nose out just 
 in front of Gears Of War this is mainly down to Rainbow six's great xbox live multiplayer mode. 
 In this mode you will create a charachter, the creation of the face features isnt too deep its 
 just selecting a certain face, which is fine considering you will have it cover most of the time 
 with all the different hats, helmets and masks you can have on your charachter. There is a great 
 system that allows you Rank up by just playing the online modes and there are lots to choose from 
 and as you rank up you unlock more stuff and to be honest some of the weapons are a tiny bit dissapointing 
 according to the stats on them, but i am told many of the stats dont actually matter im not sure 
 how true this is. The single player is great too and it never starts off on any menus you just 
 go back to the helicopter and it will take you to your next mission and you rapple yourself down 
 at the start of each mission, which is a cool way to start off any mission. This is a game that 
 you wont going charging into you will need to take a look at the area around you and plan each 
 move, it does a good job of scaring the sh*t out of you when ever you hear an enemy shout, because 
 just a few shots and your dead but thankfully there are plenty of well placed checkpoints to help 
 you a long. But the man facter in this game is in the multiplayer, before i had xbox live i used 
 to hate reading game reviews that said that, but to those who dont have xbox live its still a great 
 game to play single player and split screen, for me this game is better then Gears Of War, the 
 multiplayer action never gets boring and the ranking up aspect will keep you busy for weeks and 
 maybe even months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigCat2K20
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 2, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  When I beat Rainbow Six Lockdown about a year ago, I felt that game was a total letdown. It was 
 difficult from the start, but it felt too easy. Rainbow Six Vegas made me think alot more, can't 
 just go around doing run and gun style like RS Lockdown. The Enemy A. I. were tough, smart, out 
 flanked me and A. I. teammates sometimes and made themselves not a easy target. I don't why people 
 saying this game is overrated and waste of time. I bet they felt it was the same old thing as R. S. 
 Lockdown. News flash people: this game is WAY different and more punishing than Lockdown. Go rent 
 or buy the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raidenseven
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 2, 2007 12:30 am PT
Review:  Graphics- amazing, in the single player you feel like you are part of an elite team, and the graphics 
 are just great from lighting to blur. in the mutliplayer the graphics do downgrade a lil bit but 
 are still great. Gameplay- seemlesly intergrated FPS to 3rd person covering system perfectly ( 
 i still give the nod to gears in the cover system becvause the A button is just plain easier to 
 use then holding down the left trigger) . multiplayer can be unfair for those who just start out 
 because the better players will have the better guns, but unlocking new weapons is worth the pain 
 of ranking up. being able to customize your character in multiplayer is a great way to make your 
 character feel closer to you. which game is better gears or rainbow... i personally think gears 
 is just funner and has better graphics and gameplay and surprisingly better online for just having 
 8 players. sound- the sound is great and all, but there are repeating bugs that havent been ironed 
 out yet, like you die but you still hear your machine gune shooting and it does become annoying, 
 but its only in the multiplayer. value- single player good for a one time, multiplayer is where 
 it is at. i doubt unless your a achievment whore you will want to play through the single player 
 again. but the multiplayer is all you need. great game, must have for xbox live players, gears 
 and rainbow make a perfect pair for any xbox user. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robodawg11
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is seriously fun as hell. If you are reading this review right now then that is pretty 
 sad cause you should have this game by now. This game is so much danm fun. It will last you a long 
 time with its lengthy single player mode and you will be playing online for a while. The graphics 
 are nice to, they are definitly next gen, and in the story mode when you shoot people the people 
 will actually get bloody wounds and the blood will soak into their clothes ( ya i know its pretty 
 f***ing awsome!) .
  
  To the sound is good in most video games i play. I am not very picky for when it comes to the sound, 
 but all the good noises are in this game like the terrorists talking with each other, stuff blowing 
 up, and guns getting fired. Great fricking multiplayer buy this game now!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxkkoik
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Now dont get me wrong, i love gears of war and think it is a great game, but it does not have the 
 multiplayer genious of this game. I dont know what it is but playing calypso on attack and defend 
 is always exciting for me. The single player game is awsome and it includes some of the coolest 
 firefights in any game to date. the only problem is that the single player story is kind of flat 
 though but tht is the only flaw. This is an all around great game and it is definatly a must have 
 for any 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zelda_Maniac
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 30, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas. IS OVERRATED. I played the demo for it and didnt like it and my friend who loved 
 it told me oh u gotta get this game its great and multiplayer is awsome. Well maybe as far as online 
 play for the 360 gose it is because there really isnt a whole lot of good online games for the 
 360. But i found this game reallly boring. You buy this game hoping to kick ass in vegas and you 
 dont get to vegas for awhile. Once you get to vegas its ok and you continue on saving people from 
 the bad terroist people (wow how orginal) Lockdown had a horriable single player but had better 
 multiplayer than this by far. The online dosent have as much depth as i was looking forward to. 
 So idont know what happend to GRAW games or Splinter Cell games and even Rainbow Six games that 
 have come out but let me tell you that these game series had way better games on the Xbox than 
 they do here on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stafax
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 29, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  First off, if you're familiar with the Rainbow Six series, you MIGHT be disappointed with a few 
 of the changes they did to this game. I'm not saying you wont like the game, just you might not 
 be happy with the changes they did with the series.
  
  One change that takes place no longer makes the game that realistic anymore, and that's the health 
 system. In past Rainbow Six games, you would die within one to three shots guaranteed. In Vegas, 
 when you get shot, the screen begins to blur until you die. Now if you hide to the side for a bit, 
 the screen will come back to place and your health will refill just like in Gears of War or Halo 
 2. It's not a bad system, it just takes away the challenge of realism that people want in Rainbow 
 Six. Another change is you can no longer slowly open doors, that's been replaced with the snake 
 cam so you don't have to sneak a peak through doors. And the most notable difference is the new 
 cover fire feature, that's exactly like Gears of War.
  
  Now for those people who are Rainbow Six fans, I wan to assure you that even though that this game 
 feels a little different from the past games, it's still a Rainbow Six game and will still quench 
 your thirst for a strategy shooter.
  
  For the Gears of War fans, seriously, try this game out. Gears of War has better graphics then 
 this game (less color though) , more blood (wow) , and melee. Now let me assure you, that the game 
 play of these two games are practically the same since they both use the cover fire feature. Add 
 zip lines and repelling off the sides of buildings. Now double the size of the online multi player, 
 so it's 16 players instead of just 8. You can customize your character and it will affect your 
 movement and toughness, more armor means you can take more shots but slows down your movement. 
 More guns, more types of guns, more grenades, tear gas, gas mask, night vision, heat vision. I 
 mean, there are seriously more things in this game and a lot less glitches then Gears of War.
 
  
  And for the single player game, it's about twice as long as Gears of War. There are really no cut 
 scenes, everything happens in game. The difficulty is just right, and you'll have plenty of great 
 gun fights and ambushes. And it really wont ruin anything to say that there's a cliff hanger ending, 
 so don't expect the most amazing thing ever once you beat the game.
  
  If you're into shooters, at least download the demo on xbox market and try it out. It's really 
 good, and I can't stress enough that this game is seriously better then Gears of War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LifelessBoy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 29, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  Most addicting online game for me on the 360... sorry Gears of War your still overrated. The get 
 better ranks and get better stuff thing this game has going on makes it an even more addicting 
 game online since you are actually winning games online in exchange of something. The armor could've 
 made mor difference but whatever its still a great game to play with all your friends and laugh 
 about you being shot peeking through the window and falling 100 stories down. PS. A little more 
 weapons could have been nice. And the stupid thing wont let me post it cause I have less than a 
 hundred words so im gonna sing... He who makes a beast out of himself gets rid of the pain of being 
 a man!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ottosmann
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 28, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  Wow, this game is simply amazing. It is extremely intense, and the enemy AI is amazing. They will 
 constantly be flanking you and using the environment to their advantage.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay in this game is some of the smoothest I've ever seen. The cover system is 
 well-done, allowing the player to back up against almost anything, and then having the option to 
 peer around the corner and fire, pop up and fire, or blind fire, my personal favorite. R6V truly 
 makes you feel like you are the leader of an advanced squad, being able to command them where to 
 go and what to do.
  
  Graphics- Some of the best I've ever seen; nearly perfect. The characters could have used some 
 work though, especially the terrorists. They don't look very detailed. That is the only reason 
 why I gave it a 9.
  
  Sound- The soundtrack isn't very varied, although it adds to the intenseness of the game. Of course, 
 there is the usual squad chatter, although there is nothing really special here.
  
  I would recommend this game to almost anyone, it is a definite must-buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XXXNAKEDWOMNXXX
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  this game has been out since november... i know. But, i still play it whenever i get the chance. 
 I am an elite about 98% legit. I got the game in December and haven't really stopped playing (except 
 for like a month when crackdown came out) . I recommend this game to anyone. It never gets boring 
 or old. So if you haven't played it go out and buy a copy. It is even better online than it is 
 offline. But, even if you don't have xbox live its fun to play on sp. Realistic is very hard and 
 easy is just right. some levels are hard and some are easy. so there is a nice mixture there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orin_Steel
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 27, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game play!! The story mode keeps you motivated to keep turning the page. Weapon selection 
 is great and team command is sweet. Multiplayer is tight when you get with the right people, but 
 there are those who know how to manipulate the game and turn some people off from playing some 
 game modes. Worth every cent and highly recommended to anyone I know who has an Xbox 360. Great 
 place to spend time with your friends when the wife won't let you go out to play!!
  
  Only play in unrestricted games, because that really is the true balance of the game. Lower ranked 
 PCs do not stand a chance in most restricted games which makes it hard to continue with out burning 
 out or rubber banding the stix!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mehroze_96
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 27, 2007 4:39 am PT
Review:  Rainbow six vegas is probably the best shooter game i have played until some other game comes. 
 It has astounding graphics perfect gameplay and a good set of weapons to choose from. I enjoy playing 
 all the time. We can put silencers on almost every gun and select grenades from every checkpoint 
 thingy ( sorry can't describe ) . We can also use snake cameras to see through doors and give our 
 team mates commands. We can also use fast ropes and rappels to climb down/up from walls and roofs. 
 We can sneak up on enemies too. The live features of this game are awesome. This game is very fun 
 while playing x360 live. I never get bored of playing this game... NEVER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nitrogenix
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 26, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Three words can describe this game: Wow, but by the time you say wow, you'll be speechless. This 
 game may perhaps mark a 'Red Letter' day, when it was officially launched, into stores, for Ubisoft 
 and the series of 'Rainbow Six'.
  Only the people who have played it long enough can even begin to describe what this game does, 
 not only do you have a rather large assortment of weapons, and other fun tools to kill those pesky 
 terrorists, either in Mexico or in Las Vegas, but you have state-of-the-art gadgets at your hand, 
 such as the snake eye, night vision goggles, and other, much... MUCH, cooler things.
  The simple fact of this game is - If you don't have it, your a loser. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1257860
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 25, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty fun and great. I know it got really good ratings and stuff, but i did find 
 some negatives in it. First off the levels are pretty lengthy but defiantly not long like gears 
 of war. Which isnt so good because you get 6 levels. Level one is in Mexico which i liked because 
 it makes you wanna get to vegas even more. But i found very annoying is that you have to go from 
 checkpoint to checkpoint in order to save the game and when you die you have to go all the way 
 back to the beginning. So it can get pretty stressful and annoying if you ask me. The graphics 
 are real good when you get shot you screen gets fuzzy adding a dizzy affect . But it still is fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeorgeGTA
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 24, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow six Vegas show us what good graphics, good gameplay, good characters can do. In this edition 
 of rainbow six you are Logan Keller, the leader of a special unit. Through the game you pass from 
 Mexico up to Nevada Dam, but I will not tell you the story so you buy it and have a good experience.
 
  
  Talking about the graphics, in the story mode the graphics and effects are awesome, we can find 
 some really cool lighting effects and some physics that you need to see to believe. The most impressive 
 thing is how well done are the casinos, its really impressive. The only problem in the graphics 
 is that when you play in multiplayer the graphics arent so cool, but its nothing from another 
 world, they still look good.
  
  The gameplay is really cool and easy to play, and it show us some really cool things, for example, 
 we all know that this is a first person shooter, but when you stick to the walls or to something, 
 you can see your character, so its a mix between third and first person. The commands are easy 
 to give, you use the d-pad to order your teammates.
  
  The story mode its really cool, thanks to the details of the levels, it makes a full and addicting 
 experience, the missions are quiet long but the problem is that there are only 6 missions. But 
 it stills being length.
  
  The sound of the game is great, cool effects in the guns, the explosions and the ambient feels 
 alive, witch also makes the experience even better.
  
  A really cool thing of the game is all the gadgets and weapons out there, there are lots of gadgets 
 witch let you customize your weapon the way you want, for example there are a lot of amis for weapons, 
 the option of silencer, laser sight, the fire rate, and a big list of different weapons and grenades. 
 In the online multiplayer you can even customize your own character the way you want, and when 
 you play online, you get experience points, when you level up you unlock new thing for your character.
 
  
  In conclusion rainbow six Vegas its definitely a must buy game, its a really complete game full 
 of details and a full experience. One of the best games out there for the 360. In my opinion, a 
 must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calui
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 24, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 9: The gameplay on Rainbow Six Vegas is among the best, most intense action of any shooter 
 to date. The a. i. is also among the most aggressive a. i. I have ever seen in a shooter. They are 
 very smart, and they attack relentlessly to kill you. The game also uses a great cover mechanic. 
 Now this game came out about the same time Gears of War came out, so you can't exactly say that 
 it's copying it. And actually it's a lot different, because you can't just hop of from wall to 
 wall. Instead once you're in cover you can only move slowly, and either stick your head out at 
 the side, or stick your head above cover. You can die very easily, as it only takes about 3-4 shots 
 to kill you on Normal, or on Realilistic takes you 1-2 shots before you die. This means you have 
 to think very tactically to take out your oppoents. The game also has you doing things like rapeling 
 off of buildings, and jumping through buildings, or you can even shoot people with your pistol 
 while rapeling. The rapeling off of buildings aspect is a lot of fun, and adds something new to 
 the experience. But the game still retains most of the problems that other shooters have. The a. i. 
 tends to get predictable after awhile, and sometimes the action isn't as intense as it could be. 
 And the game does tend to be quite repeative even with the whole rapeling aspect that the game 
 has. Still despite the minor qualms Rainbow Six Vegas has some of the best shooting action of any 
 shooter to date. Graphics 10: Simply put the graphics look nearly as good as the amazingly good 
 looks of Gears of War. In other words they're flat out fantastic. Sound 8: Rainbow Six doesn't 
 capture the sound as good as you would hope however. The voice acting is pretty good, but they 
 could've had a lot more sound effects for the guns, and the glass breaking like in Fear. Value 
 8: The single player portion of Rainbow Six will probablly take you somewhere from 8-12 hours, 
 then you can tackle the game's multi player. While the co-op terrorist hunts, and co-op story mode 
 are flat out fantastic, the compeative modes are not nearly as exciting. Gears of War and Fear 
 had much better compeative games. The compeative games just are somewhat boring and only really 
 worht playing if you're intent on getting achievments. Still the co-op modes are good enough that 
 the game will still definetly worth a purchase. Tilt 10: The setting in Rainbow Six Vegas is fantastic, 
 and with the cool rapeling and jumping through windows sequences, combined with the idea of customizing 
 your character for multi-player and rising ranks to get better weapons and armor, is an interesting 
 feature. Overall 9.2/10 Overall Rainbow Six Vegas is another must own shooter on the 360. The action 
 is fast paced, and fantastic and the online co-op is the best I have ever seen in a shooter. Had 
 Rainbow Six had better sound effects, and better compeative online play, this would easily overthrow 
 Gears as the best shooter on the 360. Still as is, the game is pretty much just as good as Gears, 
 so if you like shooters, or even if you're just a passing fan of shooters, Rainbow Six Vegas is 
 a must buy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FanaticFirearm
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 23, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  Vegas has amazing online multiplay. You have to have live to fully appreciate its greatness. It 
 is a very tactical game. You have to be wary when you clear rooms and move through hallways all 
 the time. The new additions I like are fast ropes and rappelling down buildings in order to smash 
 in Swat style through a window. Very fun to play online or offline with friends. The AI is very 
 good. They AI terrorists are very realistic and speak to each other adding to the realism. There 
 are sweet rag doll deaths. The multiplayer custimization is sweet. You can choose different armor 
 and camo styles, and ranking up gives you nasty new unlocks. I highly reccommend buying this game 
 if you want to have fun on the 360.
  
  Later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokiisback
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 20, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  The game is one of those games that grow on you. When I first began to play this, it was a disappointment 
 to me, as an old skool Rainbow player (Started playing them 10 years ago on the PC) . I won't ramble 
 on like I did in the forums about how the game isn't a Rainbow game, instead I'll tell you why 
 I like this game, for the game it is. For one thing the graphics are GREAT... Even on my 51 HDTV 
 (Which puts most games to shame, showing all flaws) , the game looks stunningly real. I for one 
 thing, went through the agony of using my Vision, and putting my face on my character, and it looks 
 JUST like me, its scary. The campaign this time around actually has me wanting to play on to see 
 the end, instead of just to get the achievements. Now don't get me wrong, the story isn't GREAT, 
 but it's much better than the normal Rainbow games. The game play reminds me a lot of Gears, accept 
 its a FPS/3PS Hybrid on the opposite end than Gears Of War. You duck and cover any time you can, 
 but instead of the enemies having a lot of health, and you having plenty, wasting 2 clips to kill 
 a guy... You die quickly, and so do your enemies. It's startling how addicting this game can get, 
 the more you play it, the more you like it, kind of like Halo 2. The online is kind of lax, especially 
 because they have lost people like me (old skool Rainbow people) . The game is defiantly worth the 
 money, but Old Skool Rainbow players beware, its NOT a Rainbow game......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarbyXCrash
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 19, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  The woman sobs as the terrorist presses the cold metal barrel of his gun against her head. Cry 
 all you want, he says, you're still going to die. He motions for a fellow assailant to start the 
 camera, so that the world will know of his capability to do terror. They will all fear him. Another 
 terrorist looks out the window at the lights below. Sin City indeed. The red light flashes then 
 remains solid, and his face is broadcast nationwide.
  
  Hello, America. You know who I am. i have delivered demands that have been ignored. I have tried 
 to be civil! Now, one of your own must pay for your country's misjudgment! 
  
  He points the pistol at her, and she whimpers. He hesitates only a moment, but that is all it takes. 
 The door creaks and a blinding flash fills the room, searing his eardrums. As Logan Keller enters 
 the room, rifle raised, he cuts left and puts two rounds into the chest of the terrorist by the 
 window. As he falls, another goes through his head. Logan's team follows and tear to shreds the 
 terrorist behind the camera.
  
  The final terrorist, moaning and covering his eyes, screams, We cannot be stopped! We will not 
 be stopped He fires blindly in front of him, putting useless rounds into the wall. Drawing his 
 pistol, Keller puts one shot to the back of the terrorist's head, who crumbles to the floor quietly.
 
  
  The woman whimpers and covers her head with her hands, the deafening ring still echoing in her 
 ears. She can hear well enough to hear glass shattering and the swift sliding of ropes. She raises 
 her head and realizes she in the only life in the room. Moving toward the window, she sees three 
 shadowy figures rappelling down the side of the building in cadence. One looks up and orders Stay 
 there. Police will come and get you. She nods, entranced by this seeming dream as she watches them 
 descend.
  
  They disappear into a lower window and muffled gunfire reaches her healing ears. She never saw 
 them again. She never knew who saved her life.
  
  
  
  You did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hectick_C
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six what can i say about the franchise that hasn't already been said. Oh wait the multiplayer 
 is  Simple and true it is simply put 
 WOW. The story is good but a bit lacking in time; none the less the multiplayer well makes up for 
 by taking the lacking quality of the story , and slaps it and makes it a moving target that is 
 your ENEMY. Along with amazing head-shots that make you want to T-Bag Who ever you PWNED. &amp;#9572; Jk&amp;#9562; 
 No but seriously the multiplayer and story seamlessly glide together to form a MASTERPIECE!!! ha 
 ha jk lol rofl LOUAL!!! but either way with a good combination of skill and other less drastic 
 Tactics (SUICIDE- ( (Jihaud) ) ) this is one of the many tactics that you can choose from. So in closing 
 i want to shag this game but do to the fact that i dont want to be known as a the person who shags 
 games none the less i still love this game and will be playing it till another rainbow six comes 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edotthekid
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 19, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  I have GOW and didn't want this game because I didn't want two mutliplayer shooters, and i thought 
 nothing could match GOW. But this game is realistic and allows for alot of online play. Its far 
 better than Socom and provides and GRAW2. The switch between 1st and 3rd person views is great 
 and the realism when getting shot make the in game action something not to be missed. I have all 
 the great game like Oblivion and Gears but this is a fine addition to the 360 and shouldn't be 
 missed. Wiether you play it on line or single player i reassure you that you will have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DTbikerider9
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 18, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is deffinetly the best game of the rainbow six franchise and it is also the most 
 recent and full game yet. This game may even be the greatest of all the games that the Tom Clancey 
 franchise ave ever created. This game takes the graphics and gameplay of the xbox 360's fullest 
 potential. First the graphics are amazing and the game's presentation is as good as it gets. When 
 you first look at the game your mind will be blown away. This shooter is perhaps the best looking 
 shooter ever to grace the console world and everyone will be amazed be the games graphics. so all 
 in all through the game's great cities and all the other landscapes the graphics are breath taking. 
 Now the gameplay. Theres a wide variety of weapons to choose from with different attachments like 
 lasr sights, different scopes and silencers. The weapons to choose from range from submachine guns 
 to sniper rifles also with different grenades and pistols. The story is of course your apart of 
 the most elite special ops. team ever: Rainbow Si and two of your guys get napped up by enemy tarists 
 which begins your quest to bring them back. Theres also of course the ability to control your elite 
 squad, how they do it and what they do it with. You can go in hot and loud when you switch to your 
 assault mode. Then you can go in quiet in the recon mode. Al the different ways you can aproach 
 a situation mixes up gameplay for some very fun moments. Then theres coop where you can play online 
 or on your locale console to complete the campaign with a freind. The multiplayer is one of the 
 fullest and addictive of its kind. You have a rank which goes up with experience points you gain 
 when playing each match. Also you get new equipment such as weapons, armor and attachments to play 
 with. Each different set of body armor has a different rank of mobility and protection that effect 
 how fast you can run and how protected you are. Finally the sound ,aybeone of the only flaws it 
 doesn't match up with everything else in the game its just not very good. OVERALL this game rocks 
 on and off line with stellar gameplay and graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: II-FBIsniper-II
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 18, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  This was my second game I bought for my Xbox 360 and I dont regret it!
  
  The graphics are amazing in single player but had to be downgraded in multiplayer but it doesnt 
 bother me that much. There are a few glitches I noticed like when you kill someone, the body sometimes 
 goes through a wall or cover. These are small things but are noticeable.
  
  The sound in the game is great. Each gun has a unique sound that sounds right. When you sneak up 
 to a terrorist in the single player you can hear them chatting normal things to someone else. Sometimes 
 the dialogue is unrealistic such as when an enemy is hiding and just randomly yells out randomly.
 
  
  The next and most important thing is gameplay. The thing that gives RSV its own feel is the cover 
 system which I find better than Gears of Wars system. The gameplay is moderately paced and is 
 not all that tactical but is not as much of a run and gun as Halo 2 but not as slow paced as GRAW. 
 It has a lot of customization for your Multiplayer character and you can even import your own face 
 using the Xbox Live Vision Camera.
  
  The game is far from easy and even on the normal difficulty. The Realistic difficulty gives a player 
 a real challenge and makes a player be very patient. The multiplayer has plenty of game modes to 
 keep you busy and a great ranking system that lets you unlock things as you go up in rank. This 
 will keep you coming back until you reach elite.
  
  I think this is a must buy if you like tactical shooters and Tom Clancy games. 9.3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squeets
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 18, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  At first I didn't want to buy this game because my friend told me it was horrible... boy was he 
 wrong... Right when I put this game in my Xbox360, I was shocked and awed at how amazing this game 
 looked... I had it set up on 1080p being broadcast in 720p on a 50 HDTV... It was like real life 
 and actually shooting terrorist... By far one of the greatest games for the 360 to date... The 
 multiplayer is so in debt as well... 2-16 players online... and hundreds of different combinations 
 of games... A must get for the 360... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Old_Man_Reagen
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 18, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  It doesnt have the longest single player but it will certainly keep you interested. but the multi 
 player makes up for that, with its tons of customizations and weapons, and with the content download 
 that came out 4/18/07.
  
  the cover system may seem a little confusing at first, and is certainly not as simple as gears 
 of war's 1 button everything cover system. it is a little troubling at first because you go from 
 1st person to 3rd person, but after a while it is like second nature.
  
  i would have gave the gameplay a 9 or a 10 but sometimes, especially in multi player, the guns 
 will shoot like crap then good. you can aim and shoot at a guy with the same gun, in the same place, 
 with him wearing the same armor, half the times you kill him, and half the time you etheir hit 
 him and nothing happens or your gun completely misses. i realize it is trying to be realistic but 
 a trained special ops solider should be able to hold a sub machine gun steady while he fires
  
  other than the small problems it is a great game and should be givin a try, even if you never 
 have played a tom clancy game or not 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCMan13
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 17, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  There is a whole lot to do in Rainbow Six: Vegas, it was easily one of my favoritue games yet. 
 It is even better than Halo I think. The Single player is good but where this game is really amazing 
 is Xbox Live, it was just great and always fun. The ranking system was great and I think all games 
 should have a system like that, as you rise up the ranks you get alot of new things which always 
 keeps the game fresh and new, a really good thing. This game is great from the casual to hardcore 
 gamer and should be owned or at least tried by anyone with a Xbox 360 and a gold live membership, 
 enough said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 10054254
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 17, 2007 3:24 am PT
Review:  With very little rainbow experience this was a shock thats not as much of a tactical shooter, its 
 a hardcore FPS that requires you to leave your brain switched on. The hard difficulty of the realistic 
 mode is made up for by the satisfaction you feel when you finally kill that guy that always gets 
 you.
  
  Lets not talk to much about the graphics, they are so pretty i feel im getting a tan just playing 
 the first level.
  
  On-line this game becomes a rival to my Counter-Strike Source addiction. The ability to create 
 your own player (male/female) and as you level up and get new weapons and armour.
  
  Simply amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brandonio358
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 16, 2007 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Great Graphics, Great Gameplay, better story than Graw 1&amp;2 But I can't stress enough on the 
 Ai voices in single player and the grenade sounds. jh jafjda jdlaj ha jgkj dfjg lgah fklg jglar 
 jg hr lrja eljkaghf jal hjhhhhhhh fhlrfghau l hioqhrog jn rhlh hr hjghrjh h jj h hh h h hh h h 
 h h h h hh h hh hh hh h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h hh h h h h h h h h h h h h h hhh 
 h hh hh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oogieboogie8
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 16, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas is a must have for the Xbox 360, and will delight shooter fans everywhere. The 
 game is nearly identical to Gears of War, with the ability to take cover and shoot, blind fire, 
 and tidbits of those sort. The games strongest point is probably it's multiplayer and gorgeous 
 graphics. With a 16 player online and a lot of interesting game variants, it is very intense and 
 has action around every corner. The single player mode is great too, with intense action fights, 
 but they do not last long. Vegas has also included even more items to customize your gear and weapons, 
 with a good variety of equipment ranging from SMGs, assault rifles, and shotguns, to the radar 
 jammers, tear gas, and frags. You should be familiar with these weapons if you have played past 
 games like these such as Ghost Recon and Counter strike. Weapons such as the AK-47 and Desert Eagle 
 are fun to use. You can customize your weapons with scopes and laser pointers to improve aim and 
 lessen recoil. I have never played a Tom Clancy game before, so I am not familiar to any past bugs 
 that may have improved in this game. In multiplayer mode, you can also customize your appearance 
 with armor, eye wear, hats, and even face art. You also have ranks, and the higher the rank, the 
 more kinds of armor and equipment you unlock. Armor works as you think it would: the more and heavier 
 armor you have on the more protection you get but the slower you move. Armor does not make too 
 much of a difference in how many bullets you take. Mobility is important too, and you can wear 
 no armor and move swiftly around if you like. You can customize the color of what your wearing 
 too.
  
  The single player mode plays well, with a little better graphics than the multiplayer mode. The 
 game is based on how Las Vegas is attacked by terrorists, and you and two other Rainbow Six members 
 help to end this invasion. You start out in Mexico and it's not until a short while until you rappel 
 down onto the strip. Viva Las Vegas does not have as much commotion as you think it would in the 
 game, and you only really see a long line of cars honking franticly from your helicopter as you 
 are briefed on your mission. You rescue VIPs, and kill lots and lots of terrorists. One of the 
 interesting features of the game is the ability to see whats on the other side of the door, using 
 a gadget called the snake cam. As you peek to the other side and see those terrorists, you can 
 order to your teammates who's like priority one . Then you order your teammates to stack up and 
 you can order them to just go in, plant a charge on the door and blow up any unlucky men by the 
 door, or you can just order them to frag and clear. The game is challenging even on normal mode, 
 and you can even bring three of your friends to play along with you in single player mode, which 
 is weird because you originally only get two others anyway.
  
  Overall, Rainbow Six: Vegas is fun FPS that can last a long time if you have online play, but remember 
 this. When you just start out and your a private, a lot of people will kick you out of their room 
 because they think you suck too much. And when you play attack and defend (like capture the flag, 
 one team defends the bag, the other tries to bring it to a certain place) , most of your games will 
 be on the map, calypso casino . I have almost always lost on the defenders team, so I am convinced 
 the assault team has an advantage. Well, anyway, I hope you enjoy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boriqat
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 16, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is a game with stunning visuals but lacks the fun of other quality shooters. 
 This game gets very difficult and may sometimes influence you to throw the control on the floor 
 and smash it or even break the game disc. It has an awesome multi player that you can enjoy for 
 ours to come and amazing visuals. The single player, well, not so much. The single player does 
 have better visuals than the multi player but it gets way to difficult. The achievements for the 
 single player campaign or not that much but oh so satisfying. I would recommend this game to only 
 the intense determined gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bullets4Brains
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  This game came out at the same time as Gears of war and was over shadowed by that game due to hype 
 and Gears amazing graphics... But Vegas is just as good, maybe better. Single player is hands down 
 the best you can get in a shooter on 360, maybe equaled by the Darkness. Everything about it just 
 feels right. The guns, enemy AI, level design, sound and great graphics, plus your team kicks serious 
 butt whenever you order them around. Once you see them blow a door off, storm the room and kill 
 everyone inside you will be grinning from ear to ear. It just feels like the most realistic shooter 
 I've ever played and due to amazing controls and no glitchy gameplay or AI, everything plays silky 
 smooth, it's a joy to play. Plus the cover mechanics are the best ever in a game, yes even better 
 than Gears of wars.
  
  I've just finished single player on normal and I'm going through it all again on realistic as it's 
 so good. I haven't even really got started on multiplayer yet. You can level up online which unlocks 
 new weapons, armour ect. It's deep and a lot of fun. Plus there is a healthy online community. 
 I would give this game 10/10 based on gameplay alone, but due to the story being forgettable, I'll 
 give it a 9/10. The story is the only area that needs work imo, and with the promise of a sequel 
 I hope they sort it out. It plays out like every other Tom Clancey story out there and is getting 
 kinda tired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fratjoe18
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  I've bought a few games for xbox 360, and I was not really thrilled about them. Then I heard about 
 Tom Clancys new game, I knew it would be an alright game, but when I bought it, I slipped it in 
 , and What can I say, The game is absolutely amazing, I love game companies that actually put hard 
 work behind their games, and it shows. This is the best shooter in years. I Knew ihad invested 
 my money wisely. Every Xbox owner should own this one. you will not regret it. The game has awesome 
 graphics, and the gameplay is none the less perfect. I really enjoy playing this game, highly addictive. 
 Go out and get , if you dont surprisingly have it already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MJOLNIR562
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 13, 2007 12:24 am PT
Review:  The beginning of the game is very confusing, only because it's Rainbow Six : Vegas and your fighting 
 militia in Mexico.. but once the game finally kicks it into high gear and heads to Sin City the 
 game is spectacular. The awesome graphics and ear splitting sound puts you straight into the game 
 making it both engaging and addiciting. What seams to be an hour turns into three as your transformed 
 from your television into high stakes gun battles. The Gears of War spirited duck-and-cover system 
 is more than useful, and the array of weapons has been trait of the Rainbow Six series. The game 
 is quite difficult as well, the difficulty is of a good king though, in the sense that you feel 
 like your actually playing against human beings and not the walking dead. Your enemies actually 
 think of ways to kill you! All in all the game is more than excellent and is a must buy for anyone 
 looking for a good FPS. The Xbox Live is a given in that it's fun, any game where you can play 
 against multiple people is fun. Be sure to pick this one up. - MJOLNIR562 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NakedSnake25
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 12, 2007 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Well, this and Gears of War have been sharing time in my 360, and that's really, really saying something. This 
 game rivals Gears. Yes, it's that good. I mean, the graphics are spectacular, and the feeling of 
 squad based shooters is heightend to an almost insanely awsome feel in this Rainbow Six entry. Now, 
 if you don't have Xbox LIVE, or don't plan on spending time playing this online, stop reading my 
 review right now. I really didn't buy this game for single player, although it was quite good. But 
 where this game really shines to me is it's freakin awsome online.16 player tactical action in 
 a run down Mexican cty? Count me in! The modes in online are quite wide too, varying from defusing 
 bombs, and killing the most enemies in the set time. You may get your kicks from killing helpless 
 noobs online, but I find the co-op modes quite satisfying all on their own. Some story elements 
 may be left out from co-op story, but to me it's still as good. T-Hunt is also an awsome co-op mode 
 in which you select a map and hunt down and kill a set amount of terrorists without you and your 
 co op team dying yourself. I'ts a total rush to be the only one left on your team versus 5 A. I. 
 baddies who could be right around that corner. One shot to the head, and your work will have been 
 all for not. But that won't happen to you, will it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swati67
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2007 11:23 pm PT
Review:  if you are looking for one of the best games then this is the one to buy, it really blows you away, 
 the gameplay is good and the difficulty level is also good, though you, ll be annoyed by the first 
 level of the game but dont judge the game by the first level,
  the casino levels are really good , sumtyms you get tired of being killeed again and again but 
 it has a certain fun part to it too .its a must play for all the fps lovers out there play it and 
 enjoy it , my damn cd got scratched and i couldnt finish it : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prenandrew301
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 12, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  The most anticipated Tom Clancy Game Since G. R. A. W. (warning 1st level spoiler) Welcome to Las Vegas 
 you can gamble, see strippers and... kill terrorists? Yes it's true terrorists have taken up shop 
 in Vegas and it's up to you with a team of highly skilled proffesionals (or your friends) to stop 
 them. You must travel through different casinos trying to find the terrorist leader (who in this 
 case is a girl) who kidnapped your friends and fellow team rainbow soliders, at your disposal you 
 have many wepons and gadgets including motion sensors, frag grenades and a nice old fashioned AK-47 
 which unfourtunatly has to be unlocked during the online mode. On online mode is a series of senerios, 
 including classic sharpshooter modes if you just want to kill people which im guessing most of 
 you want to do, and a new terrorist hunter mode where u can team up with a few friends and kick 
 some terrorist ass, also in multiplayer you can create your own look for a player using different 
 colour camo and different types of armour to change for mobility and protection you cant have them 
 both im afraid, also if you have an xbox 360 vision cam you can map your face so that your face 
 becomes the face of your character. Another little feature is that if you talk via xbox live headset 
 your characters mouth moves however when you cough you dont put your hand over your mouth very 
 bad manners, also vegas shows other than being a good FPS it makes a fair RPG aswell at the end 
 of each match you get experience and when you get enough experience you go up a rank can you make 
 it to an elite? happy hunting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmgthegamer
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 13, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to Las Vegas you can gamble, see strippers and... kill terrorists? Yes it's true terrorists 
 have taken up shop in Vegas and it's up to you with a team of highly skilled proffesionals (or 
 your friends) to stop them. You must travel through different casinos trying to find the terrorist 
 leader (who in this case is a girl) who kidnapped your friends and fellow team rainbow soliders, 
 at your disposal you have many wepons and gadgets including motion sensors, frag grenades and a 
 nice old fashioned AK-47 which unfourtunatly has to be unlocked during the online mode. On online 
 mode is a series of senerios, including classic sharpshooter modes if you just want to kill people 
 which im guessing most of you want to do, and a new terrorist hunter mode where u can team up with 
 a few friends and kick some terrorist ass, also in multiplayer you can create your own look for 
 a player using different colour camo and different types of armour to change for mobility and protection 
 you cant have them both im afraid, also if you have an xbox 360 vision cam you can map your face 
 so that your face becomes the face of your character. Another little feature is that if you talk 
 via xbox live headset your characters mouth moves however when you cough you dont put your hand 
 over your mouth very bad manners, also vegas shows other than being a good FPS it makes a fair 
 RPG aswell at the end of each match you get experience and when you get enough experience you go 
 up a rank can you make it to an elite? happy hunting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: METALgearJES
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 11, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  You want tactical action? Here you go. This is the best Rainbow Six to ever hit the series.
  
  
  The game features a great cover system that easily rivals the one found in Gears of War. 
 The action is intense and frequent. The AI is better then what you find in the GRAW series. Vegas 
 features rapping techniques that truly make the action seem so much cooler.
  
  
  The single player, despite its lack of a good story, is great due to its gameplay. The Rainbow 
 Six series has always shined in its multi-player aspect, and here it is no different. Customizable 
 characters, co-op missions and a slew of competitive multi-player modes, this game has a lot. The 
 graphics are great. Great detail in the character's faces and guns. The levels are brilliantly 
 designed and more varied than the GRAW series. The guns sound great.
  
  
  
  Overall, this game is one of the best on the Xbox 360. A complete package indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Selfdestruct9
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 11, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Having played Rainbow Six my self since way back to the PC days of its origin i found a soft touched 
 when i picked this game up and played it, that being said i found some little quirks with the story 
 too, like right after the beginning mission after you've lost your two team mates and have been 
 clobbered to death by rocks, then having to fight out of where you were with nothing but a pistol 
 strapped on you, after you've been picked up they assign you to ANOTHER top mission which is just 
 kinda odd, and it takes the realism away a little making you seem more like a 'super elite un-human' 
 soldier than the guy with the bad accent you play as, can't a soldier get a break? But anyway lets 
 get down to whats important , yes the game play! The cover system works great, almost as good as 
 Gears Of Wars' the difficulty seems hard in the beginning but you get used to it after being killed 
 quite easily a few times. The sound is great, all the guns pack the appropriate punch and who the 
 hell doesn't love that smoke grenade sound? The Multiplayer feature is quite fleshed out as well, 
 its sure to keep you playing after you've beaten the rather short game, plus putting your 'face' 
 on the character is always great, i wonder if you can put your backside as your face... All and 
 all this is a pretty worth playing game, the cover system is great and sending your team mates 
 out to cover or assassinate is as easy as pushing a button! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romayo83
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 11, 2007 5:38 am PT
Review:  Even after played GOW, ghost recon and call of Duty 3, this one is really cool!
  
  LOTS and i mean lots of new added cool features to the Rainbow 6 collection. This one by far is 
 the best one to date. Really amazing online too, lots of strategy involed if you want to stay alive 
 more often.
  
  Gameplay is dead on. campaign has two modes, realistic and Normal. Ive tried both and theres lots 
 of noticable differences mostly on how AI reacts and your health. Normal mode your soldier can 
 take a beating. missions are well done and gadjets work smoothly.
  
  Taking cover addition is what makes this game.. you now hide behind objects and switch to a 3rd 
 person view with peeking around corners or blind shooting for cover just unreal. scaling buildings 
 is awesome
  
  The only thing i wasnt to fond of was how you select weapons, rate of fire, etc menus... They are 
 a little delayed and during online gameplay you sometimes dont have time to switch to your sidearm 
 or another weapon when you run out of ammo.
  
  GRAPHICS! wow blown away... so colorful on high res everything looks good especially the characters 
 really well done.
  
  I did notice a coulple of glitches with the physics of objects... alot of times ive seen a chair 
 or object on the floor bounce around or goes flying for no reason no big deal kinda funny.
  
  Sound is great as well
  
  VALUE: this game is now $20 cheaper than most titles!!! get it 
 now its worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcmike1942
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 10, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  The original Rainbows on PC were great but lacked an intelegent AI and graphics. When Rainbow began 
 to be made for console they lost something, the graphics were there, but they lost gameplay. Also 
 it was impossible to aim them with control sticks.
  Vegas is the best of all of the Rainbows made. It seems they have figured out how to make the aiming 
 better, its almost natural now. Gameplay is fun and the maps are large and immersive. Vegas is 
 generation 3 xbox game, no health, and cover with a button. Weapon choice is one of the best and 
 almost all weapons can be supppressed. Good grenade selection and the sheild helpful when you go 
 up against horrible odds.
  Graphics in single player are high quality, no Gears, but they do just as good of a job of getting 
 you inti the game. The graphics are just a different style. In multi player the graphics are cut 
 in half, just for a note.
  The sound has some glitches, for the most part everything is pretty good. But you get into the 
 action and the sound skips out or some of the sounds are unrealistic. Guns sound louder with single 
 shot, wrong. Some guns don't even sound suppressed, whereas in actuality the weapons are very quiets.
 
  Game is one of the must haves for 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_Lover70
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 10, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  Pretty intense game.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Obviously a games most important feature is the gameplay, despite what a good lot of fanboyish 
 rantings on this sites message board might imply. At the end of the day, Vegas just plays well. 
 No, it isn't incredibly tactical like the first in the series, so there isn't going to be four 
 hours of planning before each mission, but it's still tactical enough to distinguish itself from 
 the run and gun likes of Halo and other such bouncy FPSs. The first thing that might strike you 
 when playing is the fact that you die quite quickly, and there is almost no room for even small 
 mistakes. The games cover system, much like that of the coveted Gears of War should help to keep 
 you out of trouble in most instances where you would otherwise have your brains splattered across 
 the pavement, however. Also the open maps, which give you the option to take multiple paths, will 
 save you from throwing down your controller after dying a few times trying to tackle an enemy mounted 
 machine gun. Flanking will be your best friend throughout the games single and multiplayer. But 
 the comparison with Gears of War really ends there, as the game tends to me more about moving about 
 the mission very carefully than sticking yourself to cover only to pop up and shoot 100 bullets 
 into the face of a gung ho enemy. The first reason why you won't be doing that is because the enemy 
 A. I is quite intelligent and will take cover often, rather than run at you and your two squaddies 
 with little regard for their own being. The squad system is well thought out, allowing you to dish 
 out a move to command with a simple press of the A button, and event specific orders such as moving 
 to a door in preparation of a room clearing means you have a good amount of control over your squad 
 mates. Also their A. I isn't too shoddy either and many times they might even save your behind if 
 you find yourself in an explosive situation. The online portion of the game, which features a create-a-character 
 mode as well as rank progression, is quite enjoyable, although I would have to point out the occasion 
 freezing that occurs (even if infrequently or not at all for most) can be quite irritating. You 
 gain experience for each match you play which contributes to your rank. Ranking up gives you access 
 to more weapons and equipment which is a nice feature, although the weapons you start off with 
 are powerful enough to cause destruction if used wisely. There are a variety of game modes which 
 will please many. Team Survival reminds me a lot of CounterStrike, and occasionally can cause the 
 same frustration where you carefully move about the map with guile only to be shot in the back 
 by a flanking opponent. Overall the gameplay is very solid and enjoyable, and even though the tactical 
 aspect has been dumbed down from the first game in the series, it still retains enough tactical 
 nuance to keep the series' trademark.
  
  Story
  
  As with most other shooters, the story isn't particularly thrilling, but at the same time, it does 
 still contain enough within it to make you have a reason for slaughtering terrorists that have 
 descended on Vegas. Without going in to too much detail and spoiling it, it's basically about a 
 group of elite Special Forces who have to go to Vegas (as well as other locales) and kill terrorists. 
 You may pay more attention to the story than I did, in which case my summary might seem bland but 
 shooters are about shooting not about building a complex twisting plot line to keep you guessing.
 
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics are very good, think GRAW but more detailed. This is only in the offline portion of 
 the game however, as the online mode has a graphical reduction to allow it to work without too 
 much slowdown. The guns look fantastic and I hear they are all accurately modelled. Facial features 
 of characters are clear and distinct but it seems this only applies to you and your squad, because 
 the terrorists are a bit featureless in comparison. But if graphics are what makes you rush out 
 and buy a game, then this won't disappoint.
  
  Play Time
  
  The offline game lasts at least 10 hours which is fairly standard of most shooters, but the online 
 portion of the game (if of course you plan to play it) will last a very long time, for me at least. 
 Getting to the highest rank is not easy and will take a lot of play time if you want to unlock 
 all of the online content (the idea of customisable camouflage is certainly appealing) .
  
  Final Word
  
  If you are a fan of first person shooters that require more tactics than many 
 on the market, then I fully recommend you buy this game. If you like playing online games that 
 give you a sense of purpose to playing a lot (i. e the Rank system) , then you should buy it. However 
 if you don't intend to play it online then I think you should rent it first as the single player 
 isn't long enough really to buy it. Otherwise I say buy this game it really is quite fun, and immensely 
 satisfying when you pull of a headshot from cover when you spy your adversary break cover. Go get 
 it, its awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moonraker2
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  This Game is better then gears by a long shot the online is the best game for the 360 yet and single 
 player is just as good. If you are looking for a good online game then look no further then Rainbow 
 Six Vegas, in my opinion the best 360 game to date. but the first levels in Mexico are a little 
 long and way to easy but as soon as you get past these training levels the game really starts to 
 get fun. there is also a very large number of weapons and gadgets to use such as the C4 which is 
 one of the most fun you can place them on an objective like in capture the flag when the you get 
 the warning that the flag has been taken detonate the C4. This is a very good game. I hope my review 
 helped anyone looking to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blademaster-2k7
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 9, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  This is a great game, the story mode is good, it is better then the GRAW story mode by miles. The 
 new weapons are great and the multi-player is GREAT.
  
  The new and improved x box live game varieties are good and there is a lot to decide from, Another 
 good point is that you can build your rank up.
  
  I really enjoy playing this game and i was a major (x box live ranking) and the something bad struck, 
 my brother put the game into the drive and the x box was making a scratching kind of noise, it wouldn't 
 load x box live OR the career. I tuck the game out of the drive and it had a round scorch (scratch) 
 around the middle of the disk. After that point my rainbow vegas disk wouldn't work!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigtruckseries
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2007 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Since I work for the NYC Board of Education, my spring break was from March 29th to April 11th. 
 I took the time to get more acquainted with my Xbox 360 - namely, playing Rainbow 6: Vegas multiplayer 
 with my friend (the host) .
  
  For those of you interested in buying the game...
  
  Rainbow 6 games in general have taken a drastic turn from the gameplay of the original game on 
 PC's many years ago. The gameplay has morphed from a tactical strategy game, to an all out action/ 
 urban warfare scenario where the only tactical illusions whatsoever is your character acting stealthy, 
 and making gestures to following team members to do things like: blow open doors, flashbang rooms, 
 etc.
  
  In the old days of Rainbow 6, youd nearly have to spend 10 minutes looking at a map, and plotting 
 points/checkpoints for your assault teams and snipers  hoping that your plan would work and youd 
 be able to secure the map from the terrorists at randomly generated positions. Then, youd have 
 to control each team  ordering them to assault, hold or infiltrate stealthily while carefully 
 manipulating your own character to give the rest of the team support. Now Rainbow 6 has become 
 more and more like Counterstrike where the focus of the game is surprise attacking the enemy - 
 seeing him first - and spraying him with bullets. This was inevitable since the 360 and PS3 consoles 
 lack the keyboards and graphical user interfaces a PC can afford, but, a lot has been lost in the 
 translation of the original Rainbow 6 to Rainbow 6: Vegas which some hardcore gamers may seriously 
 miss.
  
  The multiplayer of the game basically has you and your teammates attacking or defending from a 
 second set of teammates. In one such scenario, you must protect a briefcase from being stolen from 
 a casino vault by killing the other team before they can get to it - defending the briefcase for 
 upwards of 10 minutes. Team members pick spawn points and equipment, spawn and then begin shooting. 
 If you are killed, you are out of the game for no more than 20 seconds. You gain ACHIEVEMENTS from 
 XboxLive for gaining higher scores. In addition to the higher score, you also increase in rank 
 - which coincidentally allows you to purchase better weapons or various types of tactical combat 
 gear. This makes a big difference in that with better weapons and better armor, you are more likely 
 to win more. The only downside, of course, is internet cheating where it is highly likely that 
 some players will level up by making deals with one another to kill each other - until their experience 
 and rank increases to the maximum. Theyll have access to all the weapons, all the gear and youll 
 just get killeda lot.
  
  Furthermore, the weapons sometimes feel poorly balanced. Bullets do not take down enemies like 
 you'd expect them to because the game's energy system allows a player to recharge his health simply 
 by staying out of gunfire for a few moments. Despite the desire of the game to be tactical enemies 
 continue to move at the same rate even if they've taken a bullet in the back. I am dying for the 
 day when realistic physical models are used that allow you to cripple other players with well placed 
 gunshots.
  It seems easier in the game than it should to hit an enemy from 100 yards away with 95% of the 
 assault rifles and machine guns in the game. What is noticeable is that there is no bullet drop 
 modeled into the game. That is, over whatever distance, gravity has no effect on bullets.
  
  If that wasn't enough, GRENADES in the game are worse than ever - able to allow the person 
 who throws them at you an easy, one-hit kill (not helped by the fact that they have a powerful, 
 wide range and tend to kill everyone in the room with you) . If not a grenade, C-4 explosives can 
 be tossed into the room and detonated - with their considerably larger instant-kill blast radius. 
 If not C-4, the enemy can spam you with TEAR GAS which blurs your vision to the point of practical 
 blindness. If not tear gas, the enemy may hit you with a FLASHBANG which temporarily blinds you 
 as if you'd held a flash camera to your face and snapped a photo (complete with the ghost image 
 effect) . What I do like about Vegas, despite my disappointments with the weapons is the attention 
 that has been paid to context sensitive controls. In the effort to make the game feel more tactical, 
 your point of view will switch from 1st person perspective, to 3rd whenever a major change in your 
 characters orientation occurs. For example, If you move close to a wall or object large enough 
 to hide behind, you can tap a button to make your character hide behind it, which switches the 
 view to 3rd person mode (allowing you to see around corners) . Moving the analog stick allows your 
 character to pop from behind cover just long enough to take some pot shots at the enemy. In fact, 
 without peeking, you may also blind fire at the enemy by simply aiming the cursor at them and pressing 
 the trigger. In the single player campaign, the context sensitive controls are extremely important 
 as, you with your 2 other teammates must single handedly take down SCORES of enemies. For the most 
 part, you spend a good deal of time hiding behind cover.
  
  The Sound is good - containing a mixture of ambience appropriate to the setting - especially in 
 the casino where the roulette wheels, slot machines and other gambling devices make their typical 
 noises. However, I was surprised that the guns all sound relatively alike and are very difficult 
 to tell apart (unlike Counterstrike) .
  
  The Graphics never cease to be impressive. Everything is interesting to look at from your character 
 model to the huge areas you'll find yourself fighting in. The Xbox360 has a great draw distance 
 and it takes games like this to fully demonstrate how powerful the system is. The only problem 
 is, on a SDTV the graphics can be blurry as hell... this game cannot be fully realized on anything 
 less than a 720P HDTV.
  
  The artificial intelligence is not too shabby. The enemy does a pretty good job of aiming accurately 
 at you and hitting you. If you stay from cover too long, you are likely to end up dead very quickly. 
 Stick to cover and youll be fine most of the time. Unfortunately, the enemy A. I. has its drawbacks. 
 It will try to outflank you, or get you in its sights for a clean kill, but too often, it makes 
 the mistake of leaving its body exposed while you take long range shots and hit them with higher 
 accuracy than they can muster. Furthermore, the enemy is damn near deaf. If you have just had a 
 major firefight upstairs or downstairs, the enemy will not seem to take any notice whatsoever. 
 Perhaps this is because they have just been spawned into the map as you approach, but whats weird 
 is that the enemy is never doing enemy stuff. There are basically two types of enemy. The patrollers 
 and those at attention. The patrollers will walk around patrolling a preset route (basically begging 
 to be shot dead with a silenced weapon) and those standing at attention for the most part will 
 simply stand still not doing anything at all. Never mind that the terrorists are breaking into 
 a Casino vault to rob it, or holding hostages with their twitchy trigger fingersall of their actions 
 are prescripted for certain cinematic style moments, but, if there is no script, they wont react 
 until its too late and theyve been clipped. I was also disappointed that Vegas didnt have a voice 
 command interface like Rainbow 6: 3 for the XBOX. Instead of just being able to {say} commands 
 to your computer controlled teammates, Vegas allows you to merely press the [A] button to contextually 
 tell them what to do: open a door, breech a door, move over there, etc.
  
  Overall, Vegas is a great game if you have XBOX LIVE and have plenty of time to lend to leveling 
 up your character. If not, the singleplayer campaign  which is decent at best - leaves a lot to 
 be desired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KAP_Bohica
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 8, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying if you try and run and gun in this game your going to get waxed really quick. 
 Taking cover and being able to get a head shot is mandatory not optional. You start the game in 
 mexico in some run down city, terrorists everywhere camping and hiding behind cars in alleys everywhere 
 you would hide in a multiplayer game. If you take anything out of this review remember this frag 
 and clear. That alone will get you far, you try running through a doorway without that guess what 
 bye bye six feet under you go. Ok so lets say you never played before, some aspects of the game 
 I love are fast roping, window breach's from a rope. C-4 on doors to breach in smoke grenades and 
 my personal favorite the silencer. I use a silencer on assault rifles not to be quiet but for some 
 reason it seems to reduce the recoil go figure. The Vegas Strip map wow, the detail is amazing 
 and the terrorists are ruthless. Just when i thought I was done boom I took a shotgun blast to 
 the face. The campaign is very entertaining and the graphics are nothing short of marvelous. Multiplayer 
 has a new dimension added to it such as co-op terrorist hunt, co-op story mode. Both of these also 
 add to the big fun factor of the game. Terrorist Hunt is just that you and a buddy run around killing 
 a set number of terrorists on a map of your choice. Now on to multiplayer Team sharpshooter, attack 
 and defend. To many to list. Just take my word for it if your good at first person shooters you 
 should know who you are. If your a fan of good graphics awesome sound and fast paced game play 
 head on down to your local gamestop and pick this game up you will not be disappointed. If you 
 are feel free to send me a nasty gram. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarryVanBreemen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  Wow, what a game. This is one of those games that you buy and wont put down for a long long time. 
 The online multiplayer to this game redefines the rules on online multiplayer, It's some of the 
 most immersive online play ever. 24 player matches would have been good though. The multiplayer 
 rank system is genius, the higher you go the better camo/gear you get for online. The 3D face mapping 
 is a great idea aswell (although i havent tried it personally.
  
  The campaign mode is great aswell, Its hard and doesnt lose you, you could play the campaign mode 
 right through the night and never once get bored.
  
  Again its one of those games you'll come back to time and time again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scott_michal
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game and I have to say it is awesome! Rainbow six Vegas is easily the best in the 
 series. The innovative and immersive gameplay coupled with the literally mind boggling graphics 
 is enough to blow you away! To some the single player campaign is too short but that depends on 
 what your expecting. The SP campaign can take you a good 10-12 hours depending on the difficulty. Even 
 if you do finish the SP campaign quickly there is still a welcoming multiplayer experience that 
 you have just got to try. On normal difficulty R6V is quite a challenging game but is remotely 
 forgiving given that you can absorb a fair amount of damage before dying. However if you rachet 
 the difficulty up to relistic R6V becomes HARDCORE! You will have to use your tactical assets to 
 the fullest as in you cant just storm in a room and shoot down all the bad guys you would have 
 to something like throwing in a couple of flash grenades then taking your enimies while they are 
 still disoriented or throwing in a couple of smoke grenades and then sneaking past them. In R6V 
 run and shoot behaviors only result in quick death. If there is a downside to R6V it is the fact 
 that there are a lot of glitches. Glitches such as you not being able to move ,you getting stuck 
 on a ladder or the sound suddenly shutting off. Overall this game is every thing you'd expect from 
 a tactical shooter and much, much more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meto_360
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 6, 2007 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six hits next-gen. 4 tha xbox 360. We all know Ding Chavez. Well let's say he retired and 
 he ain't in this game. But tha guy u play as Logan Keller can be cool. Even though this is my first 
 Rainbow Six game... i love it. And although i never knew Ding i can always try wikipedia
  Tha story starts off in Mexico, Border Town. Your hunting a terrorist named Irena. Tha story jumps 
 in2 random things with lil' detail explaining tha story. So it can be hard 2 understand tha story. 
 But a brief summary is After ur out of Mexico u go 2 Vegas and there is a weapon in Vegas that 
 u gotta find. And God knows where it is. But tha plot has some interesting twists.
  Tha gameplay is tha best i've ever seen in a 360 game. Halo's famous health system comes back. 
 But with a blur. Tha more blurry and darker tha screen, tha closer u r 2 dying so take cover. In 
 tha game u have 2 other squadmates. In tha beginning they're Kan and Gabriel. Later on Jung Park 
 and Michael Walter. Controlling them is really easy. What sounds hard like making rooms raids, 
 taking cover, regrouping, holding, making them go down rappels, healing teammates, and climb stuff 
 is easy. In tha game u need 2 take cover 2 not get shot. You can also blind fire and take over 
 tha shoulder shots. Tha game has a (n) good amount of weapons. EAch that u can customize. Also u 
 need 2 be tactical. Not just take cover and fire. But flanking, using ur map 2 make tha attack, 
 and etc.
  Overall Rainbow Six VEgas has really good graphics. Tha best part is when tha blur comes in. Tha 
 blur makes tha game stand out and does a great job at making tha game beatiful (remeber when u 
 take damage thats when tha screen gets blurry) . You'll see good weather affects in Mexico, good 
 lighting, and breathtaking helicopter views of tha city.
  But if u have xbox live thats where it's at! Tha online multiplayer is fun. Also tha achevments 
 u can unlock from it. Plus if u have Xbox Live Vision u can make tha macth personal by putting 
 ur face on ur character.
  So this is a great tacitcal game 2 get. Also if ur a Rainbow Six fan. So i recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamcool2121
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  rainbow six vegas starts you off in a level in mexico. then there is more terrorists in Las Vegas 
 Nevada so they ship you out to Vegas because it is a more of a threat than in Mexico at this point. 
 You play as counter terrorism Team Leader Logan Keller but your not alone, you have Jung Park, 
 and Michael Walter helping you too. Your objective is to stop the terrorists from taking over Vegas 
 and using bombs to blow it up. The gameplay is amazing in rainbow six vegas as it has a well thought 
 out cover system just as its counter part gears of war. It really makes you feel like a commando. 
 Breaching into windows, using fast ropes or rappelling down and even hanging upside down to take 
 accurate shots with your silencer its all so real! The Graphics are good too in rainbow six vegas 
 the character models look great and when you look around and or get to your next check point it 
 makes you believe that your in Vegas in person. The single player in Vegas was not short at all 
 for me it was a good story with a lot of action but the bad part about the single player is that 
 the story lacks a unsatisfying ending i know i wanted to do more. Now when your done with Vegas 
 single player if you already did not go through it on realistic difficulty mode (you might want 
 too.) The reason i say that is because when you go on multiplayer its fast and amazing over Xbox 
 LiveBut you have to be smart because you can find yourself dying a lot if you dont use tactics 
 and skills and offers system link and co-op that 3 players can play at once through the entire 
 single player campaign There is also a ranking system in rainbow six vegas as well as a ton of 
 multiplayer action and fun with game modes like Team Sharpshooter its like team death match, sharpshooter 
 your free for all fight to the death, attack and defend team survival survival terrorist hunt . 
 You can get more equipment as you level up your characters are customizable and yo can map out 
 a picture of you or anything onto your character. Rainbow Six Vegas is a awesome game that every 
 360 owner should have in their collection it offers so many game modes for online play. So get 
 this game and have a blast. I recommend this game to anyone who likes shooters with a lot of action 
 and a great tactical experience. See you Online. 9.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskongen
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  I'll just make it quick and simple and list the good and bad things about it.
  
  Good :
  
  - Great single-player, Very hard and Realistic
  
  - Awesome top notch Graphics, great looking 
 models and detailed levels
  
  - Realistic sounding weapons and sounds
  
  - Great gameplay ability to Take cover anywhere.
  
  - AI is Exceptional, enemies are challenging 
 and not morons.
  
  - Multiplayer is great, Several multiplayer modes, You can build your unique character online as 
 you progress in ranks and unlock new Armor and weapons, Coop is the thing everyone wants on Xbox 
 and Rainbow six Vegas has two great ones, One is Terrorist hunt, you select level and hunt down 
 a number of Terrorists, And Story Coop, where you and some mates can go through the whole game 
 together, only problem is you dont get Achievements for completing levels, but if you complete 
 whole coop story you get one for that, also if you have a Xbox Vision cam you can put your face 
 on your Character by taking a picture and play as yourself (you also get achievement for doing 
 this)
  
  Bad :
  
  not much bad to say about this game, for me the only annoying thing was i died alot in the beginning 
 and it became boring reloading checkpoint far back where i had already been, but beeing careful 
 and using good strategy you can avoid this. This is a Must have game for mostly anyone with a Xbox 
 360* 9.0 score Go get it :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_grady_76
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 6, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  Pros- Great graphics and settings, great plot twists, your AI team are a bunch of bad-asses who 
 can shoot straight and follow orders. Enemy AI is the same, they can be downright lethal at the 
 highest settings. Perfect pacing of the action against the sheer amount of controls and strategy- 
 the controls are just right. Weapon selection and customization are perfect. 5.1 sound is visceral 
 and makes the game tense. Enough multiplayer modes and custom game options to keep this game fun 
 for awhile. Cons- When a game is this good, it always seems too short. My Halo and Gears playing 
 friends always have trouble playing a slower style game at first, but once they get used to it, 
 they're hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastergamerandy
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 5, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed how you could rank up online and not go down. Many games you'll loose rank from not playing 
 and decrease very quickly. I enjoyed how you could outfit your character and make him/her look 
 how ever you feel. Its nice to be able to unlock gear as well.
  
  Single player is less fun then online. The story is pretty good and engaging, but then you get 
 into the game. The game play is decent, but the level design gets rather repetitive at times. Many 
 of the levels are laid out in the same fashion as the rest. Although realistic, and most likely 
 I shouldn't say this about this type of game. Only being indoors in small enclosed areas inst always 
 the most fun. I would recommend this game for everyone, definately must play online. You can beat 
 single player rather quickly if you play for long periods of time. Enjoy the story, and online. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 5, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  This is a very good game and has alot to offer. I love The MP in this game. It kicks @ss. The story 
 is good but not as good as GRAW 2's story. Tom Clancy is a very god writer and should get a award 
 for everyone of his storys. Sometimes this game is a little hard to play but it is a very addicting 
 game that is just as good as some other shooters. The cover system is good but I like Gears of 
 War's better. This is a great game so go buy this game. It has great MP so if you have live check 
 this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aruk_Sol-Caruun
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 5, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  It's been awhile since I've played Rainbow Six. After the disappointment of Lockdown and Critical 
 Hour, RSV was my last hope for the series, and it rekindled my liking to the series.
  
  RSV is an excellent game. I was very impressed with the setting of the game. I loved rappelling 
 down the side of a Stratosphere-like Vegas tower 1000 feet in the air, high enough to see the entire 
 city. It may seem strange, but it works phenomenally well.
  
  Vegas puts you in charge of Logan Keller, the newest leader of the Rainbow Six squad. The game 
 begins just south of Texas in Mexico, where you are looking for the leader of a Mexican terrorist 
 faction. Like many games of this genre, the first level is mostly a tutorial, showing you how to 
 take cover, fast rope, rappel, flank, and so on, mostly so you are aware of what you can do. Unlike 
 previous games in this series, RSV has tweaked the game slightly. Your health will recharge if 
 you can take cover and not get shot for a few seconds. All you will still die if shot more then 
 a couple times, and pretty much any kind of shot to the head with any weapon will kill you, so 
 watch it. Very quickly the action switches environments as the terrorists have attacked several 
 Hotel/Casinos' along the Vegas strip. You are sent in with your squad to stop them. Here is where 
 most of the action takes place. I really did enjoy the single player campaign. Enemies will try 
 to flank you, they will throw smokes, frags, flashbangs, they will even fight amongst themselves 
 over who should attack you first!
  
  I was also very impressed with my AI-controlled squad-mates. They are not just there for show and 
 tell, they will kill plenty tangos, with or without you. I loved being able to dictate what my 
 squad did, everything from cease fire, attach sound-suppressors, throw a grenade, shoot this guy 
 first, take cover, regroup on me all make you know you really are the head honcho with the poo 
 hits the fan. The story is rather flat. It's the usual kill this charismatic terrorist-leader plot 
 we've seen before. Although they do throw a curveball towards the end, the conclusion to the campaign 
 left me wanting more (and not in the usual sense) .
  
  With that, Multiplayer is excellent. There is plenty of game modes, so you'll find something to 
 enjoy. Playing Terrorist Hunt with your friends is a blast, as the enemies are rather smart (usually) 
 and don't spawn in the same damn place every single time. Is there one tango behind the door? 2? 
 5? Maybe none? This kind of unpredictability damn-near requires you to work together, and it's 
 a blast doing it. Other modes, such as Team Sharpshooter (like a Team Deathmatch) and Attack and 
 Defend (a very fun game of cat-and-mouse-type gameplay) add some sauce to the game. Like in the 
 campaign, your health will automatically restore itself if you can manage to not get shot for a 
 short moment. But this is still Rainbow Six, and it will only take a couple shots of your rifle 
 to bring down even the most heavily armored opponent out there.
  
  You'll also love the P. E. C. (Persistent Elite Creation) , which allows you to customize the look 
 of your Multiplayer character to your liking. As you rank up, you unlock various items such as 
 hats, helmets, armor, camouflage, guns, and other accessories while still putting anyone new to 
 the game at any real disadvantage (other then being new) . Probably the only problem is a couple 
 glitches that hinder gameplay ever so slightly, and I could go for some more maps. But if Gears 
 of War can somehow be so glitchy and yet so popular, it's hard to really judge RSV any different. 
 With all that in mind, Rainbow Six: Vegas is an excellent addition to the series, and it really 
 revives it from becoming just another shooter . it's still fairly more advanced then games such 
 as Halo, but it is loads of fun regardless, and well worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hama666
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  Those of you familiar with the Rainbow Six franchise would know that the games were heavily tactical, 
 and required precision, patience and awareness. Through-out the series you and your elite squad 
 of counter-terrorists would travel the globe cleaning up terrorist threats.
  
  R6: V goes another direction and this time sees you clearing the terrorist-inflicted streets of 
 the infamous Las Vegas city. Without spoiling too much; the city of Las Vegas has become a terrorist 
 playground with hostage situations and explosions occuring in fictional casinos and its up to you 
 and your squad mates to clean things up in the limited time you have.
  
  The single player itself is very slow starting; frustrating death after frustrating death will 
 force you to change your tactical approach to the level each time, this makes it immediately known 
 of the harder difficulty compared to your average console shooter. However this is only but a good 
 thing as quickly you'll begin to pick up tactical methods and with experience you'll be a terrorist-cleansing 
 machine in no time. The campaign itself is quite short and the average gamer should have completed 
 it within 6-10 hours; the story is quite engaging but without spoiling much the ending does leave 
 you rather disappointed but of course it does suggest a sequel.
  
  However the main highlight of R6: V is its fantastic xbox live multiplayer experience. The multiplayer 
 uses a character-development system in which you can fully customize your character whether it 
 be his clothes, body armour, weaponry or gadgets, and as you gain in rank you will have access 
 to more equipment, you will also be able to play around with different camo types and colours. 
 The great thing about this is that every player looks unique and different to one another: you 
 have those looking like a monster of a tank with full heavy armour and a machine gun to arm, then 
 they'll be others that'll look like John Mclane of Die hard with a bloody tanktop and wielding 
 an SMG. Another interesting addition is being able to paste your face into your character via the 
 xbox vision camera, this works very well and is both humorous and useful as you are immediately 
 able to recognise friends and clan members.
  
  The multiplayer mode themselves are more numerous than any other 360 title; theres a HUGE staggering 
 choice of game modes ranging from your typical Deathmatch and Team Death match to the intense cooperative 
 terrorist hunt and the heavily teamwork based Attack and Defend. The only argument I have to make 
 about the multiplayer is the huge amount of lag that pops up from time to time, theres also the 
 incredibly immature and annoying xbox live gamers that do ruin the experience at times, but unfortunately 
 they're always present in 360 online games.
  
  All in all R6: V is a fantastic update to an already successful franchise, its singelplayer is on 
 the short side but the multiplayer makes it one of the most replayable 360 titles on the market. 
 It's a must have for the Xbox 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Popcorn1223
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 4, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Very fun tactical shooter. If you are a fan of tactical shooters you'll love Rainbow Six Vegas. 
 Great looking, great sound, and amazing storyline with a huge twist at the end that will get you 
 going. I recommend renting it first and seeing how you like it. Online multiplayer is tons of fun 
 too. Great game overall. There is also the terrorist hunt mission that adds some replay value to 
 the game, other then just the online play. The only real con i could find was sometimes i found 
 that the loading time was a bit long. Which 360 game loading time isnt long right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeesh1981
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 4, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Okay in the beginning i thought this would just be another tom clancy game (which are all good) , 
 i thought it would just be similar and something ive seen before. I WAS WRONG!
  
  This is like so unique, fantastic!! It uses the Unreal 3 Engine (same as Gears of War) and looks 
 like the best thing ever as Gears of War did, different kind of settings in the two games, but 
 the graphics are as amazing as Gears of War, same engine.. duh! This game holds the Tom Clancy name 
 but is a superb modern shooter/action game accessible and enjoyable by ANYONE.
  
  I also prefer the realistic setting of this game as compared to Gears, also it seems to borrow 
 quite a few elements from Gears like no health bar instead of your vision getting blurry indicating 
 you're about to die and being able to recover by taking cover for sometime, you can heal your teammates 
 too, and taking cover is very important.
  
  It also borrows elements from GRAW in the way you command your troops.
  
  BUT KNOW THIS: Rainbow 
 Six Vegas IMPROVISES on just about everything, more ways than you can imagine, the orders you can 
 give to your troops are far more evolved than they were in GRAW or Gears, also its first person 
 and third person only at the right times - when you are taking cover! The scope views, shooting 
 effects, everything is amazing.
  
  Overall this is a very very satisfying game.
  
  My only gripe is that you cannot do a melee attach with your guns but like you can in games like 
 Black, even in Gears. I just love shattering windows in those games with the back of my gun, but 
 in this game i have to atleast fire one shot to accomplish that, it would add to the stealth portion 
 of this game too. Everything else in the game fits PERFECTLY with its design and contributes to 
 make it a real joy to play.
  
  Oh yeah talking of stealth, you can use stealth tactics or other tactics in this game, whatever 
 you love more, but it does have to be a tactic, no running around out in the open. So its a good 
 realistic game which can be played with or without stealth - realisticly.
  
  Well, I love this game! And now I really appreciate my Xbox 360 more than ever.
  
  More than 
 that I'm surprised how there was not as much hype for this game before its release as there was 
 for Gears, GRAW, Halo etc, yet it beats all of them! Wow! Good going Tom Clancy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OGTiago
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 4, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  With the return of Rainbow Six for the next gen consoles, its time that Ubisoft kicked up a notch. 
 Rainbow Six: Vegas is the first in the series to hit the next gen console and has proven itself 
 worthy to be apart of the next gen.
  
  Ubisoft has done a great work for this part of the series, a whole new team instead of the original 
 from past series. From Mexico to the Hoover Dam, you will be going places that Rainbow Six has 
 never gone before - within the United States... Terrorist have grown smarter in the past decade 
 and now they have Las Vegas under their control. Your basic objective is to wipe out every single 
 terrorist in the Las Vegas strip and other places like Mexico and the Hoover Dam for examples.
 
  
  The gameplay is just purely smooth that every button responds to the correct action, your team 
 are ever more smarter and as well as the enemy. Moving your way to several casino's and the streets 
 will be making this mission a chaotic adventure as bullets wiz by and your screaming at the top 
 of your lungs to have your team members shoot back... then you are shot from behind and have to 
 restart the checkpoint. The game comes with a variety of weapons including Mp5, Glock, Desert Eagle, 
 AK-47, PSG-1, Steyr Rifle, etc, But it would have been more interesting to have been able to unlock 
 new, more powerful, weapons as the game goes on.
  
  Multiplayer is just as good as the single player, or both? Multiplayer has been revamped from the 
 ground up by introducing team based to deathmatch selections. The graphics on multiplayer isn't 
 dumb down but several aspects are to reduce the lag within the game. This time around, a new feature 
 was added where if you had the Xbox Camera that you could snap a picture of yourself and add it 
 to your character which would show up pretty nicely, but we are going to see some pretty ugly counter-terrorist 
 and terrorist groups.
  
  The music in this game is just great, sounding much like 24. Electronica slowly creeping in every 
 aspect while playing Single Player, this is probably the best musical score since the original 
 Rainbow Six.
  
  At the end, Rainbow Six: Vegas has proven it self to be a worthy title for the Xbox 360 a possibly 
 hit for everyone - FPS fanboys and team fanboys. I recommend this for Tactical FPS Fans; New FPS 
 players may want to skip this for now. Awesome game, hopefully we'll see more of these titles very 
 soon.
  
  Summary: Gameplay: Awesome gameplay, but door commands could be tacky with because they are all 
 performed with the A button (Open, Move Team to Door, and Snake Cam) ,; sometimes you may do the 
 wrong command by mistake.
  
  Graphics: Beautiful lighting, nice detail at times, I have seen better.
  
  Sound: Has got everything 
 it needs: all the commands, terrorists shouting in the background, during attacks you character 
 shouts commands, your colleagues have a variety of speaches. But it does get repetitive quite fast.
 
  
  Value: Has got 2 difficulty settings, terrorist hunt, and online play should keep some people entertained 
 at times, but single player is quite short.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: A good game.
  
  Please recommend this review :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360-0wnage
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  This Game is one off the best games gaming consoles has ever seen its gameplay offline and online 
 are just incredible and Wkd people say gears of war is the best game out and i think differnt i 
 think game is easy eauqally the same or even better more to do offline solo career and multplayer 
 theres more maps more people can join in ur xbox live games up to 16 plaers and gears of war there 
 is only half off that and even online there is more game types about 10 and gears off war there 
 are 3 so i think this game is alot better then all other action shoot em ups on any console
  
  Multiplayer-this game you will never get board off all of the maps and game play is just plain 
 fun thats y i think thsi is the best shoot em up game out on any console and expessially XBOX 360
 
  
  Campain mode-is good fun it is very hard at some parts but not impossible that is what makes that 
 game one of the best and campaign is long so it take along time to complete this game on the hardest 
 difficulty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mightyboosh13
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 3, 2007 5:07 am PT
Review:  Single player isn't the best reason to buy this game.
  I think its definitely worth a rent or bargain bin basement purchase in a while. But on single 
 player merit this game is not worth your &pound;40/$60.
  
  If on the other hand you are connected to Live then the came does come more into life and shows 
 strength many online shooters are weak in.
  
  Back to the single player.
  It's far too short and the first few missions don't look as good as you'd expect. The outside lignting 
 isn't as good as I'd expect. It's trying to be Ghost Recon but failing miserably.
  The game only really picks up when you start doing the Rainbows real jobs of counter terrorist 
 support in among buildings and tight confines.
  
  The gameplay is similar to previous with a few new additions. Nothing really is hugely innovative 
 though the cover-system is one of the best in a game by far.
  The games visuals pick up in-doors as well especially in the lovely casino areas.
  The games 
 main problem in single player is the lack of variety and poorly driven story. The enemy ai is reasonable 
 but nothing next-gen like many had hoped.
  We want F. E. A. R.'s enemy ai levels. We want soldiers covering and throwing down tables and jumping 
 over furniture.
  But as usual rainbows feel decent they do some run and covers, chuck the odd grenade but nothing 
 real special.
  When you die you dont think oh well the enemy out-smarted you but you feel annoyed coz its usually 
 cheap tricks or just plain bad moves on your part.
  Everything in the game is fairly polished and to be honest the single player is a lot of fun if 
 you like your FPS's.
  
  The multi-player is lovely. Though from early experiences the game lagged and had voice chat problems. 
 They seemed to have recently disappeared.
  Most Clancy titles suffer these problems for the first few weeks.
  
  This game is great in 
 multiplayer. The levels are a good size and the map variety isnt bad.
  I wish they had kept some of the best FPS levels ever from R63Black Arrow. i damn miss Cafe and 
 a few other beauties.
  But the mix isn't that bad and well desgned with multiple paths.
  Spawn camping is still a problem and its disappointing that the developers havent done anything 
 *new* to counter it.
  
  The weapons are good though its daunting to see so many.
  Sometimes I prefer just being given a gone with a certain soldier with more/less grenades, maybe 
 a specialist skill etc etc. I'm sure theirs one gun to rule them all. But I have yet to find the 
 one.
  I much prefer Call of Duty's class system and I wish they'd do this with Clancy titles.
  I know 
 the hardcore would hate it but least the newbs would get a chance.
  
  In full its a good rounded package that leans more to multiplayer skirmishes.
  
  have fun... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2007 1:34 am PT
Review:  This is an awsome game that is fun and challenging. At first I thought it wouldn't be as great, 
 but when I rented it, it turned out to be really good. The only part that really pisses me off 
 are the idiots online. All they say is kick that private or no lower ranks alowed . They gotta 
 think that they were noobs once too. So to all those jerks who kick you for rank... JUST SHUT UP 
 AND PLAY THE GAME AND DEAL WITH IT. DON'T BE SUCH A BIG BABY BECAUSE SOME NEW PERSON JOINS. THINK 
 YOUR TO GANGSTER TO HELP!?!?!? Never mind... This game rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dr_octagon
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2007 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas was the first game I bought for the 360, so this was the first ever next gen 
 game (and first Rainbow Six game) I ever played. If you own a 360, do yourself a favor and GET 
 THIS GAME . If you've played Rainbow Six before, you know how the game works. If not, basically 
 most of the game you have 2 teammates that follow your orders on clearing a room, taking cover, 
 infiltrating or assaulting, etc. So this is what I thought...
  
  Graphics: Very Good, especially on an HDTV. The attention to detail borderlines on obsessive, to 
 the poker chips and escort service call cards scattered on the floor to the look and feel of every 
 environment. Controls: Excellent, second nature. Perfectly tailored to the 360 controller. Sound 
 : Also superb. Every gun sounds like it's real-life counterpart, the explosions are hit on, down 
 to the simulation of your ears ringing after a flash bang grenade goes off. The game achieves at 
 recreating the casino atmosphere, with the different slot machine sounds the lame techno crap they 
 pipe in over the speakers.
  
  Gameplay: This is not your average run n' gun. RS Vegas is identical to Gears of War take cover 
 and shoot gameplay. Strategy plays a role too, reqarding when and when not use your silencer, to 
 choosing how to clear a room. Your teammates do their job well, and help out alot but still allow 
 you to get most the of the kills. Gun choice is key here too, as they all have different strengths 
 and weaknesses. Multiplayer: Not to be missed. I honestly haven't played much online but your going 
 to see the usual Team deathmatch modes on here as well as other game modes specifically meant for 
 RS Vegas, such as Sharpshooter (camp snipers, rejoice!) . P. S. I didnt find this out until I beat 
 the game the first time, but the Glock 18 is FULLY AUTOMATIC. Unloading a clip into a terrorist 
 with this gun is extremely satisfying, especially with the laser sight equipped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wrona92
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy has released many good games and books but this game was not that good on some levels 
 but most levels it was great.
  
  When I first played this game it seemed ok, but after a while you get bored.
  I lost my interest 
 for the game after 3 levels of playing.
  This game does have some good multiplayer.
  
  The graphics are very very nice high contrast lighting also shadowing and the bullet trials.
 
  
  This game does have some impact on you at the begging, but it's ok.
  
  Its worth to take a look on it but it is not that great gets boring after a while
  
  Well this 
 is what I think of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjic
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 2, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This game is a big leap forward for the tactical shooter to the 360. It has a good cover 
 system, better health system, and a better AI. This is how Tom Clancy games should play.
  
  Graphics: This game has great graphics. Everything looks great and the game looks even better on 
 HD. Also if you Digimask your face for multiplayer it actually looks like you!!!
  
  Sound: The sounds are all there from bullet fire to foot steps. It also has some pretty good voice 
 acting.
  
  Value: The campaign on this game is pretty long and is worth the time spent on it even if some 
 parts can be frustrating. Also has great multiplayer.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I highly recommend this game and is an overall great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rounder617
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 2, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is ok in the campian but the online part is amazing. The campian i think is just ok. 
 The battle sequenes are great but they get really repitive. The online is the real reason you should 
 but this game becasue this game in that feild is just awsome. The maps are so great becasue there 
 are so many differnt ways to go through it. The best map has to the Calypso Casino. The graphis 
 are pretty good when your playing online and your talking through your headset you can see you 
 chracters mouth move and you can use xbox vision to create your own carechter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heretic32
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 26, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  This is the game to get if you already have Gears of War. Much of this game is excellent, and the 
 faults that it does have will soon be forgotten because of all the quality gameplay that is offered.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: The cover system in RSV is excellent and you won't get stuck on an undesired object like 
 you might in GeoW. The ai is pretty smart, although cheap at times. You may find yourself taking 
 out swarms of enemies, only to be shot in the back in the process. Singleplayer is quite difficult, 
 especially on realistic mode which is almost on the verge of ridiculous. Multiplayer is a ton of 
 fun, and the ability to map your face on your character with the Xbox Live Vision Camera is an 
 innovative idea.
  
  GRAPHICS: This is where RSV is hit and miss. The visuals in the singleplayer campaign are excellent, 
 but the environments are very non interactive throughout the game. Multiplayer is rather unimpressive 
 visually, although you won't care once you're playing. Also, the visuals take a hit when you play 
 in split screen mode with the textures being at a rather low resolution.
  
  SOUND: The sound is great in this game. You can tell how far away and whether or not people are 
 in your room when they shoot or yell. Some of the lines that the terrorists use are hysterical, 
 and they will often argue with each other. The gun sounds are great as well, all sounding how they 
 should although there are some odd glitches with the sound online.
  
  VALUE: RSV has a lot of replayability. The realistic setting will take a lot of time to complete 
 in the campaign and terrorist hunt as well. The multiplayer will always bring you back for more, 
 with higher ranks rewarding you with newer, better guns. You will be hounding for these achievement 
 points.
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT: RSV is a must have game for 360 owners, and will soon be a must have game for 
 PS3 owners. Although the graphics aren't top notch in multiplayer, the rest of the game is very 
 well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makavelo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 29, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  The mech is great new behind-the-wall-cover is great and all, on the multiplay it takes awhile 
 before geting to elite and its alot of work doing it.
  
  The story is fine and all but at the end it was missing something to make you feel wow I won't 
 to know how it 'll end and that was missing but the plot and all were great but it was mising something..
 
  
  Tom Clancy is bringing shooters to hole new level of gameplay.
  I find:
  1. Ghost Recon series
  2. Splintercell series
  3. Ranbow Six series
  but that is just what 
 me list is and not ment for others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d3r7y
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  What ever happens in Vegas dosen't necessarily stay in Vegas. Rainbow Six Vegas is possibly the 
 best Tom Clancy game if not then hands down THE best Rainbow Six by far to date! From beginning 
 to end, Vegas has you in the best fire fights I have ever been apart of. Your teammates help you 
 out just enough, but if you rely on them more than you should you'll most likely be helping them 
 out of trouble instead of the other way around. The multiplayer is friggin sweet. You could have 
 your buddies team up with you or you could just go after each other. One multiplayer option you 
 could choose is Terrorist Hunt. Its basically search and destroy all the terrorists on the level. 
 Ubisoft has their hands full on making a better Rainbow than this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayers228
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2007 4:23 am PT
Review:  Why vegas why would terrorists want to destroy Vegas. I mean I would think Americans losing all 
 their hard earned money, being thrown out on the street with nothing with their shirt on their 
 back just because the cards or dice werent right would make terrorists happy. I mean honestly I 
 think terrorists probably run Las Vegas. But I guess games cant be 100% accurate right???
  
  Welcome to Rainbow Six Vegas, not a revolutionary FPS game but still solid and very addictive. 
 You play a personality-free terrorist hunter who is sent to Vegas to again kill terrorists, rescue 
 hostages, maybe defuse a bomb here and there, then return to the Heli.... rinse and repeat. Unlike 
 G. R. A. W you dont have thousands of things on your heads up display, maybe an occasional broadcast 
 message from the terrorists but nothing more. Again unlike G. R. A. W you dont have to fiddle around 
 with gadgets everytime you start a mission, the game usually puts you right there in the middle 
 of the fight. Pretty much throughout the game you run around level to level killing any funny accent 
 guy you find, steath isnt really needed but quick reflexes and being able to dodge bullets are 
 very well needed. You get shot at you duck behind what every cover you can (L trigger) then wait 
 till they take the 2 sec. stop of firing an you pop in the face. The cover system is simple and 
 doesnt have as many bugs and problems in it as Gears Of War does. Vegas has a wide variety of rifles, 
 SMG's, shotguns, and other gadgets to fit anyones needs, even though all weapons in this game seem 
 the same they are in fact very much different. But lets forget about single player and get right 
 into what 80% of you people bought this game for.....
  
  Multiplayer is great in Vegas, i mean its no Halo but it is probably the best multiplayer game 
 out for the 360 at the moment. Customizable characters and loads of camos (most of which are locked 
 till you move up in rank) and it even throws in some guns to unlock in later ranks. Maps in this 
 game are simple yet have their own complexity to them, for example Calypso Casino which only has 
 to ways out of one of the teams spawns but has loads of places to hide and cover waiting for you 
 opposing teams get to eager an try to hold you back in your spawn. Most maps are well balanced 
 an dont give one team the advantage, but their are a few exceptions to that. Gameplay is fun and 
 multiplayer even gives you a variety of gametypes to choose from, this includes team survior, team 
 sharpshooter (respawns) , attack an defend, survior, sharpshooter, retreival, and even thoughs in 
 some online terrorists hunts. You may also do the single player story line online with up to four 
 of your friends in CO-OP.
  
  One problem i do have with the game is why all the advertisements. I mean all you see is AXE billboards 
 and i guess everyone in Nevada drives a DODGE, people leave advertising out of our games we see 
 your AXE body spray commercials enough please dont put that in our games!
  
  But anyway this is a great shooter, nothing new but still cant go wrong with the classics. I recomend 
 this game to any 360 owner, 60 bucks is well worth the price.
  
  This Review was brought to you by DODGE: Grab Life By The Horns ; p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flavort
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 24, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancey games are just so so to me, Vegas changed that around though. One factor about this 
 game is that you get to dog out terrorist. Now in this game there is very little to complain about. 
 The biggest issue would be with the AI in this game. It is just pretty general. The weapons in 
 this game are really cool and you can customize them to your liking. You can also exchange them 
 with downed enemies. The best thing about this game is the controls that have improved loads with 
 the cover feature. This has made a huge change in the feel and fun factor. The graphics dont get 
 near the GRAW series but the game is a bit more fun. I think this one is a good one to go with 
 if you like Tom Clancey and if you dont. The sound in the game is good and the graphics are too. 
 The gameplay is great compared to other Clancey games and there are different aproaches to each 
 battle so you can switch it up if what you are doing is not working out. Good game I am impressed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonicBlade_X
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 23, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  While this game is GREAT FUN. It came out at the wrong time. With Gears of War out at the same 
 time, this games greatness is in GoW greater shadow. I truly enjoy this game. I just always seem 
 to drift back towards Gears. The game doesnt have the greatest graphics online, but hey what tom 
 clancy game hasnt gone crappier for online. The single player graphics are beautiful however. The 
 single player could use a few more check points because after fighting so long and getting shot 
 in the back by a hiding soldier and having to replay the last 20min of the level, just pisses you 
 off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxB1GB0YxX
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 22, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Multiplayer positives many game modes, diffrent kinds of gear, costomable characters. Single player 
 is great, good story line. Negitves, many glitchs in multiplayer and in single player the A. I in 
 the game are stupid. You could snipe the all of them with out them noticing. Some people point glitch 
 in Rainbow Six Las Vegas. The story line gave the game that extra edge. The game is like being in 
 your own mini movie. You would buy this game it is worth every dollar. I ll say the best attriubute 
 to Rainbow Six Las vegas is the multiplayer. You can play up to sixteen players at a time. A alright 
 ranking system. Only reason it is no great is that a couple of people point glitch. Other than that 
 multiplayer rivals that of gears of war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: molinaps3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 22, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas is a super kick ass game, the AI are the best in any game i have 
 ever played, the graphcis are sweet thanks to the HD of course, the story is just great, the characters 
 are great/funny and the weapons (of course) is great. The single player game mood is soo damn long 
 but soo damn great and kick ass and yet sometimes alittle bit annoying. The only not really bad 
 part about the game is the death. When you die, you must wait for the Save Progress right ok like 
 anyother game us Gamer Players have played. But ok you get it right, now lets say you got super 
 far right but then you die, you think Gee well good thing i got that saved placed but wait wait 
 wait hold on there buddy NO where every u saved, gotta start there again and do it again until 
 you get it right. Sometimes annoying if you special hate one level (i got couple not sayin tho) . 
 Over all this game is the best in my game collections a must buy game, oo forgot to mentiond the 
 Online is also great love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshman88
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is a amazing game and i recommend it to anyone who has a xbox 360!!!!
  it is the HALO 3 of today! and the multiplayer cant get any better, except for some glitches which 
 isn't to bad. but i have must of spent alot more than 100 hours playing it and i am still playing 
 this game at least 5 hours a week!
  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is my one excitement other than halo 3 this Year!
  more great features about 
 this game is the stealth ability and the ACTON of killing terrorists so its both for stealth and 
 just playing loud and dirty! LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kwh1te24
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 3, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  I think this game is the best in the Tom Clancy's series so far. The graphics are amazing. They're 
 close to as good as Gears of War graphics. This game is a little hard in the beginning when you're 
 learning it, but once you learn the controls, it's easy to control you and your teammates. This 
 game takes a little while to beat because some parts are hard. Also sometimes you may get far after 
 a checkpoint and then right before you die, you may think It doesnt matter if i die. I've gotten 
 so far by now, I should have gotten to a checkpoint. This could happen if you weren't paying attention 
 to whether there was a saving progress on the screen or not. Well, sometimes you get far and you 
 think you've gotten to a checkpoint, but you haven't. But this is an amazing game. It's done right. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AL13NK1LL3R
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  I spent one week to beat single player and its very challeging even on normal mode.. the graphics 
 on single player is amazin alots of neon lights and sparks goin on! the multiplayer is down forward. 
 theres team elmation, emlation, attack and defend, co-op terriost hunt ( this is the most fun of 
 the whole multiplayer, all u have to is emlation the terriost on the map with no respawns!!) but 
 the downside is the graphics, they downgraded make it feel like its xbox graphics but oh well. 
 all it matters is the game play so.. overall its must buy!! for those people who dont have xbox 
 live is still a get cause the single player will last u pretty long time!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dfr4badkarma
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 22, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  AI was the great problem in GRAW in my opinion. It definately seemed to improve with Rainbow Six. 
 The indoor action was more intense and tactically impressive than with GRAW. Very fun!
  
  The only problem that I saw was that it wasn't extremely immersive, storyline wise. The story seemed 
 to be a big step from GRAW, and had a more personal side to it. The problem was that it kept a 
 realistic view, and wasn't as extreme as some games I enjoy.
  
  The flash, Breach, smoke, frag, or simply rushing through doors was very impressive! By the end 
 of the day it did get somewhat old, however it still was impressive to see what combinations that 
 me and my team would use. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kizzle28
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 24, 2007 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six. Those words are synonymous with first person shooter or tactical shooter. Once in 
 a while, a game so complete, so enjoyable comes along that it just makes you -no, it begs you - 
 to play it. Rainbow Six: Vegas is the game that will actually make you take out Gears of War from 
 your disc drive. You play Logan Keller, a seasoned veteran in military ops and leader of Team Rainbow. 
 Beside you are electronics/recon specialist, Gabriel Nowak and demo expert, Kan Akahashi. First, 
 you start off in (guess where?) Mexico, hunting terrorists. One in particular named Irena. While 
 there, your team members get captured. Alone, it is up too you to get help and find your men. You 
 escape, trouble is, your bosses are glad to have you back, but need you in Vegas to curb the annoying 
 terrorist outbreak there. Pissed off you had to leave your friends, you go to Vegas to search, 
 and eliminate, the leader of the terrorist activity.
  
  You are thrust into a single player story that actually can stand on its own and is a fun, engaging 
 experience. But the multiplayer is where it's at! Several game modes, co-op story, co-op terrorist 
 hunts, and up to 16 players over Xbox Live make this game a must have!
  
  Gameplay
  R6: Vegas uses a cover system similar to Gears of War. But what sets this cover system apart from 
 Gears' system, is that it is more fluid, and you don't feel as though you can get caught in cover, 
 like in Gears. It is a better system, and I hope they use that system in future games. Everything 
 is a smooth, well-oiled machine and it makes the gameplay fun, even more fun than Gears, at times. 
 Graphics
  Nice character models, environments, and just about everything. Gears still looks better than this 
 game, but in no way is R6: Vegas a slouch. Top notch graphics here!
  
  Sound
  Guns sound incredible, voice overs are great (especially in terrorist hunt!) , and the score is 
 very good.
  
  Value
  With 8 game types (6 vs. game modes, 2 co-op) and up to 16 players, along with several maps, this 
 game will keep you busy for hours and you try to rank up your virtual character from a lowly Private 
 all the way to Elite.
  
  Tilt
  Personally, when it comes to the whole package, I thought this game is actually better than Gears 
 of War. Ubisoft took everything that is great about the tactical shooter, put it in the Unreal 
 Engine, made everything easy and fun to play, and made multiplayer just amazing. And with a map 
 pack with 5 new maps and 3 new gametypes, Rainbow Six: Vegas is surely the new online king of Xbox 
 Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berkner_ram77
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 21, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the greatest, GREATEST rainbow six game ever made. That is one heck of an acomplishment 
 if you go back and look at the rich history this franchise has had. As long as you dont look at 
 lockdown, there is really no other blemish to the series. Now to the review. The single player 
 is a tested and true method of seeking out and killing terrorist before they either kill a hostage, 
 or blow up some sort of building. It is great and the grapics will keep you coming back for more. 
 That is of course if you don't have xbox live. The persistant elite creation is very well done 
 and rewards you just for playing the game whether or not you succeed every time. This is great 
 for begginners and for pros considering how long it takes to achieve the rank of elite. New downloadable 
 content and constant patches mean that Ubisoft means business about keeping this a great online 
 experience. As far as the difficulty goes, as long as you have a brain and slight hand eye coordination 
 skills, you can excel at this game. Guns are very balanced and actually shoot according to their 
 real life counterparts. It's true, and if you don't believe me, just watch a couple episodes of 
 futerweapons to see some of these guns in action. Ok, to keep it short there is one last thing 
 I have to, the cover system in this game alone should be reason enough to buy this game, it is 
 that GOOD! Anyway, I sure hope that this review can help you make a good decision if you are debating 
 whether or not to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarioD04
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 21, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow SIx: Vegas is the first game of the long running (and very popular online) Tom Clancy series 
 of tactical shooters that I have tried. I'll be honest, it didn't disappoint me one bit. The story 
 of the game is very questionable and sometimes very bland, but the enemy A. I, wonderful gadgets 
 and great gunfights make up for it all in bringing you a delightful experience that you will not 
 soon forget.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Reasons: Rainbow Six Vegas puts you in the middle of a city crisis that involves unexpected terrorist 
 attacks all over Las Vegas. It is up to you, Logan Keller, leader of the Rainbow squad, to stop 
 them. You start the game off playing in a level called the Mexican streets which is more of a training 
 level, and then are picked up via chopper and taken to your first actual city mission. The story 
 starts off being very simple at first,, but becomes more and more difficult as the game progresses. 
 There are two difficulties in the game that provide both a challenging and enjoyable experience 
 as you go through -- normal difficulty and realistic difficulty. On normal, you will find that you 
 can take quite a few bullets to the chest without having to worry about reloading the sometimes 
 agonizing checkpoints in the game, but will still have to play very tactical and won't be able 
 to run and gun as you may in other games such as F. E. A. R, Call of Duty and Halo. Realistic on the 
 other hand challenges you by giving you the feeling that you're actually on the battlefield. If 
 you poke your head out from behind whatever ledge or door you are hiding behind, you will surely 
 be gunned down in a bullet or two. There are no exceptions. If you want to spend your time playing 
 on realistic difficulty, you will have to think smart, play slow and go through the game as an 
 actual marine. I found the normal difficulty to be just right for players playing in their first 
 Rainbow Six game or being used to first person run and gun shooters.
  
  With the health system in the game, you can take shots and survive (since there are no health packs) , 
 but if dieing will have to re-take cover and wait for your vision (which will be blurred) to return 
 to normal before continuing. This leaves you with a much better experience that doesn't have you 
 constantly searching for health packs and in my opinion should be a standard in most next-gen games 
 these days. The cover system in the game is also very intuitive and revolutionary to the shooter 
 genres. In Vegas, you can take cover by simply holding the left trigger down while standing or 
 crouching behind any (relatively large) objects. While doing this, you can either hold down the 
 fire button (right trigger) to blind fire, or you can aim to either side before shooting. Either 
 way, a cover system this good challenges other games such as Killzone and even Gears of War and 
 adds a lot to the overall feel of the game.
  
  Relatively speaking, the physics and effects of gun fire bullets in the game are absolutely amazing. 
 You can do the very little things such as smashing bottles or windows by shooting them, or even 
 killing your fellow terrorists by realistically shooting them in the high pressure point areas 
 (in the high chest, neck and head range) . They are all instant kills that will have you feeling 
 satisfied and will keep you into the game for a long time. The weapons in this game vary and the 
 online multi-player is extremely fun when played tactically and with other good players. As you 
 progress in your ranks in multi-player (I believe there are over 13 total) , you unlock more items 
 such as clothing and even weapons that you may have encountered in the game and can't currently 
 use. It's a great way to get people to keep playing and it leaves you with a competitive mind state 
 as you focus on killing people as much as possible.
  
  Even the achievements in the game are very well organized and will have you trying to unlock each 
 and every single one of them over time.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Reasons:
  
  The graphics in Rainbow Six: Vegas are one word ---great. While they can't match up to the incredible 
 graphics of Gears of War, the game still holds very well made player models and also features a 
 lot of excellent special effects involving explosives that really help make the game speak louder 
 than words visually.
  
  Although they are great, there are better games graphically that have already been released. Even 
 with that though, there are quite a few other interesting things that I may not have encountered 
 or tried yet, such as the Xbox Live Vision camera feature. Using the exclusive camera (that you 
 can buy in stores for about $20) , you can take a picture of your face (or any other thing that 
 involves you) and you will have it digitally placed into the game on your Multi-player character. 
 It's really cool and you should check people's faces out online to see what some of your buddies 
 may look like.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  Reasons:
  
  From the bullets hitting and smashing the windows, to the distorted echoes of terrorists or other 
 opponents shooting their guns from a distance, Rainbow Six features good sound. The guns are reasonably 
 accurate when compared to the sounds of their real life counterparts, but I felt that Ubisoft could've 
 and possibly even should have spent more time working out a very small amount of bugs that roam 
 the online multi-player game.
  
  Don't get me wrong, the game sounds great, it's just that minor things could've been worked around 
 and some of the theme music and voice acting could have been a little bit better. All in all, the 
 sound in Vegas is actually better than many other Xbox 360 games to date. It's just that I may 
 have expected a little bit more after hearing so many good things about it.
  
  Value: 9/10
  Reasons:
  
  The single player portion of the game can take you up to 8 or 9 
 hours to beat on the normal difficulty, which is if you tackle it at a balanced pace and don't 
 try to rush anything. I haven't tried the realistic difficulty on single player yet, so I can't 
 tell you how long it might take you. I'm willing to bet that if you play tactically and you do 
 everything right, you should be able to beat it in about 11 or so hours.
  
  While doing all that can take a good 20 hours of your time, the multi-player in the game will have 
 you playing rounds over and over again. There are numerous game types to play and there are options 
 of playing either ranked matches or player matches. The game types include:
  - Sharpshooter
  - Team Sharpshooter
  - Survival - Team Survival
  - Attack and Defend
  - Co-op Story
  - 
 Co-op Terrorist Hunt
  
  and Retrieval. One of the most enjoyable ones to play with either friends or even random people 
 is the terrorist hunt, which will have you and up to three other players playing through each of 
 the game's 12 maps against a maximum of 50 terrorists. The object of the game is to eliminate them 
 all and have at least one of your members alive by the end. There are no re-spawns. Another interesting 
 mode is the Attack and Defend mode, which has you and up to 15 other players retrieving some sort 
 of data from each of the game's maps and bringing it back to your base. There are also hostage 
 retrievals that and bomb defuse missions that you can do too. It all depends on what map you're 
 playing the Attack and Defend on. The most played map of this online is a ranked match of Calypso 
 Casino and let me tell you, it's a great experience.
  
  As I also listed up there, there is a Co-Op story mode. You can play through the story's missions 
 with up to three other players on either normal or realistic difficulty. While you won't see any 
 mission briefing and won't have any videos to watch, you will still enjoy hunting down and killing 
 the terrorists that are at the same spots that you will find them in your single player mode.
 
  
  All these modes add a lot of value to the game and will have you playing a bunch of extra hours 
 to finish them. It's mostly the online ranking that will drain your time though because you will 
 have to gain more and more experience points (which are awarded after each round) each time to 
 make it to the next rank.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 9/10
  Reasons:
  
  Rainbow Six is an excellent tactical first person shooter that features many new additions over 
 its previous games in the series and adds a whole lot of depth to the long running popular online 
 modes that it has always contained.
  
  The camera views in the game are great. There aren't many objects or walls that you can't hide 
 behind and there aren't many frustrating angles in the game that you can't see from or anything 
 like that. It's all great. Taking cover puts you in a third person standpoint that lets you see 
 what's going on behind the cover and helps you plan your attacks easier (while also keeping you 
 safe as well, obviously) .
  
  Closing Comments:
  
  If you're into any kinds of shooters at all, this game is for you. You will have to use your brain, 
 think fast and most importantly, you will have fun. If you are used to first person shooters that 
 involve run and gun game-play and expect to do it in this game, you are very wrong. You have to 
 use cover. I recommend that you buy the game as it has great replay value without the multi-player 
 aspect and is a great game to add to your collection on the 360. If by any chance you don't like 
 shooters, I suggest you rent it and decide for yourself if this game is for you.
  
  Thanks for reading my review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hereticghoul
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 21, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  I think that this is one of the best Rainbow Six games I have ever played. The single player alone 
 is worth getting the game for as it offers a great experience with awesome visuals ans gameplay 
 that will keep you on your toes. Not only does it have story more it also has Terrorist Hunts which 
 add even more depth and replay value to the game. The online gameplay is also very good as there 
 are a vast variety of games modes you can also play co-op story and do terrorist hunt's online. 
 Another awesome feature for online play is that you can customize you character with different 
 accessories such as camouflage, armor, and clothing items. If you also have an Xbox live vision 
 camera you can also take a picture of your own face to place on your character for online play! 
 The weapons can also be customized with various upgrades and as you play online you unlock more 
 camo, weapons, clothing, armor, and get to increase your rank from a Private 1st class all the 
 way up to an Elite. For all the reasons I have stated above are why I think that this is the best 
 to date first person shooter for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thakingk05
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 20, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my favorite 360 games out right now. This game has it all. I think what really makes 
 me like this game is the fact that it takes place in Vegas.
  Most games take place in some fiction world or city. There are lots of weapons and grenades from 
 to choose from. You can even customize your characters appearance from facial looks to clothes, 
 and even armor. The single player experience shouldnt take you long to complete, but multiplayer 
 is where this game truly shines. You level up your character which is a good thing and a bad thing 
 because people start to care more about their level and not about having fun. Its been times when 
 I was playing a match and my team was winning with the host on the opposite team and he would kick 
 most of our players out just so he could win and get more point added to his/her level. But the 
 RPG factor about this game is great. The graphics are top notch especially on a HDTV but thats 
 only in single player. The games multiplayer doesnt look as good. The guns sound great just like 
 you would expect it too. The smoke grenades also look a lot better this time around. Two cool things 
 about this game I like are the fact that if you have on a headset when you talk your players mouth 
 moves. You can even use the vision cam and import your face and use it for your character. Overall 
 this was a great buy for me. I would only recommend this game to those who have Xbox live, but 
 if not its still worth a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: resist1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 20, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is superb in every sense of the word, from Graphical to Sound, to Score to Gameplay they 
 are all top notch. Nothing is missing from the Core gameplay, a great but not overly involved story 
 line. The weapons sound so good as if you are firing them youself. Missions are always different 
 keep you moving, eventhough the tasks are the same more or less, but what do the Spec OPs do in 
 real life? They kill and move from point A to point B That is that. Everything count, spectacular 
 graphical improvements over every shooter out there, dare i even say HALO!!!... AI is tremendously 
 smart and articulate to the point where they behave like real people, flushing you out, waiting 
 , Flanking ur positions. With multiplayer to add this is a win win for everyone. GET it , IT WILL 
 NOT DISSAPOINT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehcris
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 19, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Very fun tactical shooter. If you are a fan of tactical shooters you'll love Rainbow Six Vegas. 
 Great looking, great sound, and amazing storyline with a huge twist at the end that will get you 
 going. I recommend renting it first and seeing how you like it. Online multiplayer is tons of fun 
 too. Great game overall. There is also the terrorist hunt mission that adds some replay value to 
 the game, other then just the online play. The only real con i could find was sometimes i found 
 that the loading time was a bit long. Which 360 game loading time isnt long right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarcusFenix715
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 19, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  This was the second game i played when i got my 360 i was stunned when i played GRAW but when i 
 got this game i lost a good pair of underwear. this game is **** amazing. if you want to relate 
 it to a game then you can to gears of war in teh way where you have to hide to not die. the gameplay 
 is fast quickpaced but can slow down at times when you need to infiltrate a room. but when the 
 bullets start flying you need to be quick on teh trigger because unlike gears a where it takes 
 a whole clip to kill you this game it takes three to four good shots to kill you. you need to be 
 really careful. only thing that dissapointed me with this game was that there was no Melee. a few 
 points in the game i got up really close to someone and ended up dying because i didnt have a melee 
 and didnt have the reaction time to shoot him. all in all this game is amazing to play and has 
 hours of fun to be had online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordanbijl
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 19, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  For the last few months I have been playing this game constantly.
  
  For a rainbow six game, it feels new, it feels fresh, it doesn't copy what the other rainbow six 
 games did. Theres alot of new features to vegas that make the other rainbow six games seem, different... 
 First of all a new cover system... oppsed to the older games, leaning is no longer used... instead 
 it uses a cover system almost similar to gears of war... only not as clunky, and easier to use... 
 instead of using the A button, you use the left trigger, which works out quite well. Covering is 
 easy, and aiming is quite realistic.
  
  The main feature behind all the rainbow six series is tactical combat, in many different situations... 
 This game actually has a storyline, while I won't spoil it, its actually not bad. The enemy AI 
 is actually quite good too, for a shooter, they do the usual things like cover... and duck, and 
 shoot, but they can also interact with things that your team can too! like ladders, and ropes, 
 and rappal lines (i think) . The AI can be a challenge sometimes, and even with my teamates at my 
 side, I found it quite a challenge. The cool thing about the rainbow six series since rainbow six 
 3, is the voice command system that they use, for commanding your team, while it is tough to use, 
 its also very innovative, and quite handy, you can focus on shooting, and laying cover fire... 
 just point and calmly say move or go or other commands like recon or hold work nicely too...
  
  opening and clearing rooms is alot easier in this game too, set up your team by a door (I can 
 seem to find a voice command that works to get your team up against doors, so you have to use A) 
 and go to another door, tell them what to do (grenade, flash, or breach) and then enter the door 
 on the other side of the room to take enimies by suprise, even with flanking enimies are quite 
 tough...
  
  The thing I liked most about the AI though, is your teamates arn't total idiots... they find cover, 
 and actually react to whats going on, for example I had 3 guys pined into a corner, and got my 
 team to go around a bus, to flank them, it worked like a charm, I had the tango's focused on me, 
 and not my team, so they sneaked up and blew the tangos away...
  
  The maps in the game are creative too, since it takes place in vegas, its a new war against terror, 
 making it seem like chaos is going on in the city.
  
  but singleplayer was sadly too short for me...
  
  The choice of weapons works too as well, 
 I like using the famas (my favorite gun of all time) but the lack of any m16's or m4's is dissapointing, 
 the snipers all work well too, with realistic recoil and reloading times its almost quite realistic 
 but still arcady for those who want to have fun.
  
  Multiplayer is something to be had in this game too, if you have xbox live, then it makes up for 
 a short single player experience. You can use the all great cover system in multiplayer, but unfortunatly 
 blind firing at someone leaves you open to being shot too, which shouldn't be possible, but its 
 alright. The multiplayer game uses a ranking system which rewards players as they play, but some 
 people boost, which is highly cheap... but thats ok, skill is what you look for online. a privite 
 can beat an elite no problem in this game, so it's all by skill not rank. I havn't even hit master 
 sargent yet and I have been playing this game like crazy...
  
  There are many multiplayer maps, and modes to play on, same resembling singleplayer maps, but smaller, 
 I found your player moves really slow so getting around them makes them feel bigger. The only problem 
 I had is there are some glitches in some of the maps (notably getting up on top of things is easy, 
 so you can hide on the roofs of unaccessable areas and be cheap, also leaning against a box facing 
 in front of you makes your gun shoot really fast) and bullet lag is almost like gears of war, unless 
 your the host. The graphics in vegas are pretty good too, powered by the unreal 3 engine, its not 
 quite GOW quality, but still pretty damn good, multiplayer looks a little worse for some reason, 
 but still doesn't effect gameplay any. In short, Rainbow six : Vegas is an enjoyable singleplayer 
 experience that will provide casual gamers, and hardcore gamers with a challenge, as well as some 
 good fun, and multiplayer is one of the most addicting experiences in a game in a long time, I 
 would recommend this game to anyone who owns a 360 and loves tactical games... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FredrikEhn
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 19, 2007 5:48 am PT
Review:  Once again is Ubisoft up whit a new Rainbow six game, this time you are fighting in Las vegas and 
 that's why the name is Rainbow six Vegas.
  For 3 years ago i had Rainbow six 3, the Reviews was nice but i hated it, i think that i wasn't 
 ready for that type of game!
  That time i liked more Platform and adventure games but now when I'm a little older i like tactical 
 shooters!
  
  But now let's talk about Rainbow six vegas instead. You are the captain of the team Rainbow six 
 that are fights terrorist, The design is very nice! All the Las vegas is funny, but the first level 
 and the last sucks! On the first level you are in Mexico and on the last level you are in Nevada 
 dam, it would be better i every levels was in Las vegas.
  
  Now let us talk about the multi player mode.
  Gears of war was clearly the best multiplayer game 
 in 2006, but Rainbow six vegas was the next best!
  The levels are really nice as in the single player!
  The new thing is that you can design your 
 charachter. his armor, his weapon and such!
  
  Rainbow six is a fantastic Game that everybody shall test! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 17, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of Tom Clancy games since the first Ghost Recon on the PC. This game isnt like 
 the older games but for some reason being in a casino is a lot more fun than I expected.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are top notch. Character models and casino detail is pretty sweet. You 
 can also map your own face using the web cam. Definately one of the better games graphics wise.
 
  
  Sound
  Playing this with the surround sound cranked is quite an experience. You can hear your squad on 
 your left or behind you and you can hear which direction the bullets are comming from.
  
  Value
  The game also offers one of the best online experiences. With so many modes to choose 
 from you will be playing this one for a while. Coop is my favorite.
  
  Overall
  The game rocks! Plain and simple. If you like GRAW or GRAW2 then you must pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strife88
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 26, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10
  Rainbow Six Vegas takes it to another level. This is the elite's at their best. It feels and play 
 exactly like a next-gen title should. With the addition of the Unreal Engine, new areas of gameplay 
 have been discovered. New cover system, weapons feel more weighted and the stage for this game 
 couldn't be in a better location to make this game come to life.
  
  Graphics: 9
  For the first time Rainbow Six looks amazing. Vegas looks very realistic and could be mistaken 
 for the real thing.
  
  Sound: 8
  When playing the single story Its sounds unreal. The weapons sound perfect. It makes the action 
 feel real when In an intense firefight. The only downfall is the terrorists say the same thing 
 over and over.
  
  Value: 9
  The amount of replayability in the game is astounding. This single player story is challenging 
 on realistic and It's memorable. The worth of owning this game is in the online play. Ubisoft got 
 this right. Instead of just playing matches, you have your own character you customize and play 
 every match with. The ranking system makes this amazing. Start from a Private Second Class and 
 work your way up to an Elite just like the Rainbow members.
  
  Tilt: 9
  Rainbow Six Vegas is one of the best games out on the 360 now. There's a lot to do in this game 
 and I recommend everyone to go pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdknight21
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 16, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  I was pretty disappointed in most aspects of the game. It is hard to enjoy the cover system after 
 Gears has came along, there is no basic melee, and any shooting game should require at least a 
 rifle butt.
  The graphics are a mixed bag. Some will say they are great, but I've seen better on the 360, and 
 I've seen worse on the 360, this game actually contains elements of both. I am aware it is Ubisoft 
 Montreal, but this felt like the Red Steel of the 360. Rushed for the holiday season in terms of 
 visuals and gameplay. I completed the entire story mode only to find out, somewhere along the line, 
 the mode reverted from Realistic. That is just basic and should not happen. As for the flaws in 
 MP, they are basic and should not exist. No ability to set a number of rounds, and of course the 
 leveling up glitch. I've seen at least 2 updates for this game, and neither has really done much 
 to help the game at its core.
  Aside from that, it is average, run of the mill, the story and ending were very 'meh'. The MP side 
 of this game (graphically lacking and glitched) still keep it above water even though the spawning 
 makes this game attractive to spawn killers by a long shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robbie8912
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 15, 2007 10:52 pm PT
Review:  For the first month or so, this game will seem awesome. Then it gets repetitive for some people. 
 Not many maps, predictable attack movements from baddies, and the graphics are a little.... off 
 in some areas. I had to make a hard decision the other day. Trade in THIS, for Graw 2. Am I glad 
 I did? Yes. This game rocks, it has everything except good 3rd person action, and decent outdoor 
 eviroments. It also lacks 'ever so slightly' an addiction level (thats just an opinion) . I want 
 people to know that I really enjoyed this game, and giving it up was really hard for me, but I'm 
 happy with GRAW 2. It has the graphics to shut me up, the map sizes can be enormous in comparison 
 to his game, and lastly, the high tech weapons. Being able to launch a grenade as a second function 
 for an assault rifle, is just sweet. I loved this game, but I prefer 3rd person. I recommend you 
 all try this out, and make up your own mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frilok
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing, a game in which the single player and multiplayer are great. The graphics, 
 sounds, and characters look and sound perfect. As of right now, I think this is one of the best 
 shooters out . It also has good replay value. The online multiplayer ranking system is rewarding 
 in itself. For one example.... For each rank you move up, you recieve new gear to apply to your 
 custom character, such as new armor/weapons/clothing. It's not all about the looks with the armor 
 either obviously, you customize whether you want to be more of a Tank or a Scout , it affects your 
 movement speed. I've played ALOT of 1st person shooters and for the military, tactical type its 
 one of the best and highly addictive games I played. It's definately worth the $60.00 .To sum it 
 all up if I didnt make it clear in this review (cuz I know its kinda short) .... If you like 1st 
 person shooters, obviously of the military/Swat type, this is a must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g8summit
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 15, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  If your looking for gameplay look no further. Rainbow Six is the most interesting and enjoying 
 tactical shooter you might ever play, and its the first truly great one to grace the Xbox360. The 
 single player A. I is vastly improved from previous games. This time around you will find your team 
 helpful to you, especially if you learn how to effectively use them. For instance if you tag enemies 
 before entering a room (useful in hostage situations) your squad mates will take them down withing 
 seconds of entering the room. The enemy A. I is also improved but only mildly. You will still find 
 it easy to flank around your enemies. But this time around you will find that they will try to 
 suppress you, even going as far as throwing smoke at you and flash grenades (which you will learn 
 to hate) . In reality though its the online multiplayer modes that you will find the most engaging. 
 This is the first Rainbow Six game which properly executes a successful online formula and believe 
 me it does it well. Its easy to locate friends, servers, etc and its especially fast to get into 
 a game and to play.
  
  Graphics:
  Naturally having the series move on to the Xbox360 means that the graphics shall have been improved. 
 The level of detail is very high. I especially enjoy the blood effects. The blood spray on the 
 wall always impresses me, and I especially enjoy using a shotgun just to see its unique spray.
 
  
  Sound:
  The sound is what truly impresses you. The enemy is great at saying stupid things over and over 
 again. Although it can be annoying, its often amusing and sometimes useful. The enemies talk to 
 one another telling them things like that their reloading. This can often help you know when to 
 shoot. The problem is that they often repeat the same phrases over and over again. But thats ok, 
 you can never get tired of hearing that b***h owed me money after you kill a terrorist. I don't 
 have to tell you about gun effects like all rainbow sound effects its excellent. What i should 
 point out however is the sound of glass breaking, that one of the most realistic sound effects 
 i have ever heard.
  
  Value:
  Although the single player campaign is somewhat short coming in at around 9 hours. The multiplayer 
 guarantees that you shall be playing this game for a long time even after you beat the single player.
 
  
  Rent, or Buy, or Wait?
  This all depends on if you have xbox live or not. If you do, then this is a definite buy. But if 
 you don't, and don't plan to get it, then i would recommend a rent.
  
  Rainbow Six is and excellent game which was long needed in order to revive the series. And I'm 
 proud to say that Rainbow Six is back, in full force.
  
  -G8summit- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bighawk911
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 15, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Like a great novel it takes a level to get into. This is one of the best shooters I've played. 
 My biggest complaint is that the use of grenades/bombs is not a big enough part of the game. First 
 of all they don't supply you with many, second of all there is not a way to master aiming them. 
 I just finished playing Call of Duty 3 though and that game smoke/grenades are a huge part of the 
 gameplay. I thought this is what made call of duty. The guns in Rainbow Six are excellent if you 
 like to scope out terrorists. Great fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nonpareil
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 15, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is a much improved shooter over Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter in not only visuals, 
 but multiplayer and controls. R6V really tweaks the gameplay and makes it much more functional 
 to take cover and aim. Controls have really been improved as well as some clipping issues that 
 were in GRAW which may be the best improvement in the Rainbow Six series over the last installment.
 
  
  Graphics have been bumped up with minor details such some lighting issues and particle effects 
 with smoke grenades and bullet rounds. Nothing major, but it does help a bit in the finished picture, 
 but the graphics are still very good and nowhere close to looking old or outdated. It really puts 
 you in the action quite well when coupled with the authentic sounds of the guns. Sometimes youc 
 an tell if it is or is not an enemy just by the way the gun sounds, an AK47 truly sounds remarkably 
 different than a P90 and R6V really takes notice of this.
  
  R6V has some fun little gadgets to use in the game, such as the snake cam you can put under doors 
 to get the jump on the enemy or just to scout out the area ahead. This must really be harnessed 
 when playing on hard. The dificulty on normal is just fine for most, and is really hard when it's 
 on hard. One great thing is the AI in this game, your team is not comprised of idiots and they 
 are actually quite useful and needed in many situtations.
  
  Multiplayer in R6V is the best there is on the xbox360 in the FPS genre. Lots of medals and achivements 
 to work towards and a great personilization system, modify colors and gear on your char to differentiate 
 yourself from others and give it a personal touch.
  
  Gamerscore-wise the first 500 points can be grabbed doing single player campaign on realistic and 
 doing the single player terrorist hunts. Multiplayer needed for anything after that. Not too tough 
 to get 800 points, but after that a lot of time is needed for the last 2 ranks for points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ff7isnumbaone
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 15, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  The teamwork is great and multi-player is fun. The stages are very detailed and look great on HDTV. 
 Playing with a friend is very fun and is very realistic. I found it better than gears because they 
 use the same technique when it comes to hiding behind things. You will find your self hiding things 
 more is game than gears. Plus it isn't dark and gloomy like gears and you will be playing it longer. 
 The casino level is my favorite, then train station but there are many levels so you will be having 
 fun. This game sends many enemies your way and sometimes you will get pinned down and you will 
 have to figure out what you should do. If you take too long they will come and get but they will 
 be very sneaky about it. The game is worth a buy. Rent gears and buy this 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reefer999
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2007 3:42 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas, if i can right only one word it would be 'WOW' but i have to write more!
  
  This game has amazing gameplay, you can play it for ages with it still being fun! The weapons 
 on this are pure amazing, they're accuracy and power are realistic!
  
  There are a few glitches on the map that some gamers take advantage of which does annoy the hell 
 out of most gamers that dont use the glitches.
  
  They really should be fixed!!
  
  But this game is a muct have in everyones game collection!
  
  I hope to play with anyone that 
 reads this!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Darklance
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 14, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  If you're into espionage and terrorist hunting then Ubisoft's Tom Clancy series has you covered. 
 Rainbow Six is one of the three Tom Clancy franchises available and follows an anti-terrorist squad 
 called (surprise) Rainbow Six. In Rainbow Six: Vegas a terrorist organisation has taken over half 
 of Las Vegas and as the new Rainbow Six team leader, it's up to you to stop them.
  
  Played out in first person, you must make your way through various locales in Vegas using all the 
 cover you can get your hands on, cause if you don't you wont last long. Ubisoft have lifted Rainbow 
 Six to above average First Person Shooter status by means of a few small additions that go along 
 way. The first being a continuous story, when you complete a mission a chopper will pick you up 
 where you must sit in the helicopter until you arrive at your next mission. Not only does this 
 give you time to choose new guns and sight see Vegas from above, but it also adds to the realism. 
 There are no mission briefing screens; it is all done on the fly via a small screen in your top 
 corner where intelligence is fed to you. Another is the snake cam, where you can look under any 
 door and 'tag' enemies. You can order your squad-mates to 'stack' against the door and when they 
 bust in their priority targets will be the guys you tagged. Many of the rooms have multiple paths 
 and entry points so you can choose from a variety of strategies.
  
  The AI from enemies and teammates is quite good which goes along way in this kind of game. Enemies 
 will use cover to their advantage and if you have a sight on where they will pop up they will often 
 blind-fire or move to a different location. The artwork is also good, though nothing outstanding 
 it is everything you expect from this generation of gaming. Whilst some of the textures are blurry, 
 particularly the outdoor sections the design is really good, particularly in the casinos. Probably 
 the biggest thing holding Rainbow Six back is the trail and error gameplay, particularly early 
 on. There are two settings: normal and realistic and even on normal this game is hard which in 
 a sense adds to the realism and lengthens the game time, though some areas go over the top as you 
 are forced to replay some sections many times over which really detracts from the experience. There 
 doesn't seem to be a difficulty curve at all, it seems to get easier, the further you get though 
 the game. Most of this is probably because there are a lot more open levels earlier on and respawning 
 terrorists can pop up behind you.
  
  Everyone knows an FPS isn't complete without multiplayer and rainbow six offers a good variety 
 in terms of game types and levels. If you've played multiplayer in a First Person Shooter before 
 then you'll know what to expect. On a whole multiplayer is a good though fairly standard affair. 
 It's a shame co-op isn't available in the campaign as Rainbow Six is a Squad based game and with 
 so many ways to tackle each situation this would be a great inclusion.
  
  All in all if you like terrorist/spy type stuff and shooters, and you're up for a challenge you 
 won't be dissapointed with Rainbow Six: Vegas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leprechaunv
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  This game has everything you' ve ever wanted from a game... Gameplay, sounds, graphics, everything!!!!. 
 You start playing the solo mode, and the history keeps bringing you more action, making you start 
 feeling that you're in there, trying to knockout the terrorists.
  
  You need to be careful, cuz the AI for the bad guys is amazing, they really tray to ambush you 
 and catch you from behind, which really makes this game hard to deal with on realistic mode, but 
 who cares, you'll love it once you get you're first assault mission is completed.
  
  There are more options, like the camera that goes underneath the door, to create an assault strategy 
 to get the job done. The missions and maps are so wonderful, that really bring you the most realistic 
 thing I've ever seen on the Rainbow Six saga.
  
  But wait a minute, once you think you're good enough and the solo mode is a piece of cake, you'll 
 start playing this game over Xbox live, and this guys, is the most exciting experience ever. Fighting 
 against your friends or people all over the world, makes this game to become an addicting stuff, 
 or a perfect reason to get Xbox live ASAP.
  
  Try to play the terrorist hunt with friends, you'll enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grave-mk
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 14, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  This games controls are just like anyone good first person shooter. There are many games to select 
 from and you can custimize your weapon with scopes and laser sightings. You can aslo custimize 
 your character that you play with online with armor and masks. You can play with that same character 
 in campaign mode. That's why this game was awsome! All those things I said above is why. This game 
 is a great price if used or not! But I have to leave you with this, you might get mad on how fast 
 you die but who doesn't like challenges?
  
  p. s. I can't spell sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: COD3RULER
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2007 5:36 am PT
Review:  this is the 2nd best game i have ever played in my life it is very realistic they realy did a good 
 job the weapons are very good and a huge variety and character costomizing is very fun the ai's 
 are very sufisticated i would sugjest getting this game it is very adictive the way the rankings 
 go up are very sufisticated while u earn point online whith out even doing ranked maches ur rankind 
 still goes up u can change ur weapon at any time i put a scope on a mac 11 (uzi) once it was very 
 funny very great game BUY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1daundre
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 13, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  GREAT GAME it has good gameplay but I think the camera viewing is better in g. r. a. w. good for multiplayer 
 but ithink you should get every wepon when you start, but worth your money. it might have a couple 
 more missions in multiplayer, thers CALYPSO CASINO, BORDER TOWN, DANTES, RESEARCH LABS, LVU CAMPUS, and 
 LIBRARY. theres alot of modes to play like attack and defend, sharpshooter, team sharshooter, teamsurvival, and 
 coop terriost hunt. lots of armor, camo, helmets, and bandanas to wear. I cant wait until they make 
 a 2 I think they will. I like tom clancy games I have played them all they all are pretty good 
 games, and have pretty good books. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harm0n1ca
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 13, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Not much more can be said about this game.
  
  In solo mode, the game will start with a couple of 'training' levels to get you familiar with the 
 controls again. What is obvious from the start however, is how beautiful the environment is and 
 not only that, but the game feels complete too! Responsive and intuitive controls lead to instinctive 
 commands and smooth execution of manuevers down deserted streets, and combined with the surroundings 
 you can almost feel the sweat on your brow from the baking dry heat as you set up your team to 
 storm a 2 level building..
  
  After the first 2 'trainer' missions the solo campaign immediately picks up pace and in realistic 
 mode, launches you into a plethora of crazed terrorists hell bent on ruining clancy's perfect America. 
 You only need to look at the achievements to get an idea of how long or rather, how short this 
 solo campaign actually is, but it's such a tense and intense experience on the harder settings 
 you may find yourself too involved in finding new and exciting ways to outsmart your enemy to notice. 
 Some might even argue that despite its shortcomings story wise, this game still entertains far 
 more than some of UBI's other similar offerings...
  
  It usually goes without saying that any game with such a short campaign would normally suffer simply 
 because of its limited replayability value even with split screen coop options. RSV doesn't have 
 this problem, and this is all because of multiplayer.
  
  The options available in this game within a game online will at first seem endless. The maps all 
 have fantastic layouts, with each offering practical reasons and opportunities to use any one of 
 the many weapons and gadgets made available to you as you upgrade your character. There is plenty 
 of cover, and plenty of chances to outwit your opponents on every level.
  
  There are many modes to explore, including coop story and terrorist hunt, which both have up to 
 4 players, sharpshooter and survival, which include team based variants, attack and defend, and 
 finally retrieval. Attack and defend is worth a special mention as this can involve either recovering 
 terrorists, saving hostages or defusing a bomb, and it could be argued that this mode is most likely 
 to involve the most desperate and organised firefights.
  
  You're able to customize your online character with a number of different clothing, armour and 
 colour options. As you rank up, more variants are available, and what you wear really does have 
 a noticeable effect on how you play the game, whether that be run and gun or slower and methodical.
 
  
  For those of us who have the camera, you'll be able to take full advantage and plaster your ugly 
 mug all over your character. Technically this means when you look at the man infront of you as 
 you drop into online coop missions, for example, you're looking at the gamer you're playing with. 
 This novelty may not have any practical purpose, but is still a very nice idea and utilisation 
 of the tool.
  
  The sounds and music in the game are extremely satisfying. In solo mode, the music will fill your 
 room with suspense as you engage tangos, then fade away to whatever background music was playing 
 once you've cleared an area. The sounds of lead zipping about and hitting walls, glass, equipment 
 and people around you is great as always.
  
  I guess there is a lot to say about the game, but at the end of the day, what is really important 
 is whether or not it is worth &pound;50/$60 of your money (unless you can get it cheaper) . The 
 answer in un doubtably yes, with the fun you'll be having online after the satisfying solo experience, 
 this game will give you months of value for your money and then some guaranteed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pete5506
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 13, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow six vegas is one of the best fps that I have ever played. I have a good 100 hours of Single 
 player and Mp in, and at the end of it all I was so happy with it. 1st of all, the single player 
 has a good story line that goes for some time but I wish went on a little longer. The story lets 
 you fight is many good areas with smart team mates. You can shoot up the main steet of vegas to 
 over by the mexican bordor, its all good. The mp is the best part of this game. So many different 
 things you can do, and if you have xbox live its even better. 1st. you got your team co-op witch 
 is fun, do all the same levels on single play but with your buds and other people that are good 
 at the game. Than the online team vs is te way to go. The gameplay is the best, could not get any 
 better. The Graphics are so good I cant get over it, and its worth 60$ all the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSYCO109
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 13, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is an excellent game and the perfect Rainbow Six opening title for the Xbox 360. 
 It takes what has existed in the series since the first Rainbow Six and expands on that, creating 
 an entirely new experience while keeping the familiarity of the franchise. You are introduced, 
 right at the start, to a whole new team of operatives. Assuming the mantra of Logan Keller, you 
 will take command of two teammates in Mexico at the beginning of the game. If you pay attention, 
 you'll also notice some allusion to the previous games; John Clark's role has been filled by none 
 other than Ding Chavez, the former lead operative for Team Rainbow. The storyline is dotted by 
 fairly awesome twists like that, though most are substantially larger.
  
  Rainbow is inserted into Mexico to take down a terrorist organization led by a woman named Irena. 
 Obviously, you fail, and in the process your teammates are captured by the terrorists. You're sent 
 off to Vegas and take control of two new operatives to help you investigate terrorist activity 
 in Sin City. The terrorists are none other than those led by Irena herself. As you play, the story 
 unfolds nicely, and there's a mouthwatering plot twist at the end that I'll let you discover for 
 yourself. Needless to say, the storyline is a pivotal part of the game and seems to draw in the 
 player much better than it has in previous games. Gameplay takes your standard Rainbow Six experience 
 and beefs it up tenfold. The most obvious upgrade is the 'Gears of War-esque' ability to snuggle 
 up to cover, be it walls, vehicles, or other obstacles, and peek out to tag enemies. You have your 
 basic vast arsenal of weaponry, which you can interchange at specific checkpoints throughout each 
 level. As per usual, the game has something for every situation, including a vast array of submachine 
 guns and assault rifles, along with a few light machine guns, sniper rifles, shotguns, and pistols. 
 You now also have access to a riot shield, to be used with a pistol. It provides excellent cover 
 against a lot of heavy arms. And that's just single-player. Multiplayer is addicting as hell, to 
 be frank. Various gametypes range from basic kill until time runs out, to one life a piece, to 
 teams defending intel from another team. Story co-op is extremely fun, and there is a terrorist 
 hunt version of each level if you're tired of killing your fellow man and wish to bust a cap in 
 some AI ass. The rank system is brilliant. At each rank, you gain a different set of upgrades, 
 whether it be armor, camo, or weaponry. It becomes progressively harder to rank up, and at higher 
 ranks it can take several days before you advance to the next rank (the fact that you only get 
 40 points for achieving the rank of Elite is kind of annoying) . However, when you do rank up, you 
 know you've earned it.
  
  The graphics are nothing short of awesome. Nothing incredibly ground-breaking, but they live up 
 to the Xbox 360's standards, if not higher. Detail was definitely not shunned. The single-player 
 environments are not only amazing to look at, but unique as well (when's the last time you busted 
 terrorists on the Strip?) . The sound is what can be expected from a game of this caliber. That 
 is to say, very good. Again, nothing innovative, but it puts you into the environment. The addition 
 of dialogue from terrorists as you exchange fire is a pleasant surprise, and it's quite humorous 
 to hear terrorists commenting about their friends you just killed or insulting you in the best 
 way they know how. Just another feature to help set the mood.
  
  This game will set the benchmark for every Rainbow Six game that is made from here on out, and 
 possibly for many other games as well. Kudos to this game and it's makers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splintercell93
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 12, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  this game is very good and is very much worth my money. the gameplay is amazing and teh graphics 
 are very good there really arnt that many things wrong with this game except that the not vegas 
 levels are generic and at times boring but still fun but the vegas levels look very good. The characters 
 are kind of not there they just say you are him and thats it. I feel that a game like halo or gears 
 of war they give you more about the charcater and let you feel more into the character. buy this 
 game it is very worth buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pel-Nel
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 11, 2007 1:02 am PT
Review:  Vegas just seems to have more substance than halo 2 and better/ less frustrating mechanics and 
 gameplay when compared to GOW. Its just plain tactical fun. I need more words tds for my wordtgount. 
 I tged more words for my wordcounat. I need morrtee words for my wordcount. I need mtore words 
 for my wordcounts I need more words for my wordcount. I need more words for ymy wordcount. I need 
 more whyords for mhy wordcount. I need more words for my wordcount. I need more words for my wordcount. I 
 need more words for my wordcount. I need more words for my wordcount. I need more words for my wordcount. I 
 need more words for my wordcount. I need more words for my wordcount. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Walksunseen
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 9, 2007 11:15 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost, this game relies heavily on strategy. If you aren't a fan of squad based strategy 
 games then do not buy this game. Second, this game is very challenging. In fact, I would have to 
 say that this is one of the most challenging shooters I have ever played. Even if you are well 
 adept at managing your team and formulating strategies, you will still find yourself dying on a 
 regular basis. Adding to the difficulty is the sheer lack of checkpoints. I often found myself 
 completeing a large section of a mission, thinking it would checkpoint, and then getting killed 
 a few seconds later forcing me to restart the section again. This coupled with the fact that theirs 
 no manual save, makes the game difficult and frustrating. Speaking of difficulty, this game does 
 not have an easy difficulty mode. It has normal and realistic. Even on normal mode this game is 
 very challenging. Now for most people that wouldn't be a problem, but for people like me who prefer 
 to play games on an easier level, it can be frustrating. I mean, would it have been so difficult 
 for the devlopers to put in an easy setting?
  
  Another big problem comes with pacing. This game is very slow paced. To complete a mission, you 
 will need to strenuously asses your surroundings before taking action. This means that doing something 
 as simple as clearing a room can take up to 3 minutes as you will need to inspect the room for 
 entrances and possible enemies. I found the constant observation before getting into the action 
 an annoyance after a while. You can't just enter into a room guns blazing. Chances are you will 
 either get yourself, or one of your teammates, killed. No, instead you have to approach a room, 
 use the snake cam, stack your team up to the door, adjust their mode of combat (either infiltration 
 or assault) , reload your weapon, and option your weapons silencer. All of this and you haven't 
 even entered the room yet. It may sound like fun at first, but after the hundreth time, it gets 
 tiresome.
  
  Thats not to say that the gameplay is all bad. The AI is fantastic. Enemies react realistically 
 to everything you do. Sure their are a few glitches (at one point my teammate wouldn't follow me) 
 but it is nothing of concern. The weapons are also very realistic. Each weapon reloads how it should 
 do. For example, when your assault rifle still has ammunition left, but you choose to reload, your 
 character will put in a new magazine without having to pull the slide at the side of the rifle. 
 When the weapon is completely out of ammo, your character will put in a new magazine and will cock 
 the weapon by pulling the slide back. It may not seem like much but this is the first shooter I 
 have seen that goes to that amount of detail.
  
  Then we come to the cover system. Unlike in GOW, you must hold down the cover button in order to 
 sustain cover. I dont think this works as well as GOW, for you will often need to stay in cover 
 for extended periods of time and it can sometimes strain your finger having to hold down the L 
 trigger.
  
  The game also features an expansive online multiplayer. Unlike most online shooters, you are able 
 to customise the look of your player as well as which weapons you want to take into battle. While 
 this is definetely a plus, the game's lobby system is very poor indeed. Once you have found a game, 
 you enter the games lobby. You will often find yourself waitng for extended periods of time waiting 
 for people to enter and even after the game is full, the host can boot you out at any time for 
 whatever reason he chooses. Maybe he dosen't think you have a good enough rank, maybe he feels 
 your ping is too low. This will cause you getting booted repeatidly from games and having to search 
 for a new one all over again. Sometimes you will have to wait for a game to finish before you can 
 enter the battle. Again, this can take several minutes, and even once the match is finishsed, their 
 is no guarentee that you won't get booted once the host sees your stats. This is very frustrating. 
 Sometimes you will only get to play about three matches an hour. For some people this is ok, because 
 the playing a match is worth the wait, but for me the multiplayer isn't all it's cracked up to 
 be. I see that this game has won numerous online multiplayer awards but I dont see why. The online 
 mode is very overrated. It takes ages before you get any good at it, and even then you will only 
 find it fun if you are really into hardcore strategy. To me, the online component is this game's 
 weakest point -for it's lack of accessability and for it's hardcore only appeal.
  
  But the big question is-is it any fun? The anwser will be different depending on what you like 
 in video games. For me I would have to say.... sought of. Yes, the game does have its moments. It's 
 intense, the shooting is great, but the slow pace, inaccesable multiplayer and challenging difficulty 
 reduce the fun for me. That being said, the game is a technical achievement. The graphics are superb, 
 the sound is realistic and the music creates much tension. However, these technical accomplishments 
 are not enough. The game needs to be fun first and foremost. Graphics will always come a distant 
 second over gameplay and this game is just to hardcore at times for me to enjoy. However, if you 
 are into difficult and strategy heavy games, than I'm sure you will enjoy Rainbow Six Vegas.
  
  If I were to compare this game to Gears of War, their is no doubt in my mind that Gears is 
 superior. It's just more fun to play. And while Rainbow Six: Vegas is a technical achievement, 
 it lacks the quality of being purely enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splintacell25
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 9, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is an outstanding game all around. The graphics are extremely realistic and the 
 physics are amazing. The way the bodies fall make you feel like your actually there. The game plays 
 great with an awesome conver system that feels natural and never lets you miss something you need 
 to see or more likely shoot at. The sound is never a problem and is actually pretty good. THe guns 
 fire great as well as some good music. The Ai is great and they always respond to orders There 
 are a couple noticeable flaws that prevents this game from hitting its potential. One of those 
 flaws is the amount of enemies thoughout the game seem unrealistic compared to the older ones. 
 It almost gives it a James Bond feel where its like a one-man army or rather a 3 man army. Another 
 flaw is the checkpoint/health system. The health system is fairly forgiving, but actually very 
 realistic. The checkpoints are pretty spaced out and sometimes are in unforgiving spots. The online 
 multiplayer is really fun, but the single console co-op isn't that gread, mostly because it doesn't 
 have any storylike elements. This takes away an otherwise great co-op. All around though this game 
 is deserving of all the credit it gets and is truly an awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stonzreaper
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 9, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Well lets start with the specs.
  Great graphics . Great gameplay. Great story. Great Basing* (were its based) . Great tracks. Vegas 
 wouldnt be vegas without Elvis :D.
  
  Anyways Tom clancy is back with a another terrorist killing action.
  
  You are logan and you 
 head to mexico with your platoon to capture Irene . Thats right. The terrorist leader is a girl 
 :) .
  
  Anywayz you find her but she tricks you and knocks you cold and kidnapps your mates. Anyways u 
 are sent to vegas because of mass terrorists attacks happening there.
  
  This is great but i doooooooo wish the dificulty levels had easy cause there is only Normal and 
 Realistic (which is har : ( )
  Besides that a top game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SK64killer
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 9, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  This game was the best Rainbow Six i have ever played, they really did i good job on this one. 
 It is so realistic compared to other games. when you nade a door the whole thing just falls apart 
 its not lke in other games where you throw a nade and nothin happens. I htink its cool how on Online 
 and multiplayer you can climb the ropes and you can go upside down on em to so you dont expose 
 all of your body. the only thing i hate is the Sniper Rifles on there i just dont like the way 
 they are for some reason. The onlne play on this game is amazing, its the best online game in all 
 the ubisoft games they have made. In this game if you have never played it you can control your 
 teamates in single player, you can tell them to form up on the door and you can tell them three 
 different ways to attack them, i like the 2nd attack where they open the door, throw a nade, and 
 rush in there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jt222_us
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 9, 2007 12:51 am PT
Review:  r6 vegas is a very good game. i've owned it for a couple of months and just recently purchased 
 graw2. that purchase made me realize how good r6 vegas is. r6 vegas multiplayer is fun and has 
 extensive maps, single player lasts much longer than graw2, and you don't have to wait in a lobby 
 once you die to see what's going on in the battle field. oh yeah, graw 2 uses the cover and shoot 
 feature in single player, but not xbox live multiplayer..... wtf?? r6 vegas uses it in both single 
 and multiplayer. i've also noticed that many of the people who have given graw2 high reviews, have 
 very low achievement points and don't own many other games.... in other words, they haven't played 
 enough other shooters to have something to compare graw2 to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorj11111
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 7, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  The multiplayer is where this game shines. You start by creating a character, and if you own the 
 vision camera you will be surprised how well your character actually resembles you. I hope other 
 games will include this feature. There is nothing like playing along side your friends and being 
 able to tell who they are by looking them in the face. The more you play on multiplayer, the higher 
 you rank up to gain access to more weapons, armor, or clothing. You gain experience points playing 
 anyone of the numerous multiplayer options, terrorist hunts, or coop campaign. Up to 4 players 
 can play coop. The graphics are superb, and there are many weapons and gadgets to choose from. 
 If you don't care for multiplayer, the campaign offers a good variety of levels. You utilize all 
 your gadgets. It is not just a shooter game, you take cover and plan strategies on how to enter 
 a situation. If you are done with the campaign, you could always do some terrorist hunt missions 
 where you just eliminate a set amount of terrorist in a level without dying. But once again, multiplayer 
 is where the game really shines! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxcommixx
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 7, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay in this game is tactical. You have a squad with you at all times, and you 
 are the squad leader. There are 3 people total in your group, and you give your team-mates' orders 
 (i. e. take cover, open the door, fire, defend, check if clear, etc.) . The story itself is fairly 
 interesting, although I did not find it to be as deep as it could have been, but then again Rainbow 
 6 never really did have the deepest stories out there, so it's not too big of a deal. One of the 
 best features in this game are all of the different kinds of customizations that are available 
 to be made. Although most of those features are really only used in the multiplayer mode, I still 
 find them nice and simple to use, and it really makes the players' imagination flow. In MP, you 
 can customize your players' face, skin color, gender, outfitting, customize weapons, etc. (and 
 if you have a vision cam, you are actually able to put your own face onto the player, and it even 
 gives you an achievement for it) . Alright, now that I've explained how the gameplay works, lets 
 talk about the actual game itself. The campaign is fairly long from my understanding (I'm not exactly 
 sure because I haven't finished the campaign yet, it got a bit dull and tedious at one point, so 
 I just stopped for the time being) , but I played about 10 hours into it before I stopped. The campaign, 
 imo, is not really my favorite part of this game. And to be perfectly honest, I would only finish 
 the game for the achievements, but I hear some people really dig the SP, so I guess you have to 
 play it first. Ok, now the multiplayer. I was actually surprised how deep and interactive the MP 
 was when I first played it. There are several modes (i. e. attack and defend, sharp shooter, team 
 sharpshooter, co-op story online, terrorist hunt, survivalist, etc.) . My favorite out of the given 
 modes would probably have to be Attack &amp; Defend. You basically have two teams, one being the 
 attackers and the others defenders (duh) , and the attackers are supposed to retrieve the package 
 from the vault, while the defenders are, obviously, supposed to defend it, and prevent the attackers 
 from reaching the helipad on the rooftop and scoring with the package. There are also various maps 
 to play on, but I don't remember all of them at the moment, so I'll just give you the two best 
 maps (imo) , which are Casino Royal, and LVU campus. Great maps, loads of fun :) . Also, once you 
 start to get better, and have reached a certain amount of points, you will start to rank up (private 
 first class, corporal, Sargent, etc.) . And at each rank advancement, you will receive lots of goodies, 
 like more weapons to choose from, a better variety of outfits, and much more. GRAPHICS: The graphics 
 are pretty good overall, but only in the single player mode. For some reason, the dev's seemed 
 to have completely dropped the ball in the multiplayer graphics. Everything looks like cardboard, 
 and imo, they don't even look very next-gen. So yeah, the graphics are a bit disappointing in the 
 MP department. SOUND: Well... the sounds OK, I guess. The voice acting in the single player mode 
 is not the best out there, but it's definitely not the worst. The thing that annoys a lot of people 
 the most, is that in the MP, the gun sound tends to lag sometimes, and all you hear is this loud, 
 annoying brusting noise echoing throughout the entire map, but it doesn't happen very often, and 
 it usually has to do with the hosts' broadband connection, so it's not too bad. The guns mostly 
 sound like guns, but sadly, some of them do sound like airsoft guns, but most of them are alright. 
 VALUE: At first, I was unsure about my purchase, mostly because it kept reminding me of G. R. A. W., 
 but too be honest, Rainbow 6: Vegas &gt;&gt;&gt; G. R. A. W.. So in my opinion, I think this game 
 really is worth the $59.99 retail price, mostly because it has the best online experience for the 
 360 so far (even better than Gears, imo.) So if you're still debating about getting this game, 
 I would recommend you to rent it first. It's one of those love or hate kind of games, and just 
 to play it safe, renting it would put you on the safe side. But if you're into tactical shooting 
 kind of games, you might as well just go ahead and buy this great game, because you will not regret 
 it. ;)
  
  Hope my review has given you some insight into this game, and thank you for reading! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webserfer1980
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 7, 2007 1:08 am PT
Review:  This is an excellent game. The graphics are absolutely fantastic. I was a little disappointed with 
 the game play though. I found it to be way to scripted. The enemies never changed places no matter 
 how many times you die. And you will die. I had it set on realistic and it was extremely difficult. 
 I did find the A I to be quite remarkable. The enemies actually appeared to think. They will lay 
 down cover fire and flank you. I am not a big fan of the Rainbow six franchise but this is a definite 
 must play. The game gets extremely intense. You are constantly being ambushed. I do think the story 
 line is a little week though. I mean really. Terrorists taking over most of Las Vegas and they 
 send out only one team. Not to mention, as an actual SWAT team member I find it very far fetched 
 that you could go in shooting like that and have the terrorist not hear you until you enter the 
 room there in. Also the right to use lethal force issue is in play. Anyway I think this game is 
 excellent despite its shortcomings. I believe it is worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NextGen86
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 6, 2007 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Have you always dreamt of going to Las Vegas but weren't able to for some reason? Well with Tom 
 Clancy's latest game, now you can. Rainbow 6: Vegas is a beautiful game that takes the player on 
 a virtual tour of Vegas and its casinos. With cool elements such as breaking through windows and 
 the snake cam, R6V is an action-packed ride from beginning to end. At certain points of the game, 
 I felt myself gripping the controller harder and sitting at the edge of my seat due to the intense 
 gun-fights. My only problem with the game, however, is the multi-player. I know that I'm in the 
 minority, but I just didn't feel as if it was polished enough. While the single-player campaign 
 is beautiful, the multi-player graphics are horrendous; I've also experience a lot of lag in on-line 
 play. Despite that, R6V's great gameplay and beautiful graphics make it a must-have in your game 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhosTactix
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 6, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  The only way I can describe this game is as an essential to your collection if your the fan of 
 high class shooters. RS: Vegas brings a new level of depth to the tactical shooter genre, the action 
 is adrenaline pumping and relentless, the enemy AI is brutal and refined, often pulling very sophisticated 
 tactics and the visuals are quite simply stunning! This is the high point in my opinion of the 
 Tom Clancy franchise of games with a completely revamped control system from the sometimes inefficient 
 and loose controls of previous RS games, anyone who is looking for a top notch shooter should absolutely 
 add this to the top of their list. Additionally anyone whose played the fantastic Gears of War 
 should consider this game, it may not have gory explosions made up of pieces from several enemies, 
 but the game play should seem familiar and easy to jump into and the selection of levels, weapons, 
 and online competition creates a well balanced experience sure to satisfy any gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DADA_007
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  yup THis is the bheen chode console this is the maan ki choot console and randi ka bacha because 
 it has gando hardware
  gando bharwa console Xbox360
  becuz microsoft randi company kion k who harami payse dekar sab ko kareed te hain dont worry sony 
 u will win in console war
  han gando Xbox360 mother chode bharwa console
  
  yup THis is the bheen chode console this is the maan ki choot console and randi ka bacha because 
 it has gando hardware
  gando bharwa console Xbox360
  becuz microsoft randi company kion k who harami payse dekar sab ko kareed te hain dont worry sony 
 u will win in console war
  han gando Xbox360 mother chode bharwa console 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_monkey_god
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 6, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  I have played a lot of Tom Clancy Games , but this one is the best by far! Good graphics, great 
 game play, nice sound effects, and the ability to put your face in the game makes this a must buy. 
 The single player story can be hard. A little to hard. But you will play through it just to see 
 the lights of Vegas explode and rain down sparks at your feet. Multi-player is probably the best 
 aspect of this game. Nothing beats teaming up with friends to kick some terrorist ass. Breathing 
 new life into the old and boring Rainbow Six Vegas is worth the time and money spent into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranvirusdomx
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 6, 2007 3:09 am PT
Review:  there was some disapointment when i first played it but now they updated it the assault rifles 
 kick ass and those silly Sub machine gun are finally put in there place down the bottem of the 
 food chain with the pistol (IM A SPAS FREAK) you shoot with the assult and it dont miss as much 
 excellent
  and the graphics are great 4 all u HDTV noobs i have a 17in crt tv and it looks great.
  
  I 
 used the FAMAS/AK-47 today and in 30sec i managed to take 6 of the 7 opposing team down (kill house) 
 EXCELENT Game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellcanwait
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 6, 2007 1:29 am PT
Review:  I&acute; ve completed the sp campaign on realistic setting, and it was truly a boring and sad experience.
 
  Here&acute; s why.
  
  9 out of 10 times you can&acute; t shoot from around corners because of some obscure obstacle, due 
 to bad layout.
  
  Enemies spawn out of thin air.
  
  The enemy can kill you with 1 shot from a shotgun 300 feet away.
  
  Your teams AI is just too 
 low, letting the enemy run straight by them without firing a single shot.
  
  But most importantly, the game mechanics goes out the window on the realistic setting.
  
  Breaching 
 a room is impossible if there&acute; s more than 1 enemy ( your teams AI is so bad that they&acute; ll 
 get killed seconds after they open the door )
  
  All I found myself doing, was open the door and fire a few shots into the room. Making the bad 
 guys run out to check whats happening.
  
  Basically what I&acute; m saying is, you can&acute; t play Rainbow 6 Vegas on realistic as the game 
 was meant to be played.
  
  The sp was so bad, that it discouraged me from the mp. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrotherBacon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 5, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six is one of the best games to start 2007. It has great graphics, a good storyline, terrific 
 gameplay, and a superb multiplayer. Can you clean the slums of Mexico and protect Vegas from a 
 nuclear disaster? First of all, the storyline is great! Although some may hate the first part with 
 fighting in Mexico and caves, I think that it's a good compilation of creativity. From squad-based 
 fighting in casinos to fighting to survive in caves for your own teammates' lives. The single player 
 is pretty simple on Normal, but on Realistic, you may have trouble getting through the Mexico part 
 of the story, since you have to fight some of it on your own. Along with the Campaign comes a Terrorist 
 Hunt option to try and fight of 25, 35, or 50 terrorists from Normal to Realistic difficulty on 
 your own. This helps with your individual decisions which will help in your multiplayer. The Rainbow 
 Six multiplayer has 8 game modes: Attack and Defend, Sharpshooter, Team Sharpshooter, Survival, 
 Team Survivial, Retrieval, Coop Terrorist Hunt, and Coop Story. Each goes as the following:
  
  Attack and Defend: One team defends a briefcase, bomb, or hostages, while the other team works 
 together to bring the item or person back to the base.
  
  Sharpshooter: It's a free-for-all! first person to reach the point limit or the person who scores 
 the most wins! Team Sharpshooter: The team with the most points or the team that reaches the score 
 limit wins.
  
  Survival: The person who survives the longest wins.
  
  Team Survival: The team that survives the longest wins.
  
  Retrieval: Both teams try to score 
 points by killing the other team's players and returning packages to their base.
  
  Coop Terroist Hunt: 2-4 players try to kill all the terrorists on a map.
  
  Coop Story: 2-4 
 players try to finish the certain mission with or without respawns.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas has some of the greatest 3rd-person graphics I've ever seen. Personally, I like 
 FPS more than 3rd-person, but this game brings it to a peak! Along with 3rd-person graphics, you 
 can use it to surprise your enemy when they least expect it. You can also use a Snake Cam to see 
 under a door to the other side, then cling to the nearest wall and open the door without being 
 seen. You can rappel up and down buildings and use fast ropes. Plant C4s, throw frag or smoke grenades, 
 and switch from thermal to night vision. Take advantage of the chat system and coordinate team 
 members to certain objectives or weapons. Remember that in this game, stealth is key. Have fun, 
 I'll be kicking your butt online! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muzik_N_Games
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 5, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  All I can say is that this game is the **** Anyone who disagrees is a queer who doesn't know poo 
 poo about games. They have revolutionized the way of gaming forever. Though as we all know it started 
 with graw it's not going to end anytime soon. And if you don't know what i mean then pay attention. 
 These games have only gotten better with the exception that they can all be a little better in 
 their own ways. As for Rainbow Six Vegas there are a few glitches that need to be patched and a 
 few controller options that need to be added when they make the second installment of this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JL2K6
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 5, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  im not familiar with the r6 series, so this was new for me. i can say that Vegas is a truly great 
 game with a lot of memorable parts. you start off in a fun mexico level before getting to casinos 
 in vegas. the shooting is very well done as is the sound of the guns you fire. the graphics are 
 comparable to gears of war. the game takes a while to beat, so you'll have a lot of fun playing. 
 however, there are few checkpoints so you'll have a tough time beating it. the game is very fun 
 and worth a purchase however. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willy-Wilks_777
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 2, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is a first person tactical shooter which, (of course) is about a terrorist invasion, 
 first in Mexico, but then it is set in Vegas. Have they got taste of style or what! Anyway as I 
 said Rainbow Six takes place in Vegas and is very action packed in most levels. The story however 
 isn't very well planned because (I know this is what the assault teams do) but all it really is 
 is just shooting even though you order your team as well to disarm bombs and hack computers but 
 that is it. There isn't really cutscenes but there is these clips that are showed to you on the 
 top left of the screen, and the missions just get way too repetitive as you progress in the game 
 and when I played on every single level I always noticed a glitch or two whenever my character 
 was walking around, another negative point is that if you run low on ammo you cant do any melee 
 attacks. But, I think what a big letdown was the ending, as you were playing on this game, eager 
 to complete it and the ending is crap. I will tell you the ending but if you haven't completed 
 the game yet and want to find out for yourself then read the next paragraph. What happens at the 
 end is that your team whatever you call them and you and your squad is betrayed by one of your 
 own men and you are stuck on a dam, no cutscene, and guess what appears on the screen. To be continued 
 which is the rubbishest ending ever!! But, there are some good facts about the game itself for 
 example:
  
  The gameplay is good and you can order your squad what to do, you have a variety of weapons to 
 choose from and what their range is and power and accuracy. Graphics and the textures are good, 
 the sound is alright, the terrorists actually feel like terrorists (for once) as they scream F-YOU! 
 And so on. Another good thing is that you can do stealth and other tactics to sneak round the enemy, 
 the running movements in the game is impressive. Overall Rainbow Six Vegas is a very good game 
 and if you are a fan of the Rainbow Six or Tom Clancys game then this is the one definitely for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGShacker
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 2, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Hey everyone.
  Thought id drop my reasons why i love this game.
  I think this game is awesome for anyone who likes to be the good guys in a shooter game. actually 
 for anyone who loves popping robbers.
  this game has amazing detail, i cant even describe how good it is, but im gonna try my best.
 
  well his facial expressions change during the game.
  bullets richocoing everywhere.
  grenades exploding.
  I could go on and on and on about this game but i dont want to bore you.
 
  in the end, you need this game.
  THis game is the ish for realistic good guy shooter games.
  its realistic, like it doesnt take 
 like a million bullets to kill a guy.
  BUY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlaz152
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 2, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  Rainbow six Vegas definatly revolutionizes the series, which in my opinion is the best tacical 
 shooter series of all time. The realism of the game is amazing, and probably the best thing about 
 it. Its not like in other games where your enemy dies with a couple shots and you can take lots 
 more, you can only take a few more shots to diethan your enemy does, and that is where he awsome 
 cover syste comes in. From the awsome single player, multiplayer, and co op, I guarentee you will 
 enjoy playing R6 Vegas if you are a fan of any kind of shooter (espesially tactial) you will like 
 rainbow six vegas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbaird1981
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 1, 2007 11:37 pm PT
Review:  The next gen shooter Vegas offers a range that goes further than just a pretty face. The tactical 
 shooter polishes it's predeccesors by adding a cover-feature that looks and feels as though you're 
 involved in the real deal. Ducking in and out of walls, obstacles, and pretty much anything you 
 can lean against has never been so easy. The Mexican mission (1st mission) is absolutely fantastic, 
 open level design, immersive environment; think GRAW meets SWAT.
  
  However, Vegas' lack of story and number of missions lowers it's score. Six puny levels is just 
 not enough, especially since Dante's Casino (5th mission) is offered for free on xbox live - which 
 i've already played ten times when it was first released. The story is dreadful and not the least 
 bit entertaining, basically the same hoo haa in every tom clancey game. Overall, Vegas offers a 
 fun, tactical - first person shooter, value goes up because of online play. It's polished next-gen 
 finish looks great in a Las Vegas setting. I highly recommend this game, but be aware that it sells 
 short on the number of levels and storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 1, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  I would like to start by saying that I consider myself a hardcore gamer!! There was a study recently 
 that stated, hardcore gamers play more than 5 hours a week and spend more than 40 dollars a month 
 on games. Well, if thats the case I'm a uber gamer seeing how i play more than 5 hours a day and 
 usually spend more money than I have to. That beening said I have never ever been able to get into 
 any Rainbow six games besides the original. So when I purchased this game i really wanted to try 
 and get into it like the original Rainbow Six. Storyline: Ok this is a Rainbow six game so the 
 story is going to be pointless but I'll explain it anyways. Basically, you play some hillbilly 
 that is named Logan and you end up getting betrayed by one of your partners; the point being that 
 it has a halo 2 ending were it basically ends randomly and the developers didn't really put much 
 into the single player. Which is the only real disappointment of the game; the massive lack of 
 a good single player experience.
  
  Graphics: This game is made with the Unreal 3 engine which makes it look incredible gorgeous and 
 pretty much the second best looking game next to Gears of War. I would say that the must impressive 
 aspect of Rainbow is the lighting effects. In some casinos the lighting effect is so amazing that 
 the atmosphere can actually help create a sense of reality that literally looks like a history 
 channel presentation. That being said some of the effects can be pretty cheese, like the fact that 
 smoke and frag grenades look like playstation explosions. Its a weird mix of amazing graphics with 
 some weak effects.
  
  Gameplay: Lets get real people, gameplay is what really makes a game. You can have great graphics 
 and even an awesome storyline but nothing tops great gameplay. If there is one thing this game 
 does right and should convince you to buy it; that would be the gameplay. Lets start with the covering 
 system. I hate to make comparisons but this game has to be compared too Gears of War.. why because 
 the covering system is kinda similar,.. kinda is the only word i can find that truly describes 
 this comparison. When i walk up to a wall in R6 vegas and hold the left trigger I take cover, I 
 don't randomly stick to the wall behind me or to the left of me. Thats the only difference between 
 the two systems, one has 100% accuracy when it comes to taking cover and one has a 90% accuracy 
 rating. The first-person perspective controls are extremely tight and makes R6 vegas a better play 
 than the pc version... IN MY OPINION!! Now the sweetest of sweets that really takes the gameplay 
 to another level is the squad control system. Now you can tell your squad to man up next to a door 
 and blow the **** out of it... or have them throw a grenade into the room and kill everyone as 
 you enter the room from a side door,.. lets just say that the feeling is great. Online: If this 
 game doesn't have a great single player experience how is it that it gets a great rating.. one word 
 ONLINE. The fact that there is a crap load of modes than just about any other game out there isn't 
 what makes it great. It's the fact that there is a rpg element that is extremely addictive that 
 makes it so awesome!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bp275
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 1, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is most likely the best rainbow six game bar none. This is what? The 20th time that the 
 creators of rainbow six have tried to make the perfect game and wow!!! The finally did it!!! This 
 game is most likely going to be the best rainbow six game ever. The graphics and gameplay were astonishing 
 and well AWESOME!!!!!!!!. I LOVED THIS GAME. It was fun to play and shoot the crap out of the enemies. Can 
 anyoneone say swiss cheese!!! Anyway this game is definently a BUY!!! but if you like war games 
 but arent favoritive of the rainbow six series than you should definently rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vianegativa85
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 1, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas, the newest addition to Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six series. Personally I've been 
 following and playing them since the initial and original release of the first Rainbow Six (even 
 before the gold edition came out) . Smarts and tactical might have been at the core of these games 
 and that's what makes them so strong (like the original Ghost Recon) . With many of the older games 
 the AI was... well... not really there. Sure they can snap off headshots because they had auto-aim, 
 but that was about it. They had defined paths to follow and could shoot as straight as a sniper 
 no matter what gun they had. In Rainbow Six 3 the A. I seemed to be dumbed down even though they 
 could still pull off those amazing headshots on the player - a little disappointing really.
  Lately with the new G. R. A. W games being released it has been brought to my attention that the need 
 for tactical brains and strategy isn't needed anymore and that's depressing. That's the whole reason 
 this style of game came out - you NEEDED to be smart. So when Rainbow Six: Vegas came out I was 
 skeptical.
  That doubt did not last long though. I started by playing a terrorist hunt and in the first couple 
 of seconds I was dead. Not because of a headshot, oh no. They pummelled me in the chest full of 
 rounds with a P90. And I was happy, I knew why I had been shot, I ran out into the middle of the 
 street like an idiot waiting to be shot.
  The A. I. is smart, smarter than smart. They'll flank you, they'll use grenades, flash bangs, incendary 
 grenades and smoke grenades! They shoot well, but not perfectly, they're not trying to be robots, 
 they're trying to be human, and it's convincing to say the least. They take cover and blind fire 
 around corners to keep you supressed (and you can do the same to them) . They curse at you and call 
 out commands to each other when they're doing certain things. It's immersive, realistic and very 
 fun to watch and play.
  If you have a tactical mind you will love this game and do well at it, if you're just a run and 
 gunner, think again and go back to G. R. A. W. or some other regular action game, because this one 
 is a little advanced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moedaho
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 27, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. You must buy it. The gameplay is amaizing with real guns with an option of 
 slecting firing mode and the addition of silencers or not. Although not much of a story line, the 
 gameplay makes you forget the story.... if there is one at all. The ending sucked but the multiplayer 
 is HIGHLY addcitive. Very unique with a choice of different room entry tactics and explosives. Easy 
 team contact and control. The multiplayer has let me down thoguh. Not as much control. 9.5/10. 
 a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cahey
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  I played this game knowing it was going to good, and it thrashed every expectation I had. Graphics, 
 A. I., gameplay, Co-op story mode, this game had it all and did it very well. The replay value on 
 this might be lacking but it had me hooked instantly, I was sucked in to it right away. I felt 
 like a real life counter terrorist. I cant stress it enough, if you like fpss, get this game. 
 I wish I was playing it right now. The amount of different strategies you can come up with and 
 execute in certain situations is great, and a lot of fun. I played of hours straight and as soon 
 as I stopped to sleep I wanted to play more. I cant wait to see how it looks on the ps3. Good 
 game, get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noventus
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 27, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  Amazing game, the graphics are flawless and gameplay is innovative yet smooth and easy to get to 
 grips with. The plotline is not exactly original; terrorists are up to no good so you have to go 
 and shoot them all in the face, the only real novel thing here is that it is set in vegas and not 
 some dirty little shanty town, but due to the high quality of the game, this isn't really much 
 of a problem cause lets face it... shooting terrorists in the face never gets old. Game also features 
 a strong multiplayer with co-op story mode, terrorist hunt and a bunch of other game modes such 
 as deathmatch and attack and defend, this has all been spiced up a bit with a rank system where 
 you can unlock new weapons, armor and accessories by going up in rank which happens as you play 
 matches over xboxlive. without a doubt this is a must have game for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanmcg_23
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 26, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  This game takes the mold that squad shooters have fit themselves into and rips it apart, birthing 
 an opus within this genre. No game out there quite captures the 'feel' of immersion like this game 
 as far as a real life situation in combat is concerned. To me this warransts its passage to the 
 throne over all games (mere pawns) on the 360, hands down. Both single player and multi-player 
 scenarios will keep you engaged for long to come. Do yourselves a favor, save up your damn dosh, 
 and buy this game. Lastly, thank you Ubisoft and keep it up. I mean Ghost Recon, Splinter Cell, 
 and this Mr. UbiS? I'm broke ... but so happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlayaH8tr31
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Every mode of this game is flawless. Multiplayer is intense and customizing your soldier is just 
 icing on the cake. Single player is also amazing with four player co-op. This game has a modern 
 combat feel to it yet isn't over-board with stealth. There is an axcess of ways you can customize 
 your clothes, armor, and your guns. Rainbow 6 Vegas has awesome maps that are all unique and same 
 with all the different game modes. The ranking system is neat and shows off what you put into it. 
 the idea of unlocking more gadget makes this game even more addicting. This game is the next online 
 sensation and deserves it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mefornowon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 25, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of a kind the best of the best, the best shooting game in the world. Sound is 
 great but not the best, graphic rocks and the gameplay is one of the best in the Xbox 360 and he 
 is very solid the game but when you have won the game and don't have xbox live than its over no 
 more fun . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8tr1080
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 25, 2007 3:11 am PT
Review:  Offline
  
  Starting off in the familiar landscape of GRAW in Mexico really didnt do much for me but when i 
 advanced to vegas shortly after i was absolute dazzled by the immence game play and graphics etc 
 and couldnt stop playing. The A. I in the game i give a big thumbs up to as they give u a challenge 
 through out the game where u really need to use tactics. To sum it up offline when u hit vegas 
 its the best single player action ive had in a long time truly amazing
  
  Online
  
  Easily my favourite as there are a range of maps and game modes like team sharpshooter attack and 
 defend etc and with more modes and maps coming in march it will be even better. You gain exp pts 
 win or lose after doing online matches which ranks you eventually unlocking clothing camo and weapons 
 as u progress this became addictive to me trying to get max pts so i could rank up and get new 
 stuff. Also you can go play co op story mode and Terrorist hunt which are highly enjoyable aswell. 
 Online on this game is its greatest selling point 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobo24
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 24, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  The campaign is amazing, playing on live is amazing, graphics are amazing, gameplay is amazing, 
 any fan of FPS, Strategy Shooters, and any other type of game your into you must buy this game. 
 I have had this game since christmas, I played the campaign from that time till I got back into 
 my dorm room where my live has been hooked up since, I have not put this game down, there is no 
 need to. There are a few things that make this game a little unsuitable for the younger group, 
 almost every other word out of the terrorists mouths is either the f word, of the s word, the is 
 most likely to add to the realism to the game. But with every down side to a game this is a greater 
 upside, almost every that has played a online game knows that they will have to deal with the people 
 that start cussing for no reason or reciting lines from south park just to sound funny, this problem 
 is mainly from halo 2, but with Vegas you will rarely ever hear people like that, if you do, they 
 can easily be booted from a game, muted, or during the game if you remember their name you can 
 kill them over and over. But if you do find someone like that they will immediatly stop once the 
 game starts, only during the waiting for people to join the game will you have to deal with that, 
 it is a fairly serious game when you play online so you will rarely encounter that kind of immaturity. 
 If you have this game and do not have xbox live you need to get it because you will never get the 
 whole experience just playing the campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russirwin
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 23, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  loved every aspect of the game (except terrorists' dumb accents) . wide range of weapons and upgrades 
 to choose from. good enemy a. i. always behind cover throwing smoke grenades and flanking. sending 
 reinforcements fast roping into the middle of a fire fight. great mix of slow tactical assault 
 and building destroying shootouts against huge numbers of terrorists. team mates alot smarter than 
 gears of war or ghost recon. my favorite was stacking at an entry and sneaking around the corner 
 to snipe after the charge goes off. greta attention to detail from the slots spittin out coins 
 to freemont street and dantes under construction. by far my favorite shooter on 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vermouth81
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 22, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  The Rainbow Six Series debuted nine years ago on the PC and at the time it's careful planning and 
 one-shot one-kill mechanics were really new in the world of Quake and Doom. The Series made a high 
 profile jump to consoles in the middle of last generation with Rainbow Six 3 and then some lackluster 
 followups. Rainbow Six Vegas from Ubi Montreal represents are reinvention of the series which all 
 in all represents a step forward for the series and a signficant reinvention. Like Rainbow Six 
 3 this game eschews the planning stages and team commands that defined the first two rainbow games. 
 Instead you and two AI controlled team mates go on a thrilling series of missions that takes you 
 from the mean streets of Mexico to a terrorist attack in Las Vegas. Also, thankfully gone are the 
 former games' save system unlike having to use a set number of saves or a one chance per attempt 
 type approach it uses checkpoints for much longer missions than before. This change also balances 
 the difficulty better than it had been in the first few games. More central to the gameplay is 
 the implementation of two new features. Like Gears of War it employs both an infinite health system 
 and a cover shooting mechanic. That is the amount of damage you can take is limited in a short 
 burst but on the other hand over time you can take an infinite amount of damage on a given mission. 
 Secondly it implements a cover system similar to gears of war where you can peak out at various 
 spots from cover to return fire or if you're really pressed to get bullets out with minimu risk 
 you can blind fire around your cover. Because this is a tactical game you can't take too many bullets 
 but niether can any of your foes. As Such the firefights can be some of the most satisfying that 
 you're going to find in a shooter, on the other hand a few spots get really annoyingly frustrating. 
 There is kind of one spot in most of the levels that is just annoying the way they designed it.
 
  
  One of the best things about this game is its fantastic level design. The first levels are just 
 okay but once you get to Vegas you start to see more and more complex levels. Entering buildings 
 can especially be a treat as you can try doors, fast-roping through skylights, rappelling down 
 walls and breaching the windows and any combination of the above. One of my favorite tricks was 
 to stand near the sky light with my rifle and ordering my team to rappel to the windows and then 
 smash in as i started sniping guys. Also all these kinds of options made it so you really got the 
 feel of being a special teams operative. The Single player game will take you between 8-12 hours 
 I'd imagine depending on the player. The game also has some of the richest multiplayer features 
 you'll find on the Xbox 360. It's got co-op campaign, terrorist hunt and a whole bunch of adveserial 
 modes. If you're looking for an online shooter this is probably the best you're going to do on 
 the 360. Presentationally this game is the first liscensed game which uses the Unreal 3 engine. 
 As such the graphics are pretty good -- however when you compare them to Gears of War they fall significantly 
 short of that games level of graphical fidelity. However this looks considerably better than most 
 Xbox 360 games. The sound in the game is pretty much unremarkable. Although some of the friendly 
 voice acting has a minor issue where it sounds really strange on the helo you ride into missions 
 it's otherwise completely unremarkable. It is unfortunate that at no point do we hear any Vegas 
 music which is a bit sad for the home of Wayne Newton, Frank Sinatra and Elvis. All things considered 
 this represents a new start for th Rainbow Six Series that's a lot better than it had been. If 
 you're not doggedly obsessed about the planning stages this game should please you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameeler91
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 22, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  rainbow six vegas is in my opinion the best tactical shooter and almost the best shooter out there
 
  vegas is the best tom clancy game yet
  i never really payed attention to the older rainbows, because i heard they were never that good
 
  its the newest and best addition to rainbow and it was worth the buy
  top-notch graphics and beatiful sound, mixed in with the redundant gameplay, make rainbow one of 
 the best games on 360
  vegas is one game i would suggest you buy
  
  p. s. if u dont like games that u can get shot at anytime on live dont buy this game p. s. s. if ure 
 a noob at tactical shooters you pro [ably also wouldnt like this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerX500
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game over an half year and it is still one of the best games i have EVER play 
 to Xbox 360. The graphics beats almost every game in Xbox history so far. You can choose over at 
 least 40 - 60 weapons... maybe more. And you can on almost every gun (if you want to) use an Silencer, 
 and thats is amesome !! The gameplay is Highly addictive, I never wants to stop playing. Some times 
 i can play it the whole day, haha :) . In this game you can choose if you wants to be sneaky, just 
 take your Silencer ( Hold X to choose Silencer ) and stay in a low profile and you will be an sneaky 
 little guy :) . You have two friends with you in all missions, Michael and Jung. Michael is an heavy 
 soldier with an Light Machine Gun who detonates/undetonates bombs. Jung is an Marksman who works 
 with computer stuff. And the leader as you playing in the game, Logan, his work is to be the squad 
 leader and can give an commando in any time, Blow up doors, Frag and clear, Smoke and clear and 
 Flash and clear, which means that they for exemple throw and Frag granate in to a room and after 
 it has explode they secure the area/room. When you gonna choose weapons it is diffrents classes, 
 Submachine class, Light machine class, Sniper class, Assault class, Hand guns class and Shot gun 
 class. In game you can have three Primary weapons from a optional class. You can also have an shield 
 so can protect yourselft from bullets, but you can only have a hand gun as primary weapon if you 
 wants to have the shield. You can pick up every weapon in this game, so if an enemy got a nice 
 weapon or you primary is out of ammo you just hold down ( Y ) and you will pick up the weapon. 
 You can give your squad the commando to hold their position, or the commando to Infiltrate which 
 means that they wont shot before you give they their order. You stand against a wall by hold down 
 the LT button, and an all new movement is that you can do a "blind-fire" which means that Logan 
 stretch out is arms and shots without look where he aim. You can choose if you wants to have an 
 laser-sight on your gun, or a Sniper-sight, or just a normaly gun with no sights, your choice. 
 Well this was my Review, hope that you enjoy it :)
  
  Graphics: 10, best to date
  
  Sound: 10, you hear every stepp...
  
  Value: 9, This game is perfect, not too short, not too 
 easy, not to hard.. and REALLY fun.
  
  Overall: Best FPS shooter you find in the stores up to date, 9.0
  
  Contact me if u need help 
 :)
  
  
  //GamerX500 
  
    
::::::

::::::
UserName: huskerman34
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  I was impressed with Rainbow six Vegas. It has a steep learning curve and takes a little skill 
 and patience. In the end once these skills are mastered, the rewards are fruitful. I think they 
 could of worked on the graphics a little and the game play is a little far fetched. Like throwing 
 grenades. Other than that Rainbow six is a must have for online shooters. This game will keep you 
 playing all night long. Ive never got into the rainbow six on consoles it thought they were useless 
 shooters. Rainbow six Vegas is a cut above the rest of the previous titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HDplayer
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 20, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  Initially from the demo I thought this game was going to be great but after I purchased and played 
 through most of the single player game on realistic setting, I feel indifferent. It has its good 
 points and most of which I agree on in other reviews. But the one thing that I strongly give a 
 thumbs down on is the enemy A. I. Their awareness and accuracy is set way to high to the point of 
 unrealistic. They have absolutely no way of seeing you but if you cause any kind of alert to their 
 artificial senses they know exactly where you are. Even if you move behind cover to another location 
 they still know exactly were you are and can shoot you through a small opening from a good distance 
 with an inadequate gun that's not capable of that kind of accuracy. My interst is already lost 
 in this title and continuing with this review. NEXT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BANDESGANG
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 20, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  Great controls, good weapon selection, good promotion system to keep you playing. Vegas gives great 
 opportunity for colorful locales that is taken advantage of. Graphics are very good. Sound effects 
 are top notch. The only thing missing is the ability to drive vehicles. Best glass breakage ever 
 in a video game. This game is very well balanced. Don't hesitate if you enjoy FPS games. There 
 are no short comings and disappointing parts of the game. the multiplayer aspect is why you should 
 get this game. If you don't have Xbox live yet... what is your problem? This game alone is worth 
 the investment to get on Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: obiwan168
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 20, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  This game totally re-amps the Rainbow Six Series. It is un-doubtly the best in the series. It is 
 made more accessible to the common audience, and has taken on a more original FPS look.
  
  Don't let this fool you though, even thought they have taken away pre-entry planning, and character 
 team selection, this game still packs a lot of realism. A few hits from a bullet, and your down 
 for good. The realistic difficulty is amazingly hard, enemies are accurate, they suppress and flank. 
 Planning still often used to find multiple entry ways to clear a room. Rappelling down buildings, 
 and learning when to use silencers and when not to.
  
  The graphics are amazing in this game, almost as good as Gears of War, though it is dummed down 
 a bit in multiplayer. The sound will blow you socks off, and the gun models are amazing. The selection 
 of guns and attachments may be enough to make you die from a happy seizure. Then there's the multiplayer. 
 16 people online, with realistic damage, and all the guns and cover system in single player. The 
 normal modes, death match, team death match. Also added is the classic Rainbow Six Team survivor 
 and Survivor, where if you die, you are forced to wait for the next round. This adds a whole new 
 layer of tension to the game. Rainbow Six Vegas also supports 4 players CO-OP, even rivaling Gears 
 of War. It supports 4 players, split screen or over Xbox Live. It allows you to play the whole 
 Story Mode, or a mode call Terrorist Hunt, where you find and kill randomly placed terrorists. 
 Rainbow Six Vegas's CO-OP adds a un-presidented level to CO-OP play. Imagine you are in a casino, 
 playing with your buddies. There is a room up ahead, you move up, and find a second door. You can 
 take command and order 2 of your buddies to the second door. Then find out who has a breaching 
 charge, and who's going to throw the frag grenade. You count down 3, 2, 1, the breaching charge 
 goes off. You chuck a grenade inside, and you quickly rush in after it explodes. Then suddenly 
 you find yourself face to face with 4 terrorists that didn't die from the grenade. Suddenly your 
 buddy that entered from the other door kills them all, and saves your life. The whole thing happening 
 in less than 5 seconds. That is just a normal encounter in Rainbow Six Vegas CO-OP.
  
  Now of course Rainbow Six has its faults, the story line is seriously lacking,
  And the game 
 is a tad short, but really not many people care. Quality of quantity they always say, and Rainbow 
 Six delivers just that. Hey whats better than rushing into a casino in Las Vegas, and shooting 
 terrorists in the face. This is gaming at its best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fvrl
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 19, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. what more can i say?
  In the single player mode i like how the enemies get more and more experianced the closer you get 
 to the end of the game. the ai in this game is pretty good. Although every once in a while your 
 teamates do something dumb. Controls are easy to use. Graphics are very nice especially in the 
 cosinos. love the destructible evironments. In the online mode being able to outfit your character 
 any way you want was a nice touch. The one thing that i dont like about this game is that sometimes 
 it can take a while to find an open match online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yugor1000
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 19, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  Well, I finally got around to reviewing Rainbow Six Vegas, and I have to say, this is an excellent 
 game.
  
  To start off with, the graphics are great. Everything from the weapons to the characters are well 
 done, however, some of the levels are alittle..... dull, and there a couple of detail issues on 
 the bad guys. (I coulda sworn I killed that guy 2 minutes ago....)
  
  The sound that goes with the weapons, from the firing to the reloading, to sqaud and enemy chatter, 
 is all well done, if a bit repetive. How many friends did Marcello have???
  
  The gameplay is top notch. The only thing that keeps it from a getting 10 out of 10 are a few multiplayer 
 balance issues, which could be fixed later on. The single player is fun anand challenging. (Note: 
 Those looking for an easy time need not apply) The AI reacts like it should, and can actually beat 
 you on Normal. On realistic............ good luck.
  
  The multiplayer is great, and can last a long time. Other than the basic porblems that seem to 
 come with every game (weapon balance) , it only has one realm problem in its ranking system, and 
 that is that it takes forever to rank up after your reach the rank of Sargent.
  
  A great buy, and a title that should be apart of any gamer's colletion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robwdevore
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2007 2:53 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas is an excellent game in many ways. Although not quite a graphically advanced 
 as Gear Of War, Vegas does have a great presentation. You'll see that I've given it an 8 for graphics, 
 but only because I think that Gears has set the bar a little bit higher. Most would probably give 
 it a 9 or 10. The weapon models look excellent, as do the smoke effects. The game also does an 
 admiralable job of capturing the glitz and glamor of Las Vegas. The game also sounds pretty good, 
 with very realistic sounding weapons and effects. The voice acting is even decent, which is always 
 a triumph for a shooter. From a gameplay standpoint, this game is probably not going to be for 
 everybody. Because it is a tactical shooter, you can only sustain a few hits before going down, 
 which will probably drive many people crazy. However, if your used to this time of more realistic 
 gameplay, you're going to love the way this game feels. The control is very tight and responsive. 
 All of this adds up to create an excellent single player experience. However, where this game really 
 shines, is it's exceptional multiplayer. There are some nice features here, one of which being 
 the ability to use your Live camera to create a character that looks like you! That's an awesome 
 feature, which actually works pretty well. In addition, the game allows you to place a 3 letter 
 prefix in front of you gamer tag, so you can be identified based on the clan that your in. Unfortuneately, 
 the game does not actually support clan matches, but you could always set that up yourself. The 
 maps are fairly large and have multiple paths that can be taken. Plus, there are several different 
 game modes available for all of those who don't want to just mindlessly run around and kill the 
 other team, although that is definitely an option. All in all, this is a must have game for anyone 
 who has Xbox Live. In fact, I think that it is arguably the best multiplayer game out right now. 
 And, even if you don't have Live, you should at least rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikael_schiffer
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 18, 2007 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is all about steps. Some slow, some quick, but all must be learnt and understood 
 if you're to survive the main story - and especially if you're going to manage to get past the 
 first firefight in the near-suicidal run that is 'realistic' mode on the singleplayer campaign. 
 But the first step is in understanding this is not a game about gung-ho behaviour. It is definitely 
 not a game for the impatient. Well, dont we all know that?
  The game style is in the same mould as Ghost Recon, with Ubisoft cutting another slice of strategic 
 warfare, judiciously ladling in intense battles with the noticeable Hollywood style action, with 
 all in the solid Observe, Plan and Assault system. GRAW vs RS, ill pick RS
  
  When it comes to graphicsRS Vegas is the most impressive looking title in the franchise to date (its 
 XboX360 after all, hehe) . The health bar is more than successfully replaced with a series of filters 
 that manages in no uncertain terms to tell you when Logan is knocking at death's door, and it's 
 finally great to see that at least some of the environment is more destructible than before. Creating 
 a really solid audio experience thanks to everything from enemy chatter in the build up to Rainbow's 
 assault, through to event-triggered music that helps develop the tension further, Rainbow Six: 
 Vegas really did justice to my 5.1 Logitech ZX5500 speakers. Sound is awesome... period
  
  A real challenge that balances between absorbing and frustrating players incredibly well, Rainbow 
 Six Vegas is visceral in every sense of the word. Realism may pinch newbies, but for us veterans, 
 its a great experience
  
  From the four-player Co-Op that takes you through every step of the Story Mode, to the effective 
 covering system, Vegas is a pure VAlue for money
  
  Overall
  
  A solid return to form for the franchise, and it's something that's sure to continue in future 
 installments of the series. The intuitive covering and tagging system working brilliantly, setting 
 up an immediate sense of immersion greater than any previous installment in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sauska_sun
Rating: 5.6
Date: Feb 18, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  This game wasnt as fun as i thought it would be it doesnt have good online. it has to much lag 
 and notas fun. It is sort of like perfect dark zero but perfect dark is WAY better then this. Single 
 player is pretty good but the online is BAD. I would suggest going for gears of war or GRAW or 
 wait for GRAW 2. The cover system isnt all that great and so much lag makes you trying to shot at 
 some one then there next to you and get killed in one hit. The guns arnt all that great and the 
 shotgun is cheap and get shot in 1 hit while you try and shot them 10 times. It isnt a great game. 
 I would sugest renting this game before u buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honk_sm
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 18, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  Man, did they ever get this right! I mean out of the park. So much better that lockdown.
  
  The story is pretty standard in this genre. Bad guys trying to blow stuff up to get what they want. 
 Really, I hadn't though of that! But i's good nonetheless.
  
  Graphics are really good, makes you want to look around for a while. That's difficult to do when 
 bullets are flying past your head. Or worse. Graphically, this is one of the best on the system 
 so far.
  
  Sound is what you've come to expect. It is really immersive and sucks you in completely. That's 
 on 5.1 anyway. I can't say if you have less than that. Mulitplayer is where this shines. There 
 are so many varieties of game types and they did such a good job, it's unbelievable. Many games 
 do one or the other well, but Ubisoft got both the single and mulitplayer. Everyone has fun and 
 I really like the way that you level up in multiplayer. I unlocks bigger and better stuff, and 
 it really makes you want to play more.
  
  Achievments are not easy in general. If you check many of the online players, they have around 
 300. It's not a high achivement game that's for sure.
  
  Another aspect that is really awesome is the fact that you can take a picture with the xbox camera 
 of your face and put that on your multiplayer character. It is so well done that if you actually 
 know the person, then you can easily tell that it's them.
  
  Buy this game! Even if you can't or don't buy many, buy this. One of the best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flood_go_boom
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 17, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six. We've all heard about it, and if you haven't; then where have you been? Under a rock 
 all your life? A different planet?
  It has always been a wonderful game, and it was made even better with the first next-gen installment; 
 Rainbow Six: Vegas.
  
  Gameplay: The Rainbow Six franchise is known for it's tactical shooters; and Vegas isn't a departure 
 from that. This time, with the addition of a wonderful cover system, you can peek around corners, 
 and at that right moment; take down that pesky terrorist. If you don't want to poke your head out 
 at the moment, you can blind fire to distract them for a moment, and then get em'. The gameplay 
 is flawless, online and off.
  
  Story: Rainbow Six isn't known for its story. Basically, you start off in Mexico; and something 
 happens (I'm not going to spoil it for you) ; and your squad mates are kidnapped. You get re-assigned 
 to Vegas, and you also get a new squad. There isn't a really concrete story line here, but who 
 plays shooters for their story, anyways?
  
  A. I.: The enemy AI is spot on, not hesitating to take a shot. The game is quite hard on the easier 
 difficulty; and damn near impossible on realistic difficulty. Your squad's AI is... ok. They're 
 great at taking the enemy down, but they're also great at getting taken down by the enemy. They 
 just love to stand in your way when you're trying to get to cover, and sadly; they don't heal their 
 other squad mate when they're down unless you tell him to. C'mon Ubisoft; we want some smarter 
 AI!
  
  Graphics: This is a next-gen game folks, and it looks like a next gen game. From the dusty streets 
 of Mexico, to the slot machine filled rooms of Vegas; it looks beautiful. The only complaint about 
 the graphics I have is the up close visuals. They're blurry. Like... PS1 blurry. That's just plain 
 unacceptable. Sound: Spot on sound here, correct muzzle sounds when silencers are on, when you're 
 farther away from the fire fights, and when you're fighting with different weapons. It's like you're 
 in the game. And that's what we want. Multiplayer: Multiplayer over Xbox Live is plain amazing... if 
 you have some friends to play with. If you just join a match after searching, they'll probably 
 kick you. Especially if you are a lower rank. But once you do get into a good game, the fun never 
 ends. Plenty of infiltration, FFA, and even some Co-Op in there. Xbox live can be a beautiful thing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IamDuhman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 17, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is a great game. The graphics are amazing and the gameplay is great. The terrorists 
 in the later levels are smart and challenging. Unfortunately, some parts are lacking checkpoints. 
 In the beginning of the second level, i had to play the same part over ten million times. Fortunately, 
 the character's positions are changed making it bearable. Once you play the multiplayer, you won't 
 enjoy the single as much because the multiplayer is amazing. It is worth the money alone. You have 
 a gigantic selection of weapons and grenades and other spec-ops equipment, and you get more as 
 you rank up. Your character is completely customizable with camflauge and armor. The ranks are 
 fun to achieve and there are many different modes. Sadly, you will find yourself playing calypso 
 casino attack and defend numerous times, primarily, as it is the best way to rank up. The single 
 player gets repetitive, barely, but still is amazing. The biggest problem is the controls, they 
 are strange and hard to remember, The cover button is holding down LT, making GOW's system better. 
 Once you get it down though, it is fun, so go buy this game now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgt-slaughter61
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 17, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow six vegas brings great gameplay online and offline even though i thought it was only worth 
 buying because of the campaign. Gameplay- Gameplay is great, lots of weapons and enemies to shoot 
 at. Even though the cover system did not work so well since you have to hold in the Left trigger 
 and when u peek out your head it doesnt always go where you want it to go, its still playable and 
 fun. Sound&amp; Graphics- Graphics are quite good offline and the sound is aswell especially in 
 the casinos with the machines going off. Online well the graphics get lowered a bit because you 
 can customize the character to look like you with the camera but sound is same. Strategy- You definitly 
 need to have some strategy to beat this game seriously make sure you use your snake cam or your 
 done man. Online is 2x as hard since your enemies are so smart (sometimes) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yomismocl
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 17, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredible! It made me smash my controller for the first time... The game has great 
 combat, and also has you use cover in an interesting way. When you walk up to something you can 
 use as cover, you hold down the left trigger, and you go into third person. You have a small cross 
 hair, to let you ling up your shots before you pop out of cover. It is intuitive for the most part, 
 but sometimes you want to pop out from the left of something, then your character goes up, down, 
 then out to the left. It can be really annoying, but never gets in the way too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanroxors
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 17, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  I absolutely LOVED Rainbow Six 3: Black Arrow. I can remember playing the online portion of that 
 game more than anything else at one time. There was just something about it that reeled you in 
 for more. When Lockdown came out, I was extremely excited, but upon first playtests with the game, 
 my expectations were shot down by a lackluster imitation of Black Arrow. Naturally, when I heard 
 Vegas was coming out I thought I would be distressed once again. WRONG!
  
  Not only have the developers managed to make a game as good as Black Arrow, they have managed to 
 make a game a hell of a lot better! From the jaw dropping graphics to the wonderful cover system 
 and weapon sounds etc. THIS GAME ROCKS YOU !
  
  If you are at all a fan of shooters and own a 360 you HAVE TO BUY THIS.
  
  The SinglePlayer 
 is a wonderful experience and after that the multiplayer will last you FOREVER!
  
  GO BUY THIS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xLegend24
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 20, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  This is an amazing game both graphically and gameplay wise. Set in the city of Las Vegas, the game 
 displays the features of the city in full details, including the casinos (with their names changed) . 
 The gameplay is there from your previous Rainbow Six games, but there's a new cover feature. It's 
 a very simple maneuver, just go near a wall or crate and hold down the left trigger to go into 
 cover. Then just use the left analog stick to pop up or peep around the side to fire, or else just 
 blind fire. The story takes you from Mexico to Las Vegas filled with incredible action packed firefights. 
 The game is pretty challenging, as you'll die in about 5-6 shots even on normal difficulty, so 
 cover and team work are essential. The sound fully delivers the perfect mix of adrenaline and fear. 
 The story does lack some depth as there aren't really any cutscenes to explain much of it, but 
 much rather you're updated via you're team mates who receives the news. After the Single player 
 story, there's also a mode called Terrorist Hunt, in which you kill certain amount of terrorist 
 on a map with no respawns. And that brings us to the real multipalyer. This is probably the best 
 part of the game. You can make a custom character, who is fully customizable with armor, clothing 
 and weapons. There are variety of game types, which should keep you busy, while you're trying to 
 reach that rank of Elite. Have Fun!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abigorus
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 16, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  I was really, really impressed when I started to play this game. I wasn't much of a fan of the 
 other Rainbow Six games, but this game litterly made me say wow . Let's get this review underway!
 
  
  Graphics: Very nice! There's not much to say, they're wonderful. Shoot someone, the blood spatters 
 on the wall, great shadows, textures, you can tell they worked hard and tried to give us a true 
 Next-gen experience.
  
  Sound: This is one thing I find is very important in these kinds of games. Voice acting was good, 
 guns sounded great, again, they did a superb job.
  
  Gameplay: This is where the game really shines. To peek around corners you get into a third person 
 mode, and I absolutely LOVE this addition to the game. The menu's to change weapons is easy, and 
 you can change it quick in the heat of battle. Cover and shoot tactics are great.
  
  Opinion: Great game, a good buy, I recommend it to anyone who plays online and offline. It's the 
 best Rainbow Six to date, they took it up to the next level.
  
  Gamespot rated this 9.1.
  I rate this 9.6 Superb.
  
  Thanks for reading,
  
  Abigorus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheXboxgamer73
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 16, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas is Ubisoft's debut of the Rainbow Six series on the Xbox 360, and boy does it 
 pack an explosive punch. From the start, this game has winner written all over it, and the nearly 
 perfected production values makes this game a must have.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  GAMEPLAY: Vegas is a cross between a first and third person shooter. The game remains first person 
 until cover is taken or various actions such a sliding down a fast rope or rappelling down the 
 side of a building take place. The controls are smooth as butter, the button layout is fantastic, 
 and the whole feel of the game is leaps and bounds beyond the series predecessors. The single player 
 has a great presentation, a fairly interesting story, and a catchy cast of characters. Take that, 
 throw in action packed gun battles, strategic enemy elimination, tons of weapons in your arsenal, 
 and a series of events with plot twists... and you've got yourself a fantastic game. The campaign 
 does suffer from sometimes feeling cheap as enemies sometimes kill you in one shot or kill you 
 from out of nowhere, but this is a minor setback to what is otherwise a great single player experience. 
 As for the multiplayer: AMAZING!! Vegas's multiplayer is by far the greatest multiplayer game for 
 the Xbox 360. Boasting tons of gametypes ( elimination, team elimination, co-op story, co-op terrorist 
 hunt, attack and defend, etc.) and customization to your hearts content, Vegas has got it all. 
 The online even features a unique ranking system that allows you to constantly evolve your playing 
 character with new clothing, armor, weapons, camoflauge, and other interesting equipment. If the 
 single player isn't your thing, Vegas is still more than worth the price of admission for its online 
 multiplayer.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Vegas has fantastic graphics, a variety of diverse environments, great effects, and everything 
 else that you could hope for. To keep it short, the graphics only serve to make this amazing experience 
 that much more amazing.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  SOUND:
  
  Fantastic. Radio chatter, team interaction, gun sounds, explosions, and everything else are great. 
 Even the chings and chimes of the slot machines in various levels sound amazing.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  VALUE:
  
  Rainbow Six: Vegas is worth every dime. It is by no means a quick fix. Once you get hooked, you 
 won't want to stop playing. With a brilliant single player and one of the most masterful multiplayer 
 setups of all time, this is one game you cannot afford to pass down if you own an Xbox 360.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  TILT:
  
  Unless it isn't obvious, I encourage you to buy this game without hesitation.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  FINAL OVERVIEW:
  
  Pros:
  -Smooth, well crafted gameplay
  -Great single player..... amazing multiplayer
  -Well written story with plenty of twists
  -Variety 
 is abundant in every catagory
  -Addicting... very addicting
  
  Cons:
  -Single player can sometimes be a bit frusturating
  -You might have trouble putting the controller 
 down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonMan121
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 16, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  The first time I played the full game I was amazed! I played on line and enjoyed every second. 
 I also enjoy the levels on LIVE, they keep you playing (though the game play its self is what keeps 
 me going) . The single player however leaves much to the imagination. I found it too short and a 
 waste of time and the ending was almost as bad as Halo 2's. Having said that, it is still good 
 to play but if you want a deep and interesting story I would leave this on the shelf but if you 
 have LIVE and are willing to be kicked out of a few games while your a low level because your a 
 n00b then this is the game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ironman3087
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 16, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  To start things off, I personally thought this was the best Tom Clancy game out of all of them. 
 The graphics are simply amazing, and the gameplay is even better. Rainbow 6 Vegas makes good use 
 of the cover system as well as using ropes to get from the top of the building to the bottom, or 
 breaking through windows, and even the spy cam which you can use to peek through the bottom of 
 the door to see what is on the other side. If you like any military game or shooter game, this 
 is a game you do not want to miss. One thing about this game though is that it ended too soon. 
 I didnt expect the ending to come at that time, but the campaign was good enough. Cool weapons, 
 cool gadgets, your teammates actually kill a lot of people not like most other games, and just 
 an all out war in vegas. A+ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamie619
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2007 3:40 am PT
Review:  Best game i have ever played the story line excellent and online is simply surperb and the graphics 
 is excellent best ubisoft game i have ever played if u dont have this game in your libary get it 
 now the story line of the game is excellent taking u from the streets of mexico to glamour of freemont 
 street vegas .from casinos just being built to the top of the spire you will be left wanting more!! 
 multiplayer in this game also rocks aspecialy with the new maps coming soon. with a 16 player limit 
 on this game it rocks. with the tatics also coming into the multiplayer. in a game called attack 
 &amp; deffend u have to choose which way is the best ay to attack or id ur deffendin u gotta decide 
 how ur gonna place bombs and think which way the gonna come becuase u may not have a second chance. a 
 real thinkin mans game
  
  best game ive played on 360 by it now 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shroomiz
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing! I just bought it the other day and it has been better than I expexted since 
 i had only played the demo. The graphics are just right only the enemy's graphics look like the 
 old games when up close. The game is quite difficult at first but later on you get used to it and 
 get addicted, believe me! And the multiplayer is awesome, you get to fully custimize your own character, 
 including facial and clothing. but you are restricted to some stuff because of your rank, you gotta 
 get up your rank to unlock some cool and handy stuff. The game overall is amazing and fun to play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TorstenSorensen
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 14, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Multiplayer:
  The game has very good multiplayer maps, and for the most part it is perfectly balanced. There 
 are achievements for 5 kills in a row, 10 kills in a row, 100 kills total, use your own face (Xbox 
 Live Vision) on your character, etc. which shows they did pay attention to the MP. Its not like 
 pry, where you had to play horrible multiplayer to get all the achievements, the mp is the best 
 I have ever played, and I'm going to be playing it for a long time to come... There are tons of 
 weapons, and all of them are very different from each other. You have Machine Guns, Assault Rifles, 
 SMG's, and Snipers. The character customization is very deep (for this game type, at least) . You 
 can give your character pink camouflage if you want.
  Singleplayer/Game Mechanics:
  This game is amazing! But needs more polish. It made me smash my controller for the first time... 
 The game has great combat, and also has you use cover in an interesting way. When you walk up to 
 something you can use as cover, you hold down the left trigger, and you go into third person. You 
 have a small cross hair, to let you ling up your shots before you pop out of cover. It is intuitive 
 for the most part, but sometimes you want to pop out from the left of something, then your character 
 goes up, down, then out to the left. It can be really annoying, but never gets in the way too much. 
 Sometimes my character will get stuck in walls, or nothing ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: multaman415
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 14, 2007 10:04 pm PT
Review:  This is awsome!!!!! Another great thing Ubisoft comes out with. I can't wait to try the all new 
 maps and playing modes. This adds to one of the best franchises that is out for the 360 to date, 
 in addition to Gears of War and a couple others. It is like the Halo multiplayer map pack, except 
 for Rainbow Six: Vegas. I think this will be a great success for online play, since there is already 
 sooooo many people playing, and this create a better experiance. I hope all those who have rainbow 
 6, for the 360, will get this and join the action on XBOX LIVE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 13, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six : Vegas is next generation in every sense of the term. Every aspect of the game from 
 the graphics to the physics, a. i., level of detail in the environments and the gameplay is next 
 generation and a testament to the unrivaled power of the Unreal Engine 3. If you have an Xbox 360, 
 then you owe it to yourself to buy Rainbow Six : Vegas. It is not to be missed and as necessary 
 to your library as Gears of War. Its also a sign and foreshadowing of things to come in games as 
 this along with Gears of War and Ghost Recon Advance Warfighter are all titles that raised the 
 bar and have set the benchmark for future Xbox 360 Game Developers. Theres really nothing more 
 for me to say this game. If its not in your library, you are missing out even if you do not traditionally 
 like First Person Shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrFeelgoodsTwin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  This was a great game. The single player is long and not too fun unless your with a friend. I am 
 not the only one to say this but when you try to play on the hard diff to get the game points and 
 you quit then play again later it will load up in the normal. So that is very dissapointing. But 
 online is perfect. When you put your face into the game its its cool to see your self doing what 
 Rainbows do. BUt you can put any thing on your face at all. No masks or glasses. The fun in just 
 getting ranked up is fun because you open new stuff every time. Dont get this game if you dont 
 have online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanMonk
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 13, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is a complete return to form for Ubisoft, after the back-breakingly awful Lockdown 
 (well, it was bad compared to other R6 games anyway) . The best thing about the game is the online 
 multiplayer. Up to 16 players can take part, and there a whole host of different modes, such as 
 deathmatch, capture the flag, and other objective based variants. It's fast and frantic, with tactics 
 being thrown around over the headset faster than the bullets themselves. Unfortuantely, the game 
 is penetrated by frequent lag, which can be really bad at times and ruin the experience a bit. 
 The offline multiplayer is alright: there are two modes, terrorist hunt and co-op. Terroist would 
 probably be the better of the two, if it weren't for the fact that if you're dead, you're dead. 
 It's easy to get distracted by one enemy only to be blasted by another, and have to sit through 
 watching your friend play, or restart the game. Co-op thankfully does allow respawns, but all the 
 missions are open at the very start, and you don't progress in the single player if you play in 
 co-op (unlike other games such as Gears of War) . Not too mention the fact that all the mission 
 achievment can only be obtained in single player.
  
  The graphics in Vegas aren't anything to get excited about. The look a bit last-gen in places, 
 especially in the multiplayer, where the grapchis are seriously down-graded. There are some fantastic 
 lighting effects though, and the single player can look truly impressive at times.
  
  Speaking of the single player.. it's an aquired taste. If you like super-challenging, tactics heavy 
 gameplay, then this is the game for you. It can feel a bit repetitive at times: clear room, move 
 on, clear room, move on etc, but the satisfying gameplay should keep you interested for a while, 
 at least. I personally am not too keen on the SP, but as I said, it's not for everyone.
  
  The sound in Vegas does the job, but there's nothing really special here. The guns sound like they 
 should, and that's about it. Overall, I'd only recommend Vegas if you have Xbox Live. The online 
 play is leagues above Gears online (thanks to Gears's horrible online community, lag and glitches) 
 and surpasses pretty much any online shooter I've played. In almost all other areas, it fails to 
 impress often, but fans of the series will get some real enjoyment out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nizam666
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  I have to say this is the best in the series that offer new features such as cover . Similar to 
 G. O. W but just as good!. Gameplay and graphics are superb and it supplies hours of fun gaming on 
 single and multiplayer. This is a MUST have for all you that like FPS! The levels and choices of 
 weapons and all new uniforms are great. This could not be done on previous Rainbow 6's.
  
  I am also happy to say that the A. I of the enemy is great too. They don't stand out in the open 
 and get their head blown off. They use the same tactics as you. Suppress fire, cover etc 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madcows
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 13, 2007 2:56 am PT
Review:  This is a great game in all aspects. The ai is smart but they still do some stupid things. Ok not 
 really stupid but it players are camping the ai cant figure that out and not make the same mistake 
 twice or next round. Other then that they are very smart and can adjust to your tactics. The graphics 
 are great, sound, lighting and gameplay are also. The story is a lot of fun and can be as complex 
 as you would like to build the mission or as easy. In other words you can take the time to plan 
 or go to default and just go for it. The game has a third person view and a first person, which 
 they blend very well. Plus theres the little things they can do like repel down walls throw flash 
 bangs and nades. There are way too many things to list. The multi player is very good too. I normally 
 complain about the number of players is too small compared to the PC, But not in this case. The 
 map sizes are very comparable to the players allowed to be on most maps. Nobody likes to walk for 
 3 miles and for ppl that like tactical shooter. Too many players on a small map means the game 
 turns into spray and pray. Plus there is a ranking system upon which you can gain unlocks on weapons 
 etc... Privlages of rank the more you play the more points you get. This is by far one of the best 
 games out there. If your into these kind of games this is a must buy for your 360. P. S. For your 
 360 you need a super computer to run it on Your PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vunazo
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2007 12:09 am PT
Review:  The best Shooter for a long time me love u long time
  this game is better then golden eye from n64 and its better then perfect dark tom clancy books 
 and games are the best BREACH AND FRAG
  BREACH AND CLEAR
  BREACH AND FRAG
  BREACH AND CLEARBREACH AND FRAG
  BREACH AND CLEARBREACH AND FRAG
  BREACH AND CLEARBREACH AND 
 FRAG
  BREACH AND CLEARBREACH AND FRAG
  BREACH AND CLEARBREACH AND FRAG
  BREACH AND CLEARBREACH AND FRAG
  BREACH AND CLEARBREACH AND FRAG
  BREACH AND CLEARBREACH AND 
 FRAG
  BREACH AND CLEARBREACH AND FRAG
  BREACH AND CLEARBREACH AND FRAG
  BREACH AND CLEARBREACH AND FRAG
  BREACH AND CLEARBREACH AND FRAG
  BREACH AND CLEARBREACH AND 
 FRAG
  BREACH AND CLEARBREACH AND FRAG
  BREACH AND CLEARBREACH AND FRAG
  BREACH AND CLEARBREACH AND FRAG
  BREACH AND CLEARBREACH AND FRAG
  BREACH AND CLEARBREACH AND 
 FRAG
  BREACH AND CLEARBREACH AND FRAG
  BREACH AND CLEAR yuba 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boricuafirez3
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 12, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas deserves to be compared to any of the other great first person military shooters. 
 Visibility of your character as he takes cover is a cool feature, along with being able to command 
 your comrades (for example opening doors and throwing frags) .
  People seem to say that this game doesn't have memorable characters but how could you forget a 
 misleading Mexican female crime boss, and a traitor to your team which you rescued just to take 
 an attempt on many people's lives.
  This game combines awesome graphics and visuals with the innovative casinos throughout the game, 
 a first for most shooters.
  The online multiplayer is highly addictive, and you play for achievement points at the same time.
 
  If you are looking for a realistic shooter where you can use almost any gun you can think of and 
 love online multiplayer and casinos, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LEGOslayer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 12, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  What can I say that hasn't already been said. Rainbow Six finally made a good game. The next gen 
 Tom Clancys have their hit series, Splinter Cell, in last place. The multiplayer is the big thing 
 here. You have to be on your toes at all times. Make one crap move and you're dead. Think twice 
 before going down that elevator, think twice before throwing that grenade. It could backfire on 
 you. And that makes it realistic. The single player is fantastic as well, though a little too challenging. 
 There is an obstacle in the first level in Mexico that is too hard. I just wished they had started 
 in Vegas. Hopefully they will make a Rainbow Six Vegas 2 that lets you start there. And the sounds 
 are insane. The bullets bursting out of your gun, the slot machines. And thats just multiplayer....... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: defogger
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 12, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  There have been many Rainbow Six games in the past, some good some not. I personally have only 
 played Rainbow Six: Raven Shield, several years ago. So coming into this game, I didnt know what 
 to expect. Turns out, it couldn't have been better.
  
  Graphics - Amazing lighting, muzzle flashes and details. You will see ammo clips and shell casings 
 all over the ground. Character modelling is flatout superb. No glitches, everything loads well. 
 Cityscape looks awesome from the air. You can see for miles and miles.
  
  Gameplay - Perfectly placed controls, simple to use and get comfortable with. Crosshairs are adjustable 
 but are smooth by defualt setting. Commands given to teammates are carried out swiftly in many 
 cases. Taking cover is simple and effective. You can change the rate of fire on your weapons and 
 add sound suppressors. Lots of weapons to choose from with alittle customizing going on. You collect 
 weapons like in Hitman Blood Money. Everything is responsive. Short game, but worth a replay.
 
  
  Environment and physics - All of the areas you will be playing in are highly detailed with the 
 excellent graphics meantioned above. You can even make some cash if you shoot the slot machines. 
 Enemies have an excellent ragdoll design and killing them is extremely satisfying. Weapons handle 
 well and are never over-dramatized. Sound - Is better than a 7 out of 10. Music is military style 
 but yeah there should have been alittle Vegas music in there. Voice acting is excellent. One very 
 cool thing I noticed was that gunshots sound different depending on whether you are inside or outside. 
 More of a thundering echo outside. Very nice little detail. A. I - Amazing A. I that compares or 
 beats that of other games out there. Teammates dont do stupid stuff in combat. They dont hit enemies 
 all the time and leave alittle work for you which is good. They follow commands and the variety 
 of functions for clearing a room for example, is interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tundrawarlord
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 11, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  This game never seses to amaze me. Amazing visuals, Great sound, and Amazing multiplayer.
  
  Single Player: 9/10
  Very fun and original, with an amazing intigrated cover sistum that 
 makes every thing alot more fun, Levles are long and fun with plenty of terrorists to kill.
  
  Online: 10/10
  Most impressive online, Game modes are very fun and teams and weapons are 
 very ballanced as long as you are playing with people the same rank as you. Maps are large and 
 very detailed with hundreds of places to take cover. Clan support is a + too. Charecter costomizeation 
 is probably one of the most clever things that I have seen in a game so far.
  
  Graphics and Sound: 10/10
  The Graphics are very detailed and vibrant and physics in this game 
 are amazing thanks to the Unreal Engine 3.
  
  Weapons: 10/10
  Lots of weapons in this game and all are customize able making it alot of fun to go online with 
 the weapon and feture that you want.
  
  Conclusion:
  This game is way cool and is a defanate must have for the tactical shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 11, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  For many reasons, this game took a long time to finish, but it was well worth it. Being an Xbox 
 360 game you expect great graphics and this game has that, also great sound and animation. Rainbow 
 Six: Vegas dont start in Vegas or end there, but for the most part that is where the action is. 
 Like other games in the series you have a team, but unlike the other series you only have one team, 
 you and 2 others men and that really hurt the realism in the game. You find yourself often fighting 
 your 3 men team against dozens of bad guys. There isnt a police force foolish to fight with these 
 odds, but you find yourself doing it most of the game. Of course this is a game, but 40 to 3 odds 
 is on the silly side, and you have to try over and over to setup guys to be able to handle such 
 a number. One thing I really miss in this game is that there isnt a sniper member either, so once 
 again you find yourself in desperate need of help of any kind, and its not there. Other then the 
 unrealistic game play everything else is very top notch, the weapons and the weapons sounds are 
 all there and rendered very well. The missions are a little shallow of information but you get 
 use to rushing into battle with very little info. The save games in this game is done pretty well 
 though I wished it would save after I reload my weapons in supply depot, so after the millionth 
 time trying a mission over again, I dont have to go through the process of reloading all my equipment.
 
  Overall this is a very good 360 game, and one of the best but not the best of the Rainbow series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicKid_UK
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 11, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  I remember playing the first Rainbow Six &amp; being a bit dissappointed with It &amp; from that 
 point onwards I've gennerally avoided the series so I tried avoiding this game but in the end I 
 crumbled. Once I'd put the disc in I had an invite to a game from my TFMX clan mates (www. TFMX. co. uk) 
 to play a terrorist hunt so with little knowledge of the controls I unwittingly jumped into the 
 fray. At first I was inevitably dying rathe alot but as time passed I grew better feeling totally 
 at ease with the controls, although there were alot more than I had first anticipated. 4 hours 
 later we had finished our hunt &amp; I was stunned at how much time had flown by. This game is 
 amazing to play online, alas that comment may carry some bias due to the company I was playing 
 with but none the less, 4 HOURS!!!! So then I progressed into the single palyer mode which is equally 
 awkward once you start out but after the first level you do get the hang of it. Many people say 
 Gears of War was the first game to use a cover system rather than a guns blazing approac but this 
 game had it first. Infact I feel maybe this cover system is better than the Gears one as the controls 
 are more suited to it. Shock I know &amp; by no means am I comparing this to Gears of War but certainly 
 this is a good shooter but it goes one step further than being a good shooter because it is a good 
 tactical shooter. Graphically it is impressive, but when looking at some of the scenery like cars 
 &amp; character models you feel that a little more spit &amp; polish would have gone a long way. 
 The sound is good. It is set up so it sounds like your team mates are talking to you over a radio, 
 which is understandable in group combat, but when standing in front of them with absolutely no 
 opponents in sight they still tak over the radio. Oh well. Certainly better than your run of the 
 mill shoot 'em up but with things like the Halo series &amp; Gears of War constantly pushing the 
 boundaries of what is a good shooter this one won't be remembered, possibly a little unfairly but 
 there s nothing we can do about that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killiasxxx
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 11, 2007 5:57 am PT
Review:  Ok this game is very fun i recommend it to any first person shooter fans.
  
  Graphics- the graphics are right behind gears of war so there very good.
  
  Gameplay- single 
 player is fun especialy when you have a mic to give Ai commands. Multiplayer is super fun if you 
 have xboxlive this is a must get create a soldier raise him in rank unlock armor, weapons, ect. Sound- 
 The sound in this game is good but not great.
  
  Replay value- This game has tons of replay value especialy if you have xbox live and achievements.
 
  
  At the end of the day rainbow six vegas is by far one of the two good shooter games on the 360 
 and every other system to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hugh000270
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 11, 2007 12:22 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas which is an awesome game and once of the best I've ever played. It is the second 
 best game for just after Gears of War.
  
  Graphics
  
  The games graphics is pretty awesome which is still second from Gears of War for me. It has a very 
 good texture especially the shading and also the lighting of the game.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay is also nice although being third for me after Gears of War then Need for Speed Carbon 
 since its take a amount of time to finish a game since the enemies are pretty good in shooting 
 and taking cover although I like the night vision and the thermal gogles especially the shield 
 weapon.
  
  Sound
  
  The sounds of the game are nice being the first since the sounds much well with the time when the 
 characters shoot and even throw grenades, smoke grenades and others. Also, the voice acting is 
 nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: texasfight54
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 10, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game! The game has the perfect level of challenge without getting frustrating. You may 
 die a few times but once you figure out the best way to approach each situation you will succeed. 
 The game also does a good job of letting you decide how to approach each situation, offering different 
 routes to take. Your team is pretty smart and takes out a lot of enemies on their own. Checkpoints 
 are placed in good places too, especially since you can't save on your own but they are placed 
 so well it really doesn't matter. It took me about 10-12 hours to beat. Fast and exciting in both 
 single and multiplayer. This game much different than the old Rainbox Six games. The single player 
 plays like a cross between Ghost Recon and Gears of War. The multiplayer is cool with good clan 
 support as well as a ranking system that rewards the player with new guns and uniforms. Rent this 
 game or buy it its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sportsfan4life
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 10, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Great Multi-player game! Custom Characters, Amazing Guns and fun exiting maps. The multi-player 
 ranks really give you an exiting goal to unlock everything and be the best of the best online. 
 Rainbow Six: Vegas, ranks #1 on gamebattles ladder. Story line is also fun but not quite there. 
 Graphics are top notch!!!! The way the game illustrates the wonderful city of Vegas is awesome. 
 The details of the casino and the vegas strip in the video game is beautiful. This game is the 
 best in the Rainbow series no doubt about that. If you love tactical shooters than this game is 
 for you. For any fans of shooter pick this up now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iampurty
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 10, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  i dont really think that this new tom clancy game has lived up to all of this hype surrounding 
 that franchise. whenever a new clancy game comes out, critics always give it a 9, even though some 
 games are less then spectacular. the story in this game is severely lacking, the team AI and enemy 
 AI is good, it has decent graphics but its still slightly disappointing for a game that recieved 
 a 9.1 from gamespot.
  i think its a pretty cool idea to have to take cover and shoot your enemies, and its pretty easy 
 with the left triggger. but since this is a tactical shooter, wich are sposd to make games seem 
 more realistic , you will die in just a couple of shots, even on normal difficulty. if u use your 
 team and take cover, this shudnt b a problem, but still, i wudnt recomend this game.
  
  
  rent it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raze664
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 10, 2007 5:53 am PT
Review:  Single Player: The campaign is ALOT longer than the previous ones from other games. The AI is alot 
 smarter which allows for the game to be more entertaining to hardcore gamers who didn't get much 
 challenge from the older games. Realistic difficulty actually is realistic to a degree though it 
 could be better. Terrorist hunt in single player is pretty fun the levels vary in difficulty, even 
 better you can use 3 different levels of terrorists (20-40) on normal or realistic difficulty.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are perfect though they liked to use the same models quite a few times throughout 
 the levels. Player models are up to scratch as you can see what you really want to in terms of 
 detail,
  
  Sound: I must admit the sound is the part which I least like about this game, nearly everything 
 you hit gives the same sounds. The occasional glitch in the sound when you are up against the wall 
 and shoot you won't hear the shot. Some of the phrases the terrorists use are very amusing.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay can get annoying but is very addictive, for example you will open a 
 door and get your leg blown off with a shotgun. The AI actually use quite a few types of grenade 
 against you, from smoke to white phosphorus grenades. Some of the cover is not great.
  
  Multiplayer: Got to be the part which is the best about this game. Custom character, custom weapons, 
 still able to use the cover system. Just to name a few. Gaining ranks after the first few will 
 start to get very challenging. Everyone works as a team online (which is a first.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scuffdog_65
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2007 1:10 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is a pretty dam good game. the gameplay is pretty fun. shooting terrorists may 
 be getting old, but this game had me interested. graphics are outstanding on this game as well 
 as the sound. If you like the tactical types of shooters u should definitely think about picking 
 this game up. even if you dont like shooters too much i would say rent this game and you will have 
 fun. Because of the gameplay and graphics of rainbow six vegas i am giving this game a 9.0 out 
 of 10. This is a definite buy to those shooter fans out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CassiusVII
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 9, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  I dont really have a thing for Tom Clancey games, I bought GRAW but it wasnt amazing, and never 
 really got a kick out of splinter cell. The old rainbow six games I didnt like, but this one is 
 way better then I thought it would be.
  Gameplay- The online is Perfect. The game is just amazing online. I would compare it to Halo 2 
 as one of the better online games of all time. The single player is also great. Its hard and fun. 
 The realistic is very very hard, but thats what normal is for.
  Graphics- Great graphics, I dont like how everything has a red tint in the casinos etc. Otherwise 
 the graphics are realistic and have very little flaws. I havent seen anything wrong with it besides 
 the characters arent the greatest looking.
  Sound- Great, not as exciting as GRAWs sweet soundtrack but still good. If you do get sick of it 
 u can still go to your own playlist and play music anyways.
  Value- This game is worth it, once it gets out of date... which wont be for a while... is the only 
 time this game wont be worth it.
  This game really suprised me and I thought it would have just a lot of hype and no flash, but this 
 game is awesome and worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxandpc
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Lets face it Rainbow just hasn't been good since the Rainbow Six 3 days and Black Arrow. We though 
 it was over, Lockdown was arcadey and unreal but Vegas takes the best elemnts from GRAW, RB6, Lockdown 
 (Yes it had some goodies)
  
  Gameplay- Superb, the addition snake cam under doors is fun to mark who is sgoing to die first!!!!, 
 the SP is fun and the whole Vegas thing seems pretty unreastic but its fun to shoot terrorists 
 in the face at your favorite Casino's. its tactical, real, fun, and simply amazing.
  
  Graphics- Great, but not Unreal 3 Gears of War quality. It still is a damn fine game but textures 
 sometimes espically multiple colors in a room or so look muddy. The models are great and the lighting 
 is superb. MP's textures look tone down, but it still looks next-gen
  
  Sound- Great, voices, gunshots, explosions, all sound high quality. The only thing that seems kinda 
 dated is some of the gun shots. Some of the are still the dame from Rainbow Six 3 or even Rogue 
 Spear.
  
  Value- The Online is amazing, lifeless, you have PEC which is kinda like creating your own guy 
 and make him a badass soldier. You can even take a picture with your own face using the XBL vision 
 camera. There are a doezen or so maps and 8 modes. 10 new maps and 2 new modes will soon come by 
 the end of march. Overall if you enjoy FPS, Rainbow Six, Tom Clancy, online fragging, well this 
 is your new Xbox Live pony 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haz_4x4
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 9, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  I got this game at christmas once again as an un expected gift, i do really like rainbow especially 
 the online i really do like the online!, it has many game modes to choose from team sharpshooter 
 being my favourite, the graphics on this game are good, a good selection of maps to choose, and 
 fair good acheivments to be honest, there is one thing i aint to sure about this game and that 
 is just the campaig, i have around 300+ on it at the moment not including any campaign acheivments 
 mainly because it is hard and confusing, in about 2 shots i found myself dead on the floor before 
 i knew it, with practise it is possible, but im not even going to try and attempt it at realistic 
 difficulty,
  i do recomend this game to people who want a serious tough 1st/ 3rd person shooter. do get this 
 game it is worth the money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronannie68
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 9, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  I just bought Rainbow Six Vegas and I have to say that it is nothing short of spectacular. What 
 makes this game so great to play? Well, for one it is powered by the Unreal Engine, giving it stunning 
 visuals and great smoke effects. The other great thing is the tactical commands that give you more 
 realistic control over your team members. The AI in the game is pretty smart and can be at times 
 pretty unpredictable in their movement and attacks. The snake cam is one of my favorite tools that 
 you can use to scope a room of bad guys, note their position, and send in your team to take out 
 the ones you see as high priority . The heal action is nice too. This allows you to heal your wounded 
 team member with a booster injection. The gameplay is similar to that of Gears of War. You can 
 crouch behind low walls and blindfire over the wall creating cover fire for advancing team members. 
 I am looking forward to Ghost Recon Advanced War Fighter 2. So, if you love tactical first person 
 shooters, you really should consider purchasing Rainbow Six : Vegas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentDeath777
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 8, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  You are Logan Keller, one of America's best! You are trained to stop terrorist where ever and when 
 ever they strike. You start out in Mexico until something happens and your called to protect US 
 soil in Las Vegas. I try to not soil anything in these reviews.
  
  Where can I start with this game? Like all Clancy's game, it great to play single player or online 
 with friends.. Everything feels and looks so real, so true to life. The lights and sounds really 
 set the mood. The sound of the news people, the chatter of your team mates also the music in some 
 of the casinos are perfect and fits really well. The Story is great, it gives you a reason to take 
 out the bad guys, and shoot things. Your team mates are really helpful. They take cover and really 
 kill the enemy. It's not like some of those games where your team mates miss with every shot. Even 
 if your team mate is down, you do not always have to be the one to help them. If your other team 
 mate is close enough, just ask him to heal the other and give him cover fire! There is really nothing 
 bad about the game I can find. I played it through about two times (one on normal and the other 
 hard) still loved all of it. The change from 1st person to 3rd person when taking cover is flawless. 
 Sometimes your just so much into the fire fight, you forget your not into first person any more. 
 Does this game have great single player? Yes! Does this game have great multi player? Yes! Why 
 are other games lacking in one when this game pulls if off both with no trouble? Like other games 
 the game will get harder and you need to find a good strategy to take the bad guys out, without 
 getting you head shot off. It's what you go for in games, fun and enjoyable with friends. Tom Clancy 
 games on 360 are the best. They have not made one single bad game yet. I look forward to adding 
 more Clancy games to my 360 collection if they keep being this good. For any shooting or Clancy 
 fan, this game will hold you over until GRAW II is out. If you do not have this game yet, after 
 you play it, you will wonder why you didnt buy it sooner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atom420
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 8, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  The Tom Clancy series of games developed by Ubisoft is a well respected franchise as all the games 
 in the collection are always consistent; great graphics, intriguing and compelling gameplay and 
 lasting value. Rainbow Six Vegas not only continues to satisfy players needs and wants but surpasses 
 them, as tactical FPSs go you will struggle to find something in Rainbow Sixs league.
  
  The game puts you in the shoes of Logan Keller, hardened leader of an elite three-man counter-terrorist 
 team called Rainbow. After a mission goes wrong in Mexico resulting in your team mates being kidnapped 
 by terrorists you are sent to Vegas which, yes you guessed it, is under attack by more terrorists. 
 You are then teamed up with another two squad members as you are tasked with saving Vegas. The 
 plot line is pretty standard, terrorists with devastating weaponry have to be stopped. But it is 
 not the storyline but the gameplay where the game shines.
  
  Players will find themselves in fierce fire fights in which they are compelled to find and use 
 cover. The game also makes the use of your squad members tremendously fun as youll be able to 
 set up different entry points into a room and also give orders on who to take out first. One of 
 the best aspects of the game is when you are able to use the fast rope or repel down the side 
 of buildings and smash through the windows. This adds a lot to the atmosphere of Vegas giving the 
 player the feeling he/she is a super hard elite commando. All in all the gameplay of Rainbow Six 
 Vegas is outstanding.
  
  On top of the brilliant gameplay Vegas is backed up by superior next generation graphics. Everything 
 in the game is just gorgeous to look at. The sound is also very good but nothing you have not heard 
 already, there is only so much that can be done in terms of sound effects. But what you would hope 
 to get in terms of sound is what you get.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas also uses Xbox Live to its limit allowing full co-op gameplay and verses modes. 
 Vegas is very much a team game so fitting it into Xbox Live is a necessity and Ubisoft have done 
 well in this department. Having the Xbox Live modes of play does not just make the game more fun 
 but also gives you more bang for your buck as a lot more hours of gameplay are added to the mix.
 
  
  If you like FPSs and also like a tactical game that makes you think of your actions before you 
 do them then Rainbow Six Vegas is definitely a game for you. And even if you do not normally play 
 games like this, you should give Vegas a look into as you may find yourself hooked; if not on the 
 single player portion of the game then unquestionably on the multiplayer aspect of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btaylor2404
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 8, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  Great game, sorry to say this is my first Tom Clancy game, and I was very happy. I usually finish 
 single player storylines fast enough to rent them, but this took a bit longer. Vegas looks great, 
 and the AI is better and smarter than most games. Sound effects are great but voice acting is so-so. 
 Don't usually like team based games, but this worked out well here. Some levels were very challenging, 
 which is why I think this game is better than Gears Of War, which was way too easy. I'm a fan now, 
 and will get all future Tom Clancy games. A must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDGRifle
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 8, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  The Game is Endless hours of fun It is a Very Difficult Gma e IM still on level 1!!!!!!!! It is 
 a 2 shot Death Type Of Game. The Story You Are a RAINBOW Anti- Terrorist Logan Keller and you are 
 set out to Mexico then Head on To Las Vegas To Stop Terrorists From Taking over!!!!!! I got this 
 game for Christmas I must Say the Game Overall Is Superb And Is My #1 Recomendation on anyones 
 Game Wish List People Might Say Gears Of War OR Lost Planet But Vegas Has Amazing Online Play Wihch 
 Takes Many Hours Out of your Life. Many People May Question 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jenkins_2005
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 8, 2007 6:48 am PT
Review:  I hope you like the colour red, because if you dont play this game tactically, your going to be 
 seeing alot of it. One mistake with your choice of cover or team placement and a burst of gunfire 
 later, your back at the checkpoint you passed 20 minutes ago. But that doesnt really matter, because 
 with Rainbow 6: Vegas, time passes quick, and half the time you want to go through that casino 
 floor just once more and try another tactic anyway.
  
  The graphics in this game are extremly impressive and lend themselves well to making this game 
 as immersive as it can be. All characters in this game move fluidly while performing any action, 
 be it leaning around cover or window breaching into a room, and the detail on your team mates uniforms 
 is impressive. The weapons look excellent aswell, many times i found myself attaching and then 
 detaching the silencer just so i could see the weapon model. Lighting is also great in this game, 
 the rooms filled with slot machines and neon signs look particularly good. All this really creates 
 the feeling you are in Vegas
  
  Sound effects are unbeleivable. The boom of gunfire is deafening and the crack of flashbangs is 
 really satisfying. I have no idea what the music in this game is like, because with every game 
 i play, i turn the BGM off so i can hear the ambient noises and sound effects, eg. the whistle 
 of the wind through the window broken by gunfire on the top floor of the vertigo tower or the jingles 
 of the slot machines in the Calypso.
  
  The Gameplay is extremly fun and addictive if you like tactical shooters and to me this game is 
 undeniably the best in the series, and although some people may disagree, the whole point of the 
 Rainbow6 series is to be an elite CT squad, and this is the only RB6 to date which has pulled that 
 off beleivably. Using cover is neccesary in every level and at every battle and this adds alot 
 of tension to the combat. You really begin to get nervous when you can see enemies moving postions 
 or trying to flank you, but you cant do anything about it because you are pinned down by other 
 enemies. And they will pin you down, and move around to flank you because the AI in this game is 
 smart. They use cover just as well as you or your team and with their considerable numbers they 
 make the combat seriously intense and rewarding.
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone who enjoys a challenge and a good FPS or tactical shooter. 
 I would also recomment playing on Realistic because this game deserves all the effort it takes 
 to finish this game on that setting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JuiceLive
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 8, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  One of the Best games on the xbox 360. On my top FPS list along with Gears of War since Half Life/CS 
 source. Haven't had so much fun with in a while. One of a kind and great multiplayer/great setting... You 
 feel like you're right in the middle of the action in Las Vegas. I actually tried to see if maybe 
 there was a way you could play with the slot machines... &gt;&lt;
  This game is a must have, the graphics are top notch, all weapons play and feel just right. If 
 you love multiplayer FPS, you must get it. Enough writing, back to Vegas! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MDDichard07
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 7, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas is what all other Rainbow Six games are except pumped up for the 
 next gen. Trust me, this is a great thing. I've always been a fan of Tom Clancy games since their 
 days on the Nintendo 64, so I thought it was awesome to get a new take on a series that I have 
 grown to love.
  
  Good:
  Awesome game play that requires tactile maneuvers and a fairly basic use of a cover system (not 
 as good as gears of war, but great to have none the less) .
  Multiplayer via XBOX Live and normally make for additional fun.
  You rarely see a game with a 
 co-operative mode as good as this one (yet again not as good as Gears of War) .
  Beautiful Graphics that do some great justice to the Las Vegas strip.
  Beautiful sounds and realistic 
 gun noises.
  A realistic combat system with a large variety of guns.
  
  Bad:
  Its fairly evident that the story isn't the best, but doesn't really harm the game play to much. 
 Difficulty has create a problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharinganboy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 6, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  This game present the Best online multiplayer out on xbox live. with 7 on 7 battles constantly 
 raging and 10 different maps to choose from, and 7 different game types, this game never gets old. 
 With an accurate ranking system, you can earn your way up online with you own custom made character 
 from the rank of private second class, all the way to the elite. using the brand new unreal engine 
 physics, this game takes it to the limits with rag doll physics flying left and right from a bullet 
 shot, or the huge explosion of C4 at your feet. This game has been known to freeze a lot though 
 when playing online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neutralx2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 7, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancys Rainbow Six series of games have seen a whole lot of change over the years. The series 
 started out as a slow, tactical, shooter with a heavy emphasis on planning. When the series made 
 its jump to the Xbox with Rainbow Six 3, the game dropped the planning stage to attempt to appeal 
 to a broader audience, while still retaining a tactical shooter feel. The game was extremely successful, 
 becoming one of the most played games on Xbox Live. But after a well received expansion, the developers 
 took a sharp turn and moved the franchise into arcade shooter territory. The majority of the fans 
 were disappointed, and the game was a critical failure. But dont worry Rainbow fans, Ubisoft has 
 indeed learned from their mistakes. Vegas is the most intense and tactical Rainbow Six game, making 
 it easily the best in the series. Rainbow Six: Vegas takes place in Las Vegas as you probably have 
 guessed. Most of the story unfolds while you are playing the game, either in helicopter briefings 
 while you are flying to your next target or while you are on foot from an audio and video feed 
 in the top left of your screen. This is a pretty nice change from the text briefings before missions 
 that Rainbow Six players are used to. Without giving too much of the plot away, terrorists have 
 attacked various casinos in the city, taking some hostages and planting bombs. You play as Logan 
 Keller, a team leader for a group of highly skilled soldiers, and it is your job to go from casino 
 to casino and take care of business. If this all sounds familiar, thats because it is. We have 
 all heard this same basic story dozens of times in other games and Hollywood action movies. But 
 while the storyline isnt exactly original, it is good enough to keep you at least mildly interested. 
 What really matters is the gameplay, and that is where the game truly shines.
  
  If you have ever played Gears of War, your might be surprised how similar the two games play. They 
 were in development around the same time, so its hard to say if any copying was going on, but 
 both games have a heavy emphasis on cover, requiring you to use anything you can hind behind to 
 stay alive. However, the cover system in Vegas works quite a bit better then it does in Gears. 
 You have a lot more control when it comes to moving around cover and shooting out. Also, the cover 
 seems more important in Vegas then it did in Gears, mostly because you can take much fewer shots 
 in Vegas before going down.
  
  Another element both games have in common is a squad of teammates that you fight along with. Controlling 
 the team works similar to other games in the series. You can still tell your squad where to move, 
 whether to hold fire or shoot on sight, to stack up behind doors before throwing in a grenade and 
 storming in as well as all of the other commands you could give in the previous games. However, 
 there are a few additions. For example, you now have a snake cam that allows you to peak under 
 doors. Using this device, you can then give your team priority targets in the next room, to make 
 sure they take down the most important enemies first when they enter. Your teammates also have 
 some pretty good AI. They know how to take cover and engage enemies, meaning you really dont have 
 to worry about them that much. They also do a great job taking down terrorists, making them very 
 useful.
  
  Besides commanding your squad, the game has other features that allow for some complex tactics. 
 Many of the rooms have multiple entry points. Using the snake cam you can scout out the room before 
 determining how you want to enter it. You can even use two entrances at once, by having your team 
 stack up outside one door while you go to another. Then you can order your squad to barge in guns 
 blazing at the same time you enter from another door. You also have the option to do some repelling 
 during some points of the game, which adds another entrance, the windows, to a room. Your large 
 selection of weapons also allows you to take in some tactical considerations. Vegas features a 
 ton of assault rifles, machine guns, shotguns, and pretty much any type of gun you can think of. 
 Each of the weapons offers some level of customization. Pistols can have things like extended magazines 
 or laser sights, while rifles can be fitted with different types of scopes depending on what is 
 needed. Once you have selected your guns, you can choose from items like explosive grenades, C4, 
 breaching charges, flash grenades, and more.
  
  With the cover system, team controls, multiple entry points, and a large selection of weapons, 
 Rainbow Six: Vegas offers a lot of choice when it comes to tactics.
  
  But the single player campaign is only half of what the game has to offer. Rainbow Six: Vegas has 
 a fully featured and expansive multiplayer option, which easily makes it the best on-line shooter 
 on the Xbox 360. The core of the multiplayer experience is what the developers call the P. E. C., 
 or Persistent Elite Creation. When you first start out, you create your own character and have 
 a limited access to different types of gear like body armor and weapons. After every match, your 
 character gains experience, allowing you to go up in rank and gain access to more items. Its a 
 neat feature that rewards you for playing, yet doesnt make the game feel unfair for new players 
 that dont have access to all of the items. Different armor makes you choose between mobility and 
 protection, while other weapons may be more powerful but are harder to control.
  
  There is a good selection of game modes to choose from that range from objective driven modes like 
 attack and defend, to more standard offerings like solo and team deathmatch. The levels are varied 
 and well designed for the most part. Though some, such as the Calypso Casino level, were clearly 
 designed with attack and defend in mind and can be slightly unbalanced in other game modes like 
 team deathmatch due to one team having a better spawn point. But if you are not into competitive 
 gaming against other players, Vegas offers cooperative gameplay over live for the entire single 
 player campaign with up to three other players. Or you can play terrorist hunt which is a mode 
 that puts you and your friends in a level with a bunch of randomly placed terrorists that you need 
 to take out.
  
  Overall, Rainbow Six Vegas is a great game with a lot of value. The single player is challenging 
 and offers a lot of depth, and the multiplayer packs in a lot of features. You could easily find 
 yourself playing this game until the next Rainbow Six game comes out. It is not often that developers 
 try to reinvent such a successful series, but Ubisoft gave it another shot and ended up creating 
 the best Rainbow Six game so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmlevi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 5, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  If you liked Ghost Recon... prepare your self for something even better! First off, one of my favorite 
 things in this is the game setting... you are in downtown Vegas! Literally running on the streets 
 and casinos killing terrorist. The controls are sweet, the graphics are great. Online play is awesome, 
 you always gain experience points whether you win or lose and with experience you rank up and unlock 
 new weapons and gear. Also i have to add, the A. I in this game is by far the best i have ever played 
 against, they are very interactive and change what they do all the time. The one downfall i guess 
 is the learning curve... i felt this might take some people longer to really get good but hang in 
 there its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhondra
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 4, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  I really liked the cover/stick mode. Better than GoW and GRAW, actually. It was easy to get off 
 and to hit a wall and stick for cover when you wanted to. I didn't really care for all the cursing, 
 but no big deal. Just have to wait for the kiddies to go to bed. Pretty cool feature using the 
 camera to scan your face and add it to your online player...
  
  Colors were a bit too much for me, but I guess it WAS Vegas... I liked GRAW a little better for 
 that. Voices were too quiet to catch a lot of the discussion (even turned it up) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawookie
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 4, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  The Rainbow Six series was at one point top dog in the military lines, but was soon felled by other 
 games like Brothers in Arms. Rainbow Six 3 was a bit of a disapointment, and Lockdown was just 
 a frigging disaster. But when it looks like its all over, along comes Rainbow Six: Vegas.
  
  Rainbow Six: Vegas is the turning point of the Tom Clancy revolution. His 3 main games, Splinter 
 Cell, Ghost Recon, and Rainbow Six all made a turning point here. Splinter Cell 4 continued the 
 always-been-popular Splinter Cell, G. R. A. W was a redeemer for the not-so-hot Ghost Recon franchise, 
 and Rainbow Six has been desperate for something good. Vegas is the cure.
  
  The gameplay is amazing. You play as Logan Keller, recently put in charge of Rainbow Six squad. 
 You are trained in expert handle of weapons and some medical training. In your first mission, you 
 go to San Joshua, a mexican city overrun with crime and is now a ghost town in the middle of nowhere-except 
 for terrorists. You take command of your squad, Gabriel, squad sharpshooter, and Kan, the demo 
 soldier. But in the mission, your squad is captured, and you are pulled out before they can be 
 found. This is when you meet your new squad in Vegas, Michael and Jung. You begin your mission 
 to save Vegas, and get into some of the fiercest most intense gun battles ever seen. Whenever you 
 start a mission, you can press X to select your weapons. You start with about half the games weapons 
 available for choice, but as you pick up and use more guns, they become available for use too. 
 You can hold 2 main guns, a sidearm, and 2 peices of equipment, such as grenades, masks, or explosives. 
 there are 6 main levels in this game, and while you may not spend as much time in Vegas as you'd 
 like, you will fight in casino's, offices, hotels, rofftops, stairwells, construction sites, and 
 more. You also have a simple 1 button cover system to blind fire, fire, or command your squad from.
 
  Something as simple as entering a room can be tough in this game. You must check the room out 
 with your snake cam, select your weapon and how to enter the room. If you try to run and gun this, 
 your helmet will be swiss cheese in seconds, so don't try. There are 2 difficulty settings here, 
 normal and realistic, and beleive me, when they say realistic, it sure as hell is. There are also 
 2 choices of fighting here-Assault, you basic shoot on site setting, and Infiltrate, a covert setting 
 that is best used when rescuing hostages or you want to remain un-noticed.
  
  The games graphics are also spectacular. The models look distinguished and proper, the envirements 
 are very nice and not repetetive, and you can really know when your being shot at. The sound is 
 also superb if not perfect. Every gun has a different sound, and when you switch to semi fire for 
 an assault rifle, they still sound meaty and lethal. The terrorists have lots of phrases and it 
 sounds like they are actually working out a plan to kill you.
  
  The multiplayer is my highlight of the game. You can customize your appearance or use your Live 
 Vision camera to create a character with your own animated face. When you start playing, you have 
 a decent variety of weapons and equipment, but as you get promotions you can unlock more camo and 
 weapons. You start playing as a private, and it won't take long to become a private first class. 
 Here are the ranks...
  
  -Private
  -Private First Class
  -Specialist
  -Corporal
  -Sergeant
  -Staff Sergeant
  -Master Sergeant
  -1st Sergeant
  -2nd Leiutenant
  -1st Lieutenant
 
  -Captain
  -Major
  -Leiutenant Colonel
  -Colonel
  -Elite
  
  You can rank up to about Corporal pretty fast, but then it starts getting really tough. My personal 
 rank is Staff Segeant. There are many different types of games here. You have your deathmatch games: 
 Sharpshooter, Team Sharpshooter, Survival, Team Survival, Attack and Defend, Retrieval, and then 
 you have 2 co-op modes: Terrorist hunt, and Story. The game works better (in my opinion) as a co-op 
 game.
  
  Well, just about everything in this game is flawless. You will come across the odd bad checkpointing, 
 or a glitch, but it's without a doubt a game you should pick up if you like any game that involves 
 a gun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdee67
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 4, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  What can i say about this game apart from that it is brilliant for so many different ways. Lets 
 get straight to business and look at the pros Pros:
  - Great graphics, scenery, the actual players, it feels that you are in vagas with all of the pretty 
 lights.
  - Sound is also good, bullets sound well, like bullets and the terrorists talk and have conversations 
 - Multiplayer is a laugh, you can play fro hours online, killing people on the classic attack and 
 defend (my favorite) or you can have other new games that have been introduced on this game
  - Therefore it has long lasting appeal
  - Gameplay is alot like gears of war but a bit more technical 
 with real guns and smoke bombs
  - You can control your squad alot more in this game than gears of war and stake them against the 
 door to bust it open and kill loads of terrorists
  
  Cons -The same story, bombs gonna explode, people kidnaps, seen it on rainbow six too many times
 
  
  Conclusion
  This is a great game, if you like to shoot stuff whether on the mulitplayer or single play it is 
 a great game. A must have for a x-box 360 owner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russian4life
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 3, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  If you like a good action game i would highly recomend this game. The graphics in this game are 
 really good, but they could have done better on the car graphics in the game. The sound of the 
 guns in this game are probobly the best ive heard in any action game i've played. I will warn you 
 right now that this game is not that easy unless you are really good at these kind of games overall 
 the gameplay is pretty hard. To beat the game i would say it would take about 20-30 hours. It is 
 a great action game and the blood and gore in this game are awsome. Also it is very realistic because 
 you die in about 3-4 shots, it also depends on what kind of gun you get shot from. But what i do 
 not like about this game is that if you get shot a certain amount of times your screen will turn 
 black and you wont be able to see anything so, that gives you an even bigger chance of getting 
 shot. There are no fake guns in this game, all of the guns are the ones that actually exist in 
 real life. Two player is also very fun and so is online play. If you beat the game you will not 
 get bored because you can go after terrorists. overall it is a ver fun game and i highly recomend 
 it if you really like action, first person shooter games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visi0naries
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Ever since Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Lockdown was released, many gamers felt like Rainbow Six was 
 losing it's well deserved steam. Rainbow Six Lockdown received generally mediocre reviews, simply 
 because it maundered away from what made the original Rainbow Six excellent. Even Rainbow Six Critical 
 Hour continued to drift further away from what the original Rainbow Six was. In response to this, 
 Ubisoft Montreal finally figured out what was wrong with the series, exerted effort into it, and 
 came up with a solution to all the questions. The solution is: Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas.
 
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas puts you in control of Logan Keller and his teammates. Just like it's title, 
 Rainbow Six Vegas positions you in Sin City to take out an international terrorist that is holding 
 the beloved city of Las Vegas to it's knees. Your straightforward, but perilous mission is to take 
 down these terrorists before they incapacitate the city of Vegas. If you have played any of the 
 previous Rainbow Six games, you will feel right at home with the gameplay, but there are quite 
 a few new changes that you must know about before moving on.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas should feel like Rainbow Six to you when you first begin playing. If you've played 
 the XBOX versions of Rainbow Six, most buttons on the XBOX 360 controller are still mapped to the 
 same buttons that were on the XBOX controller. With that said, issuing squad commands to your fellow 
 teammates is a lot more easier than the other Rainbow Six games. You don't have to worry with the 
 menus anymore, because all you are basically set to do is to send your team to a location, such 
 as behind a door, and then issue the command of action with the Directional Pad. Sounds easy? It 
 is.
  
  To make Rainbow Six Vegas more tactical than it already is, you have the option of looking under 
 the crack beneath a door to analyze the room behind the door, such as locating any terrorist movement 
 and the like. Now, no longer will you have to just barge through any door and hope that there isn't 
 a crapload of terrorists in the room. One of the newer features that will come to use is the ability 
 to take cover against something by merely holding the left trigger. This allows for a good method 
 to take out enemies that are closing in on you. It's one of those very nice and useful touches.
 
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas features a much more gripping single player campaign than ever before. Unlike 
 other Rainbow Six games, Rainbow Six Vegas allows you the freedom of how to handle situations. 
 Some levels are wide open environments, while others are indoors, in tight, enclosed spaces. Most 
 of Rainbow Six Vegas does not feature a straightforward path that you are inclined to take, so 
 now you have some options in figuring out which road to take. It's not completely open-ended, but 
 at least it does provide a few more possible options.
  
  The A. I. in Rainbow Six Vegas does have a couple of flaws, but other than that, you'll be challenged 
 against your enemies. Enemies will hide for cover, try to ambush you, as well as use most other 
 tactics you have seen in other games. At times, enemies do stand out in the open, but maybe it's 
 because terrorists were never really smart. Either way, beside that fact, the terrorists are quite 
 smart in Rainbow Six Vegas, and as far as your team's A. I. goes, most of the time they have higher 
 intelligence than the enemy, but there were a couple of instances where one of my teammates was 
 crashing through the doors, and I had to open the door to get them back on track.
  
  Online multiplayer has always been entrancing in the Rainbow Six series, and Rainbow Six Vegas 
 does not disappoint. In fact, Rainbow Six Vegas probably has the best online multiplayer in the 
 series. One of the best online multiplayer features is online co-op. If you enjoyed the single 
 player campaign by yourself, you would feel ten times more enjoyed when you play it online with 
 three of your buddies. If all of you have about the same experience with Rainbow Six Vegas, the 
 co-op campaign should eat into much of your time.
  
  If co-op isn't in your jar of goodies, you will be more than welcomed to play other multiplayer 
 modes. Team Survival, Sharpshooter, Retrieval, as well as newer multiplayer modes such as Attack 
 &amp; Defend have been added to the mix. Each of these modes require teamwork to get the objective 
 done, so you can't just run out on your own and expect to take matters into your own hands. This 
 is how tactical multiplayer should be played - with effort from you and your teammates.
  
  This is the first time I felt that a Rainbow Six game looked as realistic as possible. This could 
 be partly due to the fact that the setting is in Vegas, and in real life Vegas has a bunch of neon 
 signs on during the night. Rainbow Six Vegas certainly isn't the best looking game on the XBOX 
 360, even if you do count in those little neon signs in Vegas, but you can still find a lot right 
 in the graphic department.
  
  All the character models look amazing and believable, and you can count the great looking smoke 
 and fog effects in as well. The environment of Las Vegas looks fascinating, especially from the 
 top of a large building. Every thing your bullet hits puts in some kind of reaction of the thing 
 you hit, so everything feels like it can be destroyed or at least destructible. The weapon models 
 look real, just like they have throughout all the Rainbow Six series. Some problems would include 
 quite a few framerate troubles and some rather bland designs that felt they were just thrown into 
 the level.
  
  In the audio department, Rainbow Six Vegas offers an adorning soundtrack, which definitely fits 
 the mood of the game. Bullet sounds are well-done, and hearing bullets crunch right through or 
 into something such as glass and casino slots are splendid. As far as voice acting goes, the actors 
 have a serious and grim tone, almost as good as it would sound in a real life situation. If you 
 have access to surround sound like I do, play Rainbow Six Vegas in surround sound to enjoy the 
 audio in a full-fledged version.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas offers an alluring single player campaign that tops all the other campaigns in 
 the series. To extend the value even further, Rainbow Six Vegas offers addictive multiplayer action, 
 with plenty of modes to choose from over XBOX Live. Online multiplayer allows up to 16 players 
 to join the fun fest, with tons of customizable options. You can customize what weapons will or 
 will not be available in a mode, as well as customizing respawn options such as how much respawns 
 a player can receive. There are a wide amount of options you can choose from in online multiplayer, 
 and Rainbow Six multiplayer fanatics will not be displeased.
  
  When the dust has been settled, Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas stands tall for the first time in 
 quite a while. If you have been disappointed with recent Rainbow Six games, I can guarantee you 
 that Rainbow Six Vegas delivers the punches and uppercuts to knock out other competitors. The single 
 player campaign is more than enough to satisfy your hunger for more Rainbow Six action you have 
 been craving. If you plan to play Rainbow Six Vegas just for the single player, it is worth it's 
 price tag, but multiplayer is where it holds the gold. Sure, Rainbow Six Vegas suffers from some 
 framerate issues and a couple other problems, but that is not enough to suggest otherwise. Overall, 
 Rainbow Six Vegas produces a stellar experience with plenty of new content and an enthralling multiplayer, 
 which should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nonam3gamer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 3, 2007 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow 6 has always been one of my favorite games because of its multiplayer. The single player 
 versions of the games have never really appealed to me. However with the installment of Vegas, 
 I actually like the single player more than the Multiplayer.
  
  The gameplay in this game is pretty much flawless. It has the second best cover system ever released 
 in a game and it has a bit more forgiving combat system that the previous games had which also 
 makes the game a bit more enjoyable. Also, the amount of guns and the extensive customize gun features 
 are impressive. The multiplayer of this game is great with it's ranked system and beats the hell 
 out of the previous statistic way of ranks.
  
  Graphics- It uses the basic UE3 engine but it is the best looking game ever made by Ubisoft. Sound- 
 The sound of this game pretty much sucks mainly because of the voice acting and the music. The 
 sound effects are good but every other aspect of sound fails miserably. Because of the multiplayer, 
 the gameplay lasts a very long time but the single player offers little replay value. Overall, 
 Vegas is an amazing game and is actually pretty different from its predecessors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jk4life2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 3, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  this game is extremley fun and realistic its like ur in a real life situation thats what i love 
 a bout this game also the cover system is great and the guns and online is great to u get to rank 
 up and u also get to create your own character online the bad thing about this game is that wayy 
 to hard i do in like 3 or 4 shots it pisses me off but when i kill people online its awsome just 
 shooting them in the head is great haha the story is like most other rainbow sixes you have to 
 infiltrate places with 3 people and its awsome throwing grenades and when someone throws a flash 
 its so realistic you cant see anything ur screen is white and its like paused for a few seconds 
 i recommend to get this game if u like challenging fun shooters this is your game so get it now!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mortzilla3
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 3, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  Once I played this game, I was amazed on how fun the Rainbow Six games can be. Has great graphics 
 and sound. I would consider this game one of the greatest games ever because its pretty hard when 
 you put it on the realistic difficulty. The game kind of reminds me of the first Perfect Dark. 
 Very fun when you play coop with a friend. I could play this game for along time and not get bored. 
 Everybody has to atleast rent this game. Rainbow Six has lots of guns to choose from. Plus you 
 can customize every weapon by putting on a scope, laser, and more. Your choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSpidren
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 2, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I have not completed this game yet, but I am pretty far in it, and I have played 
 a fair share of the multiplayer.
  
  Things I love~
  - The guns feel so good and real
  - The single player graphics are superb
  - The controls feel right
  - The transition from third 
 person and first person in the game is flawless
  - The cover system works
  - The range of guns are plentiful
  
  Things I don't love~
  - Sometimes the singleplayer feels 
 quite repetitive
  - The multiplayer graphics _suck_ compared to the single player graphics
  - You can't search for custom country based servers, like New Zealand, and instead finds you servers 
 in america where the ping is horrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thewtfpwner
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 2, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas is the best in its series. It takes the cover system from Gears of War and improves 
 upon the squad based play of Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter. It melds the two of these mechanics 
 together into a great FPS experience. Rainbow Six: Vegas is just another reason to own an Xbox 
 360. The damage system is also akin to Gears of War, where your health goes down fairly quickly, 
 but all you have to do is duck behind some cover and your health will regenerate. However, you 
 can play the game on the realistic difficulty setting, and then it wont be so forgiving.
  
  If youre looking for a solid single player experience, Rainbow Six: Vegas has it. The story 
 is that the terrorists have attacked and taken control of Las Vegas, and the elite Rainbow Six 
 unit has to go in and stop them (hence the name) . From the very beginning of the game, youll find 
 yourself fighting terrorists from underground tunnels to eye-catching casinos like Calypso Casino. 
 The squad organization is extremely intuitive and you can order your squad mates to stack at doors, 
 hack computers, disarm explosives, set up rappels, and more with ease. You know theres variety 
 when there are five ways of entering a room through a single door. You can also tell your team 
 how to operate with two modes, Assault and Infiltration. Should you set your team to assault, they 
 will run into enemy rooms with guns blazing, attacking the first target they see. Should you set 
 your team to Infiltration, they will put silencers on their weapons and only fire if fired upon 
 first. A fine addition to the series is the cover system. Basically, all you have to do is walk 
 up to whatever object you want (a wall, door, or desk for example) and hold the left trigger. This 
 will put you into third person and your character will take cover on the object. However, as with 
 many other FPS games, multiplayer is the main draw here. There are 6 competitive modes: Attack 
 and Defend (basically a one-flag capture the flag) , Survivor (last one standing wins) , Team Survivor, 
 Sharpshooter (typical deathmatch) , Team Sharpshooter, and Retrieval (another capture the flag variant) . 
 The only gripe I have about this game is that you cannot join online sessions and immediately begin 
 playing during a game. You will have to start from the lobby, or spectate until the game is over. 
 Multiplayer also features two cooperative modes -- Story and Terrorist hunt -- both of which can be 
 played with up to three other people via Xbox live or on the same console. Story mode takes the 
 players through the single player story line, but the plot aspects (briefings and such) are removed 
 from the multiplayer mode. Why Ubisoft chose to do this is odd but it doesnt take too much away 
 from the game. Terrorist Hunt drops you and up to three friends in a chosen level, with a low, 
 medium, or high density of terrorists. To complete the level, you will have to kill every terrorist 
 on the map. In addition to beating the snot out of online opponents, you will be able to gain experience 
 for your character, much like in the recent Battlefield games. When you receive enough experience, 
 you will be promoted. Whenever you earn a promotion, new types of weapons, camouflage, clothes, 
 and armor will become open to you. This brings me to another great part of Rainbow Six: Vegas. 
 The customization options for your character are incredibly extensive. You can choose one of four 
 templates (Demolitions Expert, Recon, Assault, and Sniper) but it is much more enjoyable to outfit 
 your character to be exactly how you want him. You will be able to customize your characters gun, 
 gun attachment, gadgets, headgear, armor, and clothing. Gadgets consist of smoke grenades, frag 
 grenades, GPS systems, C4s, and much more. There are an incredible amount of options for each category, 
 so you can make your character unique and different in his or her own way. You can also choose 
 different types of camouflage for your face, clothing, and armor. You can also customize your armor 
 by choosing which pieces you want. There are tons of weapons in this game, consisting of pistols, 
 submachine guns, light machine guns, assault rifles, sniper rifles, and shotguns. You can also 
 go in S. W. A. T. style with a shield in one hand and a pistol in the other. All in all, Rainbow Six: 
 Vegas is an incredible FPS, quite possibly the best on the Xbox 360 currently. Should you buy it, 
 you wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Howard23
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 1, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  It seems like UBISoft has a pretty good grip on the tactical military games. Now I know that GOW 
 is out there and it is great. Actually I wish that this game had the ability to move between cover 
 that GOW has. With that said, I think that this game is great. The graphics are what you would 
 expect . Top notch. This is my first time playing a game in the Rainbow Six series, so I can't 
 compare it to presious game play. The game play is awesome. I love the fact that you can't just 
 breeze through it. There is deffeinitely a need for strategy. Once again Great Job Ubisoft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgmkyle
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 1, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Fight terror, again and again and again. Very standard save the hostages and defuse the bomb storyline, but 
 this time its in Vegas!
  
  Now, the game has a good presentation. But yet very very basic gun mechanics. The AI will be all over 
 as you take cover and blind fire (which is most of the time a waste of time, seeing as you can still 
 be shot) . You will visit some dust old towns, great looking casinos and even a college. And the environments 
 look great. When you get sick of the single player (which you will) you can take the game online 
 and go commando on people world wide. You want to make sure your on a team with mics, or your screwed 
 as communication is the key to victory, but in the end the online never feels all that special. It 
 looks worse than the single player and its like a lot of FPS games out there other than most of 
 the areas are casinos and you die in just a few shots.
  
  The graphics are nice. The guns look great, basic, but great. The Casinos look awesome. But the characters 
 look pretty plain. And in multiplayer they move very oddly. The motion blur is bad enough to make 
 you want to stop playing within an hour, and really just drove me nuts constantly.
  
  Seeing how the game is in Vegas, it seems it would sound like it. Well it does not even come close 
 to sounding as magical as the little big city but the game has a ok soundtrack to boot.
  
  There is a lot to keep you coming back to Vegas, with tons of modes to choose from and some good 
 achievements. But is the game worth its 60$ price tag? No, not really. Unless your a big fan of the 
 Rainbow series, I would just get away with a rent with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 31, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a big fan of Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six video games and picked up Rainbow Six Vegas 
 the day it released. To me this game was very close to being Perfect. The graphics are amazing 
 and the character models as well as the enviroments are very detailed. The campaign consists of 
 a pretty good story to which you are capable of not only playing through solo but also with friends 
 via Co-Op 1 friend offline and 3 friends online. Along with the campaign there is the usual Terrorist 
 Hunt missions as well. I had a great time playing through the campaign, but the multiplayer options 
 is what really shines in this game. There are several different types of matches to play on Xbox 
 Live, including Team Deathmatch and the very popular Attack &amp; Defend. It's multiplayer options 
 on Xbox Live give Rainbow Six Vegas an endless supply of replay value. Only one thing keeps me 
 from claiming this game as being perfect, and it was something I was sure was going to be included 
 as it was on Ubisoft's Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter. The ability to play with up 
 to 4 players on and offline. Even though thats not included, Rainbow Six Vegas is a must have and 
 guaranteed to deliver in all aspects of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skidudeone27
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 31, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Ok first off i want to say when has gamers thought more about graphics than the actual gameplay 
 and experience u get from playing the game.
  
  First off, i would like to say that this game is not meant to be a blinding graphical game and 
 breathtaking graphics. This game is meant for the people who want a ultimate shooter experience. 
 To me this is one of the only games that take alot of skill to really get good and master. It offers 
 a challenge to what a game should be. The best thing bout vegas is the mulitplayer. The multiplayer 
 is probably the best multiplayer i have ever played on 360 yet. Now people critisize this game 
 for its not next gen graphics. Well ubisoft took of the graphics a little bit in the multi player 
 to put more gameplay items and experience into the game. The single player has next gen graphics 
 and it is noticable.
  
  This game is great and the little things in this game that make it a must for the gamer who loves 
 a online shooter
  
  Dont believe people saying this game is overrated because this game is most def. under rated 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JinxSTL
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  I understand that my reviews are nothing but my personal opinion, but I'm still gonna say it. THIS 
 IS THE BEST XBOX 360 TO DATE!!! 
  
  Gameplay (Offline)
  ... is really amazing. It may just be the most immersive shooter I've ever played. So many games 
 these days are just about shooting everything that moves, and in some scenarios that is the case 
 here, too, but not many. You have to use cameras under doors to plan your attack... Make good use 
 of your teammates by using them to throw smoke or blow open a door... etc. The controls are pretty 
 easy to get use to, and once you do you'll have the time of your life. There are several different 
 guns, grenades and gadgets to use while in the story mode.
  
  Gameplay (Online)
  ... is what makes this game the best I've ever played. While I LOVE the offline, and find myself 
 playing it when I get bored on occasion... the ONLINE IS AMAZING!! One nice thing is that everything 
 you can do offline... you can do online. The maps are somewhat limited, but that won't be the case 
 for too much longer. The maps that ARE provided are a lot of fun to play on. You're able to customize 
 your character, his clothes and his armor for your online games. Another nice thing about the online 
 mode is all the different types of games. There's co-op story, co-op Terrorist Hunt, Attack &amp; 
 Defend, Team Sharpshooter, Sharpshooter... etc. The ranking system is really cool, too. Even if 
 you lose the game, you will receive XP towards your next rank. Trust me, the online is **** AWESOME!!!!
 
  
  Graphics (Offline/Online)
  ... are very nice. Being that this game takes place in Vegas I really kind of expected there to 
 be terrible lag from all the neon lights and such. Not the case here. The game looks great. Everything 
 from coins shooting out of the broken slot machines, to the blood that shoots up on the wall from 
 the back of the guy's head who just killed. The textures are very well-defined.
  
  Sound (Offline/Online)
  Sound is actually very nice. I normally don't mess with this part, but 
 it really is a great sounding game! The music always matches your surroundings, and it sounds great. 
 The SOUND EFFECTS are masterful as well. This game has very realistic sound effects which were 
 taken from guns actually shot in a studio. Value (Offline/Online)
  ... couldn't be any better. There are so many modes to play online and off that I promise you'll 
 be playing this for a VERY LONG TIME. Also, you unlock guns, clothes and armor as you rank up online. 
 Purpose, right? Right. It's a lot of fun to play online, and when you win a match it' s an amazing 
 feeling. Why? b/c this game isn't like Halo 2. A shot to the head, using almost any gun, will most 
 likely lay you out. If you don't use cover... you'll probably die. Online AND Offline play are both 
 challenging, but not so much that it makes it no fun. THIS GAME IS AN ABSOLUTE MUST!!!
  
  -JiNX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGSPsycho
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 31, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas is an amazing game and the best tactical shooter to date. Its realistic environment 
 is spot-on and delivers on most accounts. The only things that keep this game from reaching its 
 true potential are disappointing NPC models and the wish that the game would have been a little 
 more innovative.
  
  This isn't to say that the game isn't innovative at all. It is. It introduces some amazing game 
 mechanics for any game, especially the tactical shooter. This game rises above the conventional 
 first-person shooter or action game with mechanics like the use of cover, rappelling/fast roping, 
 and use of equipment like smoke, snake cam, etc. Its graphical presentation is mixed. It is definitely 
 the best-looking Rainbow Six to date and the city of Las Vegas and the models of your team look 
 great. But hostages and some environments aren't quite up to what they could have been. The graphics 
 that do lack don't ruin the experience, but it's disappointing to know that more could have been 
 squeezed out of the Xbox 360. The story is a little hard to follow as informational conversations 
 and transmissions are sometimes hard to understand or drowned out by other noise. If you've played 
 any other Tom Clancy game (Splinter Cell, Ghost Recon, etc.) you know how it works. Thankfully 
 the game itself is enough to push you on.
  
  The sound effects are vivid and perfect with gunshots, voice-overs, and environment noise. The 
 soundtrack is great and adds a great mood to the action. The controls are intuitive and easy to 
 pick up. The single player is a blast and will probably take you 12 hours of less to complete. 
 There isn't much replay value except for those who love tactical shooters.
  
  I have not played multiplayer online, but the split screen multiplayer is extremely fun offering 
 cooperative story mode and terrorist hunt, but there is no option to play competitively on the 
 same system. I also had trouble with playing competitively over system link.
  
  Overall, this is an amazing game for anyone and provides an exciting experience. A must-own for 
 every Xbox 360 owner! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josenbaugh
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 30, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  To start this off let me say that I have always considered myself a game purist. Never wanting 
 to give up the holy grail of gaming (the ASDW keys) for the controller. Always raving about overclocking, 
 watercooling, and the many other toys of PC gamers. Not to mention how PC gamers can continually 
 upgrade piece meal rather than purchase a whole new console, obsoleting all their games etc. I 
 reached a point however, where I needed to upgrade but was going to have to upgrade a lot at once 
 as my AGP video card that I had spent 350.00 for a yr and a half ago was now obsolete and to get 
 a better one I would need to upgrade the motherboard, ram, and video card all at once (not to mention 
 the processor!) . In order to set that back I decided to go with an X-Box 360. I chose the 360 based 
 on the numerous reviews, debates and articles on next gen consoles and felt that for price it was 
 the best value. Dont get me wrong, I still think that PC gaming is still the best way to go, but 
 at the moment I have to either fork over a grand or more to get a decent system with my current 
 hardware or i could fork over 500 bucks or so. With a baby and wife I had to go the cheaper route 
 for now. So I purchase the X-Box, a couple of games and make an ethernet cable and get it all home. 
 I plug everything in and create an X-Box live account. I put in Rainbow Six: Vegas and boot it 
 up with a little anticipation and a lot of skepticism. I almost feel like I am cheating on my wife 
 as I click start for the first time. The kind of dirty that just cannot be washed off with a good 
 game and a shower. Rainbow Six, like the console was also based on countless reviews, and player 
 debates. Having been a PC gamer for almost 20 years now I have seen a lot of Rainbow Six, and Rainbow 
 Six wanna - bees hit the market and I almost rolled my eyes. I did notice that it was in the top 
 games for not only the X-Box but the PC as well. (Although the PC had some hefty requirements so 
 this is exactly what I bought the 360 for) . So anyhow I get the game up and I play a little single 
 player so that I can get used to the controls. I was amazed at how fast I was able to get used 
 to the controls. I thought that it would feel clumsy for at least a few weeks. But in a few hours 
 I was able to play enough to my satisfaction to go online with it. I must say that my first impression 
 of the game was a bit tainted with my deep skepticism at yet another RS release. I should of had 
 a more open mind going into it as I realized while playing it. The graphics where not stellar. 
 They where good, but after playing Gears of War I know that the 360 can be pushed harder. They 
 where excellent though. The lighting, shadows, and for the most part destructable enviornment where 
 well done. In fact the shadows and lighting where the thing that most impressed me with the game. 
 I would have to say that in that area it probably surpassed Gears of War. The gameplay was also 
 equally impressive. Even if the story was a little bland but to be honest, while the story does 
 add to the over all experience it is ot why most of us purchase this genre of game. Multiplayer 
 is truelly where it is at for the more serious (and even the casual or weekend) gamer.
  
  So, as I have eluded to before the time for multiplayer has arrived and I log into X-Box live, 
 get all the patches for the game and decide to connect to my first game of RS: V online. At this 
 point, i had already played Gears of War for a bit online but to be honest I really was enjoying 
 this game more and couldnt wait to test my new found skills online. So I look for a quick match 
 and decide to try my hand at Coop Terrorist Hunt. The first game that I connect to had some really 
 friendly guys showing me the ropes of multiplayer and helping me with general tactics. It was a 
 blast. The 3 of us won several maps back to back and the achievements where pouring in like illegal 
 aliens across the Rio Grande. They communicated much better than the players had in GoW and I was 
 overall impressed with not only the gameplay and speed but of the outright cooperation and comradere 
 of the players. I take a break for a couple of hours and come back. I do a search for a game and 
 find a game similar to the one I had just played. I was excited. the wife was asleep as was the 
 baby. I had a full pot of coffee, a fresh pack of smokes and was ready to kick some ass. I find 
 a good one and I try to connect when I get This game no longer exists hmm. I go to refresh the 
 games and I have been disconnected from Xbox live (ruh roh)
  this is where the review takes a serious turn. I spend the next few hours trying to figure it out. 
 I do research online and discover others have this same problem.
  Having been an avid gamer for so long, and being a network guru I decide that I am not going to 
 let this kick my ass. So I log into my router (which is actually my DSL modem, it was a speedstream 
 4100 that is issued by SBC) I make some changes and I get it working again. I play for a while 
 and the next day when i go to play again I get the same problem. Basically if I am willing to spend 
 an hour or 2 each day jerkin around with my dsl modem I can get the game to work. If I am not willing 
 to do that, as is the case on most weekdays. Then I am forced to either play single player or play 
 another game altogher. RS: V is the only game that I have this issue with and I have seen others 
 with the same issue. If these guys could iron out the problems instead of playing the blame game 
 with microsoft then I would probably have to say this is one of the best games I have player. However, 
 this is not the case, they insist (as does Microsoft) at pointing the finger at everyone else. 
 Stating that the probles lies elsewhere. I like many others with the same problem, purchased this 
 game to kill others or kill with others. Not to enjoy the single player campaign (to me single 
 player games is a lot like another form of self gratification. It just doesnt stand up to the real 
 thing!) While I find this game to be outstanding I probably wont be buying Unreal because of this! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pms81350
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 30, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  Having played online, co-op and single player for many, many hours, it escapes me why this game was 
 rated so high. Heavily scripted Ai, enemies spawning directly behind you, graphics that look like 
 this game was designed in the 90's, anyone who has played the multiplayer online and has been a 
 spectator has seen enemies spawn right behind a squad member and of course 9 times out of 10 you 
 die immediately. Or when you open one of the way too many doors you get snuffed before the door 
 even opens fully. If you are in what the game considers a precarious position, reloading, switching 
 weapons, moving position will give you an instant opponent. You can start the game and drag the Ai 
 behind you. For a next-gen console game, this game would look much more at home on the original xbox. It 
 may seem an unfair assessment but I think that they have milked this title dry. If you are good 
 enough to make the most kills for a couple of rounds the game will take steps to prevent you from 
 doing it any further. I have had my targeting reticle taken away, faced 'bulletproof enemies, flankers 
 that won't die because they are in the middle of their scripted behavior and perhaps the most annoying 
 is dying from a single shotgun blast from 35-50 yards away. If only the experts would spend more 
 than a couple of hours online then maybe we would get a more realistic evaluation of a game. All 
 of these drawbacks would have been acceptable a few years back but there is no excuse for this 
 quality on a next-gen system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidbusters
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 30, 2007 12:05 am PT
Review:  One of the best 360 games on the market, hands down.
  
  Great sound, graphics, maps, gameplay.
  
  Only downside on mulitplayer is that the process 
 of starting games is slow and cumbersome. You spend more time in the lobby then you do playing 
 the game. Once the multiplayer game starts though, it's one of the best on the market.
  
  The choice and variety of modern weapons is impressive as well, especially if you are a gun enthusiast. 
 E. g., you can choose the XM-26LSS automatic shotgun, the MTAR21 and the Desert Eagle. Only drawback 
 is that to get your choice of all weapons, you need to earn them through moving through the ranks/achieving 
 accomplishments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haloxbox360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  So prior games of this going now where fast franchise have been rushed and never was quite there, even 
 though its counter parts GRAW and splinter cell have been pretty good games. As you remember lockdown 
 came out just over a year ago and was an ok game at best. Well this is something different..... 
 You start out in mexico, already i just want to go to vegas, well its a good training mission, as 
 you learn the covering basics, switching weapons, and firing weapons. Well when its all said and 
 done in mexico you go to vegas because the mission you just wanted them to torch vegas. ok well 
 story mode not to engaging but it tunes up your skills, it gets you familer to the controls for 
 online play, even though on the way there are amazing visuals of vegas and if you ever been there 
 you would appreciate that. so basically if you dont have xbox live and your a telented gamer and 
 probably good beat this game in ten hours then better off renting it as it doesnt have any replay 
 value. ok well bottom line get it, in the areas where ubisoft gets it right, they got it suberb, perfect, amazing 
 in where they got things right, worth playing game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geoff900
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 28, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six has been a series around for some time now, people where expecting a good Rainbow Six 
 with Lockdown which was one of worse games of the series. But now Rainbow Six is back with Vegas, 
 How does it stack compared to the other Rainbows. Well let me tell you this forget Lockdown; in 
 fact forget it was ever made. As Rainbow six is back with a strong multiplayer good enough single 
 play. Single player the story, well who cares about story in Rainbow anyway, all you want to do 
 is shoot the bad guys Right? Well to be honest there really isnt one well none that you havent 
 heard all ready, it's the usual terrorists want to blow up things you have to stop them. The A. I 
 is pretty darn good, not brilliant but good enough, it gets much better on terrorist hunt where 
 the enemy will flank and suppress to kill you, oh with some nice language thrown in for some funny 
 moments, yeh thats right you will hear them saying F@$ You! every so often. Graphics, if you 
 play Gears and I mean you play Gears all the time well graphics wont be comparable to each other, 
 but graphics are not everything right? To be honest though I think some of the graphics are good 
 enough for this type of game graphics now days are not bad (Read my blog V'soon) .
  
  Multi-player, well this is where it's fun, you have a rank start of as private and go upto highest 
 American rank which is different here in the U. K., anyway it's just plain fun using a M8 shooting 
 it in some ones face.
  
  Overall, its worth the money and considering you can pick it up quite cheap, for about &pound;30+ 
 here in the U. K and about $40-50 in the U. S it's well worth it. Keep you playing on live for a 
 while?
  
  Prices from:-
  U. K Gameplay. com
  US Bestbuy. com
  
  Next up Gears
  
  -Geoff- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooper182
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 28, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  When i brought this game and played it , it brought me back to the days of swat on the pc. With 
 the single player just as fun as the multiplayers where can this game go wrong. Well ill tell you, 
 no where. The single player mode is very fun with it putting you and your team in the thick of 
 the action. You'll never get bored with the A. I as good as it is. The story line doesnt let tyhe 
 game down either. I myself have never been to vegas but with the briefings set in the chopper flying 
 over this city of wonder i can see the developers have payed attenion to detail. Boy has it payed 
 off. The online offers a number of modes which are fun and will never get old. If you want to be 
 the best and win you will need the help of your team. Cummunication is the key to either winning 
 or going home in a body bag. The graphics are good and the game can be a slow mover. But that is 
 what makes it fun bevcause you dont know whos around the corner. I would reccomend this game to 
 any one becuase its fun as it is exciting. Thanks for reading. Cooper182 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellFire816
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 27, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six franchise has been gone for a while. But finally it has returned, and 
 has made it's way to next-gen consoles with Rainbow Six Vegas. This game is awesome for a shooter, 
 and it's probably one of the best games of 2006. The campaign mode is kind of short, but once your 
 done with it you'll be playing multi player for a while. The only bad thing I could say about this 
 game is the sound. There's no music (which is weird because there in Vegas) . I recommend this game 
 for any one who likes shooters. I hope this review helps you not miss one of the best titles of 
 2006. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmac1981
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 27, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Due to Gears of War, this game in my opinion has been slightly overlooked. I'll admit, Gears impresses 
 more immediately, but once you look past the graphics, Rainbow Six is actually the better game. 
 The game is a lot more tactical for one. Your teamates are also a lot smarter as well, and if instructed 
 correctly, don't just run into their immediate death. Although not perfect, the enemy A. I is less 
 artificial as Gears, as the enemy doesn't just automatically know where you are, and have perfect 
 aim. Even the cover system seems to work better. Just for the record, I am also a fan of Gears 
 of War, however I used this as a comparison to show how underrated I feel that RSV is. Multiplayer 
 is also great, and has plenty of options to keep most folk occupied for a while yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: St0rminater
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 27, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  I personally have been a fan of the Rainbow Six games for a long time. This game only made me realize 
 why I had liked Rainbow Six so much.
  
  In this game the audio and video are very pleasing. The graphics of this game are Next-Gen. At 
 times it feels like you are a part of a SWAT team eliminating terrorists in Las Vegas. This feeling 
 is not only induced by the excellent graphics, but the way the game sounds as well. When you throw 
 a grenade or one is thrown at you, it feels like that has just happened. Overall the game sounds 
 and looks incredible.
  
  One of the best things about this game is that it is so easy to learn how to play. It plays like 
 the other Rainbow Six games, but with some new features. This game is one that you can pick up 
 and play without having to learn the controls.
  
  This game has a good lengthened single player campaign for a shooter based around multi-player 
 gameplay. There are six single player missions which range from being in a deserted city to being 
 in Las Vegas. There is some repetition in the missions, going to defuse a bomb or reaching a certain 
 location. However, the missions do not seem to get old because of the location of each mission. 
 Although the single player is not very long, the multi-player is as long as you make it.
  
  The multi-player consists of several maps, the most popular being Calypso Casino ( a casino with 
 a rooftop, middle floor and basement) , Casino Vault ( self explanatory) and Kill House ( a map 
 with two buildings which are symmetrical, having three floors with an accessible rooftop, and obstacles 
 between the buildings) . In the multi-player you start out as a private, with limited weapons, camouflage, 
 and accessories. You have most of the weapons you will end up having throughout the game, but as 
 you play you will unlock weapons such as the AK-47, the Raging Bull ( a six shooter pistol) , the 
 Desert Eagle, and the SPAS 12 ( best shotgun in the game) . You also will unlock the ability to 
 create your own camouflage at the rank of Elite (if you can make it to that coveted rank) . There 
 is a limited number of maps, but because of the Xbox Live Marketplace, I doubt that it will remain 
 a limited number forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tsmith10
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 27, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is sooo tight!
  
  the single player is average because some parts are dumb how the computer reacts soo fast and it 
 gets especially dumb when you play under hard but the multiplayer is were its at. the only thing 
 is that everyone compares any and every game to gears of war... this game is not gears of war im 
 not sayin its better but i like the multiplayer on this game alot more because the tons of different 
 weapon/armor combinations plus there are a ton of different game options as were in gears of war 
 all u do is shoot the **** out of people no matter how you put it. i think this game is tities. 
 (double D's actually) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  The last Rainbow Six game released broke away from the norms of the series, and many fans soon 
 questioned the direction the series was heading in. While Lockdown brought new ideas in the form 
 of customizable characters and new online options, the game ultimately failed to deliver on all 
 grounds, and most importantly the multiplayer aspects. Thankfully, Ubisoft took all of their fans 
 comments to heart and made Rainbow Six Vegas one of the most satisfying, if not best multiplayer 
 game on the Xbox 360.
  
  Built off the Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter engine, Vegas looks and feels like its shooter counterpart. 
 The gameplay is almost similar to Ghost Recon as well, in that taking defensive actions against 
 gunfire is crucial to survival. Players must hide behind solid objects and than peak around corners 
 to get a location of the enemy as well as a clear view to take a shot. But Vegas is much more action-oriented 
 than the other Tom Clancy titles, as it gives you more control over your allies movements as well 
 as your own personal progress. By using the left trigger to hide, you can than tell your squad 
 to go to any destination with a simple button click, and your squad will do a good job of staying 
 alive as they make their way to the required point of attack. However, even though they can shoot 
 at enemies and hide, they will die a lot through the course of the game, and trying to revive them 
 is usually more trouble than its worth.
  
  Part of the realism of Rainbow Six Vegas lies in the fact the enemy AI is incredibly smart, and 
 they will show no remorse for fallen soldiers. Enemies will run for cover and flank you, and even 
 double-team you if you venture off by yourself. The same cant be said about your squad mates, 
 who will always drop to their knees in missions because they wander into groups of heavily armed 
 gunmen. The intelligence of the enemys movements, added together with your squad's stupidity always 
 allows for intense moments of gun fighting, whether its intentional or not. But to help relieve 
 the sheer clumsiness of your squad, you now have access to new gadgets and gizmos, which will help 
 making it through the missions alive that much easier. Taking a page from one of Ubisofts other 
 stellar Tom Clancy titles, Splinter Cell, the Rainbow Six soldiers can now use snake cams under 
 doors to scope out their surroundings before charging into the room. To add more incentive on strategy, 
 you can even tag enemies in the room so your squad mates will shoot those designated targets before 
 any others. This is an especially useful tactic in close range fighting or hostage situations. 
 Of course, simple breach and charge tactics are still around, as well as telling your squad mates 
 to hold their fire and only shoot when they are shot at first. New to the series however are the 
 use of fast ropes and other acrobatic maneuvers. Your squad can now escape from danger faster, 
 or even attack in a much more orderly fashion than before by breaking out their ropes. Using fast 
 ropes and rappels, they can now climb up the sides of buildings and even hang upside down and shoot 
 through windows. Simple maneuvers such as sliding down ladders help change the pace of the game, 
 making it both tactical and action oriented. But all of these shooting tactics are naught without 
 beautiful and inspiring locations to test them out in. Thankfully, Rainbow Six Vegas does just 
 that, delivering an impressive look at Las Vegas and its surrounding territories. While the saying 
 goes What happens in Vegas, stays in Vegas; that does not quite hold true for this game, which 
 only has about 75% of the game taking place in Sin City. The rest of the game will have you exploring 
 a war-torn Mexico (similar to Advanced Warfighter) , as well as the Nevada Dam. All of these locations 
 are depicted chillingly accurately, sans a few name changes, and there is no significant difference 
 between the quality of looks on single player and online. The multiplayer in Rainbow Six Vegas 
 is definitely the highlight of the game, outshining the single player in both presentation and 
 excitement. The Rainbow Six games have always been one of the top multiplayer series in gaming, 
 utilizing numerous online features with nearly thousands of players. As a matter of fact, all of 
 the Rainbow Six games on the Xbox have accumulated more online playtime than any other series on 
 Xbox Live. Rainbow Six Vegas is no exception as a massive following was present just a few days 
 after the games release and is currently in the top three on Xbox Live, only being outplayed by 
 Gears of War and Halo 2. Considering the popularity of those other two shooters thats an impressive 
 feat, but what differs Rainbow Six from those other tier titles are the many numerous options available 
 to customize both your game and characters, as well as some of the best multiplayer levels in any 
 online game.
  
  Although the numerous Vegas-themed levels add a sense of excitement to the online experience, what 
 makes the multiplayer so much fun are the different game modes and options you can participate 
 in. Playing in these different modes nets you experience points, which can be used to upgrade your 
 character. Win or lose, you will earn experience points after every round to further your characters 
 rank. By achievement different ranks, you can than unlock new weapons, gadgets, and even clothing 
 accessories. With over thirty different clothing styles and fifty weapons to choose from, no two 
 characters will ever look alike. To help create a sense of individuality online, Rainbow Six Vegas 
 also allows players to hook up the Xbox Live Vision Cam to their 360 and take a picture of themselves 
 to put on their character. Surprisingly enough, the game does an incredibly good job of accurately 
 depicting your facial features and creating a reasonably balanced clone of yourself.
  
  Once you finally get everything organized, you can than choose from the different types of game 
 modes that are available. The classic Rainbow Six modes are still around, such as Survival (last 
 person alive wins, no respawns) and Sharpshooter (infinite respawns, person with most kills wins) , 
 while some new modes have been added into the mix like Attack and Defend (a new take on King of 
 the Hill) and online co-op. Each room can hold a maximum of 16 players, and that coupled with the 
 nearly 5,000 different customizable options allow for endless possibilities of what can be offered 
 to players.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas is a groundbreaking element in the series as well as a foundation as to what 
 online shooters should aspire to be in the future. Not only does it deliver some of the most thrilling, 
 realistic gunfights in any shooter, but also its impressive visuals and online multiplayer make 
 it one of the must-own titles for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedsTheNewBlack
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 25, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six is a great comparison to Gears of War, aside from the aliens and pace. They both have 
 a good cover system, a single player that gets boring rather fast, and sweet co op. Though, RSV 
 has the best multiplayer I have ever played. There are about 20 gamemodes and they all are different 
 and fun. There is Team Survival, where you have one life for each round (or for the entire match 
 if you put it on ranked) , and you have to kill the other side before they kill you. There is an 
 Attack and Defend mode in where one side has to get the info and the other side has to protect 
 the info. Then there is the usual Team Deathmatch. Though, what sets this game apart is the co-op. 
 I spent 80% of my time on the co-op itself. When you get with good guys, it is just a blast. You 
 can have 3 other buddies with you (on your friends list or not) and just go through the story mode 
 or do the Terrorist Hunt. In Terrorist Hunt, you have to kill all the terrorists (the number is 
 set on how many you want) in the map. It is best if you split up into 2 or 3 groups, where at least 
 two of you are together. When you have 3 or all 4 of you together, it gets frustrating and too 
 easy to kill them, and you can't really help your teamates when getting shot from behind. The Multiplayer 
 is a 12 out of 10 in my opinion. The single player is boring and has a clunky feel to it. It is 
 cool, however, how you can order your guys to make certain people priorities and break through 
 doors stealthfully or angry killing manner. But, if you set up your guys just right, you feel like 
 they do all the work for you at times. Other times, they will die on you because they will get 
 overwelmed in some situations. Most of the time it feels like they are killing about 40% and you 
 are killing 60%, depending on how you approach the enemies, and depending if you set your guys 
 to assault or stealth. I will usually use stealth until they attack and then i will let them rip. 
 What is the most upseting about the single player is how lonely you feel even with your buddies. 
 This game isn't for people who have xbox live. If the single player was better, I would've put 
 the Gameplay to 10.
  
  The graphics are just amazing, better (or at least much more realistic) than Gears of War. Your 
 guy's skin is as real as the one you have now. The enviornment is beautiful, and just blows away 
 everyone who sees it. And when you create your very own character in multiplayer, it looks just 
 as good. Yep, you read it, you CAN create your own character in Multiplayer. You select a gender, 
 then about a choice of 15 faces, and then facial hair and facial features (paint on your face or 
 wounds) . You then can choose your outfitting, including armor and clothes. But be careful when 
 choosing your armor, cuz it affects how fast you go as well as how protected you are. I personally 
 just wear no armor so i can quickly avoid grenades. Also, you can choose what color your clothes 
 are. Thats not it, you even get to pick out your own guns, from Shield and pistol to AK 47 to Shotgun 
 to Sniper. They have most all of it aside from Rocket Launchers and vehicles. Of course, you must 
 rank up before you can access certain weapons, clothing, armor, and camos. Overall, this is the 
 second best game I have ever played (behind halo) and it should be a must buy for most any one. 
 At least try out the online demo, it is as good as the game itself. Do not pass this game up, it 
 is truly underappreciated with Gears of War being released at the same time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alienqueen11
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 25, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the 360 games I got for Christmas, and I just beat it yesterday, and I must say 
 it is one of the best shooters I ever played.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is awesome, you can rappel down the side of buildings, breach windows, and 
 do all the things a real counter-terrorist team does. It also has a great cover system, very similar 
 to what you would find in Gears of War, it also has many weapons to choose from, and not only that, 
 you can upgrade your weapons with laser sights, scopes, extended magazines, and anything you can 
 choose from. The team dynamics are very fun too, I mean what could be fun then being the leader 
 of your Counter-Terrorist team, you can have them storm rooms in different ways, rappel down the 
 side of a building, and many other things.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are amazing, the city of Vegas actually looks like Las Vegas, and the casinos 
 are beautiful, many things in the environment such as slot machines and cars can be wrecked or 
 destroyed in a firefight. Also, the weapons and explosions look great too.
  
  Sound: The sound effects are great. Gunshots and explosions can be heard in the distance, and sound 
 of sirens, and coins falling out of slot machines work well too.
  
  Value: There are many things to do after you beat the game, you play a mini-game called Terrorist 
 Hunt where you can pick from characters that you seen in story mode, or the other choices given 
 to you. You can also pick your weapons and equipment, and you can also choose from locations from 
 story mode or the others offered to you. You can also play multiplayer such as co-op, split screen, 
 and Xbox Live. Xbox Live also has a digimask feature where you can place your own face on your 
 character, and your character is completely customizable. ( Please note I don't have Xbox Live yet, 
 and I've only heard of or seen these features in videos) .
  
  Reviewers Tilt: Rainbow Six: Vegas is an awesome game, and any fan of the Rainbow Six series or 
 tactical shooter fan should own this if they have an Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkRaven_basic
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 25, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  I have been playin the Rainbow Six titles for awhile now, I played Rainbow Six Black Arrow to death 
 on the xbox, it was a great game. The latest Rainbow Six game Rainbow Six Vegas is following the 
 same type of gameplay that has made Rainbow great in the past, but is it enough for a next gen 
 game?
  
  Lets start off with the gameplay, the gameplay is a lot like that of Gears Of War, only slower. 
 Gears of War does just about everything this game has to offer only three times as good. My biggest 
 aggervation was the lack of being able to dive. In multiplayer if someone throws a grenade at your 
 feet your done for, no diving, no throwing it back, nothing your done. Which makes killing in multiplayer 
 sometimes, taking no skill at all, just a well placed grenade. The Story is very boring and drawn 
 out. The squad orders are fun but after doing the samething over and over again 100 times it gets 
 very repetative. Specially when you die, the save points are two far apart, it needs the option 
 to save the game whenever you want, or just have the save points closer. If you die a lot and chances 
 are you will, this game will feel boring, since you will be doing the samething over and over again.
 
  
  The graphics are very disapointing for a next gen game. The graphics on the multiplayer look horrible, 
 the campaign they're not to bad, if you dont pay any attention to the pop ups. The thing I was 
 most excited about was the abillity to put your face on your multiplayer character, but no one 
 else but you can see it, which kind of makes it pointless.
  
  The sound is pretty bad to, you will hear the stupid AI say the samething over and over again which 
 usually invovles the F word, which was funny the first 1000 times you hear it. The guns sound nice 
 but sometimes they sound muffed when they shouldnt taking you out of the experience. Values not 
 bad considering the Story can be played by yourself or over live, and there is Terrist Hunt where 
 you just kill glitchy stupid AI. Then there is the multiplayer that you may or may not enjoy, and 
 the ability to build your character, get new clothes and guns can be fun. Overall though the game 
 is just boring, everything it has is done in Gears of War and done a lot better. The best part 
 of this game is the ability to have your own character online, but the gameplay just brings that 
 down, till it makes it not worth it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flow700
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 25, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  I'm sorry, but I must be the only one who doesn't like Gears of War. It might have been down to 
 me not liking the genre had it not been for Rainbow Six Vegas.
  I wasn't really the biggest fan of this type of game until someone got me this game for Christmas. 
 Being bored and having nothing else new to play (I had finished Double Agent) , I gave it a try. 
 I've heard from many that first impressions, i. e. the Streets (in Mexico) , where not the best. 
 I guess in retrospect, I felt the same. It was only when I got to Vegas when the real fun kicked 
 in. The gameplay is just sooooo nice. Once you get a hang of the tactical side it's wicked fun.
 
  So this game suprised me and got me totally hooked. I played it all the way to the end.
  The best thing about this game is that once you've finished the single player or got bored of it, 
 the multiplayer is even better!!!! Get yourself an Xbox Vision camera and bang! your in the game. 
 It's wiiiiiiiiiiickeddd!!!
  Top game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EVallette
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 24, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  rainbow six vegas packs a punch into a modern day FPS. the graphics truly show off on the 360. 
 the gameplay is awsome. the controls to the game make the game fun unlike G. R. A. W. the game is 
 basically about how every modern FPS is save the city from being destroyed its the same with vegas 
 but Vegas lets you interact with objects in the game. Like how you can shoot car windows or blow 
 them up and in the casino levels you get to destroy the slot machines. the story mode is short 
 but the missions make the story longer than it should be. the campiagn a. i are pretty smart. the 
 game lets you choose from a rack of weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THCpariah
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 24, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  Piling into a casino has never been so exciting. Especially when you know full well that you wont 
 be gambling, and probably wont make it out alive. Enter Rainbow Six Vegas, the latest installment 
 to the Rainbow Six collection which takes you to, you guessed it, Las Vegas. After a not-so-brief 
 training mission in Mexico, your character, Logan Keller, must fight terrorists trying to ruin 
 the fun. Your mission is to stop the terrorists and rescue the city from mortal destruction. Sounds 
 simple enough? Its three Rainbow operatives against thousands of terrorists, all of which are 
 packing serious firepower, and wont line up to get shot. Theyll outthink you if you arent careful, 
 so watch your back. Vegas is really one of the greatest tactical shooters around. Its realism is 
 astounding. From the weapons selection to targeting to AI, its safe to say that this is a great 
 push towards realism in games. Save for the new health system and the painful checkpoint saving 
 feature. Of course, this also means that Vegas is hard as hell, regardless of difficulty setting. 
 The enemy is too smart for you to just run and gun, let alone being slow and tactical. If theres 
 a hostage, being too loud will trigger them to shoot the hostage. If you shoot one guy, the other 
 will alert the room of our presence. Theyll converge on your position and thats it. Nighty night. 
 There are a few issues with the AI though. If you try to run away, theyll never find you, which 
 brings into question their intelligence. Occasionally, closing the door on several terrorists, 
 waiting, then re-opening it will show them dancing in place. They werent actually dancing, just 
 stuck. Though its good for a laugh or during a terrorist hunt (especially being the only one left) , 
 it isnt right. Multiplayer isnt as streamlined as Gears of War, but it works nonetheless. But 
 if you want to play through and see the storyline, youll have to do it with your AI buddies. Thankfully, 
 the command system is pretty easy to learn and its very accommodating Options include using the 
 D-pad, A button when looking at the action, or voice command (which has improved since Rainbow 
 Six 3) . The real clincher is going up against of team of your fellow human beings. Obviously the 
 ultimate opponent, victory will almost always require teamwork, strategy, and of course, a quick 
 trigger finger. Rambo wouldnt have survived in this world. But before starting a match, youll 
 have the chance to customize your character. Whether its armaments, clothes, armor or looks, no 
 two customized characters are the same. (You can also use the Vision camera to use your own face 
 as well.) Picking how heavy your armor is and the color of your clothes can change how gameplay 
 works for you, so be careful. The heavier the armor, the slower you move. And if youre wearing 
 pink Unlike previous Rainbow Six games, Vegas requires you to gain experience points to get a 
 hold of the finer weapons and armor, as well as more colorful articles of clothing. Dont worry, 
 powerful weapons are already available, so going up against a higher ranked player wont be any 
 harder than playing against an equally ranked player. On the same note, no more experience points 
 are earned from playing against higher ranked opponents either. The most notable feature is the 
 use of cover. Like Gears, cover is crucial, but not in the same way. Many people complained about 
 getting stuck on cover in Gears, but that doesnt happen in Vegas. Fluid and intuitive, cover takes 
 the place of leaning from Rainbow Six 3. The similarities between RSV and Gears seem great. Both 
 use the Unreal graphics engine and the cover system, but the gameplay is excruciatingly different. 
 Best said by Paul Curthoys of OXM: Think British accent for Rainbow, and Brooklyn for Gears. 
 Some of the changes were big letdowns though. Not being able to use IR (infra-red) to see an enemy 
 standing next to a door was exchanged with the snake cam. The regular four man team is down to 
 three. Opening doors slightly doesnt work anymore, only opening and closing them completely. Another 
 issue was how weapons didnt aim well on their first shot. Guns are fine tuned for precision, regardless 
 of how accurate the weapon may be. The first shot depends on the user, not the gun. In the hand 
 of a trained professional, there should be no issue. So why does the sniper rifle miss when using 
 a 12X scope on a non-moving target? The only thing worse than missing that no-brainer shot is having 
 the game freeze on you. As the 360 is technically a computer (with a Microsoft operating system, 
 no less) freezing is expected. People have complained about it, though the problem occurs mainly 
 due to overheating. However, if I had a quarter every time Vegas froze, Id be able to use parking 
 meters for the rest of my life without getting change. A cool but almost useless feature was using 
 the fast rope to rappel into a building. The AI is just too smart to fall for those silly Rainbow 
 antics. But in multiplayer, it works wonders, especially in the attack &amp; defend game type. 
 Whether youre hiding or need a quick getaway up or down some stairs, use the rope. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aragorn_159
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 23, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six is a great series of shooter (except maybe some exceptions) . When I heard about the 
 new Vegas location for this one, I was afraid that they made some bad move. But no. The game is 
 definitely the best in the series as we speak. The story is thrilling and keeps you wanting to 
 know what's next. The graphics are just perfect (well, in HD) . The gameplay has been revamped from 
 the ground and are seriously a lot better and simpler to use. If I could give one bad side to the 
 gameplay is the absence of health bar (which was the biggest thing to matter in Black Arrow or 
 RS6) because the game become a lot easier, espescially now when we can hide using almost everything 
 in a room.
  
  But, continuing on the large amount of good things, the sound is fantastic. The voice-acting is 
 good, the music great and the SFX excellent. I just don't get tired of the sound of shattered glass 
 coming from everywhere when you enter the room filled with baddies. The multiplayer is also excellently 
 made for both Xbox Live and offline gameplay.
  
  Definitely an excellent game for your Xbox 360 library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packruler
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 23, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is a game that brings a new level of realism to the first person shooter genre. 
 From the eerie quiet when you are moving to the next room or a high adrenaline shoot-out on the 
 Vegas strip this game has it all. From the minute the story mode starts up you feel as though you 
 are in the game. As your intelligence agent tells you what you need to know you can chose to look 
 her in the eyes or enjoy the awe-inspiring scenery that you are currently flying over. When you 
 get separated from your team you must fight your way to a safer LZ to meet up with them. You will 
 then go through many missions telling your teammates where to go who to shoot first, second, and 
 third and taking cover as often as possible and peeking around corners being careful to not get 
 ambushed from the enemy inside and not staying to long in one spot and allowing the enemy to regroup 
 and formulate a large counter attack (which they will do) . But the single player will to be more 
 like an awesome bonus to you if you have XBOX LIVE.
  
  In multiplayer you start out as a private with just what you need to survive. You will have the 
 lowest armor and weaponry. But as you move through the ranks you gain weapons to become a force 
 to be reckoned with. Unlike many FPS (first person shooters) splitting up and trying to take on 
 a whole enemy squad will surely end in a loss. You must stay as a squad or at least two people 
 together in order to win.
  
  Summary:
  Ups: realistic weaponry, intelligent AI, squad mates that can live on their own, cover feature, 
 realistic grenades, great multiplayer, good single player, well designed levels, impressive graphics, 
 good timing on checkpoints
  
  Downs: mediocre load times, no online squad feature
  
  Hints: use cover as often as possible, never try to go Rambo on them unless you have nothing to 
 lose, use your squad mates to investigate new rooms first because you can always heal them but 
 if you die you have to back to the last checkpoint, online stay with your team or you will be dead 
 before you know what happened 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehpwnster
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are as real as you can get for the 360 right now. The terrorists and Rainbow soldiers 
 all look real, as well as the guns and the clothes. The firefights are done beautifully, and the 
 surroundings are bright and really immerse you in the feel of Las Vegas. When you get a headshot, 
 you are really satisfied with the spalatter of blood, and the hat flying off of the terrorist's 
 head.
  
  Sound/Music:
  
  The soundtrack was pretty enjoyable and put you in the 'commando' feeling, although the, I guess, 
 'shiny' sounds on some of the songs were a bit annoying, but were tolerable. The sound effects 
 in this game are second to none. Each gun has it's own unique sound. Silencers are also good sounding. 
 Grenades are loud and realistic sounding, and enjoyable, and the screams of a terrorist being burned 
 alive by an incendiary is irresistable :) . The voicing is pretty good, although the terrorists 
 have no more than 3 voices, but it doesn't bother me.
  
  Controls:
  
  The control scheme is perfect. It feels so right with the controls where they are. That's all that 
 I can say.
  
  AI:
  
  The AI in this game are worthy adversaries. They work together, and flank you from the sides, throw 
 grenades, and know how to hide and shoot you from cover. If you snipe a guy, they might send a 
 few guys out to scout the area. When you are fighting them, they shout taunts at you, like, Why 
 you shooting the wall, **** and Got you now, **** and things like that. They are entertaining, 
 if not hilarious.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay is amazing. The cover system is nice, and the transistion from 1st person to 3rd person 
 cover is surpisingly smooth. The weapons in this game are awesome. It is really nice to be able 
 to select from the many weapons at the beginning, from assult rifles to shotguns. The different 
 attatchments further extent this customizability. The tactics in this game are excellent. From 
 sending your team to the door to frag the room, to infiltrating a room and sniping people from 
 above, the tactics work really well. For you team, they are good at killing people and doing their 
 job. Also, being able to snake cam into the next room and select targets is great. The gameplay 
 is just perfect.
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  This aspect of the game is one of the greatest. The ranking system is a good idea. At first, it 
 may seem a little unfair to new players, but it really isn't. Ranking up just unlocks new camo, 
 weapons, and armor. Most of the equipment you have is good, but earning all of this stuff just 
 adds more the the level of customizablity. The coop story, coop terrorist hunts, attack and defend, 
 sharpshooter, and many other matches are great fun, and will want you to keep playing over and 
 over.
  
  Rent/Buy?:
  
  Oh, definetly buy. This game is worth getting, and the replay value is REALLY high. Single player 
 is barely boring and multiplayer is endless fun. So make sure you buy this game.
  
  In my opinion, this is one of my favorite games, if not my favorite. So go get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voodoo2k3
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 5, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  The Rainbow Six games are among the most influencial tactical team-based shooters of all time. 
 From their beginnings that involved shockingly realistic pre-planning, outstanding teamwork and 
 packed with a realistic arsenal, somewhere along the line though, someone decided to dumb it down. 
 Rainbow Six: Lockdown abandoned the trademark planning stage where you can develop routes for your 
 squads, and replaced that with a single squad of soldier you can direct on the fly. After the backlash 
 and failure of that game, Ubisoft tried to return to the roots in Critical Hour which failed, so 
 now it's on to Vegas.
  
  Vegas's gameplay is a mixed blessing. It improves on all the elements of Lockdown's gameplay, you 
 again control a single squad, but this time your teammates are, for the most part, quite intelligent. 
 They sometimes offer advice on which type of entry you should make into a room full of enemies 
 and will react accordingly to your actions. Sometimes they are unresponsive when you ask them to 
 do things like climb a ladder and sometimes on multi-level buildings, asking them to move to a 
 position will have atleast one of your teammates moving to that position on a whole other floor. 
 This is quite uncommon but does happen. Enemy AI is extremely aggressive and intelligent. Enemies 
 will communicate, cover, flank and rush you and your squad in order to eliminate you. There is 
 a great sense of panic and tension when you are pinned in a vulnerable spot against oncoming enemies. 
 This feeling is very noticable in Terrorist Hunt which really gets your nerves shot.
  
  This is also the first Rainbow Six to use a third person view which comes into affect when using 
 cover, another first for the series. Players can move to cover and lean out or blind-fire enemies. 
 The blind-firing is quite useless except for supressing enemies. Using cover also makes you more 
 accurate, however, unlike games like Gears of War, cover doesn't always conceal you entirely. When 
 on the corner of a wall your arms and legs often slopply hang over the edge, giving enemies something 
 to shoot at. Luckily though, this game includes another feature that makes it much easier for rookie 
 players: reloading health. After taking damage, the players vision will shoot out in a radial blur, 
 waiting for a few moments will return it to normal. This makes up for the inability to switch squadmates 
 when yours dies.
  
  While much of the gameplay works, there is really little to credit to the game. Most of the mechanics 
 such as covering, using the videos in the upper left corner of the screen as means of progressing 
 the story and squad mechanics all are borrowed heavily from Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter. Other 
 elements such as the different visions and the Snake Cam were once used in the Splinter Cell games, 
 all of which are part of the Tom Clancy name. While, the hybrid works well, it's hardly original 
 and only interesting since it's a first for the Rainbow series. The game is quite easy to pick 
 up and play which makes it easy to enjoy, however, long-time Rainbow Six fans may be letdown again 
 as this is not the game to return the series to it's roots. Both Ghost Recon and Rainbow Six have 
 abandoned the gameplay that made them hits, so now no game remains for those who just can't let 
 go. However, in this new, simpler age of gaming, there is much to enjoy in Rainbow Six: Vegas.
 
  
  As with most of the games, Vegas continues the tradition of the game looking very good and very 
 realistic. The series has been a staple for ragdoll physics ever since R6:3 introduced them. In 
 Vegas, the physics make for some of the most satisfying kills in recent memory. Quickly popping 
 open a door and blasting a dumbfounded enemy in the middle of the room will send him straight to 
 the floor and have his brains against the far wall. Unlike most games, Rainbow understands the 
 distance blood may travel when shot straight in the foreheard and makes for some realistic and 
 gruesome aftermath. Gernades act realistically and can damage character from distances that may 
 surprise the average gamer, however when you get a Frag kill and see the terrorist body get hurled 
 across the room, you'll want to do it again and again. Using your team to advance into a room through 
 one door and yourself through another leaded by a flashbang makes the game exciting and realistic, 
 as if you're a real Special Forces team member. There is nothing more exciting than equipping your 
 silencer, stacking up to two sets of doors, flashing enemies and clearing the room, making sure 
 the hostages are safe. It doesn't hurt when flashes are scary-realistic and terrorists drop like 
 flies. However, every high point has it's low, this low being environmental physics. There are 
 moments when you would wish blasting through a casino kitchen would leave fruits and dishes shattered 
 and mangled by bullets, but instead, they are static, solid objects.
  
  The draw distances are amazing and while much of the game takes place in the beautifully detailed 
 casinos, there are moments where you may move to a balcony and see the chaos that is Las Vegas. 
 In chopper rides you get a similar glimpse as you did in GRAW. In these scenes, buildings, trees 
 and other things are noticably undetailed and there is a disappointing amount of pop-up but if 
 you look at it as a whole, it looks great. The slight motion blur really creates the illusion of 
 a helicopter ride and the vastness of the rendered city is quite amazing.
  
  While the visuals amaze, the sound has a few issues. Don't get me wrong, the game sounds amazing. 
 The sound effects are top-notch. Pings and dings from bullets whizzing by could not be more believable, 
 the musical scores are riviting and intense and the ambient noises of a vacant casino are haunting 
 and thrilling. My only problem with the sound is the lack of music at certain points of the game. 
 The last few moments of the game are ultimately ruined by the absense of any good music or intense 
 sound. Sometimes sounds such as huge explosions are simply not present in awkward ways. In moments 
 such as an explosion crumbling a cave around you, knocking you out and a moment with a missile 
 launching, I never heard the BOOM that I wanted to hear. I didn't hear any climatic music when 
 I neared the end of the game. And as if the anti-climatic ending wasn't bad enough, the game doesn't 
 have a real ending. Taking the cheap way out, Vegas sticks us with a half-ending, leaving no closure 
 or satisfaction for the player. Everything you work for doesn't amount to much in the end, which 
 is a massive disappointment for the first game in the Rainbow Six series with a mildly interesting, 
 if sloppy, plotline. Much of the time you don't know what's going on and the enemy has no proper 
 introduction or build up, but there is still a goal and a plot that has potential, but the game 
 doesn't deliver.
  
  I haven't explored multiplayer much, but the game offers a similar leveling system to Lockdown, 
 this version is revised making it more balanced and challenging. The gameplay works as well as 
 any previous game online with little to no lag. Co-op is interesting, however co-op story removes 
 the story elements of the game, leaving your with bare, random levels which is disappointing. The 
 terrorist hunt is not nearly as satisfying as the T-Hunt of Rainbow Six 3 and earlier. Seeing as 
 you are the only person hunting the enemies, or you and a friend, it makes it incredibly difficult. 
 Enemies are nearly suicidal in T-Hunt as groups will charge at your position. It would have been 
 more fair and more tactical had you been able to switch squad members and create routes for this 
 mode at least.
  
  To wrap things up, Rainbow Six Vegas offers some quite intense and fun elements, while leaving 
 behind lots of more advanced things that built the series. The game starts off slow, but as your 
 reach the heart of Vegas you begin to really dig the game, unfortuantly, the endpoint is a letdown 
 and can not hold the feeling of the climax of the game. The squad commands are straightfoward yet 
 effective and the visuals and sound effects take your breath away. There is room to grow and go 
 back for the series, but after Lockdown, it's good to see the series move in a forward direction 
 again. Sign me up for the next game.
  
  [UPDATE] After playing several hours and ranks of the game's online portion, it's apparent that 
 lots of time was put into this element of the game. There are many different, rewarding game modes 
 and interesting ranks keep the game interesting. However, online games are more prone to a surprising 
 number of glitches such as terrorists not spawning in Terrorist Hunt depending on inventory, achievements 
 have incorrect descriptions and players exploiting problems in the matches to mess with the game. 
 While the glitches aren't huge, sometimes they don't affect the gameplay, but are just awkward 
 like how enemies bodies clip into moving doors (among other things) , however the majority of really 
 unusual glitches often become frustrating and sometimes ruin the experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Headhunter01
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 22, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  If you like realistic shooters that don't involve plasma grenades, lasers, or shields, then get 
 this game. If you are a fan of GRAW, you'll love this one. The thing that stands out the most in 
 this game is it's highly addictive, customizable, and diverse multiplayer experience. The amount 
 of character customization is amazing. You will never find two characters that look exactly alike. 
 As you gain experience and move up the ranks, you can customize your equipment even more. The game 
 types are varied and all of them are fun. There are a good number of maps that suit different styles 
 of gameplay (some are confined to close quarters, some with a lot of sniping, most with a mixture) . 
 The core of the gameplay centers around the excellent and easy to use cover system. If you have 
 played GoW, it is similar, but in my opinion, easier to use because you don't have to press a button 
 to get in and out of cover, you just hold the left trigger to get in, and release to get out. The 
 single player campaign is good, although I have yet to complete it because I can't stop playing 
 multiplayer. There is also a really good coop mode that lets you tackle the story mode with friends. 
 Difficulty is adjustable from just right to downright frustrating. On the realistic mode, you really 
 have to keep your head down. The graphics are really good but not better than GoW. That is not 
 saying anything bad of course, because no game looks better than GoW at this time. This is my favorite 
 game right now and I can't get enough of it. For me, it is the complete package. I haven't played 
 any other games AT ALL since I bought this game the day it was released. No other discs have even 
 touched my tray and it's been two months. The replay value is astonishing. If you want my two cents, 
 I say go buy it right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 21, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow SIx Vegas is the fifth title in the Rainbow Six series. But this title perhaps is the most 
 unique and challenging one. It has a new setting, improved enemy and team mate AI, enhanced visuals 
 that deliver on all fronts a graphical darling, and a huge multiplayer suite.
  
  In Rainbow Six Vegas, you play as Logan Keller, a new Tac team leader of team Rainbow. What happens 
 in the game is that Logan and Rainbow are after this terrorist group that is rumored to have former 
 spec ops men and several other people. They first have an appearence in Mexico, but as the story 
 moves on and two of your team mates get captured, you must pursue them to Las Vegas, where they 
 have camped out. Once your in SIn City you must save the city from the terrorists in several casinos 
 and street settings where they have taken over and killed several people and taken the casinos' 
 money and all.
  
  What Rainbow Six has new in this game is a similar duck-and-cover system that several people have 
 seen in Gears of War. If you get out of cover or from behind a wall, your gonna die really quickly. 
 The game encourages for you to take cover from the enemies you fight and fight them as the game 
 teahces you.
  
  The new look to Vegas is what makes the game stand out the most, besides other very well done gameplay 
 elements. The visuals here are bright and varied, and look very nice and colorful. Your team mates 
 and other characters plus the terrorits are also very detailed and well done.
  
  The sound effects are quite good. Guns sound great and realistic, but really what effects the sound 
 is the voice work. While well done it can be a bit odd hearing your support gunner whos with you 
 in Vegas sound British then American. But all that can be ignored and all the other sounds will 
 immerse you enough.
  
  The game can take you around 15-20 hours to beat. Its definately a hard game, and you'll die often, 
 but you'll still want to fight on so you can see what happens next. The experience is overal a 
 great one in the single player, and the Multiplayer is great too,
  
  The Multiplayer is, like i said, terrific. YOu can play with up to three other folks cooperatively 
 through the Single Player game. Or you can go into other modes up to 16 players, modes like Death 
 Match, Team Deathmatch, lots of things. (not sure if the fist ones are right since i havn't played 
 the online yet) Overall there is a lot of lasting value to this game, so you'll be playing this 
 for a while.
  
  Overall this game is quite a technical masterpiece next to Gears of War. If you are not a shooter 
 fan this game won't change your mind but for those who are Vegas is a must have!
  
  A 9.3 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clippi
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas. The next game from Rainbow Six 3, and Black arrow. Take control of Logan. Team 
 leader. Fighting terrorists in the heart of vegas. Hunt them down in Casinos, Streets, and buidlings. 
 Rescue the hostages and get ready for extraction. This game has proven what it was cracked up too 
 be. Rappel off windows, shoot your pistol while rappeling. Bust into windows. The multiplayer is 
 a real pro in this game. Customize your guy too suit your style, and personality. From helmets 
 too berets. Heavy gear, too light gear. Customize your weapon with a variety of guns. Submachine 
 Guns, Assault Rifles and so on.
  
  Splitscreen co-op is fun. Also Co-op T-hunt.
  
  Pros: Taking Cover.
  Online Customization.
  16 player online.
  
  Cons:
  Getting shot 
 dims the screen a bit too much. Making it almost pitch black so your pretty much damn dead.
  
  Graphics: Superb graphics. All I can say about that.
  
  Gameplay: Realistic. Taking cover 
 and peeking around. Snake cam too see who's under the doors. Heat vision when the smoke grenade 
 pops right in your face.
  
  Sound:
  When the grenade blows up, or any other. Your hearing dims because your ears are damaged from the 
 blast. ( They hear normally over time. )
  
  Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benbuckley
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 21, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  When i get a game i want fun and good gameplay. The graphics, sound and things are icing on the 
 cake. I prefer this to gears of war any day. Its really fun to play. It really gives you the feeling 
 of being part of a anti terrorist team and its awesome. This is the game that i always wished splinter 
 cell would have been. If u dont have it get it you will love it.
  
  The graphics are awesome, i mean the sound and graphics in gears of war are unreal but in terms 
 of fun and gameplay i would much rather own this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flav333
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 21, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  Tom clancy's Rainbow Six is a grate game al version specali this verion Tom clancy's Rainbow Six 
 Vegas. if yuo don't now woot is Rainbow Six all about is you and 2 more team m8's fighting the 
 terorists and it grate it like SWAT. The thing about Tom clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas is that you 
 get to fel that you ar a spacial force soldier you get out of the helicopter quikly and start the 
 fight. You have many difren't wepon to chose form like : Pistol's , Submachine Gun, Light Machine 
 Gun , Assault Rifes, Sniper Rifes andShoutgun you get to unlock some oder wepons in the multiplayer 
 mode.
  You get to use difrent vison. Yuo also get to comand your swat team by openig a dor and go in and 
 mny oder tips. The multiplayer is good it suports 16 players whit it good Tom clancy's Rainbow Six 
 Vegas. it an amzing game I new that this game is going to be good so that why I buy it so go and 
 buy it to and have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingMonkeyPC
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 21, 2007 12:41 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  + Game does look amazing
  + Pretty easy controls to get used to
  + Cover system is well implemented here too (compared to Gears of War)
  + Solid action shooting 
 fun
  + Squad (single player) is awesome
  + Multiplayer is really fun
  
  Cons:
  - The voice actors and actresses are pretty bad
  - The single player campaign is short
  - The 
 hunting mode's graphic looks stale compared to story mode
  
  Summary:
  Rainbow Six Vegas is definitely a fun game to pick up and shoot things up. Just don't expect quality 
 voice acting. Highly recommend to add this to any Xbox 360 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slappyjam
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 20, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game based soley on the great reviews I had seen here at Gamespot. I was hesitant, 
 however, due to previous versions of Rainbow Six. I remember, reading the book, then the first 
 Ranbow Six game came out. Great concept, but, at first it was only on PC. And it was time consuming 
 to assign all your squads and have them execute the way you planned. Honestly, it became a bore 
 and after a couple of iterations of this style I grew tired of the game and avoided any Rainbow 
 Six game all together.
  
  With Rainbow Six: Las Vegas I was pleasantly surprised at the quality of gameplay. No more extended 
 planning, it's more like Gears of War. You have a squad of men and for the most part they do as 
 they are told. I was quite impressed of my teammates AI. However, don't take this to mean that 
 the tactical element has been removed. Quite to the contrary, it's much more effective and mangaeable. 
 The learning curve is pretty nominal; if you'v ever played GRAW then the controls will feel natural. 
 And if you're going from Gears of War to this game, it wont take long to grow accustomed to the 
 slightly different control style.
  
  This is a great game, rent it first, if you dig it, buy it. You'll get lots of quality gameplay 
 out of this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nexchief
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must have game!! Even if you just want to play multiplayer this game kicks butt. 
 For fans of Tom Clancy, kicking Terrorists butt, shooter-games.
  
  Stunning graphics are well presented, all weapons play and feel right and like they have kick ass 
 power. The improved gameplay is new yet you feel right at home and wont take long to get used to 
 the controls and so on.
  
  The environment of Vegas is well set out and it really feels like the actual place!
  The enemy 
 A. I is smarter this time around too, they will take cover, try and shoot you off very quick. So 
 if you are not in the game, your out bud.
  
  Awesome job, Awesome game. A must buy. To those who didnt like Tom Clancy's games before, i recommend 
 this Tom Clancy's Rainbow six Vegas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firestorm10
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  Many games today seem to have mindless play, where little to no thought is required to do well 
 in the game. This is not the case in Rainbow Six: Vegas. You try any of that mindless run and gun 
 stuff in this game, and you'll die very fast. For example, when you come up to a room, and there's 
 a hostage inside, what do you do? Do you put silencers on, shoot through the window, and see how 
 many terrorists you can drop before they notice you? Or do you throw the door open and toss a flashbang 
 grenade in first? Maybe your teammates should come in the other door while you do this... or perhaps 
 they should fast rope in from the roof? There are so many choices to how each situation should 
 be handled.
  
  Another cool thing about this game is the level of customization on Xbox Live. You start online 
 as a lowly Private, and as you play matches, you get experience points. When you get enough experience 
 points, you are promoted to the next rank. Once promoted, you unlock new weapons, armor, or camouflage.
 
  
  Excellent game, with good single player, split-screen and online co-op, and online versus, this 
 game has a lot of replay value, and you will spend a long time trying to get promoted. Plus, nothings 
 cooler than fast roping into the middle of a firefight with bullets whizzing all around you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havik17
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 19, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  i'm not going to give this game a 9.1 because it is so hard i'm not a big war fan but i like tom 
 clancy's game don't get me wrong it's fun but like i said it's hard the sniper gun is like always 
 fun nothing like blowin some guys head off from a 100feet away it is in a way like gear of war 
 tactical sooting hide wait until the bad guy comes and shoot away if you like rainbow six games 
 you shall love this game but i didn't like that much sorry for me look at majin buu's finger 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yandor
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 12, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  When I finished Gears of War the third time, I thought, Well, this is it. The end-all game! Shooters 
 ain't gonna get better than this. Yet right on it's heels comes this amazing tactical shooter. 
 Don't get me wrong; Gears is still the greatest thing gaming has right now in terms of the graphical 
 power nestled in our Xbox 360s can unleash, yet Rainbow Six Vegas proves Ubisoft isn't gonna settle 
 for second rate graphics or gameplay . . . as a few other developers clearly have ('cough' Capcom) . 
 Rainbow Six Vegas, which is a FPS, can't possible do what Gears does... it being 3rd person, yet 
 it does something that you'd never expect: pull the player out of 1st person and switch to 3rd 
 while you take cover. It's brilliant, and it works silky smooth. By the time Gears came around, 
 I'd just about given up on first person shooters; Ghost Recon had convinced me 3rd person action 
 is where it's at. But Rainbow Six (I've played every version of Rainbow Six from Nintendo 64 and 
 PC, to Xbox and the 360) has blissfully reassured me there is promise still to be had in FPS's. 
 Right away, as mentioned, the graphics are stunning, a lot of times right on par with Gears, (I'd 
 even say better in some way, simply because of the sheer number of different environments -- Gears 
 basically has you run thru an entirely blown-up city, so it's kinda the same all the way thru -- but 
 Vegas is different every single level) and the smoke, fire, water, and character models are gorgeous. 
 And I am rally happy to see developers utilizing the 'heal-while-you're-clear' mechanic instead 
 of relying on first-aid kits; this is another brilliant idea that may take a bit of realism out 
 of the play, but keeps us in the game longer, and that's a good thing. The single player campaign 
 is excellent; fast paced, well executed and elegantly produced. There is a rigid sense of urgency 
 at almost every turn: AI here are no idiots like certain Ice Pirates in another recent release 
 (*ahem* Lost Planet) . These guys are fast, seek cover, flank, and coordinate to try and take you 
 down. Your squad works well and follows commands better than in any previous version. But it's 
 the multiplayer that shines. Playing co-op on Xbox Live was fun a few years back on Rainbow Six 
 3, but now it's simply breathtaking -- better than Gears. Gone are linear, go here/go there, paths. 
 Gone are AI that don't notice that the man next to them has just had his brains splattered on the 
 wall behind them. Now it's all out combat with enemies thirsty for a fight. And this time, tactical 
 is more than just entering a room with a smoke bomb; it's rappelling down the side of a building 
 (UPSIDE DOWN!) , smashing through a window and chucking flash grenades before rushing into a room 
 with an M8 and a full clip. It's you and your friends teaming up and really working together to 
 cover, flank, and out smart terrorists that seem to do something a little different each time through. 
 And then there is face masking. If you've got the Xbox Live Camera, then you can put your face 
 right in the game. The first time you see YOUR head on a Rainbow Six soldier, it changes everything 
 about how badly you want to win. Plus, there is the Persistent Elite Creation. How sweet is that? 
 Your character improves with experience, unlocking more gadgets, weapons, and armor. Think about 
 that. You can actually feel yourself getting better. It's great stuff. Add to all this some Splinter 
 Cell elements, like door cams, and it's all, oh yeah, baby! in every level. Replay value is thru 
 the roof!
  Ubisoft went to the table and clearly made a choice to pull the slumping series out of the muck 
 and change the way the genre is played. Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter was damn good. Gears of 
 War was better. This is the best 360 shooter game yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m2ther5
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 19, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  The developers at Ubi truly dedicate themselves to there series of games. Vegas is quite simply 
 the best tactical shooter to date on any console or even the PC. I compare it to fear on the PC 
 for it's dynamic lighting and immersive feel. This is certainly a 10 out of 10, I gave it a 9.7 
 because of eager anticipation of the G. R. A. W 2, which I feel may surpass all other games. There 
 is a time when games pull away from the pack and set a new standard, Halo certainly set a bar that 
 hasn't been reached. For true military sims, I believe this version of Six has created a bar that 
 other Tact shooters must try to emulate. I'm certainly looking forward to games like Socom 4 for 
 the Ps3. Socom has some staying power, but will fade away with an ill fated attempt at next gen. 
 I really stepped away from gaming because of the lack of top notch Tact shooters which is the only 
 thing play. I have waited for some time and it was well worth it. See Ya Online! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjb037
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 1, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is the sweet hotness. Very fun game, especially once you really start to get 
 the feel for the combat system, and once you get the hang of controlling your squad of doom and 
 destruction. Graphiclly the game is beautiful, especially when you find yourself dangling upside 
 down 200 feet above the vegas strip getting ready to pop rock an unsuspecting terrorist in the 
 head through a window. It' s not the very best looking game there is, but it's up there. Yes Gears 
 of War is an incredible game, and it's prettier than this one, but when it's all said and done 
 and I beat both games, Rainbow Six is the game I went back to and kept playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weeandyj
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  Rainbow six las vegas is brilliant the new cover system although not as good as gears of war is 
 very similar and is executed very well being able to hide is vital and the blind fire can sometimes 
 be very useful although totally inaccurate. The story mode is quite interesting and lasts long 
 enough but where Las vegas comes in to its own is online play. The ability to play against or with 
 people all over the world making friends through the love of the game is amazing. The different 
 game modes are varied enough to feel very different when playing them from the other modes. The 
 communication aspect is vital when playing online if no one speaks then u will probably lose badly 
 a team with great communication can sometimes be unbeatable i know i have faced some and the difference 
 is amazing between good communication and poor. Overall this is an excellent game but only if u 
 have live u dont get the full flavour otherwise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 18, 2007 1:31 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is probably the best entry into the series. The game plays much like it's prequels, 
 yet executes so well that it feels fresh in new. The new cover system is a lot better than the 
 old peeking system. It's similar to gears of war, only you have more options here. Rainbow Six 
 Vegas is a great game to look at. The lighting effects are well balanced, the character models 
 are great, especially since you spend time looking at your character when you're taking cover. 
 The overall graphical presentation of the game is pretty solid.
  
  By now, most shooter games have come close to capturing the sounds of actual weapons. Rainbow Six 
 executes its Sound Effects well. Each gun, from pistol to light machine gun, sounds on par to their 
 real world counter part. Another unique thing about the sound is the terrorist. They're just hilarious. 
 Come out, we won't shoot. Is something you'll frequently hear from them. It'll crack you up when 
 you kill them.
  
  The games single player is pretty good. You've got a great number of fun mission to play through, 
 taking you from the streets of Mexico, to the top of a Nevada Dam. You'll shoot up Casinos, and 
 the Vegas strip, but you'll have a good time doing it. Rainbow Six has perhaps one of the best 
 AIs ever designed. The only problem is that the game still spawns enemies, so personal intel doesn't 
 help on future missions. Enemyies must spawn before you frag them.
  
  Aside from the excellent single player, Rainbow Six also touts a great multiplayer. The online 
 community however tends to make the game feel like a drag. Some gamers exploit minor glitches, 
 and tend to boost . Which means leveling up your rank without actually playing. Aside from the 
 jerks who cheat, playing online can be fun. If you've got a good group of people to play with, 
 or just love shooting random people, the multiplayer will keep you playing for hours. Earning new 
 ranks makes it more addicting.
  
  Rainbow Six is simply a good buy. FPS fans are going to love it. If you loved gears, you'll love 
 this. The tactical elements are great. Add a solid multiplayer, great graphics, and some good friends, 
 you're looking at some good times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ejspeed826
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  I have to say every aspect of this game is amazing. Both difficulty levels gear perfectly toward 
 the right experience and the multiplayer offers a wide variety of venues to traverse. I think for 
 the future, something should be updated on customizing your players uniform for in battle. Although 
 multiplayer can be fun, it is extremely difficult to obtain every achievement for your XBOX Live 
 points if you aren't an A plus gamer or don't sit in front of the TV all day. Overall though, the 
 graphics are superb and just having the ability to pick any weapon and play the story mode is enough 
 time in itself. I highly recommend this game to any fan of the series or any new fan in general. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lmneozoo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 17, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best that is out now. The game play is great with the new cover taking 
 mechanism. The guns look realistic along with thte performance of each. The graphics are great, 
 between gears of war and oblivion. This is one of my faorite game sright now along with gears of 
 war. The sound is awesome you can hear the bullets in the distance the sound at which you hear 
 depends on a couple things, first what kind of building they are in, second if they have thier 
 gun silenced, and finally how close they are to oyu. the value is great, the mexicans are in different 
 spots every time you do a mission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathan1274
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 17, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  WHo am I kidding, this game ROCKS. Head shots put a man down. The weapons sound real, and look 
 sweet!
  
  Look Ma! I can climb over things hang from a rope and shoot people
  
  Uber!!! Why you want to play this... YOu and your best bud, taking on terriost of the world.. frags, 
 smoke, psg... need I say more. Did I mention the fact that you can virtually sneak up on anyone 
 anywhere!
  
  Reminds me of the days when Ghost recon first came out, hell Rainbow six for that matter, when 
 everyone thought the game was hard.
  
  Not hard anymore eh vets? Just plain fun!
  
  see you in the field! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cornhusker_Fan9
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 16, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Thats really the only thing I like about this game, really didn't care for the single player. Online 
 is very fun, with many different games to play. With the 8 on 8 games there has to be a lot of 
 strategic moves have to be made in order to win. The ranking system is also very fun to climb, 
 from private to master sergent, to captain, and many more. Once you raise a rank you will get new 
 gear and guns which makes customizing your character one of the funner things in the game. DON'T 
 BUY THIS IF YOU DON'T HAVE XBOX LIVE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etherealsyn
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jan 16, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  I will admit that I had just finished up Gears of War Co-Op when I tossed this in as the next game 
 to work on. Unfortunately this is not on par with Gears. I thought it was just me, however my friend 
 (after finishing the first level) looked over and asked if I thought it was bad or was it just 
 him. I had to agree. The graphics looked horrible compared to Gears, looked more akin to last gen 
 (XBOX 1) . Game-play (most of the enemies just stayed and let us kill them) . There was little challenge 
 in this game. The game may shine multi-player but I judge first and foremost on the single player. 
 If you want a good single player experience go with gears/quake 4/Fear. Pick this one up in the 
 bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodsockedvag
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 16, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  this was a very well donegame lots of weapones lots of game play and really googd graphics the 
 onley thing that drove this game down was the story there really wasnt one it was very blane and 
 every time u go online every time u finiche up with a ranked room u hade to find another one to 
 play but other then that it is probobly one of tomes best right now we will have to wait for graw2 
 to come outto see witch one is better but this game is most worthy of spending 60 bucks on advertising 
 is in the game as well axe posters axe billboreds and axe bottles and when u shot them u get bluppers 
 from when the game was being made and also the making of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midnitereaper
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 16, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow 6 Vegas is the third installment of Tom Clancy games for the 360 and brings yet another 
 outstanding game to the console! The graphics were great (even after playing GOW) and the sound 
 was excellent. One big advancement (in my opinion) with this game was cover. I found it very easy 
 to use cover and to maneuver behind cover. The blind fire behind cover was cool and the ability 
 to switch or zoom targeting was a great benefit. Another great feature in this game is the ability 
 to customize your gear and weapon accessories. The story mode was played in reality mode and proved 
 to be very difficult at times. Another cool new feature I found in story mode was the ability to 
 command your escorted hostage to follow or stay. What a relief this was to finally have in a hostage 
 rescue type game. As for your team, well the AI there still needs some work. Biggest problem I 
 founds with team AI was during fire fights when the enemy threw any type of grenade close to my 
 team, they would run into the open instead of staying behind cover. Online play this game is a 
 lot of fun. Plenty of match choices to choose from and a good selection of maps to play on. Only 
 online gaming problem is shotgun SHOTGUN shotgun! Another game where the shotgun is a pretty powerful 
 weapon. Fortunately there are plenty of other weapons to choose from and master. All in all if 
 you like realistic first person shooters then this game is for you. If you are an experienced Clancy 
 player and were happy with GRAW or SCDA then you will definitely love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whacy_Mac
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 16, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Another classic Ubisoft game, a new version for a powerful console. Despite the fact that they 
 seem similar this plays very differently to Ghost Recon which came out earlier last year. The main 
 differences are that the only support you get in this game is your team, where as in GRAW you can 
 get attack helicopters, the removal of the health system which is usually in Rainbow 6 and in return 
 for the health sustem this has become an action shooter rather than the tactical game it used to 
 be.
  
  Although this isn't the worst thing ever to happen, it does pull it furthur away form the strategic, 
 team based gameplay that made the others seem unique and fun as you tried different ways to get 
 past the opposition. While your team are used regularily in this version, it fells like they are 
 more of a support than what you would usually expect. How the health works is that the more you 
 are shot your screen will go darker until you die, if should manage to avoid taking damage for 
 a few seconds your screen will return to normal and you will be fine. Now personally this is annoying 
 as every game seems to do it now adays and it is taking the fun out of games.
  
  Although this is more action based than the other Rainbow 6 games that doesn't mean its any easier, 
 or that you can rush in. It is still all about cover, but it does seem just like Gears, with almost 
 exactly the same moves, while in cover, except that blind fire is alot more realistic here and 
 you are unlikely to hit anything even at quite close range. This makes you realise that you are 
 going to need to take risk to take out the enemy and this helps add to the tension. What doesnt 
 however is the fact that the ememies are incredibly accurate and drop you in a few shots. That 
 just gets annoying especially because the shotgun has such a massive range its annoying on single 
 player and online.
  
  Speaking of online this is what makes the game truly shine as it is fun and exciting working as 
 a team. What is also great is that you can put your own face on the game and choose your own equipment 
 and clothing for your character. And the fact the longer you play the more you unlock is also a 
 good feature to bring you back into the game.
  
  Overal this is an enjoyable game and a good, extra atempt for the series although it would be better 
 returning to style on the next one. Whilst the game is long (around 12 hours) the ending is dissapointing 
 but the online is good fun to play while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hamwrath
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 16, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I liked Ghost Recon but this game has everything that it was lacking. Ubisoft needs to give everyone 
 at their Montreal studio a raise. They seem to push out their best games.
  
  First the game play is great. With some great settings for shootouts and Swat situations this is 
 where this game excels. While this is a true first-person shooter, the cover position switches 
 the view to third-person to allow you to see around corners and over barriers to increase your 
 visible range. Also the varying settings include slums of Mexico with underground bunkers and tunnels 
 to Vegas casinos and the Strip. This is a very difficult game due to its realistic settings. 1 
 shotgun blast within 20 feet WILL kill you. While this is frustrating just remember that this is 
 supposed to be realistic, not Rambo (that's what Gears is for) . Some of the controls are somewhat 
 awkward but still manageable.
  
  The graphics are excellent and make this game easy on the eyes. Shooting up casinos is more fun 
 in high-def.
  
  Being able to join up to 3 other humans for coop makes this a much more enjoyable experience as 
 well. Mix this with the 16-player multi-player maps and you're sure to have quite a few memorable 
 gunfights.
  
  This game does show blood when players are shot but it is minimal, there's more in any CSI episode. 
 And just remember, Terrorists are not known for their clean language.
  
  While definately not for beginners, this is the best there is for realistic first-person shooters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phSychO_AtDawn
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 15, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  The folks at Ubisoft Montreal pulled out all the stops in this game. With the first steps into 
 the Next- Gen Rainbow Six series, it did a great job in delivering realistic life-like visuals, 
 and awesome sound. Any one who owns this game is probablly playing this game online as we speak, 
 with the exception of the host in a ranked game having the power to kick you out if you're winning 
 the game is a little on the unfair side and at times it gets frustrating but overall its superb. 
 The addition of the 4 player Co-op online makes the story aspect of the game twice as fun and with 
 the option to flank enemies from the side and has alot of fun replay value. Like I said before 
 the visuals are fantastic, something you can expect from the Unreal Engine. The sound is superb; 
 you can literally hear the sound of the muffled raging bull being fired outside or the grenade 
 violently exploding from inside the building. Overall this game is fantastic, a must buy (aside 
 Gears of War) for all Xbox 360 owners and all future Xbox 360 owners, so if you're reading this 
 review and aren't playing this game... GO BUY IT! be part of the fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lildanny2121
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 16, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  this is simply put a great game and by far the best rainbow six game out so far.... it is even 
 up there with GRAW as one of the best for the system.... with the addition of being able to snake 
 a door and telling your teammates who to kill 1st and 2nd is something that will be added to many 
 other games of the same nature.... there are many different ways to enter a specific area or situation... 
 your best friend and you can play the same level and complete the level in a total different manner
 
  
  i suggest this game to every1 who has a xbox 360 and has any interest in first person shooters 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xternal
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 16, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  Not really hyped about as much as gears of war, but It should be. This game delivers blisteringly 
 good graphics and great Online/Offline Gameplay.
  
  I don't know about you but i'm on XBL, and also into clans. This game as a clan-game is the best 
 no doubt. It's teamwork or nothing. You customize yourself, face appearance, Face decorations, 
 even face mapping. You pick pretty much everything your wear (No you can't go around With barely 
 anything on)
  
  Online, your armor, Equipment (Guns) and clothing is very important for 2 reasons:
  1) Clothing 
 matters due to the fact, You want to be stylish.. Duh?
  
  2) Due to the fact the lighter the armor, The more mobile you are, and vice versa. So if your a 
 player that likes to get to the spot, and fast then light armour is for you, and guns, depending 
 on the map and game type is what you should contemplate what gun your going to use on, Smaller 
 maps; Closer Combat; Fast+Bigger magazine gun? Makes sense 'eh
  
  So if you're looking for hard-hitting, Challenging and team-based online or offline gameplay, I 
 would definately choose this over gears of war. If your about to buy it, Look at the learning curve, 
 because you can't jump in and be good like you can with most shooters. You need to have Shooting 
 Game Logic and Patience. If you qualify for those 2 things, you qualify for the game. NOW GO GET 
 IT
  
  -X
  
  
  All of the writing was MY Opinion. It would be appreciated if you would Agree/Disagree with this 
 review so i can find out just how many people feel the same. Thankyou 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingSigy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 15, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  After the let down that was Rainbow Six: Lockdown, Ubisoft has come back from the flaming ashes 
 with a champion. Rainbow Six Vegas truly is worthy of the Rainbow title, and is clearly a step 
 in the correct direction for shooters.
  Rainbow SIx Vegas stops where Lockdown went with its action oriented style, and puts tactical back 
 into the formula. While some parts may require the Rainbow team to go guns ablazing, many parts 
 of Rainbow Six Vegas require prior planning. The ability to change the Rules of Engagement adds 
 an interesting dynamic, but it truly isn't used enough, and honestly can be done without. Maybe 
 next time.
  The single player is truly short in Rainbow, even on Realistic, and the incomplete ending leaves 
 a horrible taste in your mouth. You certainly want to complete the mission, but Vegas just doesn't 
 let you. No spoilers, but the mission just ends with a twist and a general 24 style terrorist win 
 ending. The story isn't much better, but at least it doesn't obstruct the gameplay with useless 
 cutscenes, much like Gears.
  While Gears of War includes a cover system, its setup is to more of an action nature. Rainbow takes 
 the cover system, and uses it to fit the tactical style that Rainbow plays in. While the SWAT move 
 (swapping sides on cover) isn't present, many very useful moves are included with Rainbow that 
 aren't in Gears. Leaning out from the cover usually provides you with multiple angles to shoot, 
 and even having the ability you click your zoom in before popping out of cover adds a lot of strategy 
 to the game. Pop out to shoot, or sit and wait? Zoom can help, but your head is a sitting duck. 
 It feels great getting off a headshot without even being seen.
  Rainbow had the standard array of realistic and prototype weapons, and the old customization from 
 Raven Shield finally hits consoles. Guns can now be tailored to your needs or wants, and this helps 
 get you down and dirty with your gun. You're able to pull yourself out of ridiculous situations 
 all because of how you fight your battles. If you normally don't scope, then why put one on your 
 gun? You can use a laser sight, or even a simple dot scope to help your aiming. Extended clips 
 are back, and they truly help make the Desert Eagle a devastating weapon. The balance is that carrying 
 extended clips limits your amount of clips. Grenades cannot be taken more then once, but having 
 two different grenades with you lets you plan your attacks. All of the guns control how you would 
 expect, and the sniper rifles have the realistic lag and wobble that is absent in most games.
 
  The graphics are simply fantastic in Singleplayer. Everything looks practically photorealistic 
 from the helicopter, and your characters and enemies have realistic animations. The cover system 
 gets some models messing up, but its not very often. The multiplayer side is less detailed, however. 
 Your personal created characters lack subtle details on their armour, and many of the textures 
 on the environment are dropped to lower res to allow for more players. I, myself, am fine with 
 the lesser detail, as I prefer 16 player matches over 8, which is the only option available in 
 Gears.
  The difficulty settings are limited to just Normal and Realistic. While this seems flat, the difference 
 is quite dramatic between the two. While Realistic is a fine challenge for me, and a difficulty 
 I will refuse to not play on, there are certainly moments where the AI becomes tough. Flanking 
 is the main objective for terrorists, and they often run around the levels faster then you can 
 bring up your map to find them (the map is based off sound for indicators on people's locations) . 
 The AI sometimes ends up repeating patterns of going from cover to a different point, but for the 
 most part, you will probably be pinned down in some sections until you can figure out a good flanking 
 point.
  Multiplayer has plenty of modes, and even supports full Story Co-op. While its not as polished 
 as Gears co-op mode, Rainbow definitely feels more complete. The action and pace just lead to a 
 euphoria that Gears can't provide, especially with its relative ease. Many of the new modes in 
 Multiplayer are variations on Hostage Rescue, but all of them at least allow some level of customization. 
 There is a decent amount of maps that ship with the game, but I'm more then positive that new map 
 packs will come soon.
  In all, Rainbow is truly what you'd want from a next gen tactical shooter. The AI is pretty good, 
 the structure of the cover system is completely perfect, and the lasting multiplayer value will 
 just keep you hooked till Halo 3 hits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jburde
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 15, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is the most recent game in the Rainbow Six series. And it is great! It has truly 
 next gen graphics and sound. It has a pretty good cover system, but compared to games like Gears 
 of War, it could improve. In the single player, you play as a squad of special forces that fight 
 terrorists in Las Vegas. The single player is fun, but the multi player is where the game is truly 
 great. You create your own online character, and if you have a vision camera, you can scan your 
 face onto your character, but that doesn't work very well.
  
  There are many gametypes from online coop (which is very fun with 3 other friends) to something 
 like Capture the Flag. As you play, you go up in ranks, which unlocks more weapons, armor etc. 
 The multiplayer nearly has endless replay value, it is VERY fun. Rainbow Six is a great game and 
 is a must buy game for all 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stealth360snipa
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 15, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Intense and very difficult. great multiplayer. you create your own character. its disappointing 
 that there is no versus but you can do without. single player campaign is great but multiplayer 
 is what makes this game stick out. x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
 x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x xx x xx x x 
 x x x x 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zealot51
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 16, 2007 12:36 am PT
Review:  No one can deny it Lockdown was the worst rainbow six game EVER. But vegas is completely different. 
 Lets start with the graphics. when flying over vegas in a helicopter looking at the hundreds of 
 lights below you then a casino explodes, it just looks freakin sweet.
  
  Then the gameplay. you now have control of a two man team instead of a three man team. probably 
 to have greater control over tactical placement of your men, in the push of two buttons you'll 
 have them frag grenadeing rooms and clearing them, prioritising terrorists with guns to peoples 
 heads. The gameplay is generally amazing
  
  The ending let me down a bit but i cant wait for the sequel. God bless Jung and Mike 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Parker626
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 15, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  When I first got this game I wondered if it would just be another Ghost Recon set in a different 
 area., and even worse, having played the original Rainbow Six, I was really worried. Don't get 
 me wrong, Rainbow Six was probably a good game to a lot of people, but it just wasn't my type of 
 game. Too much planning, not enough action. After playing this game for a short while, I noticed 
 the similarities between Ghost Recon and Rainbow 6. There are many things that are the same, a 
 few things that are different. Ghost Recon is a better game to me, except for the controls of your 
 team. Rainbow 6 shines in this area. Your team is highly responsive and very effective in taking 
 the enemy out and following orders. My ghosts seem to die a little too often by making stupid decisions 
 and leaving themselves open to get shot. Anyway, if you liked Ghost Recon then most likely you 
 will like this game, it's pretty, it's fun, it's a Tom Clancy game, what can I say. 9.1 by Gamespot 
 is pretty high, but not far off, so I'll see if I can do better on my rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zerostar537
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 2, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow six vegas in my in opinion is the best tactical shooter of all time! GAMEPLAY: The game 
 plays very well. Great controls. awesome cover system and great weapons. The campaign is fun and 
 challenging. The online is even better though! GRAPHICS: The grapchics are stunning! everything 
 is so colorful! I love it! And your characters mouth moves when you talk into the microphone.
 
  
  SOUND: Great music, ok voice acting.
  
  VALUE: The online is where the replay value really thrives. So many different game options, clans 
 and more. TILT: I give the tilt a ten because it is an awesome game!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklordcm1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 15, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  this game is not like manny other games ive played. i mean that in a good way. this game is so 
 realistic, you cant just go out shooting aimlessly you have to use your brain to take cover and 
 take all the shots u can. this game is action packed and the controls are great. i love it. the 
 one thing i dont like about this game is that most of the achievements are online but u can cheet 
 your way out. . i put my recomendation out to anyone looking to buy this game. it a great game 
 and any one who loves first person sooters this game this is it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: netsgiantsfan24
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 15, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  R6V is a great game. The single player is fun and the story is pretty good. The ending sucks though. 
 Online, Vegas is one of the most fun games that i have ever played. The ranking system is a great 
 addition and its addicting to try and get your rank up to unlock new armor, camo, clothing, and 
 weapons. There is a huge selection of weapons and all of them are accurate to how they are in real 
 life. The only thing that i didnt like in this game was the ending, but besides that its my favorite 
 360 game so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pilz-E_Uk
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 15, 2007 4:22 am PT
Review:  wow i didnt find much wrong with this game, great fun with friends graphics look great gameplay 
 is just fun and squad commands etc are great,
  
  the only problems really were no SWAT rolls? surely they would of put that in there! GOW has it 
 and its not a swat based game... i love the ducking etc on this though all the different things 
 you can do is great. another thing i found a lil anoying, all games by now should have a co-op 
 single player mode so its exactly the same just with ur mate etc. well it does have it which is 
 good, but ... it just seams to be the mission no videos or mission log its pretty much do it with 
 no help... which i found a lil anoying especially if u dont have the game and you play at a friends 
 no story line info what so ever. thats why GOW in my opnion got 10 out of 10 co-op story mode is 
 a must in every game if it wants to succsed.
  
  everything else abotu this game is great guns look amazin all the different crap u can stick on 
 it fire rate etc, A. I is pretty good somtimes anoying but pretty smart which makes it better.
 
  
  if you dont have it BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: numba1gamer
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2007 1:33 am PT
Review:  I thought this game was going to be just another GRAW.... but boy was I wrong about that!! Believe 
 me when I say this.... if you like shooters... you will love this game!!! Go get it right now!!!! 
 Right now, what are you waiting for? Okay, next pay day do yourself a favor and buy this game!!! 
 Okay, I can't say to buy this game anymore but really, you will enjoy it! The only bad experience 
 I had with the game is online... people really didn't want to play with a noob.... if you can find 
 someone to take you under their wing, it will be a far greater experience online for you. The offline 
 missions are wonderful. I just couldn't believe how great the graphics and realism came across 
 on my new Sony Bravia 46 HDTV!!!! That game is the bomb!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 14, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing! There is tons to do and the game is intense.
  
  Graphics: Solid graphics with amazing blood spray. It never gets old watching what happens when 
 I drill the bad guys with a head shot or with my shotgun.
  
  Gameplay: Everything works perfectly! In other words, the gun I use acts just like it should in 
 real life, the rappelling is awesome, and the cover system is sweet! The only issue I have is that 
 you can't slide or dive to the ground... That was a nice touch that GRAW had.
  
  Audio: Everything sounds spot on. The guns are awesome and the people yelling and saying stuff 
 is a great touch.
  
  Overall this game is right under Gears (my fave game of all time) which is really saying something 
 about how good it is. This game really has me pumped for GRAW 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alday_316
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 14, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is THE best game in the series... trust me on this one. If it wasnt for Gears 
 of War, Rainbow Six Vegas would have been the Game of the Year 2006 for sure. Unfortunetly a sequal 
 wouldnt be appreciated in my eyes...1 game of this type of stuff is more than enough to get my 
 boner full of juice, LMAO! jk. Id LOVE a sequel! Im gonna break it down for ya'll :P Graphics: 
 Next to Gears of War, the best ive ever seen! Gameplay: the best in the Rainbow Six series, nicely 
 done with fresh options and presentation. Sound: connect a surround sound system and vioala, better 
 than Gears of War! Real life combat! Everything else is better left up to you. All im gonna say 
 is, if you have an Xbox 360, buy this game... its really quite that good! Oh damn... I came! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vicious-monkey
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 14, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  After Lockdown came out, Vegas seemed like an awful idea. It wasn't until I played the demo that 
 I realized how great this game would be. Now, we all know Tom Clancy, how realistic everything 
 must be. So if you're the type who doesn't like Splinter Cell or Ghost Recon then DO NOT BUY THIS 
 GAME. However, most of us can love it or get over it. But I must warn you, this game is at least 
 twice as hard as GRAW. On the easiest difficulty, which is Normal , the game is extremely hard 
 to complete. So I figured that Realistic difficulty couldn't get much harder. I was wrong... realistic 
 is so hard that Gears of War on insane has nothing on this. If you can live with dying in two shots 
 AT MOST then this game is for you. On the other hand, the multiplayer is very fun. 2-16 players 
 on line is always fun, but if you're really bad at first person shooters then it probably isn't. 
 At the end of the day, Rainbow Six: Vegas is a great game, but is definately not for everyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisfairc16
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 14, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Well Lets start with the single player . whoa in past games it was go save some dudes from some 
 guys in a room . or go here stop the bomb .
  now here ... in this game ... well its kinda the same only this time you do this **** in style 
 . you send your guys to a door you have a peek under select the targets from snake cam then on 
 your command your team bust in ! taking out the prority targets you set up . your squad is easyier 
 to control than ever b4 . smarter self preserving ai .
  the models look amazing . see the sweat dripping off logans face as you slam your back against 
 the wall why reloading .
  
  if the kick ass single player was not enough .. there is always the multiplayer ... yes thats right 
 theres more you got a boob load of modes .
  
  and my favourite bit is the xbox vision thats right that lil cam that you can buy for the 360 . 
 get your face in the game take a bout 5 mins to do .. then take online and show your mug off . 
 gives the game that lil bit extra all in all great value .worth playing . go buy it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RX552VBK
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 14, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  I agree with fellow reviewer Scoooters said. It's exactly what GRAW should've been. I fell in love 
 with R6: L. V. when I downloaded the demo from XBOX LIVE. The graphics are beyond remarkable; anyone 
 who has every visited Las Vegas or Atlantic City will be shocked at theexterior and interior design 
 of the casino. I nearly wet myself when I took out of group of terrorists behind a machine gun 
 with a gernade. The blast of smoke, debris and slow motion dance of death of the terrorists were 
 wonderful. But what made it great what to the clanking of money coming out of damged slot machines. 
 Well done. What a difference with your AI partners, there was only one time that they seemed confused 
 and partly stuck in a wall. I can live with that. But throught the rest of the game they were excellent 
 and smart. THE ENEMY AI ROCKS! They're all well programmed tactically, and realistically respond 
 if they hear or see something out of the ordinary. Be careful when in a firefight with them, like 
 actual soldiers they will out flank your position and you'll get easily wasted. I haven't played 
 multi-player on xbox live yet. If the single player mode is any indication of the whole game then 
 playing with or against the rest of you of xbox live should be a blast. Enjoy this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpella44
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 14, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Exiting a helicopter from mid-air on the roof, breaking the skylight glass, fast roping into the 
 casino floor, shooting enemies thru and around slots, roulette tables and numerous flashing casino 
 lights sound like a good time? Yeah, that's what I thought.
  
  After having just come off of hours of time with Gears of War, I was hesitant to think that this 
 game would come anywhere close. However, after having played thru this game, both the campaign 
 and multiplayer, I enjoy this game more than I do Gears of War. The graphics in this game are spectacular. 
 The strip, casinos, downtown skylines, etc. all look gorgeous on this game. It is easily the most 
 graphically appealing and entertaining shooter I have played in a long time. Don't get me wrong, 
 Gears of War looked great too, but the wide array of colors in Rainbow Six help to make it more 
 appealing than the more drab scenery in Gears.
  
  The gameplay is great and the A. I. is by far the best I have experienced in a game. Your allies 
 will actually use cover logically and will kill their fair share of 'tangos'. The enemies will 
 use cover, communicate, lob grenades with accuracy... all things that don't seem to be consistent 
 with most other shooting games. All in all, I was hesitant to get yet another Tom Clancy game at 
 first, but now, this is the gem of my 360 collection and I highly recommend it to anyone who likes 
 1st person shooters, Action games, or even Las Vegas itself because of the amazing graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkshot19
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 13, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  rainbow six is by far the best rainbow six game i have ever played i love the new weapons and the 
 ability to post your face on xbox live. the campaign itself was a little short but well worth playing 
 and i like the snake cam because it has saved my but several times from making a mistake
  
  The multiplayer is a little lacking in my opinion because they have to lower the graphics a little 
 to make it work. One thing i hate is that i keep getting kicked out because i won't do exactly 
 as they say in ranked games which is reallly getting annoying. not to menching the insults i get 
 becasue i make a mistake.
  
  the player matchers are better because people are generally less serious and it is much more fun 
 playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scooooters
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 13, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Good game. Amazing graphics and really top notch tactics. It's nice to have teammates driven by 
 the AI that actually help you instead of drag you down. GRAW was a nice start, but this is what 
 that game should have been. Your teammates provide distractions when necessary, take out targets 
 around the corner so you don't go down, and overall just make the game sing. For the novice or 
 the seasoned vet, this game really delivers. Mulitplayer adds another great dimension, but single 
 player shouldn't be ignored. The cliffhanger ending was a bit frustrating, but in this day and 
 age with franchising, what do you expect. I can't wait for round two... RS: Reno! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cog77
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 12, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  I like this game. I should get that out of the way first, I guess. It is fun and maddening. Making 
 my way through scores of terrorists in Vegas is fun. Dying right before you hit the check point 
 for the tenth time has me choking back expletive laced diatribes about how checkpoint saving is 
 retarded. But I do like this game.
  
  As with all next gen games don't bother playing if it isn't going to be in hi-def. Before I plug 
 a new game into the hd input, I always try it out on lo-def. And on lo def its near impossible 
 to make out terrorists unless they're right in front of you. The graphics (hd graphics) are very 
 good. Even in the over bright setting of a LV casino it manages to stay good. Not great but good.
 
  
  The sound/music is really very good. The responses from the terrorists are varied and funny at 
 times (why are you shooting at the wall? etc.) Though they seem to have the same voice. Every single 
 one. Doesn't seem like they couldn't have splurged on a set of 3 voices to keep you from saying, 
 hey he's not dead again! all the time. Your squad mates are voice well, if not a little stereotypical. 
 I like the music in this game. The standard techno line for an FPS is here, but more to the point 
 there are environmental musics as you make your way around LV. Casino stereo, chinese music on 
 speakers in the restaurant, etc.. Its enjoyable and makes the game feel more immersive.
  
  Gameplay leaves a bit to be desired. There really is just an illusion of squad control/tactics. 
 Your squad really is just there for you to send out in front of you to see if anyone shoots them. 
 Which is useful but not so much what one would/could/should expect from R6. I don't think I like 
 the regen health either, that seems better fitted to GoW than R6. But with longer missions loaded 
 with more Ts than you can shake an Ak47 at, I can see it does have a place inthe game. That brings 
 me to long drawn out missions with checkpoint saving. Checkpoint saving is the tool of the retarded 
 devil. I hate it. If your going to change from planned missions to more HL2 style map/mission playthrough- 
 then give me a save system that doesn't leave spittle flying out of my mouth every few minutes. 
 PLEASE.
  
  I'm not a console multiplayer as of yet, so I will close with this. With all next gen games, rent 
 it for a couple of days. If it's your bag, buy it. And see if you can find it used. That'll knock 
 20 bucks off right there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delta-08
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is another great tactical shooter. So far the best shooter out there. Now for Gears Of 
 War the story, graphics, and game play are the things that makes the game amazing, While for Rainbow 
 Six Vegas the graphics, game play , multi player and online play. Thats why its a little better 
 than Gears Of War. Now in the game you'll probably need strategy like where to approach the enemy 
 thats why use the Map!!! Also the weapons are accurate and real brand weapons. Now the weapons 
 can be upgrade by adding a silencer to the weapon like on a A. K. also types of scopes. The Game 
 Is Amazing!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiney50
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:20 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is a phenomenal game. It is as fast paced, exciting and polished as any first 
 person shooter I have ever played. The story line is taught. The Graphic presentation is superb 
 with nice special effects. Enemy AI is excellent and very challenging. It is funny.. when I first 
 heard that Vegas was the setting for the new Rainbow Six I was skeptical if it would work or not. 
 Boy does it work and work well! What fun. The firearms are awesome and really add to the action 
 of the game. In short Rainbow Six Vegas is one of those games that made me decide to get the 360 
 and boy... am I glad that I did... huaaaaaaaaaaaaaah. The Multiplayer is fabulous too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wizardiwas853
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2007 1:48 am PT
Review:  I have Gears of War and walked through the game with no problem (about 11 hours of game time) , 
 GOW is lot of fun but RB6 is a much better game from the value and Game play side (still playing) . 
 I found both game to be more fun with a partner. The only real problem that I have had with this 
 game is an occasional lock up. The sound for the most part is good, but I would like a little better 
 surround sound (which side left, right, front, rear that the guys are coming from) . One other little 
 thing is the game should play in Co-Op the same way as in single player mode. You just select the 
 level you want to play and play it I find that to be the one negative thing about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slimjiminat0r
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 11, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  For some, this may be an extremely good thing. Long have the complaints existed about the franchise's 
 eye-twitch-inducing difficulty and overly in-depth, yet always necessary, planning sessions. These 
 aspects, among others that I'll roll around to later, have garnered the Rainbow series a love-hate 
 relationship with consumers. Some FPS fans go nuts for an all-out, true-to-life experience, which 
 is exactly what the Rainbow games have always tried to provide. Others can't stand the fact that 
 one bullet from a terrorist AK-47 will often put you out of commission and have you start your 
 whole dang mission from scratch. If you're one of the latter, I suggest you continue reading, because 
 Rainbow Six has changed a lot. In some ways for the better- in others, not so much.
  
  If you've played the previous games, you may recall from the terrorist-killing Rainbow days of 
 yore, that if you were pitted against, say, twenty or more tangos in a mission, you had your work 
 cut out for you. Each enemy had the potential to wipe out your entire team all by their lonesome 
 if you hatched a poor plan for infiltration; or, if you just happened to turn the wrong corner 
 at the wrong time. In R6 Vegas, the name of the game is numbers. Terrorists are abundant. They 
 will attack you in droves. I can say, in all truth, that the enemies in Vegas will come at you 
 like waves at a shoreline, you can rest assured that the roots of the Rainbow franchise have safely 
 taken a backseat to the trends of the future - trends like duck-and-cover.
  
  Duck-and-cover, or Cover-is-King or whatever you like to call pressing your back against boxes 
 to avoid getting shot in a videogame, is a cool idea that's been around in games for quite a while. 
 I remember it quite fondly in oldies such as Winback on my trusty old Nintendo 64. It is, however, 
 quickly becoming the new thing, and as such most games that are hoping to achieve blockbuster status 
 will most likely now try to employ it in one way or another.
  
  Rainbow does do an exceedingly good job of handling the mechanics of hiding and popping up for 
 opportune shots. Normally, the game is played through a first person perspective, but when you 
 take cover against an object, the camera will switch to a third person view so that you can see 
 around your cover and try to spot the baddies. The animation is fluid and kills are fullfilling. 
 Being able to sweep your gun, raised to eye level for that perfect head-shot, 360 degrees as you 
 enter a room is pretty damn satisfying, especially if you knock the terrorists down a few numbers 
 with that sweep. Using the 'L' trigger to keep your character stuck to whatever makeshift shield 
 you've got is both pleasing and simple. There's just a little problem with the AI. Enemies will 
 hunker down in groups and exhibit good (but not great) AI when it comes to fending off you and 
 your squadmates. They rarely move from their cover. They pop their heads out fairly predictably. 
 If you shoot one in the arm while he's hiding from you, he won't move so that you can't do it again. 
 I just don't feel threatened by these guys. Maybe that's why there's so many of them- to make up 
 for their non-threatening attitudes towards lethal firefights.
  
  The tactics that Rainbow has always had at the core of its gameplay are, by and large, completely 
 removed from R6 Vegas . The tactics are watered down worse than the Coke at Cineplex Odeon. Sure, 
 your squadmates will tell you that you're being flanked every now and again, but that doesn't make 
 up for the fact that I can no longer outfit my entire team (I can only outfit myself; and even 
 in then, I can only outfit my guns and grenades-no options for my armor or tech that I bring with 
 me) . I can no longer choose my squadmates based upon their aptitudes for the mission at hand; I 
 can no longer escort the hostages I just saved (I can merely leave them waiting safe in a still 
 hostile area) ; I can't even split my squad up into two separate entities in order to move more 
 effectively through an area. Sure, I can make them enter a room through a different door than me, 
 but that's the biggest concession I'm going to get. The squad tactics are hardly there and my teammates 
 leave me feeling more like they're just stealing my kills than helping me complete a mission.
 
  
  Now that all that Doom and Gloom is out of the way I'd like to outline exactly what I can do with 
 this crazy new take on the Rainbow universe. First and best of all, I can take cover. Like I said, 
 it works fantastically and it has completely changed the way Rainbow Six plays. The game now plays 
 more as a tactics in the moment kind of game rather than what it used to be: a tactics for an hour 
 before execution of the mission with high probability for failure. Despite the fact that I do actually 
 miss the extreme customizability that the older option offered, when I'm actually playing the game 
 for the sake of enjoyment, this new model works much better. I like the fact that it's easy to 
 hop into a mission and that I can have it hit the fan within seconds. I like, too, that Rainbow 
 seems to have finally found a sense of humor. Some of the exchanges you can eavesdrop in on between 
 the baddies are classics. Not to mention that when one yells Cover me! in a firefight only have 
 his partner respond F**k you! Cover me! makes you feel like you're a force to be reckoned with, 
 for sure.
  
  And boy howdy, are you ever! I know I said the Doom &amp; Gloom was out of the way, but there are 
 some serious inconsistencies between this Rainbow and its predecessors. The name Rambo Six came 
 to mind more than a few times during my play sessions. The new health system works well, enough 
 - you just have to take cover for a few seconds to regain full health (similar to both the Halo 
 and Gears of War health systems) but it definitely keeps me from being too worried about my character's 
 well-being. What happened to Tom Clancy games being grounded in reality? When did it ever take 
 eight-hundred expendable terrorists to take over one casino? And past that, when could three (albeit 
 highly trained) SWAT guys kill eight-hundred terrorists all by themselves? Without running out 
 of ammo? Questionable logic like this stuff just kept pulling me out of the experience. I miss 
 my old Rainbow.
  
  These are just my bigger concerns with the game. If I'm going to get nit-picky I'd tell you that 
 making a Rainbow Six game without having Domingo Chavez as a playable character is just wrong. 
 I'd also go on to tell you that the fact that the guy you do play as, Logan Keller, is voice-acted 
 by George Bush Jr. sound-alike is insufferable.
  
  The online offering that R6 Vegas shows up with doesn't fare too much better. Sure, on paper, you've 
 got tons of options. There's plenty of gametypes: deathmatch, team deathmatch, co-operative all 
 the standards for Rainbow, and there's even some cool takes on the attack and defend style of play 
 that make good use of the new cover system. You can outfit your anti-terrorist (or terrorist) with 
 anything you choose from a plethora of gear that can be unlocked as you play and you can even put 
 your own grizzly mug on him or her so that your opponents can see your real-life war-face. All 
 these options are pretty cool, but - and it's a big but - none of it really matters once you start 
 hitting the servers.
  
  This is because of the underwhelming treatment the online play has received. Jump into a quick 
 co-op match and what do you get? Certainly not a briefing of the mission ahead while you're being 
 flown in by helicopter (a load screen cover-up) like you do in single player. If you intend to 
 figure out what you're doing in co-operative mode, you'd better have played the mission in single 
 player already, or be playing with someone who has. As for the versus side of the online buffet, 
 you'll find thrown together maps that don't ask players to use the new cover system and instead 
 promote run-and-gunning. And that's exactly what you'll get if you do try to skulk around being 
 sneaky. Nearly every time I propped myself up against a doorway with the intention of swinging 
 out and popping one in my opponent's face, he had already run around the corner holding down the 
 trigger on his fully-automatic, covering me with tiny death kisses. I bet that guy doesn't even 
 know what the 'L' trigger does in the game. The multiplayer's maps are poorly textured and lack 
 all of the pristine detail that the single player is able to boast with its environments, leaving 
 them feeling unfinished and uncared for.
  
  Sadly, I'm not going to be telling anyone to snag a copy of Rainbow Six Vegas . If you've read 
 lots of other reviews on the game (which I already know are all glowing, no need to point that 
 out to me) , you might just say to hell with me and grab the game anyways. The only people I would 
 truly urge to stay away from this game for fear of having an old favorite ruined are the long-time 
 franchise fans. This isn't your old LAN party Rainbow Six.
  
  If, somehow, a fusion of the two ideas that are Rainbow Six , the great cover system and the old-school 
 super tactics, could be achieved, then I would be pleased. But, as I have come to learn through 
 some harsh lessons, not everyone believes that pleasing me is the ultimate goal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BAMFactor
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 10, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  This is without a doubt the best shooter of the year and has the best multiplayer of any other 
 game out for the 360 so far. The graphics as well as the surroundings are captivating and have 
 a lot of variety, the level of action is intense and thrilling, the storyline is interesting and 
 engaging. You have 2 squad members to help you that you can order around - tell them how to bust 
 through doors, what to attack, where to take cover, and when to advance or retreat. These AI characters 
 are usually helpful unlike a lot of games. You can heal these characters if they fall, within a 
 time limit. As for the AI enemy characters - they are also intelligent. They will surprise you 
 and flank you, and if you redo a level they won't necessarily be in the same place the next time 
 around.
  
  You must use strategy to complete these levels. You can't just charge ahead Rambo-esque guns blazing. 
 You have to take your time, take cover, and retreat and approach from a different angle or flank 
 your foes when necessary. You have to think about what you're doing.
  
  The multiplayer is fantastic. There is a great variety of game modes which include solo everyone-for-themselves 
 match types and team types, unlike a lot of the other 360 games that only offer team play online. 
 You can always find lots of matches to choose from and there is a lot of customization available 
 for your online character. As you play more, your rank increases, and you get even more goodies 
 unlocked to customize your character. Your rank goes up from playing ranked or player matches. 
 The levels are great and there is a good variety.
  
  The game is relatively short, but the quality of it is SO great that you don't even mind, because 
 it's an incredible experience worth having. And when you're done, there's unlimited gameplay to 
 be had on multiplayer. The chapters are long but there are checkpoints along the way where your 
 game will be saved. Due to the challenging nature of the game I ended up repeating sections several 
 times often, however, the game is so fun that it was more of a pleasure than a bother.
  
  As I said this game is hard. If you're a casual gamer it may not be for you. But anyone with any 
 experience in shooters should not miss this one. Best shooter EVER in my opinion let alone best 
 of the year, and best multiplayer BY FAR. Gears of War and Call of Duty 3 are both fantastic too 
 but Rainbow Six is the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: castlebaM
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 10, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  VIVA LAS VEGAS!!! The story behind this game is that terrorists have taken over sin city and are 
 going to destroy it if they dont get what they want. Thats were the Rainbow Squad comes in.
  
  The gameplay of this game is great, surprisingly like Gears of War. You have to hind behind 
 cover to survive the onslught of enemies that come at you. The AI in this game are great. They are 
 smarter then the average bears. When you shoot at them they try and find a place to hide behind 
 cover and they always flank you, so watch yourself out there. The graphics are amazing, the textures 
 of your squad, the weapons, the city of Las Vegas, and the enemies. The online is fun too and it 
 will keep you satisfied for quite awhile. Lots of different modes to pick and choose from that 
 suites your likeings. Overall this game is great and recommend it to all you Tom Clancy fans out 
 there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kozanecki
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 10, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  The Rainbow Six series has traditionally blended tactical realism with action extremely well, but 
 some of the more recent games in the series have tarnished the franchise's reputation. Thankfully, 
 Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas is a welcome return to form -- one that completely reinvigorates 
 the series for old and new fans alike.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas kicks off by dropping you in an abandoned Mexican city in an attempt to capture 
 the terrorist leader Irena. Irena leads your squad into a trap in an abandoned mine and captures 
 your team. After your escape, you are whisked off to Las Vegas to deal with a newly arisen infestation 
 of terrorists that have somehow taken over the city.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas introduces a variety of new game mechanics into the series such as the ability 
 to abseil down the side of a building before kicking in glass windows to gain entry into rooms. 
 The most useful introduction to Rainbow Six Vegas, however, is the ability to duck behind cover 
 wherever it can be sought -- a very similar mechanic to Gears of War. From behind cover, you can 
 then either take well aimed shots at your enemy or stick your gun over the edge and lay down suppressive 
 fire. The addition of these new mechanics makes the game feels much more genuine, as it helps to 
 build the feeling that you really are a commando fighting terrorists through a casino.
  
  A tactical action game is nothing without decent artificial intelligence, and the non-playable 
 characters in Rainbow Six Vegas sport decent tactics. The enemy will pin you down with heavy suppressive 
 fire, try to flank you and your team, and even throw flash bang grenades to blind you before rushing 
 your position. Your two team mates aren't stupid either as they will actively seek cover, clear 
 rooms and swap weapons as appropriate to the situation at hand.
  
  Graphically, Rainbow Six Vegas looks amazing. Before the start of each mission you ride in a helicopter 
 where you are given your objectives and choose your weapons, and it's hard not to be distracted 
 by the bright lights and beautifully rendered casinos of Las Vegas.
  
  The sound effects in Rainbow Six Vegas are superb. Hook this game up to a surround sound system 
 and you'll hear the sound of gunfire blasting off behind you and bullets buzzing past your head. 
 Sometimes it's hard not to feel intimidated by the whole experience. The music is more of a mixed 
 bag. Whilst in Mexico, there is an accompanying soundtrack of mariachi-style music which helps 
 to convey the vibe of the situation. The accompanying soundtrack in the Las Vegas portion of the 
 game is somewhat lacking, containing a generic action orientated orchestral score. This is somewhat 
 disappointing, as it would have been nice to hear Viva Las Vegas whilst cleaning out city.
  
  Multiplayer in Rainbow Six Vegas is just as fun and fast paced as the single player campaign. 
 It supports a suite of modes via Xbox Live including death match, team death match, capture the 
 flag and terrorist hunt (which can hold up to 16 players) . Cooperative play is also supported both 
 over Xbox Live and through the a single console, which is great fun as you can make your way through 
 the stunning single player game with the help of a friend.
  
  What separates Rainbow Six Vegas's online multiplayer from the rest is the ability to create and 
 customise your own character. As you progress and gain ranks online, you unlock more clothing and 
 gear for your character to use such as camouflaged pants or a better machine gun. Rainbow Six Vegas 
 also supports face mapping via the Xbox Live Vision camera, which creates a unique yet creepy version 
 of yourself in the game. Seeing a character that vaguely resembles yourself duke it out online 
 is somewhat eerie, but when you become accustomed to it, it's cool to see yourself kicking through 
 windows and blasting terrorists into oblivion.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas is a great game that progresses the Rainbow Six series beyond any of its predecessors. 
 This should definitely not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Innocentguy757
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 10, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  I've been a big fan of Rainbow Six for a long time, dating back to Rainbow Six 3. I've always loved 
 the tactics in this game, but when I played the multiplayer demos, it put my hopes down, with the 
 sub-par graphics, and I thought the taking cover behind the wall would hinder the tactics, but 
 I was wrong.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The campaign is the best ever in a Rainbow Six game. The story, once you get into Las Vegas, is 
 amazing, for a Rainbow Six game. It's not a memorable story or anything, but it is worth the play, 
 seeing that it plays very well. The cover tactics work perfectly fine, and actually add more strategy 
 to the game, making it overall more fun. The multiplayer is where the games really at. The graphics 
 have been toned down for smooth gameplay, and the results are spectacular. The maps are very well 
 built, with a classic coming back like Streets. Calypso Casino and Kill House are some of the best 
 maps ever made in a game. The invulnerability is a great addition to prevent spawn-camping, and 
 the game just plays more fun than ever. Easily the best multiplayer game on the 360 to date.... easily.
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics in single player can run with the top titles on 360, with crisp animations and great 
 level design. The explosions look amazing, and Las Vegas itself looks amazing. Just looking down 
 at it during the helicopter flights makes you want to drool. And the strip is just amazing. You 
 have to play that for yourself, I just can't get the words out of my mouth. The multiplayer graphics 
 have been toned down, and are par, not offering the best the 360 has. This has been done to improve 
 framerates, and once you get used to it, it actually isn't as bad as you once thought. Could have 
 been better, but they did it for the sake of the game. The ability to customize your character 
 is also a definite plus.
  
  Sound:
  
  The gun sounds are right on target, and the grenades sound realistic too. Since this game is all 
 shoot and no talk, that's all you really need. In campaign the sound is very good, but there should 
 be more variety in the music they choose. They usually are on target with the mood though. The 
 voices could have been better, but again, campaign isn; t the strong point of this game.
  
  Value:
  
  The multiplayer is all you need. Some of the best multiplayer you'll ever play. You 
 will just be speechless after playing it, and wonder why, if you haven't, started playing Rainbow 
 Six way before. The campaign is alright, but you probably won't play through more than once. Co-op 
 is fun, and so is Terrorist Hunt. But Team Shooter and Team Survival is where it's at. Definetley 
 worth every penny, unless you don't have Xbox Live. Then it's worth nothing.
  
  Overall, this is a very well executed game, and is worth the purchase if you have Xbox Live. If 
 you like tactical combat, then this is the game for you. I promise that his won't be another game 
 you're going to trade-in or throw on your shelf. This is a high quality title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markfisher2112
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 10, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  This game is a lot of fun, from the moment you fast-rope out of the helicopter for the first time 
 until the end credits. The visuals in this game are extraordinary as well. The amount of detail 
 in the city when you are flying through it in your helicopter is great, as well as the detail of 
 the various casinos and buildings that you have to fight your way through. The game starts off 
 in Mexico which I thought was weird and kinda boring. When I bought the game I wanted to be put 
 right into the action inside a Las Vegas casino instead of being in a border town in Mexico chasing 
 a terrorist. But after two levels in Mexico they send you to Vegas saying there is a problem there 
 and that you have to solve it without your usual team... After the major change in setting you forget 
 all about the first two levels because the next ones put you in no-stop action with hardly any 
 break. You may enter a room, clear out the two terrorists that are occupying it, but once you think 
 you can have a break ten more come in through the doors or ceilings for payback. This gives it 
 the difficulty so that you can't storm in a room and dash through the level.
  
  The new actions that you are your team can do are very impressive. Such as rappeling (can be done 
 upside down!) or fast-roping of the side of a building, breaking in through a window to surprise 
 a group of terrorists or using your snake cam to look under doors, tag a maximum of two enemies 
 for your buddies to take care of, and clear the room in five seconds flat. The best part of this 
 is being able to tag enemies, this makes your life a lot easier because you don't have to worry 
 about them shooting at you. You can also take cover behind almost any solid object in the game. 
 This is highly recommended because if you don't take cover you will surly die. When behind cover 
 you are able to leave it pointing the thumbstick in a direction which will give you a shot at the 
 enemies, or you can blind-fire around the corner to make the terrorists stop shooting at you for 
 a moment so they will take cover. The A. I. in this game is extremely smart, even scary at times. 
 You constantly have to watch your back, if not you will definately die. Your enemies will throw 
 grenades, whether a flash, smoke or sometimes frags or the fire ones (can't remember what they 
 are called) , they will flank you, and at certain points in a level they will break through the 
 roof, and fast-rope down to surprise you. But not only is the enemy A. I. smart, your teammates 
 are smart as well. They won't throw grenades or anything but they will shoot at whoever they think 
 is the most dangerous threat.
  
  The online play is same as the other Rainbow Six games. If it ain't broke, don't fix it. The only 
 difference is a new game type called attack and defend, and the Persistent Elite Creation mode 
 which allows you to create your own online character and use it in online matches. As you play 
 online more often your character will gain experience and level up which will allow unlock new 
 weapons, armor, and clothing to outfit your character in. This game is so much fun and it will 
 keep you entertained for many hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpowerfull
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 10, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  This game was really hard to get into, with the whole Mexican starting level that was kindof confusing 
 and really boring. The game makes good use of the special gadgets such as using the robot snake 
 thing to look under doors. As good as the story mode was, multiplayer is up there with Gears of 
 War. Not as good, but still in the area. The graphics are pretty good, not mind-blowing and eye-boggling, 
 but still good. Some works needs to be done in the extra items that are left on the ground. Such 
 as in the first level, there's a bycicle in an allyway, and when you walk into it, the bike kindof 
 floats/rolls away like it was made of feathers. Even if it was made out of titanium, it wouldn't 
 be THAT light. Besides a few very minor graphical issues, this game is worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rolld6
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 10, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  Rainbow 6 Vegas delivers everything you want from a next generation console experience. The game 
 takes through many environments including wide open outdoor spaces, tight tunnels, multi-level 
 warehouses and casinos. There are many enhancements to game play, including the 3rd person transition 
 view when you duck into cover, the ability to climb over short walls or obstacles, snake cam (borrowed 
 from Splinter Cell) , tagging tangos for your team while using snake cam, more weapon choices with 
 modifications and the wide variety of choices or paths to take to an objective. In the past campaign 
 mode lead you through a one way maze to reach your objective. Now the choices are wide open, with 
 vast landscapes in open areas to choose from. Take a ladder and take the high road, sneak from 
 cover to cover on the left, right or middle flank? What about repel off the roof and break in just 
 after firing a round from your hand gun? There are more weapon slots and choices of weapons then 
 ever before. Add to that the modifications you choose, like what scope you prefer and expanded 
 magazine sizes for hand guns and you have a custom feel to the game like never before. Snake Cam 
 is a lot of fun and really enhances the strategy aspect of the game. There is usually more than 
 one point of entry choice and Snake Cam allows you to make those choices through recon of the enemy 
 while safely and quietly hidden. Tagging the 1st and 2nd priority of targets for you team is also 
 a nice touch. You can also listen to the tangos on the other side of the door more clearly when 
 you SC and there are some nice plot points to be picked up by doing so. If you do not use cover 
 in this game, you are dead, so use it and plan your strategy and routes through the maps looking 
 for cover. However, remember that some cover such as cars and trucks can be blown up and made permeable 
 by excessive fire. The first time the doors flew off and I was taking hits, I backed quickly and 
 learned to choose more wisely. I love the story line in RB6V and some of the comments and story 
 threads that did not make sense early, all became clear during the final act. By now I am sure 
 you have heard about the To Be Continued ending, but that did not bother me. It made me smile that 
 I won the day and have another great gaming to look forward to in the next installment.
  
  Two Pet Peeves and they are minor;
  1. In campaign mode you have to lead from the rear, because 
 you can revive your mates, but they cannot revive you. That means long range support many times 
 and use of a sniper rifle to pick off those pesky AI tangos that effectively use cover. However, 
 you cannot see a dot with a sniper rifle, therefore directing your team is difficult. I understand 
 you are not supposed to shoot from the hip with a sniper rifle, but would a green dot (one that 
 disables the weapon from hip shooting) hurt? I can direct the team if I bring up the scope, but 
 that is tedious. Just give me one little dot to direct the team please. :)
  
  2. The lads get hung up on terrain, especially in Fremont Street, but also in other places and 
 in the middle of a firefight that is tough. Please smooth out the object navigation AI for these 
 blokes, so I don't have to baby sit them while taking heavy fire from an MG nest. Thanks. :) :)
 
  
  All in all RB6V is a great experience, very immersive in its textural depth and detail. The voice 
 acting is brilliant and the pucker factor during fire fights outstanding. I love the tilt of this 
 game and amount of thinking it takes to be effective in resolving an outnumbered conflict situation 
 such as this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redon8
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 9, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow six vegas is one of the games were if you dont get it you might be one of those people 
 who has to like at least GOW or your odd...
  Some people say GOW, is better some say Rainbow Six is better, and others like me say they're even; y 
 matched games. Gears of war you can shoot peoples heads off and see they're brains sometimes or 
 even see they're other enternal organs. Rainbow six, you can shoot things and they can sometimes 
 mostly alot of the time react as they would in real life, not exactly but pretty close at least. 
 Also unlike in Gears of war when you shoot a T. V. it doesn't break it just puts a block hole in 
 it. In Rainbow six you shoot a T. V. and you know what happens, it breaks. In gears of war you kill 
 somebody they blow up sometimes and blood goes every were witch I think is cool, but in Rainbow 
 six you can set traps and go some were safe and far away and in gears of war you haft to sit still 
 and wait for them to pass before you can do much sometimes. So like I said they're pretty good 
 games and pretty closely matched games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iiplayboy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 9, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas comes out looking very good as the premier tactical shooter. Visually this game 
 is pretty nice showing its focus and realism. The single player mode lasts no more than 10 -15 
 hours the first time through, mostly because Vegas is tough to beat. You can also play cooperatively 
 online with up to four players, which has been to the most enjoyable co-op experience. XBOX live 
 is the strength of Rainbow Six Vegas, and that's not it. The game comes with 10 big maps suited 
 for 16 players, including a casino, a Mexican Village, Vegas Streets and other classic maps. Customizing 
 your character using the Persistent Elite Creation tool gives you many awesome options to your 
 character. Xbox Live Vision Camera can be used to import your own face to the character which works 
 quite well. This game comes as the best first-person shooter out on the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RGillani
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 9, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is superb in many ways its feature such as allowing two player story mode makes it a 
 tactical army game. I would recommend this game to any one, and also the graphics, and game play 
 are exceptional i many ways. However there are also problems with this game as any other. The brightness 
 on some missions is a bit too dim, and requires the night vision goggles, and also the game could 
 also have been programmed to allow you to carry more weapons. Overall this game is great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vassago_
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 8, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Living in Reno, NV, I couldn't wait to see how they did with recreating the Vegas skyline. I was 
 pleasantly surprised to see the familiar skyline (sans names, of course) . Graphically, the game 
 is on par with some of the best titles on 360. The only downside I see graphically is the EXTREME 
 over-use of light bloom. It looks like someone rubbed vasoline all over your goggles. It's simply 
 over done. If it were toned down by 50-60%, it would have looked much better.
  
  The enemy AI leaves some things to be desired, but it's no worse than other games.
  
  The squad 
 control is really simplistic and useful. Though I would have preferred a top-down map for positioning 
 my squaddies. Squad AI seems pretty solid, and they're usually pretty good at getting cover when 
 they need it.
  
  The duck/cover system is very nice. Although it doesn't have some of the features that Gears of 
 War has, overall it feels more natural and realistic, though.
  
  RS: Vegas is certainly worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Allan_X
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 8, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  Excuse me if I may sound a bit negative, but this review is really less of a product preview and 
 more of a rant for those who've already played the game and know what I'm talking about.
  
  Now, I've been following this series for a number of years. Ever since I played Rainbow Six: Rogue 
 Spear - the highly popular follow-up to the first entry in the series - I was hooked on the series' 
 unique brand of tactical action. Action which seems to have been completely cast away in favor 
 of some rather incongruous and spotty gameplay elements that comprise the vast majority of Rainbow 
 Six Vegas's single-player campaign and terrorist hunt modes.
  
  The core gameplay itself is nothing less than solid. In all instances, you are provided with an 
 able player-character that is capable of taking cover fluidly around corners, shooting with precision, 
 and equipping his or herself with a decent variety of lethal weaponry. However, outside the bounds 
 of your character, the game's failings become immediately obvious.
  
  The AI is inhuman. By inhuman I don't mean to imply that they're impossible to beat. I mean they're 
 not even human-like. In fact, the computer-controlled hostiles are so pathetic, they break the 
 realism of the game. First of all, they're animated very robotically. When they turn towards you 
 after having their back turned, they do so very, very slowly, all whilst pacing in a single direction 
 like morons. Often when they detect you, they'll tilt their head to the side slightly and crouch 
 instantly while firing upon you. This means that if you aimed for a headshot before they crouched, 
 you'll be hitting nothing but air... but if you aimed for a body shot, you'll hit their heads. 
 How rewarding indeed!
  
  Paradoxically, not only do they have perfect aim, but they have millisecond reaction times as well. 
 I suspect that this feature of the AI was specifically employed to cover up how poorly-coded their 
 unit behavior is. Sometimes, when you have your back turned towards them, they'll run and take 
 cover instead of aggressively rushing you. But the moment you open a door into a room, they'll 
 snap-shoot you without hesitation. At other times, they'll shoot so fast, you're dead before they've 
 even raised their weapon.
  
  I mean, picture this for a moment. They have to perform an animation that raises their weapon from 
 a lowered position to an aimed position to look like they're actually firing at you. But sometimes, 
 they fire so quickly, the weapon's muzzle flashes while it's pointed elsewhere and you still die. 
 What the heck?
  
  On top of all that, the combat dialogue is incredibly stupid. They sarcastically taunt you with 
 Come on! I won't shoot! ... while simultaneously shooting you. And, my personal favorite They got 
 me pinned! while simultaneously blasting you in the head with a shotgun about a tenth of a second 
 after you entered the room. Real people don't talk while firing guns. They do so before or after 
 they open fire... NEVER WHILE FIRING. Death sounds consist of a small handful of vaguely sexual-sounding 
 moans and gasps that make one embarrassed to be in the same room as the television emitting such 
 blasphemous noises.
  
  The AI is nothing but cheap shots, piss-poor animation, and boring dialogue that's repeated over 
 and over. Against opponents like these, who show no human hesitation or intelligent behavior, the 
 game's sense of realism quickly crumbles.
  
  Real humans can lock up for up to a few seconds in fear and surprise, but all the AI enemies in 
 the game act as if prepared to immediately kill you. What nonsense.
  
  Only further ruining the realism of the series, I find the game's health system to be quite questionable 
 indeed. Like Call of Duty 2, they decided to use recharging health. Like Halo... only with a character 
 wearing a plain ol' Kevlar vest and not power armor with recharging shields and automatic wound-sealant 
 systems. In real life, even with ballistic armor on, you can only be riddled with so many bullets 
 before you stop saying Wow, I feel better after taking a break from being hit! 
  
  Even the artifice of health packs is preferable to characters that can essentially take infinite 
 damage so long as they take breaks. Real humans can't take magic breaks , so neither should a Rainbow 
 Six operative.
  
  As for the storyline, there isn't one. Yet again, those Mexicans are up to something. What is it 
 with Ubi and Mexicans? Whatever happened to the globe-trotting escapades of the past, in which 
 I could be at an island resort one minute and at a snowy alpine inn in the next?
  
  In RB6V, the SP campaign basically consists of running around the city of Las Vegas, engaging terrorists 
 in a variety of Casinos and such. It's also bookended by starting in a Mexican city and ending 
 with a ubiquitous Dam Level . Nothing too exciting. In fact, it wears on the psyche with its dreary 
 B-Movie presentation.
  
  Admittedly, the graphics and sound are mostly exquisite. The texturing, geometry and lighting of 
 most of the game's environments are quite convincing, and the guns sound just like they should. 
 Ignoring the boring animation and behavior of AI opponents, friends and enemies in multiplayer 
 look great. Of course, they're all using the player-character animation set, which is far superior 
 to that of the AI terrorists.
  
  The weapons? There's a good selection, yeah... but most people just go with the SMGs. The Assault 
 Rifles have too much kick to be effective at the short ranges employed in all of the game's maps, 
 so they're nearly pointless to use. And, of course, there's the noob-cannon XM26 LSS. Again, it's 
 an oddity. The real-life SPAS-12 has a semi-automatic mode (which is never used in the game) , but 
 the real XM26 LSS is a straight-pull bolt-action, not semi-auto. You have to pull the charging 
 handle every time you want to fire the real thing, so why does the in-game variant feature very 
 fast semi-auto fire? What good is a decent variety of weapons when their performance isn't even 
 depicted properly?
  
  Sloppily enough, a few weapon icons in the weapon quick-select menu were wrong. When you have the 
 G36C, it displays the icon for the G3KA4, and vice-versa. Also, the icon in the quick-select menu 
 for the MTAR-21 is an MTAR-21... but the gun model itself is a full-size TAR-21. Bizarre.
  
  In the multiplayer mode, a number of glaring problems present themselves amidst the game's 
 highly compelling features. Instead of Halo 2's highly intuitive matchmaking system which ensures 
 a fair game every time, RB6V uses a server browser that is wholly inadequate. The listings should 
 always show the max number of players on a server, but they don't always unless you hit custom 
 game.
  
  The game also has a kick feature, giving hosts carte blanche to boot anyone they want. Red dots 
 , people whose latency is especially high, are a common target. But sometimes, the kick feature 
 is abused to the point of the host simply booting top-level enemy team members and his own worthless 
 team members to make the game easier in team play.
  
  I remember how the kick feature was abused in Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter, with hosts not 
 allowing level 1 players to advance to level 2 by simply booting them. The usual comments on the 
 issue that I hear are It's his room and he has the right to remove players as he wishes . WRONG! 
 It's not his room . Some of us like to actually play the game and advance normally, without selfish 
 hosts getting in the way. The host-controlled kick feature should simply not exist. They should've 
 emulated Halo 2's matchmaking system in which the game itself sets up matches and kicking can only 
 be done if you've been teamkilled by the one you wish to kick. Kick abuse is pathetic, and the 
 ones guilty of it should be absolutely ashamed.
  
  What's worse, if the host drops, the game ends. A new host isn't picked like in Halo 2. It just 
 ends.
  
  One of the positive elements of the game is that you can customize your operative with a wide variety 
 of gear to give him or her a unique appearance... perhaps one of the game's most appealing features. 
 Too bad you have to unlock the weapons and gear as you rank up by winning matches. Unlockables 
 aren't rewards for good players where I come from. Do you know how I see it? The game simply wasn't 
 good enough, so they made everything into an unlockable to keep people hooked until they got everything. 
 Some people used boosting techniques to get there, effectively earning nothing but some cool-looking 
 armor.
  
  Nice armor, but did you notice the lag? That's right. Lag.
  
  Perhaps the game's greatest failing of all... Server-Side Hit Detection. Now, leading someone by 
 a couple inches isn't so bad, but several feet? What if they change course before my bullets reach 
 them? Seeing as this game uses the same engine and some of the same netcode as GOW, they BOTH have 
 the same problem. Guns whose bullets are so slow, your enemy has already walked out of the bullet's 
 path before it is recognized by the server. No lag compensation code, no Client-Side Hit Detection... 
 no competitive gameplay. Basically, the host and the people closest to him have the best performance. 
 Everyone else? Well, if I fire my gun and the bullets don't even BEGIN to travel until a half-second 
 later, I'm calling BS.
  
  So many aspects of this game scream unfinished . If only they'd given it more time. But, as it 
 stands, the only good aspect of Rainbow Six Vegas is its incredible addictiveness despite its many 
 shortcomings. It has the unprecedented ability to keep you coming back for more. Perhaps that is 
 the genius of it.
  
  Though they've really gotta patch the netcode so everyone's bullets register immediately. Once 
 they've done that, it'll be absolute gold online. As it is now, I'm surprised people put up with 
 it. Myself included. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawnboi
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 8, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  Las Vegas is a weird and diffrent place to base a game in. Considering how games don't usually 
 take place in Vagas, Ubisofts Rainbow 6: Vagas 
  was most likely frowned upon when it was announced. We first saw R6: Vegas in action at E3 2006. 
 It was breathtaking and caused a lot of hype. Now that the game is released, it lives up to the 
 hype and exceeds in created a awesome first person shooter The story for the game is surprisingly 
 good and very involving, and makes you always wonder whats going to happen next. Basicaly Vagas 
 in under a terrorist attack. You play as Logan who just recently lost 2 of his men in Mexico. He 
 wants to go back and save them but he is told there is a bigger
  event going on in Las Vegas. Through the course of the main campain you will be fighting terroist 
 and saving hostages, in the very bright and beautiful Las Vegas. At the begining of almost every 
 level you will be in a helecopter wich gives you a great view of Vegas wich is amazing to look 
 at even if their is bombs going off and smoke and fire everywhere. It looks almost identical to 
 the real city. Another good chance to admire the graphics is when you are repelling off buildings 
 and on rooftops fighting off bad guys. There is a major component to R6: vegas. That is staying 
 in cover, instead of pushing a button and jumping to cover you will hold down LT and stay in cover, 
 once you let go it releases you from your position. It helps when you are in hectic fire fights 
 and need to get out of cover fast. There are also a wide range of guns to choose from all available 
 in the single player campain. All the guns have a unique effect but most sound the same, and have 
 no real sound impact when firing. There are all the standard weapons and a few unique stuff like 
 sheilds and gas mask wich a pointless in single player but are useful online. Ther online for R6: 
 Vegas is wicked. It starts you off completely customizing your character. From armor to facial 
 hair. You even get to put your face on your character with the Xbox Live Vision Camera which takes 
 a long time to work but its awesome once it works. After a match you gain experience wich ranks 
 your character (private, sergeant ect.) . This adds a very addicting component to the multiplayer. 
 The multiplayer allows up to 16 players to go head on, basically trying to kill each other. The 
 clear favorite multiplayer mode is Attack and Deffend , one team are the Attackers while the other 
 team are the Defenders The deffenders must defend the intel/hostoges while the attackers must take 
 the intel/hostoges to a specific area on the map. There is also clan support, but it does not go 
 very in dept is just basicaly putting your clan tag beside your name.
  
  Rainbow 6: Vegas is an seriously wicked game, that will last a long time with it many multiplayer 
 and CO-OP modes. It almost acheives a milestone for Xbox in 06 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robertwelsh2
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 7, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  The Rainbow franchise has sold hundreds of thousands, if not millions of copies throughout the 
 world. Although there have been some failures, Rainbow Six Vegas is not one of them. If this game 
 never came out, then nothing would challenge that monster, Gears of War. Although this game comes 
 close to Gears of War, it is not perfect. There are some subtle flaws in it. For example, in one 
 of the game modes, in Rainbow Six Multiplayer, specificaly Co-op Terrorist Hunt, the Incinerators 
 or the Posphate Grenades magically make the terrorist that you killed dissapear, and keep the kill 
 count on 1, so if you have the time on unlimited ... well you get the point. The game actually 
 starts off on the border of Mexico, in a small isolated town that is in a middle of a terrible 
 gang war. You and your Team of three, which consist of Logan, Kan, and Gabriel. You and your team 
 try to stop and capture a Gang Leader named Irena from commiting more drug, gun, and other trafficing. 
 Later on she captures you team mates, then you get diverted to Las Vegas to help police silence 
 a terrorist uprising that is ravaging the city. You meet another fellow Rainbow detatchment, who's 
 names are Jung, and Micheal, then the game goes on from there. This takes some ideas from both 
 Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon, and Gears of War. All three of them have excellent cover modes, and like 
 in Ghost Recon, you cant just rush in, guns shooting becuase since the terrorists do that as well, 
 and since they pretty well excel at it, you will probably die. This is why you have team mates, 
 for support, covering fire, infiltration and a easy distraction as you attack from behind. So as 
 symbosis applies you depend on your team. Rainbow Six Vegas also has a multiplayer section, as 
 I mentioned earlier, this will keep you playing for well over a month or two weeks. There are more 
 than several maps included, like Border Town, Streets, and LVU Campus. There is a ranked system, 
 which as you make your way up the status tree, you unlock clothes, different armor, camo, and weapons. 
 Achivements in this game are pretty hard to come by, and the large ones are usually in the 30 or 
 40 range. Get these by playing the Single Player Story Mode. The value of this game is around, 
 70$ Canadian so don't expect another cheap game, becuase average price for a Xbox 360 game is around 
 50 or 60 dollars. The Normal Difficulty of this game is preticulary hard for first timers, but 
 for a challenge veterens should try the Realistic, but as a warning later on in the game bullets 
 start flying , and you will have a hard time staying alive. Overall, Rainbow Six Vegas is a awsome 
 piece of work, the graphics engine really puts you in the moment, and the gameplay is generally 
 smooth. If your a fan of shooters, then get Rainbow Six Vegas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hg199
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 7, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Like most people I had lost interest in the Rainbow Six series as compared to Splinter Cell and 
 GRAW I felt it had been left behind. However, after watching the video review here on gamespot 
 and playing the demo from the market place I decided to give it a whirl.
  
  I loved every minute of it. As I crouched behind a poker machine, with bullets whizzing over my 
 head, with sparks coming off the machine, and smoke grenades falling, only popping up to take head 
 shots was damn damn exciting.
  
  I felt so involved. I found the health system to work really well, take a few direct or close hits 
 and your dead, but take cover for longer enough and you'll be like new. I like the range of weapons 
 and explosives, and the ability to customise the weapons.
  
  The graphics are rock solid and they have done really well in building the city of sin. One thing 
 I did miss was cut-scenes. I felt each chapter didn't have a ending, just jump in the chopper and 
 do it all again. I also thought the very end of the game was hardly satisfying.
  
  All in all I think it has setup the series for a new run on the next-gen consoles and I look forward 
 to every second of tactical room breaches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevor_25
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 7, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that I am not a Rainbow Six afficianado. In fact, this is the first game 
 in this series I have played. Let me also say that I was blown away by this game. Every aspect 
 of the game, including the big reason I normally dont play tactical shooters - AI, is very well 
 done. Some might say perfect, but I wont go that far. Let me break down the game into core categories 
 to give you an idea of how good the game is.
  
  Gameplay
  
  
  Tactical shooters must 
 rely upon the AI of both enemies and your AI controlled squad mates to make the game work. Rainbox 
 Six surprised me in a good way at how well both of these aspects were pulled out. Your control 
 of your squadmates is simple yet effective. Direct them to spots using your overhard map off the 
 terrain you are fighting in. Have them stack up at doors and use several command options for entry 
 depending on the situation on the other side. I particularly love using the breach charges to take 
 care of guys right next to the door as well as stunning others in the room. While your squadmates 
 wont kill a ton of enemies they do a good job of drawing fire and if you designate enemies to take 
 out, they will do so with efficiency. Use tons of tactics and weapons to get the drop on your enemies 
 as you rappel, snipe, flank, and grenade your way through level after level. Using cover is key 
 and the controls are set up very intuitively. Use LT to take cover and then push up or left and 
 right with the analog stick to peak out to take shots at the enemy. Its easy and fun. Actually 
 better than the A button techinique in Gears of War. The enemy AI is also solid. They will take 
 cover, use blind fire and as the levels advance in difficulty use different grenades to make your 
 life difficult. All in all the gameplay here is tight and very satisfying.
  
  Story
  
  The story here is also solid 
 although the ending will leave you hanging a little. You play as Logan Keller who leads one of 
 the most elite tactical counter terrorist units in the world. Your three man team starts out in 
 Mexico as you try to uncover a sinister plot by unknown terrorist. This adventure will take you 
 through casinos in Las Vegas, a hydro electric plant at the base of a huge dam, and a secret base 
 hidden inside. You must lead your three man team through a variety of missions to disarm bombs, 
 rescue teammates and hostages and finally defeat the terrorist plot. The game itself is not very 
 long and getting through it in 10-12 hours is very doable.
  
  Graphics and Sound
  
  Another area this game performs 
 exceptionally well in is graphical presentation. The images are crisp and well defined. Each level, 
 especially the casinos, are bright with colors and amazing clarity. The casino levels are so fun 
 to play. You really feel like you are in Vegas as you use slot machines and blackjack tables as 
 cover against enemy fire. Check out the dam level where you can look down from the top of the dam 
 and you actually feel like you are hundred of feet in the air. The gun fire flashes and bomb explosions 
 are flat out awesome. The audio presentation inly enhances these effects. From the chatter over 
 your headset as you give order and your men respond to your breathing in the quiet before going 
 into a room full of bad guys, you will be pleased. All in all this is one of the prettiest games 
 you will play on any console.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  I just have one word here. 
 Awesome! Its almost like playing two different games when you play single player campaign and coop 
 campaign or on a coop Terrorist Hunt. Talking over your headset with a friend is like being in 
 the game. This game has a much more diverse multiplayer than say Gears of War. For one you can 
 create your own character and choose what type of body armor to wear. Use equipment templates to 
 create a unique look to your character. Overall their are 6 different modes including attack and 
 defend, survival, retrieval, and sharpshooter. Lots of varieties that can be played in ranked or 
 unranked matches. In ranked matches you get points for kills or accomplishing team goals to achieve 
 various ranks. If you like online multiplayer shooters, you cant miss this.
  
  In conclusion this game ROCKS. While perhaps not as fun as Gears of War, it is a deeper and more 
 diverse game. The graphics are amazing and hunting down terrorists in Vegas is really fun. Go buy 
 this game and jump online to see what I am talking about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick70471
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 7, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  This is the greatest FPS i have played in a long time. The single-player is good. Its a little 
 on the hard side but its still fun. The multi-player is where this game is at. Your rank actually 
 means something. Whenever you level up you get new stuff (clothing, armour, weapons, etc.) . The 
 graphics are amazing. And you can customize your character with the stuff you unlock. Playing in 
 casinos is really fun. I think this game is unappreciated because it came out the same time as 
 Gears of War. I haven't played Gears of War but i think Vegas is better because you have to use 
 your head instead of just blowing everything up and shooting everything in sight. Its the best 
 tactical shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supergamer1289
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 6, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Lets me start by saing this is one of the best frist person shooters and the best FPS on the 360. 
 For this review I will analze this game from serveral angles: Gameplay, Graphics, Sound, Value, 
 and Mulitplayer. Lastly I will sum it all up.
  
  Gameplay: This is one of the best parts of the game. Most people will say how the hell does an 
 FPS gameplay change? This RB6: V has added one of the greatest cover systems ever. IT has a better 
 cover system then most 3rd person shooter. WHat you do is you press the right trigger and you will 
 lock on to cover. THen you can lean out of cover and take some well placed shots. Now when I got 
 back to games like Call of duty i really want to lock on to the cover. You squad is smarter then 
 ever and so are the bad guys. Your allies are smart enough so they dont have to be micromanaged 
 but you will still need to control them. The gameplay is top notch: 10
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are amazing. The cassinos are great looking and so is Las Vegas. 
 Also the character models are some of the best on the 360 to date. Lasty the gun models. THey are 
 amazing. They are all very different and just plain awsome. YOu can tell what gun you opponets 
 are using. The downside is online, the games graphics take a noticable hit. Still, the gun models 
 still look amazing so the hit is not that bad. Graphics are amazing: 9
  
  Sound:
  The sound in this game is the worst part. The voice acting is good but some of the voices seem 
 a little, well, off. Also most of the guns just sound the same. Still, the explosions sound great. 
 Also some of the guns sound just great. The sound is just plain average: 7
  
  Value:
  This game is worth the 60 bucks and I would even splash out on the extra special edition. This 
 game will keep you coming back. The part that will keep you coming back the most is multiplayer, 
 which I will talk about next. I would pay 90 buck for this game: 10
  
  Multiplayer: The multiplayer is great feauting a verity of difffernt modes and maps. ALso the great 
 ranking system will keep you coming back. The exstencive customization options really make you 
 feel like a specific person online. It is very hard to find someone who looks just like you. The 
 multiplayer is just great. The graphics do take a hit. Also the game does freeze and it happens 
 enough for it to piss me off. Also some bad hosts will kick you for no good reasons. Theese flaws 
 are easy to overlook because the rest of the multiplayer is just great.: 10
  
  Overal/ Tilt: This game was a blast to play, and the small flaws are easy to overlook. I am still 
 playing this game and hope to play it a lot longer. This game is a must buy: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denny33142
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 6, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  the multiplayer of this game is very good the singleplayer is not all that great but its pretty 
 good too. the graphics are awesome though the faces of the characters are not that accurate. still 
 its a next gen worthy game and the best ive played on the xbox so far. i recommmend this game to 
 anyone who likes tactical shooter becouse if thats what you want than rainbow six is definitly 
 for you. o and did i mention that the multiplayer is awesome?
  
  
  thank you awesome game game game!
  
  also i dont know about you but the ranks that this game 
 offers is also awesome becouse you get ranks and its very good yes ranks very good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krystoval
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 6, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Since the last ghost recon tom clancy&acute; s games seem to be a little racist to mexican peaople 
 and a wrong concept of the bad people with guns, They call terrorists in mexico there are any terrorists 
 so whats the point the bad people is a mexican guys with weapons by tha way os drugs so why dont 
 make usa terrorists? and despite usa bad guys or make a stage in a american child school hostage 
 situation like is usual in real life or make and stage with terrosim in some american building 
 to stop a bomb atack they dont do it because they moral ans ehitcs will be against them but thay 
 can desp&iacute; te another countries and the wrogn and fiction way like mexicans but there nobody 
 says nothing i will promove in some non american game team to build some tactical game where the 
 terrorist will be americans and you will see the critics and the indignation by their way its not 
 fare.
  
  A side of this the game its good the tactical is better thatn the others rainbow games and the 
 graphics are so good the detail of the hand the glovee is so good the leather texture its amazing, 
 and when you play this game you will remember the excelent game black in the anterior console its 
 so similar games. the gameplay is so real and the bullets to if you shoot somebody in his head 
 or chest is dead but if you shoot in his leg a lot of times only will be bad wounded, its so real 
 youll die so fast so be really careful because one mistake and youre dead and your team too, that 
 is why is excellent game because the realism is very intesive and the AI too, the enemy tactic 
 is very good because enemies cover and flank you dont shoot you like crazy people they wait to 
 a good aim shoot to take your life away. the very negative details is the racism way is so intensive 
 for latin people and the justification is thet is only fiction but one game so real like this you 
 dont believe that is fiction game so make terrorists but maybe if you dont mentionated mexican 
 police are untrust people or thing like that is so antiethic or what you think latin people? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unigoono
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 6, 2007 1:52 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six has been around for awhile. I first got into it when Rainbow Six Three came out and 
 to me that was the best of them all but that might be because I was MVP of my clan and we were 
 almost always top 5 of any ladder back in the day.
  
  This one brings back a lot of those good times, such as spending your entire online gaming life 
 in Streets The game lacks a little but is much better then some of the older releases after Six 
 Three. It felt as if it tried to add so much in with out spending time working on all of it. So 
 shortly its like the spend little time working on a lot so you get a lot but its not really that 
 good, if you understand that? But still that aside it is a great game.
  
  Game Play 9 - This game could of used more work on the line modes and better of all on its tactical 
 play, being a big fan of You die you die Games I didn't like the respawning much, it took away 
 from what the game was about in the day but it is still a great game.
  
  Graphics 9 - While the Single player graphics rock and could blow away most games, multi player 
 lacked a lot, it reminded me a lot of a better counter strike source.
  
  Sound 8 - The sound didn't embrace me much, I want a reason for sound! not just because its there. 
 I found the lack of foot steps in multi player to sadden me.
  
  Value 9 - Over all it is a good game but because it seems to have lost what Rainbow six was about 
 like the others after Six Three it just doesn't hold that great of a value to me.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt 10 - I give it 10 because it does what a game should do, make me spend time playing 
 it and be tons of fun. Also adding old maps from the good ole' days makes up a lot for the lack 
 of losing the Rainbow Six feeling.
  
  So over all I give it a 9.2, Superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_gamer_god_X
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 6, 2007 1:49 am PT
Review:  I had no doubt that this would be a great game, and Rainbow Six Vegas did not dissapoint me in 
 the least bit. This game is stunning visually, you will be able to figure this out when you are 
 flying above vegas in a helicopter being briefed for your next mission. To me the most exciting 
 part of a mission is when you fast rope out of the helicopter, hit the ground, then take cover 
 to view your surroundings. There are some situations where you have to fire up your brain and think 
 of a good safe strategy to take down the enemy in a room. Sometimes you will mop up enemies in seconds 
 nice and clean, and sometimes you might make the wrong move and you and your team will have a tougher 
 time against the enemy. The A. I. is smart enough to know when you are flanking, and to flank you 
 themselves. That's not all they can do though. The sound is great too. Sounds like a Rainbow game 
 should. And the new cover system is phenominal, definately useful, and without it I don't know 
 how you could beat this game. I don't like the fact that when you are in cover you still have you 
 crosshair, so you can put that on the enemy turn the corner and squeeze off 2 shots and they will 
 go down in a split second. And sometimes you will lean out when you don't want to. The controls 
 are relitively the same as the other Rainbow games. The online is great as well with new game modes, 
 customization of your character, weapons, and levels. If you are a fan of Tom clancy games then 
 pick this game up A. S. A. P. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demon_God
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 6, 2007 1:49 am PT
Review:  So you thought G. R. A. W was awesome huh? Well the latest game from the Tom Clancy Series is here 
 and believe me it is 100x better. Rainbow Six : Vegas manages to blend Ghost Recon style Gunplay, 
 Splinter cell maneuvers, Swat team tactics and it mixes very well. It sports a lengthy campaign 
 that will have you tied over for at least 12 hours or so not to mention the difficulty options 
 which make it realistic and is worth the replay if you manage to survive it on normal. The levels 
 are well designed and vary from Mexican towns to city streets, casinos and towers to name a few. 
 Guns. Yep there are guns in Rainbow Six and there are 5 classes Sub Machine Guns, Light Machine 
 Guns, Assault Rifles, Shot guns, and Pistols not to mention an expansive array of hi tech gadgetry 
 like Breaching charges and motion sensors GPS to name a few there is enough guns in to game and 
 they all have there weakness and strengths and hopefully you find them before you go online.
  
  Online multiplayer is the reason this game rules there is a role-playing element there to keep 
 you hooked like gaining promotions and ranking up to get some new gears to add to your online Avatar 
 or you (If you used the Vision Camera to map your face to your Character) but it allows you to 
 create a unique looking character and show off you rank :p. In my opinion it is more fun than GRAW 
 and Gears of War as it requires a bit more skill and planning to win a team match.
  
  Overall it is a awesome experience and the Graphics are jaw dropping especially if you own a HDTV 
 Sound is spot on and guns sound like there real life counter parts (and yes i have fired a few 
 of them in real life) but if you are looking for a game that has a solid story campaign and a ridiculously 
 addictive multiplayer then go out there and buy this game NOW!! no seriously NOW!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greatwasabi
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 5, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  To start off, one of the greatest things about this game is that it really makes you feel like 
 you are an elite squad covertly taking out terrorists in the most effective way possible. Using 
 your snake cam to paint high priority targets, ordering your squadmates to cover up against a door 
 while you move to an alternate entrance point, then sending the Frag and Clear command, and after 
 a few bursts of rifle fire and yelling from a few surprised enemies, the room falls silent, littered 
 with the dead bodies of your foes. What a satisfying feeling. It truly nails that thirty seconds 
 of fun that are needed in every FPS. The cover system works really well in this game and seems 
 to be more realistic than the Gears of War one as you can still get hit behind cover if you're 
 right up against the edge of a wall or car, it also works the same way as Gears except instead 
 of using A you use the Left Trigger. Unfortunately there is no option to jump from cover or spin 
 to a nearby piece of cover, which I thought would be very helpful when taking cover against open 
 doorways. And now, Graphics. I honestly can't see what everybody was flipping out about. They're 
 good and the gun models are great but... It just seems like the environments don't really look 
 that great. I'm playing on a brand new 30 HDTV and I was expecting alot more in the Graphics department. 
 Everything just looks very blended together and not too great. I don't know what it is... maybe 
 I'm just weird.
  
  Another downside to this game was that the ending totally blew away Halo 2 and Gears of War for 
 worst endings of the year... They even used the old, To be Continued When playing Halo 2 and Gears 
 of War I still felt there was a sense of finality to the games because you ended one fight, you're 
 just about to start another. It felt like this game really just sliced the story right in half 
 and stuck in the old To be Continued garbage.
  
  Oh and achievements, something that I think should be added into the review attributes for 360 
 games. I think they were used really well. Nothing too crazy, I think there were 36? That's a pretty 
 good number. I don't like games with 50 that have some achievements that are like, kill 600 enemies 
 using your boot, and your reward is 5 points. That's just kinda lame. Playing the game through 
 on realistic difficulty I picked up around 350-400 points. Very reasonable. The rest exist on multiplayer 
 which may be a sin, but I haven't tried it out yet but I plan on doing that tonight.
  
  If you're playing the game just for Singleplayer it's worth a rent because You aren't gonna go 
 through it like a hundred times repeating levels like we all do in Halo. Well I hope you enjoyed 
 the review.
  
  Oh one more thing. Something I really liked was being able to choose your weapons before every 
 level. I don 't know if this was in the other R6 games but this being my first time I thought it 
 was really cool. However I never found a moment where I needed the sniper rifles.... Oh well. Okay 
 I'm done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: organic_oreo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 5, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  The past few Rainbow Six games have been anything but spectacular. After the first Rainbow Six 
 3 game hit shelves, it was downhill from there. But now, Rainbow Six Vegas changes all that. Keeping 
 to the tactical shooter genre, you will be flanking, shooting, arranging, and taking cover throughout 
 the game. Wile the game itself as a whole is amazing, a few nits must be picked. First off, many 
 have a distaste for holding the left trigger to take cover for long amounts of time, especially 
 when the action heats up and you are forced into a corner. Another negative note is, unfortunately, 
 the level design at some points can make for some frustratingly tedious shootouts. These problems 
 are easily forgotten due to the games amazing mulitplayer. Leveling up your character with points 
 gained from winning and loosing a match (preferably winning) you can customize your own personal 
 anti-terrorist bad-ass. The online usually runs smoothly, while depending on the host, you should 
 usually have an above average connection. On another bright not, all the weapons can be outfitted 
 with scopes, laser sights, reflex scopes, and other accessories.
  The sound and graphics are a thing of beauty. Explosions look and sound like explosions, the characters 
 have pretty realistic movements, and the slot machines make all the annoying, yet strangely addictive 
 noises you would expect them to make.
  All in all, if you have $60 lying around, you have no excuse to not try this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fugo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 5, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon: AW, but with a hugely improved cover system and tight, frantic fighting. Incindary 
 grenades cause satisfying screams form your opposition, while looking at a flashbang ruins your 
 hearing and vision for a few seconds and all you can do is cover and hope.. One of the best renditions 
 of flashbangs ever in a game. My main niggle with this game is the lack of checkpoints, a few more 
 would reduce the amount of repeats you have to do, espicially in some sections where you spend 
 forever trying to do one bit, only to have some lucky terrorist shotgun you in the back while your 
 teammates stand and watch him rather than guarding your back as they should have been. Generally 
 the AI is very good, but like in Ghost Recon if you stick to long range engagements whereever you 
 can you will ruin the oppostition. Thankfully this is a submachine-gun game. There is a large range 
 of weapons customisation options, although it annoys me that in single player at least, you should 
 be allowed more than one customisation (for example, a ACOG sight and a laser pointer, or a high-cap 
 magazine and a laser pointer for a pistol) as it seems silly to just have one thing. This would 
 also give your weapons load out extra cool points, for having laser markers stuck everywhere.
 
  
  The sounds and graphics are fantastic, espicially on the guns, making them alot more satisfying 
 to use (bonus points for the accurate reload animations depending on rounds in the chamber and 
 open/closed bolt weapons) . If you like any tactical or cover shooters, at least download the demo 
 from XBL, you won't look back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anthsmithsafc
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 5, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  I can't say that i did not like everything about this game. I just can't comprehend how amazing 
 the game looks as well as the game-play. The graphics are the best on this type of game i have 
 seen , well it can only get worse from now on. I JUST WANT EVERY GAME I PLAY ON TO BE THIS GOOD.
 
  Storyline is simple and sweet, it keeps you gripped. On-line play i have yet to experience but 
 multi-player is nothing short of fun. If anyone ever wants a game where they just to run around 
 killing the bad guys , this is NOT for you!!! This game requires in its nature:- skill , dedication 
 , and perseverance. This actually the first rainbow six i could be bothered with after the third 
 mission! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 5, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games that you wished was developed earlier, its a one of a kind game, a game 
 that combines a robust cover system, not original though, (reference to the Gears of War system) 
 and realistic weaponry. The game is about a team of rainbow's leading an op on mexico, after your 
 team gets kidnapped, you are sent to help out in vegas, waiting for a call from his missing team 
 members, from there you just go from casino to casino fighting smart ai terrorists.
  
  The ending maybe shallow, but that doesn't mean that this game sucks. if you like a good multiplayer 
 game, then you'll love this games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llTylerll
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 5, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Don, t get me wrong this game is pretty cool, I mean come on who doesn't love a game that you can 
 play as s. w. a. t guys and military. But for some reason I just don't enjoy it that much. lots of 
 customization... check, fun online co-op... check, awesome visuals......... check I just don't no 
 why I dont love this.... I think its because I suck at rainbow sixes and I plain out dont care 
 for them much. but still its just that I guess I dont notice anything spectacular in this game, 
 I dont see whats the big fuss, Its not that great its pretty fun at times but for me I thought 
 it was repetitive. But still this is just my opinion, you can agree or disagree but the bottom 
 line is Just wasn, t for me. This has been another review from: llTylerll 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daredevil911
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 5, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Single player was refreshing for awhile but got stale too quick. the best levels are the ones set 
 in the gorgeously designed casinos. Storyline was blah as well as the ending. Graphics are above 
 average in single player with very satisfying scenery and details ,but for multiplayer they are 
 almost PS2-ish: definitely not next-gen . Multiplayer is the best aspect of the game. With the 
 improved PEC feature, its very addicting to just keep going for one more rank. Hardly any lag at 
 all for the most part and when you get into a game where both teams really work together and communicate 
 well then you will never put the controller down. only complaint about the PEC feature is that 
 once you start gaetting higher up in rank the rewards start getting less satisfying therefore resulting 
 in less motivation in trying to rank up. overall this is my favorite rainbow 6 game followed closely 
 by R6:3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiltaJay
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 5, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow six Vegas is the most well controlled shooter so far, yes even better than GOW. I cannot 
 imagine how even the inevitable SOCOM for the next gen will compete, as the Rainbow six franchise 
 will get better and better. I've never felt such smooth and accurate controls, the flow and transition 
 is unmatched. The cover system is the best, watch for all other developers to copy this revolutionary 
 technique. Picture how much better GOW or Call of duty would've played with this cover system. 
 Rainbow's AI squad would make ole Boomer (from SOCOM) reconsider joining any faction, as it's the 
 smartest yet. Enemy AI are sometimes dumb on their own, but I quess It's not all straight out bullets 
 comming at you. Besides, just like in real life, you are an elite commando and in much better preparation 
 than these real life terrorist. But then again don't underestimate them as they are as brutal as 
 in real life, they will not hesistate for one second and won't give a rats ass who you are. There 
 are too many things that make this game great. Multiplayer is tons more fun than solo so I'm not 
 touching this subject as you need to experience this for yourself. After playing three of the hottest 
 Xbox 360 shooters of 2006, being Gears of War, Call of Duty 3 and now Rainbow six Vegas, As much 
 as I love real life war environments or shooting beautifully rendered monsters, I choose Rainbow 
 six Vegas because it plays soo realistic you actually think you're in the Vegas casinos duking 
 it out with bad terrorist. No monsters to distract the realism nor tired of killing the same ole 
 Nazis thing. This is real life scenario that happens around the world and it's the same feeling 
 playing this outstanding game. Oh, did I also tell you how beautiful this game is? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinDelphi
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 5, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  This game has already provided me with untold amounts hours of play and I haven't played through 
 the single player campaign completely ( I have done co op) with in days of my purchase my entire 
 friends list changed from Gears to this game. The Ranking system is awesome, although I would have 
 liked to eventually have received armor and weapons that were a significant improvement. All the 
 way to Elite there is nothing really to speak of much. The sheer amount of online modes is astounding. 
 ( My favorite being terrorist hunt) .
  All in all with the single player modes, online modes, great graphics and awesome cover system. 
 This is a game that significantly raises the bar, and that is one if its best attributes. P. S. 
 Would have liked to have seen sprinting, diving, rolling. Characters just feel like some control 
 is missing. ( The Gears control system is probably the best available.
  
  P. P. S. After playing this and gears I went to play fear. And it felt archaic and clunky. These 
 games have really ruined me on shooters. From now on I download the demos to all shooters heh. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inoperativeRS
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 5, 2007 6:25 am PT
Review:  Rainbow 6 has always been a game series trying to recreate terrorist shooting in as realistic ways 
 as possible. The series started on the pc and later on moved on the consoles, where it fared very 
 well on especially the xbox due to the well known and popular online play. Still, the best game 
 in the series was, at least in my opinion, Raven Shield, the last pc exclusive Rainbow 6 and the 
 game that both R6 3 and R6 Lockdown were built upon.
  
  Now this had changed. Rainbow Six Vegas is hand down the best R6 game, and possible one of the 
 best tactical shooters. Ever. The singleplayer features, for the first time in the series history, 
 a story that is actually engaging and interesting, even if it isn't exactly a masterpiece. The 
 graphics are, thanks to the UE 3, amazing and simply gorgeous to look at.
  
  But that's not all. What the R6 series is most known for is its fantastic gameplay, and Vegas does 
 feature the same time tested gameplay the other R6s had. On top of that, there's plenty of new 
 additions. The cover system, which, surprisingly enough (NOT!) , works very similar to that of Gears 
 of Wars, is a very nice addition and makes it loads easier to survive the rain of lead the terrorist 
 will send towards you and your teammates. Talking about teammates, the squad AI is phenomenal, 
 and as the review deck implies, your squadmates often take care of terrorists before you even see 
 them. They also take cover by themselves, no need to babysit them (I'm looking at you, GRAW) and 
 generally behave in a very realistic manner.
  
  The weapons to choose from are many, and if you count all the different scopes and other accessories 
 you can mount on them, there's easily enough combinations to keep your interest up fora long time, 
 especially in the multiplayer modes. The multiplayer is, as in every other R6, perhaps the most 
 important part and vegas is no exception. The MP is fast, deadly and ruthless, which may not suit 
 everyone. In that case, you can always play co op, which is my personal favorite among the different 
 game modes. To plan strategies and then execute them with your friends is unbelievably fun, and 
 really shows why more games should feature this fantastic game mode.
  
  All in all, Rainbow Six Vegas is one of the best first person shooters of 2006, and should not 
 be missed by any shooter fan that owns a X360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Niner0
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 5, 2007 5:20 am PT
Review:  First of all, this game is very very good. The graphics are amazing and the gameplay very entertaining. 
 The multiplayer mode is solid and fun, and the singleplayer is challenging. This game is the best 
 game ive played on the 360 so far, and im having a lot of fun with it.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is very focused on taking cover and shooting from there. Without taking 
 cover, youre a dead man (or woman) . The singleplayer isnt very lengthy, i would say about 8 hrs, 
 but its very challenging at higher difficulties. However, i thought the singleplayer got boring 
 after maybe three hours of play, so now i either play coop with my friends or online. And yes, 
 there is on offline, splitscreen coop, wich is very well made and fun to play. You can play either 
 Terrorist hunt (eliminate all terrorists) or the singleplayer missions. The multiplayer is very 
 fun, and there are several different modes that keeps it varied. As you play multiplayer battles 
 and hoepuflly win them, you will progress in rank and unlock new items and weapons to use in the 
 multiplayer matches. This makes the multiplayer more fun to play, since u fell like u are playing 
 towards a goal. In the end, the gameplay is very solid and entertaining.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are plainly amazing. The only thing that beats it on the 360 is gears of 
 war. The textures are sharp and crisp, the character models are very detailed and the surroundings 
 are painfully detailed. The only time when the graphics look bad is when u are on your way to a 
 drop off point in a chopper. It looks kinda like Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter.
  
  Design: The game is well designed, and the surroundings look realistic. The only thing i dont like 
 is that its often very very dark, wich forces you to use the night vision goggles (wich i dont 
 like) This prevents you from seeing all the colors and details, and its something i dont like very 
 much.
  
  Summary: Tom Clancys Rainbow Six Vegas is an extremely good game, and its polished on almost all 
 aspects. This is a good first buy for persons who just bought a 360, and will probably keep you 
 satisfied untill you find a new game that suits you. I strongly reccomend this game to all 360 
 owners, its a must buy for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echou07
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2007 4:51 am PT
Review:  This game is a must buy for fans of the rainbow series. This is the game I've been waiting for 
 to come out on xbox for the longest time! The game play is fantastic, action is absolutely intense 
 and you get to shoot it out in vegas! If you enjoy a first person shooter that goes for authenticity 
 and would like to repel into a window and quicky take down terorrists all while ordering your team 
 to take out specific targets then this game is the game for you. I have not played the multiplay 
 portion of the game yet but from what I've seen in the videos, player customization is quite cool. 
 The only negative (which is minor) about this game is that you can't play cooperatively in the 
 campaign, something I got spoiled to with Gears of War. Other than that the game is an absolute 
 must have for tactical shooter junkies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TDe88
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 4, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  I know that's a gutsy thing to say, but I stand behind it. Really the only thing not as good as 
 Gears is the graphics, both technical and of course artistic. Everything else is a little bit to 
 a lot better. First the gameplay. It's very similar to Gears, but I think that cover is easier 
 to use. Instead of having to press a to get into cover, and then again with the thumbstick to get 
 out of cover. It's much easier to hold down the left trigger to snap to cover, peek out and all 
 those things. Also the fact that you can finally pick up downed enemies' weapons is pretty cool. 
 I like the way it shows you've taken damage by getting blurry, bright, or oversaturated depending 
 on the amount of damage. The graphics, although not Gears-worthy, are fantastic. The amount of 
 detail in each character model and each casino and place in between is amazing. The design is fantastic 
 until Dante's Casino, then that's when it gets unbelievable. The weapon models also look almost 
 exactly like their real-life counterparts. The sounds were up to par with most of the other Tom 
 Clancy games, which is definitely good news. The gun sound effects were great and varied, the voice-overs 
 were great, and dialogue was pretty good. I thought that all the cussing did make it more gritty 
 and in my opinion gave the main characters some kind of edge. I liked the story scene where the 
 first squad confronts Irena in the Mexican mines. This game will definitely last you a long time, 
 even if you don't have Xbox Live. The terrorist hunt mode, never gets old. You choose your equipment 
 and map. Then the game randomly spawns terrorists all ove the map. Then all you have to do is kill 
 all the terrorists. You can choose between Low, Medium and High densities, and Normal or Realistic 
 difficulty. It's a great game no matter who you are, and it will last you months on end. Buy this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kireRare
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas takes an aging license and completely upgrades it with amazing graphics, new 
 gameplay, and an immersive online experience. Gameplay in R6V is fast and fun. Taking cover in 
 R6V is essential for survival. Although the gameplay is borrowed from GoW, thats not a bad thing. 
 The only problem with the gameplay is that it is veer hard. Enemy AI is incredibly intelligent, 
 and therefor many firefights boil down to good strategy. But the best part of R6V is the online 
 multiplayer. You begin by creating your character using the P. E. C. mode found in Rainbow Six lockdown. 
 One you have played a few matches, you will be hooked. Leveling up is very rewarding because you 
 unlock new weapons, armor, and clothes for your online avitar. Rainbow Six Vegas is one of the 
 most rewarding and addictive fps for the 360. If you are interested in great single player, amazing 
 multiplayer, or killing terrorists in sin city, then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironcreed
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 4, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas (like other Rainbow Six games) is a pure tactical shooter in that you must plan 
 your actions very carefully when approaching nearly EVERY area within the game, as if you try to 
 run and gun it.... you are as good as dead. Quite simply, this is the thinking mans shooter.... and 
 a FUN AS HELL one at that.
  
  The gameplay is flawless with a great selection of assult rifles (which you can make either semi 
 or fully automatic at any time) , sub-machine guns, sniper rifles, hand guns and explosives, and 
 you have total and complete control of your 2-man squad as well. What I loved to do is simply send 
 the squad on ahead of you while you cover in order to expose any hiding near by enemies. It makes 
 taking out a room full of tangos much easier, not to mention more enjoyable.
  
  The graphics are pretty darn good as well. You can really see the detail when you stop and look 
 at something up close, such as a puddle of water, a poster on a wall or a slot machine, ect. The 
 A. I. is also quite a step up from most FPS games. These are not your mindless, typical, not even 
 notice your presence enemies. Most of the time, they are scoping you out before YOU even realize 
 they are there.... which of course means that enemies can be VERY well hidden and pick you apart 
 fairly easy even when YOU THINK that you are covered well..... Brilliant.
  
  All in all, this game absolutely smokes Gears of War in every way except of course in graphics.... especially 
 because of the fact that it is a realistic counter terror type of story which draws you in even 
 more because of the whole believable factor. A superb tactical FPS in every way. I strongly reccomend 
 this one to anyone who was a bit let down by Gears' short as hell single player and story. This 
 will probably be a bit more up your alley.... trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 324GaMeR324
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 4, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is an amazing game and in my opinion has been underestimated. Visuals are amazing 
 and the frame rate is really good, only when the screen is filled with terrorists bodies and another 
 15 terrorists crashing through the cieling will it start to studder. The mechanic has been completely 
 re-done and you can blind fire, take cover, rappel, fast rope, basically all the cool commando 
 stuff you've ever wanted to do is in this game.
  
  As for the AI I was completely amazed. The enemies are very very smart they try to flank you every 
 chance they get and they work together making it very difficult. But the AI that matters more the 
 enemy is your team and they really smart as well. You can point anywhere and they take action without 
 even having you specify. The stacking up at a door is very well done as you can frag, breach, bang, 
 smoke etc etc. Although your team is real good and they will save your ass a lot of the time, you 
 still feel like you're doing way to much of the shooting. When your teammates die which will happen 
 and most of the time can't be stopped it gets frustrating.
  
  On Normal difficulty the average person should complete at around 12-15 hours on their first run. 
 You will die a lot and it can be really annoying having to reload a checkpoint as where in Splinter 
 Cell you can save anywhere. There are lots of weapons to choose from like rifles, SMGs, snipers, 
 shottys and pistols. There are also some cool gadgets like different grenades breaching charges 
 C4 and more. The goal of this game is OPA (observe plan attack) . You will die almost at every corner 
 without it. This isn't like old Rainbow Six where it has more of a run n gun, this is a real tactical 
 shooter.
  
  As for online it's great with full character customization and the custom face as well. Graphics 
 aren't nearly as good in online but the gameplay makes of for that. Plenty of different game types 
 to choose from and just one of the best online games yet.
  
  Do not ignore this game if you haven't liked other R6 games. This is a suberb game and that is 
 exactly what I give it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gjagiello
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 4, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  RS: V marks a new high water mark for level design. In particular, the fictional casinos painstakingly 
 designed and built for this game are beautiful -- it is clear that real-world interior designers 
 were involved, as the details are all spot on. The asian-themed casino would be a great blueprint 
 for an actual casino design, featuring gorgeous lighting, materials, textures, elevations, and 
 props such as the dragon columns that breathe flower pedals out onto the casino floor, Japanese 
 style Zen rock gardens, and brass Buddah's throughout the casino. The outdoor levels are equally 
 well designed, in both the campaign and the multiplayer modes. The gameplay is all there, and the 
 way cover is handled is my favorite of all recent titles (including Gears of War) . The visuals 
 are excellent, the audio is great, and overall the game is top-notch production in every way. You 
 should buy this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: English_Death
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 4, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  What a way to end a very good year for the Xbox 360. Gears of War a stunner of a game and then 
 Rainbow Six Vegas.
  
  Vegas looks stunning and it plays superb. The perfect combination in my book. When I come home 
 from work I have to play, note what I said I have to play. Its that good. I have always loved 
 the Rainbow Six franchise and Vegas is a great next step.
  
  The feel of the game, the movement and control of your team works so well. To have a room full 
 of bad guys rush in on you and you have to plan your route through not only thrills my get up and 
 kill instinct, but you have to plan your strategy. And thats the key to the success of the game. 
 You have to consider weapons, grenades both smoke and frag, how what type of eyepieces to use thermal, 
 night or normal vision will affect your approach. Plan how you will take a room or area using your 
 team, will you order them in from a different direction whilst you attach from another?
  
  And the graphics! Seeing is believing. You dont need a PS3 with graphics like these. In hd they 
 just drop your jaw. I say again what a year, GRAW, Oblivion, Battlefield 2 (graphically that is) 
 then Gears (my god its good) and now Vegas. Again, why would you need a PS3? I have one by the 
 way a great machine, but my 360 makes my heart sing.
  
  All the above and I havent mentioned the superb, stunning, brilliant and fun multiplayer.
  
 
  If you dont own a console. Go out by an Xbox 360 with PGR and 2 wireless controllers plus another 
 game at &pound;269. Then spend an extra &pound;80 buying Gears and Vegas. Then buy GRAW from play. com 
 at &pound;17.99. Make sure you have broadband and xbox live and you have the best gaming on the 
 planet. Trust me, I know what I am talking about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhinsa17
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 4, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  this game is just the best game ive played in a long time. you first start off in mexico, then 
 u go to vegas. the first level, u don't actually have anyone wv u, but later on in the game, they 
 come along and help u. the graphics are quite simply the best i have evr seen (not including gears 
 of war, that is the best graphical game in all of time) , the gameplay is brilliant, and the two 
 geezers wiv u aren't a bunch of retards who walk into the middle of a battlefield and get shot 
 and die. if u want, u could complete the game and have barely killed anyone (not that u would do 
 that, cos killin those b****ds is the BEST feelin) cos ur squad can just kick ass by themselves. 
 overall, BUY DIS GAME RIGHT NOW!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imhotepp
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 4, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  As much as I love tactical shooters, they were all becomming the same game. You can't have to many 
 WWII games, right? *wink, wink*. But Ubisoft did it again with RBLV63. I really like the game. 
 Replelling from rooftop to your room, sir. is very cool. I still not a fan of the hole body heat 
 index scope but like the nightvision, a little grainy but... You have to give it up to the finally 
 new art of placing your face in the game with Xbox Vision. Some of my homies have a WILD faces 
 on the charactor. One even used the corner of a book shelf that has two whole were the eyes should 
 be. Too funny. Some have a big surprised look on their and to watch them talk is hilarious. I love 
 the game but don't want a sequil because you sometime lose when doing a sequel. Just my humble 
 opion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tacticalheavy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 4, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  This is a classic for the 360 an the best rainbow six in the series. Sure this game is wonderful 
 to look at and the gameplay is superb and the character models impress me the most. If you don't 
 possess this game you missed a big game. I didn't like the health system, because when you take 
 damage, the screen gets black and you can't really see, where you can take cover. I loved the huge 
 Arsenal of great weapons. I would love to see some bonus modes. Single player mode can be finished 
 in 5 hours and terrorist hunting gets old after a couple of hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stryper121212
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 3, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  A must buy for any fan of the Tom Clancy series, first person shooters, or military games. Single 
 player missions are long and engaging (though checkpoints a few and far between) . Multi player 
 is outstanding fun. This game is easily the best first person shooter out so far for the XBOX 360. 
 You can even take a picture of your face and place it in the game! A large selection of weapons 
 and a great online ranking system round out this title. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunslinger_boy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 3, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Note: due to not having XBL, this review is for the SP campaign. Rainbow Six: Vegas is another 
 great game for the 360, showing off it's power. With the Tom Clancy name on the box, you know that 
 a tactical experience is on the way. It can also be said that Gears of War and Rainbow 6: Vegas 
 are identical areas, and completely different in others. The Graphics: The graphics challenge Gears 
 in every way. The lighting is near perfect in all dimensions. Whenever you walk into sunlight, 
 you see heat rays in the distance, and when you go into a casino, everything is lit up with neon 
 lights and fixtures. The character models are also impressive, and animate perfectly. Opening a 
 door, using a rappelling rope, and setting up your teammates to do clearing maneuvers, to name 
 a few, all look very realistic and lifelike. Many times during the game, I had to stop and think 
 if I was playing the game or watching a Hollywood production. The graphics are that good. The Gameplay: 
 The game plays very well, but note that every button on the controller is used to the fullest. 
 This is a FPS, but switches to 3rd person when using an object for cover. This is where this similarities 
 come in with Gears. You have everything that Gears had with the cover system, minus the SWAT turn 
 and the Cover Slip. Blind-fire is actually usefull, though because terrorist react and hide behind 
 a nearby object when you start popping off random rounds in their direction. The other thing that 
 Vegas has in common with Gears is the commands you can give to your teammates, but naturally, Vegas 
 as a more in depth approach. You can issue commands, like frag and clearing a room and disarming 
 a bomb, and your teammates WILL actually listen to you without wasting time. But the game will 
 get very difficult at spots, and a great strategy is a must for this game. I found myself loading 
 checkpoint after checkpoint trying to figure out what the best way to take down a group of terrorists 
 was. But eventually, you should figure everything out, and get a feeling of accomplishment. The 
 Sound: Great. The guns sound like they should, the terrorist shout profanities at you as you take 
 down their squad, and much more. Its near perfect. One thing that can be said is that some of the 
 speech can feel cheesy and sounds like the actors/actresses were confused about how to express 
 their scripts. ( Warning: those who are put off by extreme profanity should NOT play this game, 
 but who said terrorists had a calm and collected nature) Replay Value: The campaign for me lasted 
 around 15 hours, but that was due to me dying so much. Without loading checkpoints as I did, the 
 campaign should last you around 10-12 hours. There is never a dull moment in the game, and all 
 the battles have an epic feel, and put you right into the game. Enemy patterns are varied, and 
 play out differently often, although I did notice some repeated patterns here and there. You even 
 have a mini game called Terrorist Hunt that is basically a mission mode. Overall, Vegas will have 
 you playing for a while. I would also like to point out that the end of the game will frustrate 
 you, due to a specific cut scene. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarPyhg
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 3, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  A bit basic as has been said already but to hint the details of it but not give it away... think 
 Splinter Cell Chaos Theory equivalent in terms of accuracy &amp; interest.
  
  Gameplay:
  The Good=
  The Cover System Really Does Work Better Than GoW.
  Excellent Team AI &amp; Enemy 
 AI Makes You Believe You Are Fighting Real Players!
  Pretty Much Everything Is Destroyable!
  Cool &amp; Realistic Enviorments
  Best Physics Ever 
 &amp; Bright And Beautiful Graphics
  Hearing Enemies Scream In Anger With Curse Words Is Nice And Their Reactions Change As You Go From 
 Ten To One Enemy.
  The Weapons Are Simply The Funnest &amp; Most Satisfyinf To Fire Out of Any Game.
  Character 
 Animations &amp; Detail Are Exquisit.
  
  The Bad Titles Arent Really Bad But Just Things That Would Make The Game Receive My Personal Tag 
 As The Best Game of The Year, Maybe Best Game Ever.
  
  The Bad=
  The Cover System Could Use Special Moves Like Switching Sides of Doorways.
  The Game Needs A 
 Stay In FPV When Taking Cover Option For Tactical Lovers :)
  You'll Learn To Hate The Moments In The Campaign Where A Teammate Has To Hack A Computer.
  Team 
 AI Is Great But Is Fairly Inept When Returning Fire And Not Behind Cover.
  Leaning Out When Behind Cover &amp; Opening Doors Needs A Fluid Feel Instead of So Rapid All The 
 Time.
  Some Walls Should Be Penetrable With Large-Cal. Weapons &amp; A Weapon Jamming Option.
  Cannot 
 Create A Character And/Or Gain Ranks/Stats/Upgrades Offline.
  Blindfire Should Be A Little More Accurate Only With More Recoil. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barok1973
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 3, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  it a wow ! ... but there should be a 3rd person option for people who does not like 3d much specially 
 older people they hate 3d ... this game is great !.. for people who likes 1st person shooting... 
 a well made a. i. , sound effects , gameplay , nice moves , but it is a must buy games its really 
 entertaining .... for 3d haters .. just buy a bonamine or medicine to surpress your dizzyness or 
 you might vomit ! .... nice location... actually its the best rainbow six series for me ... however 
 i think rainbow six vegas did not maximize the use of xbox360 hardware never the less .. its still 
 cool ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobs_1
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  It all started with Rainbow Six, starring Domingo Chavez, and from there, Rainbow six exploded 
 into legendary proportions. Rainbow Six's jump into Next gen from N64 and PS proved it's worth, 
 but after new games where released, each the exact same as the last, minus Domingo Chavez, they 
 proved to be kind of lacking in a certain aspect; originality. But now with Vegas, Rainbow Six 
 is back to its holy status with nearly flawless gameplay and stunning graphics. Smoke looks realistic 
 and the lick of the flames looks as if there actually is a fire in the screen. Vegas is truly the 
 best Rainbow Six in the series. The inverted Rappel and window breaching... or just the rappeling 
 its self added an amazing amount of realism that seriously increased the enjoyment while playing 
 the game, not to mention gave the baddies a scare when you bash though the window. Of course, with 
 Next-Gen technology comes Next Gen AI, the most challenging thing to deal with. The enemies are 
 smarter, stronger, and even faster, only popping from cover when you do, and sometimes investingating 
 noises heard from another room, no matter how small the sound. But with smarter enemy AI comes 
 smarter aly AI. Your team mates in this game are the best I have ever had in any game, they actually 
 take care of themselves as opposed to you always taking care of them. Rainbow Six Vegas is an awesome 
 game, get it NOW!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hedgyness
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 3, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is yet another brilliant game released by Tom Clancey and is the next installment 
 of the popular Rainbow Six series. This game is a must-have for all FPS lovers.
  
  The graphics in the game are second to none with extremely detailed weapons, environments and characters. 
 The sound of gunshots and helicopters is perfect. You often hear the enemies talking about random 
 stuff, a funny example is one guy scaring another guy by talking about some elite squad that are 
 about to pop out of the door and kill them He is aiming at us right now, finger ready to pull the 
 trigger. And when you really do pop out it is hilarious as they **** themselves. Overall the enemy 
 AI is very good, they use tactics like varied grenades, blind fire and flianking.
  
  You start the game in Mexico which is rather boring compared to the later Vegas missions, but its 
 not long until you reach vegas in your black hawk helicopter. The casinos that you fight in may 
 not be the actual casinos due to lack of licensing but who cares, they are so detailed and huge 
 that they offer some of the best firefights ever in a FPS.
  
  There is also a nice multiplayer mode that offers 6 modes, Attack &amp; Defend where 1 team attacks 
 an objective while the other defends. Team Sharpshooter where each team hunt the other team to 
 gain the most kills, respawns enabled. Team Survival the last man standing from the team wins, 
 no respawns. Retrival is when the two teams go to retrive a biohazard canister and deliver it to 
 the team depot. Survival, all against all, no respawns, no mercy, last man standing wins. Finally 
 Sharpshooter all against all, respawns enabled the winner is the one with the most kills.
  
  Overall Rainbow Six Vegas is an incrediable game and a must-buy for any Tom Clancey or FPS 
 fan. It offers challenging missions, fantastic graphics and sound and generally it is thrilling 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haloman04
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 3, 2007 5:26 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas is definitely a tactical shooter at it's best! Quite often is seen being compared 
 to the likes of games such as... Gears of War.. (sigh) It places influence on the fact that you 
 are the best trained of your kind. From the start in Mexico, to the end in... well you'll see.. 
 This tactical shooter is action packed with many ways to complete each mission and many weapons 
 to do it with! Breath taking visuals, along with amazing sound (I don't not under stand Gamespot's 
 beef with it...) and extremely addictive single player and online play, this game will have you 
 up for hours! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshismetal
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 2, 2007 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Anybody who has played the rainbow six series knows that this one so far is the best with all the 
 additions to it, gameplay wise. The ability to take cover and do blind firing and also call out 
 orders from cover makes this game a first person shooter with third person elements. Also what 
 is cool about the gameplay is the ability to add a silencer to any gun that has the option and 
 even though that is very small it is still way cool. The online play is addicting also because 
 of the ranking system and that everytime you rank up you gain some cool equipment whether its camo 
 or weapons. Also some old game modes are back like the always difficult terrosist hunt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriggerHappy723
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 2, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure why, but the game isn't as good as I had hoped it would be. I'm not sure if it's because 
 Gears of War overshadows the game, but the game isn't as shiny and polished as I had hoped.
  
  The graphics, to me, look great, in single player. The shiny lights of Vegas to the deserted 
 Mexican boarder, every texture is polished to the best it can be. After playing the single player 
 portion, I played the multiplayer. For some reason the multiplayer graphics are brought down quite 
 a bit compared to the single player portion. Look at GoW, the single player is just as good as 
 the multiplayer, why can't R6 Vegas do that?
  
  Let's talk about the cover system. Pressing the Left Trigger while near cover brings you into from 
 a 1st person view into a 3rd person view. You can manuver around cover easily and pop out and take 
 a few shots. However, while in cover, you move VERY SLOWLY, to slow after playing GoW. After playing 
 GoW and then playing R6 Vegas, the cover system just doesn't seem very well implemented in the 
 game. Don't get me wrong, the cover system is great and is needed in most FPS games today, but 
 it just isn't as great as GoW.
  
  If you haven't played GoW yet, buy this, but if you have GoW, you aren't missing out on anything. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattiasmak
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 2, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  If you like a Jean-Claude van Damme movie now and then, then you like Gears of war. But if you 
 need to spice things upp with a little more tactics and reality, then Rainbow Six Vegas is just 
 the thing for you. The single player portion of the game is absolutely splendid! Great visuals, 
 wonderful gameplay and well directed story. With that said, it doesn't say that the story is good.
 
  
  What makes R6V so good, besides the visuals? Well, there are a lot of action games out there, but 
 if you're searching for astonoshing AI, you've come to the right place. Your teammates are almost 
 as smart and acts as humans, and so does the Tango's. This is without no doubt an accomplishment 
 by Ubisoft.
  
  If you liked GRAW you'll love this. On top of this there's a good online portion. I didn't like 
 it so much, but it's well executed.
  But beware: R6V is a difficult game.
  
  Now I've spotted three tangos so I have to stop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yianniskay
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 2, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  OK, i wont bother going over the positives because you can read those everywhere else. Im just 
 going to mention what I feel is disapointing about this game since upon reading the reviews these 
 are not highlighted enough for the sake of a prospective buyer:
  
  1) Split-screen multiplayer. Fact is that If you're buying this game so that you can invite your 
 best buddy over and finish the game in a nice long session Halo/Gears style, you shouldnt bother. 
 Firstly, the graphics change when you play split-screen co-op to the point where you are wondering 
 whether you're playing this game on the original xbox. The character models roughly stay the same 
 but the surfaces of the environment round you become blurry. Single player story mode boasts gorgeous 
 surface rendering with surfaces reflecting and shining in a near photographic way. This is all 
 lost if you play co-op split-screen.
  
  Secondly, split-screen 'story' mode is not a story campaign in any way as the single player campaign 
 is. Upon playing the game for the first time you begin to fear this when you are offered the choice 
 of what levels you would like to play in a menu before the game launches. Once you select all levels, 
 you will play the game with no in-game clips or any other element for that matter that will inform 
 you why you are in that area running around shooting terrorists doen. Essentially, you will still 
 know what your objective is because you'll be able to see it when you pause the game, but you won't 
 know why, for instance, you need to capture some woman called Irena. Unless you play the first 
 player campaign, you won't even know that Irena is actually the terrorist leader. This creates 
 a number of bizarre situations (the funniest is when the terrosists shout jargon supporting their 
 leader and your sitting there wondering what the hell they're on about) . To make matters worse, 
 if you play the game in split screen you don't even have to do a number of things that the story 
 relies on to progress such as blow up certain walls or gates. These story triggers are already 
 activated in multiplayer so you'll find yourself often wondering why theres a convenient hole in 
 the wall for you to breach the casino.
  
  Split-screen co-op for this game is designed as if Ubisoft naturally expected you to want to play 
 this game in single player first and only employ split-screen for replaying it with a buddy for 
 the fun of it.
  
  2) The Covering System
  
  The covering system works well but not flawlessly. To be more precise i found the GOW covering 
 system worked better since in Rainbow Six you're not able to cover behind a few surfaces and in 
 general I found that playing the game in traditional first player style (ie strafe round a corner, 
 shoot, and strafe back in cover) was more effective than going into third person mode by covering 
 behing a surface.
  
  3) Realistic difficulty. This is a pretty minor point that i want to mention. If you opt to play 
 the game at this difficulty level your up for a real challenge. Though recommended, i found it 
 quite cheap that the way the game designers achieved a higher level of difficulty was to by simply 
 make you lose more life when shot (fair enough) and also make the terrorists abnormally good shots. 
 Dont get me wrong, i enjoy a good challenge but somethings not right when some guy keeps hitting 
 you from an absurd distance with a handgun each time you just pop your head out but on the other 
 hand his AI remains pretty daft. You end up fighting enemies who are natural born snipers but still 
 falter in taking proper cover and flanking you. Id rather their aiming remained the same and they 
 just became a bit more capable in taking you on tactically. Halo also suffered from this problem 
 to a lesser extent. Gears on the other hand, on Insane difficulty, made you feel that the enemy 
 was actually smarter than just simply turning into a divine shot.
  
  Plus, you'll find that on realistic difficulty they are stupendously fast. The game gives them 
 the uncanny ability to know where you are, aim, fire and hit you in a split second. Making a game 
 more difficult shouldn't mean that you need to detract from the realism and thats what RS seems 
 to do (ironically in 'Realistic' difficulty) .
  
  I really enjoyed this game and thats why it gets a high score, but considering how many things 
 are right, especially in single player, its unfortunate that these faults exist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prince_jeffery
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas must be the first game in the series to ever mix action and realism 
 in such an expert way. The excellent battles you'll get into, and the way you can go about ending 
 them, is a lot of fun, due largely to your squad's ability to stay alive and pick off targets faster 
 than you can react.
  
  Graphics: -
  
  Ok, so you'll be suprised by the first level in the game. It takes place in one of the dusty brown 
 slums in Mexico. Now those of you who have played Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter will be treated 
 to a deja vu, cause you'll be inserted into the battlefield by helicopter, in almost exactly the 
 same way as in that game. You'll also be able to view the impressive landscape before you while 
 in the chopper, and comparisions here with Ghost Recon end in favour of Vegas.
  
  The pop up here is almost non-visible, and the only problem that concerned textures coming into 
 sight out of thin air was in the first Vegas levels, where the cars and buses lined up in the streets 
 just popped into view about 30 metres away. The irritatingly bright sunshine that restricted the 
 view in Ghost Recon is also absent, and so is the blurry night vision. Here, the greens are much 
 sharper, and you can see stuff much more clearly.
  
  The game will take you through neon lit Vegas streets, dark casinos, and a dam as well. The levels 
 show a great amount of detail, and slot machines and other casino contraptions spew, when shot 
 up, start spitting out coins at an alarming rate. Red dominates Vegas, and this can make objects 
 look dark even with the night vision goggles equiped. The stages are large enough for the gunfights 
 you'll get into.
  
  However, during scenes of heavy action, the frame rate can go down from being smooth to rather 
 choppy. Its rare, but noticible. There was this one occasion where one of my Rainbow operatives 
 was able to shoot a terrorist through a wall. It never happened again, but I was astonished such 
 a thing could still happen. Also, NPCs look horrible, and are covered in really strange skin textures.
 
  
  The same cannot be said of your teammates, however. Their cool black armor and weaponary are displayed 
 in amazing detail, and their animations are excellent (check out the way they move when you order 
 them to clear a room) .
  
  Also, unlike in Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, your squad is solid, that is, you won't clip through 
 them when you bump into them or such. The revival animation is a little odd, as the syringe doesn't 
 move after you plunge it into the guy's body, even though he's constantly shifting his limps.
 
  
  Audio: -
  
  Well, all the sound effects you'd expect from a shooter are here, with realistic booms and blasts 
 from the various guns and grenades all present here. The character you play, Logan, doesn't quite 
 express his emotions naturally, and they sound forced, and rather lame. The squad is voiced nicely 
 enough, with shouts coming from your teammates informing you of them reloading their weapons, while 
 thuds of metal on concrete add to the mess of sounds. The music, while fitting, is forgettable, 
 but is usually lost in the shots and bangs.
  
  Gameplay: -
  
  As leader of the Elite counter-terrorist squad, you'll be commanding two other team members. I'd 
 like to say here that adding one more member would've made the game even more playable (albeit 
 a little easier) , as I find flanking alone to be pretty difficult, cause there's no one to cover 
 your back. Frequently, I've been blasted from the sides or the rear while turning through an intersection. 
 With the Rainbow AI being so good, another ally would have greatly helped in more efficient enemy 
 takedown.
  
  What is so good about this AI? Simply, its their extremely good marksmenship. In almost every room 
 clearing situation, I've had to take advantage of my allies' greater reaction speeds, cause the 
 terrorists come attacking from many angles, making it very difficult for me to shoot them all down.
 
  
  Your team mates will storm in, fill a tango with just the required amount of lead, then go on to 
 the next target, all in a swift procedure. They'll also spot enemies quicker than you, prompting 
 you to take cover. If commanded to a good spot, they'll become near invincible, as they can take 
 cover behind objects very well.
  
  That's not to say that they are perfect. They'll have a hard time trying to shoot people in strange 
 positions (such as people who are right at the edge of their cover spot, or those that are at point 
 blank range) . Sometimes, they'll screw up, and be eliminated in the most unsatisfying manner (I 
 had them killed by a single shotgun wielding guy, who had been hiding in the distant corner of 
 a room I had them try to clear. My men apparently missed him, and ran and stood right in front 
 of the guy, while he pumped their ass with pellets) .
  
  Situations like these become more prevalent in the later levels, where cover points are placed 
 in weird locations, with the terrorists having the advantage of better positioning. However, overall, 
 they still get their job well done, and its your job to get them in the right place, at the right 
 time, so that they get to mow down terrorizing fools with ease.
  
  This isn't your regular shooter, as in, you won't be peaking around corners in sniper-mode, trying 
 to find your targets. Ubisoft implemented a nice cover system, which allows you to stick yourself 
 with some piece of the environment. From here, the view changes to third person, and you are able 
 to see what's around the corner, without having to expose yourself to unnecesary enemy fire. If 
 you spot any tangoes, you can pop out and drop them with minimal exposure, and then go back behind 
 cover again.
  
  The system, while executed with style and precision, has a few flaws. Firstly, blindfiring is extremely 
 inaccurate, and even getting the bullets to hit a target a couple of feet away is a chore. You'll 
 have to empty your whole magazine out if you are to kill him. This has resulted in many game-overs, 
 when I was not able to quickly finish off the guy rushing me.
  
  Also, at times, while you are behind cover, you may find yourself flanked. Now, logically, to kill 
 this guy, you can shoot him from behind cover, without having to show yourself to the terrorists 
 in front of you. However, when you point the gun at him, you are still exposed to those at the 
 front side. A disappointing death, to be sure.
  
  Commanding your squad is easy, as you only have to point your crosshair at the destination you 
 want them to go to. Turn it on a door, and you can have them stack up, ready for a normal clearing 
 (or those that have a breaching charge or frag grenade preceed the clearing) . Highlight a corner, 
 and they'll take cover behind it. This simplicity is really helpful during the hectic battles you'll 
 fight in, as you can proceed with a hassle free execution of tactical combat.
  
  The missions are pretty linear, and you'll be rarely confused as to where to go next (a handy realtime 
 map also shows the location of visible enemies) . Sometimes, the regular 'reach location A' objectives 
 are replaced with the 'escorting a VIP' guidelines, which aren't as fun, mainly as you have to 
 take care of a guy without a gun.
  
  Being a more 'realistic' shooter, the game doesn't not encourage run-and-gun tactics, as you will 
 get flattened if you run across an open area. On the normal difficulty, you can survive a few bullets, 
 but on the realistic difficulty, taking cover will be of utmost importance, as, quite often, one 
 shot will take you back to the game-over screen. However, the frustration is much lower than in 
 Ubisoft's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, where you had a life bar to look after.
  
  Here, taking damage makes your screen go fuzzy, and if it goes black too, you are dead. Life can 
 be regained by avoiding enemy fire for a few seconds. This way, the game can be made much more 
 difficult, and this method is much more preferable than the health pack system. You'll also be 
 able to do some Sam Fisher techniques, like rappeling off roofs while still being able to shoot 
 and using a snake cam (which allows you to see what's ahead of a door) .
  
  Other than that, the game plays like any respectable FPS, with all the guns packing a wallop, and 
 appropriate grenades (with the suprising exclusion of the tear gas from the list of weaponary) . 
 Gameplay wise, this title rocks.
  
  Value: -
  
  Great value, as the levels have multiple points of entry, and you can vary your cover points to 
 see how the firefights play out. Enemy locations also change, if they feel like flanking or such.
 
  
  Overall: -
  
  Get this game if you are a fan of tactical combat, or just a Rainbow fan. I've read many of Lockdown's 
 reviews, so this game will be a breath of fresh air, I suppose. If only the team AI was a bit more 
 polished, I'd have given it a 10 in the gameplay department. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArsenalArmor
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas is a superb, solid shooter that renews the franchise's license on the tactical 
 first person shooter genre. Did I mention it's addictive too? Ubisoft Montreal delivers with this 
 action packed FPS that goes back to the original Rainbow Six formula that many fans have long yearned 
 for. Out is the arcade-y feeling of the past games. In is the tactical, real-life commando gameplay 
 similar to that of another popular shooter, Counter-Strike. Each assault, if performed correctly, 
 makes you feel like an expertly trained soldier prepared to save the world and all of its inhabitants. 
 As you weave through rooms, lobbies, rooftops and corridors you get that visceral jolt that propels 
 you onward as you smile to the crack of your assault rifle. Ducking behind shelter, ordering your 
 squadmates to take cover behind a nearly decimated casino room slot machine to suppress the enemy, 
 bursting through windows after rappelling down the side of a lavish skyscraper, and pulling off 
 professional headshots with your pistol are all in a day's work for Logan Keller, the new southerner 
 replacing Domingo Chavez - the franchise's previous cover boy. As cool as that sounds, it would 
 not be so cool if it weren't executed well. In Vegas it is executed... flawlessly. The reverberations 
 and echoes of breaking glass, yelling and gunshots all take part in this fast paced and action 
 packed game that thrills you with excellent sound, gameplay, value, sound graphics and oomph. Overall 
 it really is a solid game. It will satisfy fans of the FPS genre and appeal to long time fanboys 
 praying for the first real Rainbow Six game to come along since the game's beginning. Believe the 
 reviews. This game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GM_Link
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Do you like shooters but games like Halo arent tactical as you like them and Gears of War is too 
 bloody for you? Dont fret, because Rainbow Six: Vegas is here to please you.
  
  After the disappointment from Critical Hour, Vegas defiantly pulls the series back to being one 
 of the best tactical shooters on the market. In Rainbow Six: Vegas you start off in Mexico. Yes, 
 it says Vegas but they actually overshot their target. While in Mexico, you and your squad have 
 to hunt down a terrorist who youll later find yourself tracking down in Las Vegas. Game play is 
 much improved from previous Rainbow Six games. Where fans of the series will find it easy to pick 
 up and play, others will have no problem fitting in. The cover system has been reworked and gives 
 you a better chance to survive in this high stakes arena. The cover mode will switch from normal 
 first person to a third person mode so its easier to target your enemies and know where they are 
 before you decide to fire back. Youll be able to dodge and pop some shots off without worrying 
 about not being fully covered from an obstacle. But dont be too comfortable, for enemies will 
 try every trick in the book to take you and your team down.
  
  Your team is your weapon, literally. They follow your order to the letter, and can be very helpful 
 to sniff out ambushes. They can take a hit or two, and get knocked down, but very rarely will they 
 die. When theyre down, just run over to them, or ask your other teammate, to give them an injection 
 and theyll be back on their feet. You on the other hand, will die. Not knocked out, not injured, 
 youll die.
  
  The graphics are amazing and the fictional casinos actually look and feel as if they were really 
 there in Las Vegas, and Ive only been there once. Sounds of slot machines breaking, high score 
 sounds off in the distance, pretty much every sound feels right in place.
  
  This game is hard. For the fans of the Rambo shooters, such as Halo and Call of Duty, may not 
 like this game. You have to avoid fire and know when to take shots back in order to live in Vegas. 
 The good thing is you dont have a health bar. You can take some hits, and youll see your vision 
 blurry, but as long as you dont get hit by any more bullets, your vision will return and youre 
 back at full health. If you run through, shooting at anything that moves, youll find yourself 
 dieing more times than Marvel characters.
  
  Vegas is tough, strategic, and fun all wrapped in one. Cooperative mode defiantly defines the word. 
 For you and your friend (s) will have to all work together in order to succeed, or you may find 
 lots of fights and arguments. However with a respawn option, youre not down and out. This is defiantly 
 a game for any fan of the series or newcomers who love strategy in their shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidn1616
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 1, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  this is my favourite tactics game i've owned since the Conflict series. the fact that you can slide 
 down the side of buildings and smash through the window then lead a full on assault. time to get 
 the game's bad sides out of the way. the first few missions your on your own most of the time so 
 it can get tough or annoying. in co-op story it seems to be harder than the single player one which 
 i think is weird. and the graphics of the water when in the heli (no you cannot ride in it during 
 a mission. it's just there to drop you off at you destinations) are kinda off. anyway back to good 
 facts. you can order your team to stand by a door and do all sorts of things such as throw a grenade 
 or flashbang or even just charge in and guns blazin'. what i think is the best aspect is the new 
 take cover thing. practically every object around you can be used as cover if you're under pressure 
 from enemies. i have a HD tv which means my graphics are awesome. and one more thing. the guns sound 
 realistic which is always a plus for any shooting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rizzo185
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 1, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  It may be the best in the series but compared with similiar games like Advanced War Fighter or 
 Gears of War, Rainbow Six Vegas leaves alot to be desired. Clunky controls, and poor teammate AI, 
 make this Special Forces team ride the short bus! For me, Six's only saving grace is its online 
 game play, and even that is grossly unbalanced! The most damaging portion of Six is the realization 
 that although there are two other members to your elite team, you seem to be the only one fighting! 
 Team members execute predesigned routes for entry and clearing without the ability to modify what 
 they are doing on the fly and in response to enemy AI. Often times they will just keep walking 
 into the line of fire without regard to their safety or enter a room and turn thier back on open 
 areas, failing to cover them and letting enemies (who seem to have superhuman speed, sight, targeting 
 abilites, and AI) walk right up and blast away. In addition to the faulty AI of your team, the 
 enemy seem to have no weaknesses. Everyone of them seemingly can take a headshot in the dark at 
 300 meters with a pistol and hit you everytime. The inability to coordinate or issue detailed commands 
 and the fact that no your teammates can not throw a grenade when needed is also a hinderance.
 
  
  Online play is fun although scoring is unbalanced with defenders who seem to loose about 90% of 
 the matches receiving minimal scores no matter how well they did and attackers always getting the 
 most. Also, there could be better balancing between weapons and armor. Armor provides constant 
 protection and seems to replenish in strenght over time meaning that only a clean head shot is 
 the only way to dispatch an enemy.
  
  I could list many other faults that I find with this game, because I think that there are many; 
 However it is worth buying for its online component. It could use some improvements so hopefully 
 there will be patches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cenamena
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 1, 2007 2:29 am PT
Review:  this is my favourite tactics game i've owned since the Conflict series. the fact that you can slide 
 down the side of buildings and smash through the window then lead a full on assault. time to get 
 the game's bad sides out of the way. the first few missions your on your own most of the time so 
 it can get tough or annoying. in co-op story it seems to be harder than the single player one which 
 i think is weird. and the graphics of the water when in the heli (no you cannot ride in it during 
 a mission. it's just there to drop you off at you destinations) are kinda off. anyway back to good 
 facts. you can order your team to stand by a door and do all sorts of things such as throw a grenade 
 or flashbang or even just charge in and guns blazin'. what i think is the best aspect is the new 
 take cover thing. practically every object around you can be used as cover if you're under pressure 
 from enemies. i have a HD tv which means my graphics are awesome. and one more thing. the guns sound 
 realistic which is always a plus for any shooting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bupp
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 31, 2006 11:40 pm PT
Review:  The Rainbow Six series has been among my favorites ever since I started gaming. The intense realism 
 provided a challenge that I hadn't seem before in games. I loved the modern weaponry and realistic 
 stories which made me want to get to the end. However, by the time the third installment rolled 
 around, I felt that the series had begun to lose its luster. Luckily, it seems that Ubisoft felt 
 the same way. And what better place to revitalize anything than in Vegas?
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas takes the series to new levels by introducing awesome new weapons, gadgets, and 
 moves; great graphics and sound; and a locale that cannot be beat. This is the best Rainbow Six 
 game to come out in a long time - it may even be the best. Period.
  
  First and foremost, RS: V is made great because of the setting. There are no despicable strip clubs 
 or drive-thru weddings, but the locales for the numerous shootouts are spectacularly colorful and 
 pleasant to shoot up. Ranging from Mexican slums to the most expensive (made-up) Vegas casinos, 
 every level is a pleasure to run through. Although no real casinos are in the game, Ubisoft has 
 created a number of spectacular ones, namely Dante's Casino (Dante Alighieri) .
  
  In addition, Vegas has some great gameplay. New to the Rainbow Six series is the use of cover. 
 Judging from the success of this gameplay mechanic in this game and in Gears of War, I think we 
 can expect to see a lot of use of cover in the future. Using cover adds realism and intensity to 
 the game, since being caught out in the open means death. Another new feature is a recharging health 
 bar, like in GoW and in the Call of Duty games. This is very useful because you are able to survive 
 a firefight without having to play it over and over again, but you still feel human, since you 
 die very quickly.
  
  One of the best things about the gameplay in Vegas is your team. All throughout the game, you are 
 accompanied by two fellow counter terrorists who you can command to aid you in battle. Unlike in 
 many games, your team is very useful and adds a lot of tactical decisions to the mix. You can use 
 your team to open doors and clear rooms, cover you while run through fire, or enter a hostile environment 
 from a different angle in order to surround, suppress, and flank your opponents.
  
  From a technical standpoint, Rainbow Six Vegas delivers very well. Your teammates and weapons look 
 spectacular. Even small details like extra magazine clips on a kevlar vest look great. Environments 
 are amazing. The lights and sounds of the Vegas casinos are so colorful and pleasing to the eye, 
 that you'll almost feel guilty when you start blowing up slot machines (which are destructible) . 
 My only complaint about the graphics would be some of the audio. At first, the terrorists sound 
 great. They scream in anger when they encounter you and cry out in dismay when their comrades die. 
 But after a few levels, you'll realize that the same lines are used over and over again and that 
 does get a little tedious.
  
  The best thing about the graphics would be the way the game displays your health. Instead of showing 
 a health bar or displaying a red circle in the center of the screen, your vision is impaired when 
 you are hurt. Minor injuries blur your vision and distort colors, and it only gets worse and worse 
 until, when you are on the brink of death, everything is black and white and you can hardly see. 
 As you heal, your vision returns to normal. This minor visual touch is a great addition that really 
 adds to the realism and intensity of an already very realistic and intense game.
  
  The storyline in Rainbow Six Vegas is pretty good, but not quite as good as you would expect from 
 Tom Clancy. Although the details are very realistic and interesting, the basic plot is a bit generic. 
 A terrorist is pissed and you have to stop her from blowing up the city. It's more complicated 
 than that, but that is the basic premise. This is a minor flaw though, since the story is still 
 passable (certainly better than Gears) and the rest of the game is wonderful.
  
  Finally, I must talk about the multiplayer portion of Vegas. In short, it rocks. Locally, you can 
 play split-screen terrorist hunt, or you can play through the missions co-op, which is tons of 
 fun. But Xbox Live is where the multiplayer really shines. Since you're dealing with real people, 
 the tactical portion of the game is taken to a whole new level as you try to plan with your allies 
 to take down enemies who are just as smart as you are. There are several modes, including one like 
 capture the flag, terrorist hunt, and TDM. One of the great things about the multiplayer is the 
 ranking system. As you get better and better at the multiplayer and win ranked matches, you will 
 gain experience and level up a character you create. As you level up, you will unlock more powerful 
 weapons, armor, and gadgets. This really adds to the value of the game since you'll want to keep 
 playing in order to unlock all of the cool weapons.
  
  Before this new installment, I feared that Rainbow Six might keep declining and be forgotten, but 
 Rainbow Six Vegas is a spectacular game which breathes new life into the series by making it more 
 intense, realistic, and enjoyable than ever before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Laserwolf412_XL
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 31, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  When I watched a video review on this game and the unbelievable customization allowed for online 
 play I instantly made up my mind to go out and buy an XBOX 360. I was hoping to once again tap 
 into what I consider the best form of gaming, Online FPS. Not since my clan match and tournament 
 days with BF 1942: DC have I really enjoyed any form of gaming. I am also a major MMORPG fan but 
 I truthfully suck at MMORPGs because I can't multi-task at a level required to be even averagely 
 good at them or RTS games (though I love a good RTS too) . FPS games only require fast reflexes, 
 a bit of on-the-fly strategy, and the ability to focus strongly on one purpose. I decided to buy 
 CoD 3 to hone my FPS skills on the Xbox 360 (The last console FPS I played was Goldeneye) , and also 
 picked up Marvel Alliance because of the great variety and reviews. I really enjoyed both titles 
 but, though CoD was pretty fun to play through and rather enjoyable and easy to play online it 
 wasn't what I was looking for. I wanted to really feel like I was online and actually have a reason 
 to plug my headset in each time I started to play. I was really looking forward to R6: V, that is 
 at least, until the Demo became available. I absolutely hated the R6: V Demo. It felt very limited, 
 and quite frankly was too dark and difficult for me to see or understand what the hell was going 
 on. I tried it twice and promptly deleted it.
  
  Since this was the main reason I purchased the XBOX 360 and it seemed to be nothing like I assumed 
 it would be I immediately gave up on it and decided not to buy it upon release afterall. Instead 
 I made a completely foolish decision and bought Gears of War instead. Now don't get me wrong, it 
 is a rather good game. Despite what almost everyone else says I thought it was plenty long and 
 after a short hiatus to finish CoD Single Player I played it daily until I finished it and enjoyed 
 myself pretty well. The big problem came with the Online Play. While almost every is creaming themselves 
 over it I find it isn't for me at all. I never cared for Halo or Doom or any of the Unreal Tournaments 
 so I found this game too restricting and sluggish for me. It is hard to describe why I don't like 
 these games but enjoy the BF Series and previous Rainbow games like Rogue Spear, other than it 
 seems like these games are just not tactical or fluid enough. I want 1 shot kills, and large open 
 environments where it is Man vs Man. Man vs Monster or Man in Tank Armor vs other Man in Tank Armor 
 are too clumsy and rely less on reflex and strategy and more on dumb brute force.
  
  Anyway...... after continuing to read the many glowing reviews on R6: V I decided to just give in 
 and give it a shot. I figured that at the very least I would enjoy the Online play. I also had 
 to buy the camera because the ability to customize my character with my face had me drooling. This 
 isn't because I am vain, but more because I enjoy new technology and something like this is just 
 plain cool. I bought both a few days ago and decided to start with Multiplayer. Unfortunately I 
 did quite a few things wrong. First I started playing on a night where the servers went down (I 
 am told this is very very rare) , but before that I had tried playing in a server before learning 
 they display the average connection of the host and players. Nothing but 3 green dots (No Lag) is 
 worth loading up. The last mistake was that I had no idea how to play the game and there are almost 
 2-3 uses for every single button and joystick. When the servers failed (I thought it might be me 
 since I didn't know XBOX 360 servers went down) I started the Single Player game. Despite my terrible 
 Demo experience, I absolutely loved the Single Player in the full game. It has all the best elements 
 of my favorite tactical FPS Games (R6: Rogue Spear, Swat 3) , and is exactly the kind of FPS I have 
 been looking for. After really getting into the Single Player game I gave Multiplayer another shot 
 and really found my stride. I found a good game with a good group of players and actually started 
 using my headset. Since then I have played multiple more times, each game more enjoyable than the 
 last and in the process have greatly enjoyed rising in rank and unlocking more and more customizable 
 clothing and armor as well as weapons.
  
  To sum it all up the game is near perfect and works damn well on a Console. Single Player is a 
 lot of fun and there are a lot of strategy options that are very easy to work through and select. 
 I was never able to figure out the mission planning in R6: Rogue Spear, but this is as easy as 
 pressing a few buttons while targeting a certain area or command.
  
  Online play is fantastic and smooth as soon as you learn the ropes, which takes only a few hours 
 or so.
  
  Lastly the character customization is the most advanced than in almost any other game out there. 
 Being able to personally and quickly scan your face on to your character is completely unique as 
 far as I know. Some games would allow you to send in pictures to be scanned in by devs and then 
 sent to you via an update, but this is all in your hands. Every piece of armor or article of clothing 
 on the body is fully customizable in design and color. The more ranks you unlock the more colors 
 become available. Everything color in the rainbow including even pink. Every weapon allows you 
 the choice of 2-3 different types of scopes or laser sights, and then almost every weapon allows 
 you to easily remove or add a silence in game and change the firing round from single to semi-automatic 
 to fully-automatic. Then of course there are the 3-4 different grandes included of course frags, 
 and flash bangs that completely blind you and make you deaf for 5-10 crucial seconds. On top of 
 that are many other goodies like remote detonated c4, proximity laser indication sticky mines, 
 and all kinds of technical gadgets.
  
  As for my customized character? The face looks exactly, and I mean exactly like me. The hair needs 
 work but I plan to unlock myself a hat to wear soon. You just won't believe how well this works 
 if done right.
  
  If you liked BF 1942, BF 1942: DC, BF 2, R6: Rogue Spear, Swat 3, or to a lesser extend CoD and 
 Medal of Honor and did not care for Halo, Doom (New or Old) , the Unreal Games, and Gears of War.......... GET 
 THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schaotix
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 31, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Bullets surround me as the beat of the soundtrack begins to pulse; as does my heart. My comrades 
 are taking and returning fire, just as a grenade sends shrapnel flying towards us. I move up, realizing 
 I have no choice, and take up cover behind the latest series of slot machines. My sub-machine gun 
 changes position in my hands and I blind fire, trying to buy my squad and I our lives back. Enemy 
 bullets pierce the slot machines and coins fly out just as I realize the enemy is surrounding us, 
 we've been flanked. It's over.
  
  And this is only in the beginning. This is Rainbow Six: Vegas. The last entry in the Rainbow Six 
 franchise was less-then-stellar, considering the power the other games possessed. However this 
 has all been rendered completely void, considering this latest installment is one of the most adrenaline-fueled 
 games ever conceived. The first paragraph in this review isn't even scratching the mere surface 
 of all the possibilities and situations you'll encounter in Vegas.
  
  The campaign takes place where, as the title is boldly declaring, in Sin City, or more appropriately, 
 Las Vegas. At first mention of the title I couldn't help but snicker to myself. Vegas.... Vegas, 
 for God's sake! It seemed they were pulling at straws that didn't exist in the first place... I 
 couldn't have been more wrong.
  
  Vegas' storyline is certainly nothing that will surprise you, nor is it something even worthy of 
 good job . It's just a usual 'kill the terrorists oh wait, there's a hidden plot behind it all! 
 o noes!11 story, which got old 3 games ago. But I didn't buy this game for the Emmy-worthy script. 
 I bought it for the tactical gameplay, and if there was an Emmy category for the latter, Vegas 
 would take it, hands down.
  
  You can fast rope down from choppers, rappel down one of the tallest [fictional, of course] buildings 
 in Vegas, and even breach in through windows, rifles a blazin'. With all of these situations blend 
 together for a seamless transition, and some of the coolest moments in gaming. Some of the best 
 moments in the entire game are the high-risk moments before, during, and after hostage rescues. 
 The amount of planning that goes in to it, and the reward of saving the hostages, is priceless. 
 [Insert funny credit card joke here]
  
  But if the single player is great, then Webster's Dictionary has to create a whole 'nother section 
 of words, relating to 'awesome' and 'f**king amazing' for the multi player portion of Rainbow Six: 
 Vegas.
  
  First you begin creating your avatar for the tactical warfare that is online mode, which you are 
 able to do this with plenty of options. The most popular option is simply choosing a list of default 
 faces, but if you want, you can use the Xbox Live Vision to map your face. Personally, I don't 
 have a Vision Camera, but friends have told me the feature isn't great. If the above two options 
 don't fit your style, you can just go with one of the characters from the single player campaign.
 
  
  Add in the fact you have cloths and several types of armor with several different colors, and you 
 have several different soldiers out in the online battlefield. But the greatest part of this entire 
 aspect is it just doesn't give you all the armor and colors to choose from the in the beginning 
 - you have to play, play, and play any type of multi-player you can to rank up.
  
  To do this you have SEVERAL venues of how to gain experience. You can play Survival and Sharpshooter 
 with the options of having teams, Retrival, Attack and Defend, and several others. Each of these 
 modes are extremely fun and tactical in their own respect, and many memories come from all of these 
 modes. But this is forgetting one of the most epic modes of all.... Co-op. And not JUST co-op, up 
 to four player co-op. You can either play with the campaign with three friends, or do a bit more 
 mindless mode, dubbed Terrorist Hunt , which is just you and your friends on a multi-player map 
 pitted against AI controlled terrorists. So many days and nights have been taken up, literally 
 until five in the morning, playing this game, and more recently, playing co-op. So many different 
 options to do ONE thing with THREE friends is un-rivaled.
  
  Graphics and sound wise Vegas shines, and it shines bright. The many casinos and sunny Mexico days 
 [Mexico is just the first mission, more of a prequel, setting the story up. I didn't want to scare 
 anyone there, LOL] in this game look simply fantastic and have your jaw dropping almost constantly. 
 On the topic of sound, the game's many gunfights will have surround sound owners [me included as 
 of 12/15, w00t!] in amazement. Frag grenades in particular sound absolutely fantastic, with a loud 
 BOOM echoing throughout your house. All in all, Rainbow Six: Vegas is one helluva game, pure and 
 simple. There are hardly any complaints to name, besides the occasional annoyance of the moderate, 
 momentary slow-down of four-person co-op and a story that is just down-right predictable and cheesy 
 at times. Other then that, this game delivers on every front. Rainbow Six: Vegas sucks you in almost 
 immediately and will not let you go. This is the shooter of the year. This IS the game of the year. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acklawhunt
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 9, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is probably one of the greatest Tom Clancy games ever made (besides Splinter Cell) . 
 Here is the good and the bad of Rainbow Six Vegas.
  
  The Good: The graphics are great. The reflections from window are simply amazing. The game is very 
 hard making it a challenge to get high pointed achievements for your Xbox 360 The colorful Vegas 
 is a brilliant idea to put a Rainbow Six game in. The coop is great its almost better than Gears 
 of War's coop. The fact that you can use your headset and tell your team the commands is highly 
 impressive
  
  The Bad: The sound isn't the best. Sometimes the save system will mess up making you 1 level behind 
 making it frustrating to wait the long load once again
  
  I loved Rainbow Six Vegas. It is definitely worth buying. Thats why I gave it a 9.4 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zonebasic
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 31, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  this game is amazing... when i first played the single player demo i was not satisfied, but that 
 is just me... after waiting a little i played the multiplayer demo and liked it so i went out to 
 buy the game... after an hour of playing i was hooked on this multiplayer... it is just so much fun 
 and there are so many game modes you can play... i recommend this game to anyone who likes shooters... 
 even if you only like third person shooters you should go out and rent and give this game a try 
 because i was a little skeptical at first... but now i like the game a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrumsIron
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 31, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  In the older versions of the Rainbow Six series it sort of felt like you weren't commanding anything. 
 In Rainbow Six Vegas you are an elite task force sent into Las Vegas to regain and calm the city. 
 The multiplayer in this game is the most intense online gaming I have ever played. And the graphics 
 are truly beautiful.
  
  Gameplay: Commanding a squad has never felt so real. You'll extract through helicopters from one 
 location to another and get a debriefing before you are deployed out. Choose your weapon, create 
 your character and play the best multiplayer ever.
  
  Graphics: No doubt about the graphics, AMAZING! Plug in your 360 to a 1080i HDTV and you practically 
 be in the game. The locations look absolutely perfect, Las Vegas never looked so good.
  
  Sound: Great gun sounds and voice acting. Maybe a bit static at times.
  
  Value: Got it for 
 40$ at best buy. Single player is sort of short , but the multiplayer will keep you happy for months.
 
  
  If you love tactical shooters with fantastic multiplayer and a passable story try this game out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antox-RX8
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 31, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  this game has everything you need if you are into tactical shooters. it has the action the suspense. 
 playing this game makes you feel like you are actually playing a movie. the sound quality is superb 
 and the players speech is fitting. there is no reason to not get this game if you are not into 
 shooters. the graphics are a bit dated not saying that they are bad. the multiplayer is also a 
 great addition to this game. it features the new abilities to create your own online avitar and 
 persona. as you move up into the ranks, you are able to unlock more equipment and weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deathwillcome
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 31, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  - Controls are great. Holding the LT button to go into and out of cover permits you to have great 
 tactical speed and makes the cover system alot easier to use. For those who have played Gears of 
 War and the cover system activated by A button, this game offers a way easier ways of going out 
 and into cover.
  - Single player is ok. Personaly, the single player is very easy and very short as well. The action 
 seems to be repetitive, that is going into cover and shoot the terrorists. Even though the game 
 is easy, the AI is still well done.
  - Multi player is not that good. I saw on the site of IGN that the game was rated best multiplayer 
 game for Xbox 360 2006. I have to totally disagree with this. They might of been right when the 
 servers were not crowded, when the game was initially launched. The outifitting system is great, 
 you can customize your character to what you wish for and eventually unlock more customization 
 by acheiving new ranks. The game modes are good, but the connection is HORRIBLE. On some hosts 
 you might get a good connection for most the game lenght but on others, out of no where, you will 
 LAG alot, which in my case, ruins the entire game. All depends on the days and time you play. It 
 seems when alot of people are playing, it lags.
  - The most improtant downer! The host can kick you out whenever he wants! For example, in one game, 
 the host was a sniper and was using a bug in the game where he can shoot from behind a wall. I 
 happen to found out where he was and how to kill him, he then kicks me out. When the host is losing, 
 he will kick you out.
  
  Graphics:
  
  - Graphics are decent. If we happen to compare graphics from either Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advance 
 Warfighter or even Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Double Agent, Rainbow Six Vegas graphics are not 
 as advance as these games.
  
  Sound:
  
  - Great sound and great sound effects.
  
  Good luck with this game! Its a risk, if you love single player this game is great. If you love 
 mutliplayer like me, it can go both ways. I personaly recommend to rent it first and test it out 
 yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeTGoDLiKe
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 31, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  This is a great achievement in every sence off the word online is great there is something for 
 everyone a good lot off singleplayer and multiplayer achievements to keep you busy. Here are some 
 good points to the game Singleplayer Great Graphics good story line, AI, a lot off weapons to choose 
 from and solid gameplay. Good points on multiplayer 16players online a lot off gamemods to choose 
 from Co-Op StoryMissions, Co-Op T-Hunt, and many more mods the guns look great and sound real also 
 a lot off gadgets to choose from and if you have a good connection you will have solid online play. 
 Bad points about this game singleplayer and multiplayer on Splitscreen the graphics are like xbox1 
 the gameplay might slow down at points ohh and there are 4 achievements on SplitScreen u can only 
 get 2 off them becuase the other 2 can only b done by singleplayer they messed up on them 2 achievements 
 thats all the bad points on splitscreen online say when you are playing a mission with someone 
 online and if he leave then the game will stop even if your hosting it and you will need to make 
 a new game which is bad thats all i really have got to say about this game it is a great achievement 
 and i have enjoyed playing it i am now trying to get the last few achievements that i need in this 
 game ohh and my User name is Kurt Ace on xboxlive so any 1 who needs help at any point in the game 
 add me on xbox live. I give this game a 9.6 becuase i think any 1 that like first person shooters 
 should go out and get this game when htey have the money becuase its well wroth every penny 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gothcheese4444
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2006 6:49 am PT
Review:  As i said anyone would like this game, it's perfect. From saving a news reporter from mexican terrorists, 
 to seeing an online gamer's brains splat on the wall behind him after shooting him in the head 
 with a sniper. The graphics can handle anythng. In campaign, for example, you see a news chopper 
 get blown up by an rpg (rocket proppeled grenade) . But the best part is online. First you get to 
 make your own member of the ranbow team. Next you custamize his armor, which effects how fast you 
 die and how fast you move, clothes under the armor, and his equipment. Such as his guns and grenades 
 (you can do this anytime you want even during matches) . Then you're ready to drop your soldier 
 into combat, but don't misunderstand the game modes sharpshooter and team sharpshooter. These games 
 aren't only sniper matches. They're just matches that are just like survival and team survival, 
 but you can respawn. Just one warning about this game though, campaign is not for people that get 
 frustrated easily because your are going to be dying a lot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tallisman7490
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 30, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  The series Rainbow Six has seen both very good entries (Rainbow Six 3) and horrible (Lockdown) entries. 
 Fortunately for the most recent entry for this most recent it is one of, if not the best Rainbow 
 Six ever.
  
  Gameplay- This is where the game really shines. The new cover mechanic works as good or possibly 
 better than the praised cover mechanic from Gears of War. The numerous guns act just as they should 
 and the additions of fast ropes and rappelling make for some fresh and exciting gameplay, especially 
 online
  
  Graphics- Very good. This is definitely no Gears of War, but it is still a nice thing to look at. 
 Unfortunately the graphics arn't quite as pretty in multiplayer, but the Unreal 3 engine creates 
 some steller visuals. And its always interesting watching slot machines get blown to hell during 
 a fight in a casino.
  
  Sound- Good. The guns sound excellent and create a great atmosphere. There is some funny voice 
 acting coming from the enemies, but unfortunately not all of the voice acting is that great.
  
  Value- The Single player is fun, but not very long. But the multiplayer will keep you busy 
 for months.
  
  In a nutshell buy this game, if your are any type of shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oddballtim1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 30, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  In Rainbow Six Vegas, you can do story mood... BORRING... or you can do live. As in ever 360 game, 
 there r achevements and such. But in multplayer, you can custimize your on player to fit you. Rather 
 if you want a black dude with snow cam. or a white DoRk in dessert.... look like iraq. As you win 
 and get xp, you will unlock new wapons and armer. Thats right, going from a shotgun to an shotgun 
 is like a sub. So if you like xbox vison and u love spllinter sell, you will like this.. o and Ubisoft, 
 start making online like this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marolia
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 30, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  This game has something which other games doesn't have... and that is Team Play . There's great 
 teamwork in this game and it really feels like you're having lots of fun and just won't stop playing 
 it.
  The game is very hard when u play it in realistic and fun too.
  The weapons are awesome in this game... they look real the sound of the weapon are also good.
 
  The Multiplayer is also great fun.
  
  For the Gameplay I had to give it a 10. I had no problems with the gameplay.
  
  The Graphics 
 I had to give it a 9 because in my Tv the graphics weren't so good .
  I suggest that you don't rent this game but Buy It 
  Its just great fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cchheeaatteerr
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 4, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  First of all, WOW!!! The 360 powerhouse of a consle puts vegas on the hot spot. If your in a helicopter, 
 u can look out over the city of sin and be blown away............ no I mean it, a RPG hits the Heli. 
 Anyway, the amazing detail and sound, from the bullet hole reactions in different objects, to the 
 ringing of the slot machene when you win, by blowing it up. Everything blows up in this game, it's 
 almost like a Jon Woo movie. The Single-Player is your Tom Clancy Standard as always. You have 
 your occanonal warehouse, but now it's colorful with Neon and busy with sound. The A. I. is phenomal, 
 escapccaly on Rellistic (Hard) mode. You cannot run and gun, like gears of war mostly, this a stop 
 n' pop game.
  
  You take cover using LT, then it turns to a 3rd, then u just aim and shoot, but ur safe behind 
 a concreat slap, Dodge Truck, or my personal favorite, advertiseing. There is done of those little 
 ads, and there every where.
  Why am I taking cover behind a Giant AXE bottle. I guess it's the city of Sin for a reason.
  
 
  Come for the Single-Player, stay for the Mutiplayer. Split-COOP is nice, but on-line is where it 
 works from now on. 12 different levels, ur own customized charicter, rank up like a RPG, play like 
 a FPS. Even CO-OP online is amazing, just like Gears was.
  
  I have one statement before I sign off for tonight, every FPS should have some sort of COOP, no 
 excuses 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanX1013
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  This is easily in the top three shooters I have ever played. It is simply an amazing game in every 
 single way. Wether it be the blind fire, ingenius cover system, and the very intelligent AI, whats 
 not to love?
  
  The first, and biggest new addition to the Rainbow Six series in this game, is the cover system. 
 With the pull of the left trigger, you will instantly hug the nearest cover, where you can move 
 along it, shoot from behind cover and blind fire. Yes, blind fire. You can now be like the terrorists 
 in every game you have played, and every show you have seen. You can expose your arms and fire 
 wildly to give you a few moments of peace to move up your squad.
  
  Thats the next part, the squad. The AI is amazing, for the most part. A few glitches with them, 
 but nothing major. You can give them lots of orders, such as clearing a room, rappeling, breaching, 
 and the simple Move to order. The enemy AI is just as good, if not better. They will flank, throw 
 smoke and flashbang grenades, and communicate where you are to their teamates.
  
  The biggest and best thing about this game, is that it's fun. If nothing else, it is a simply fun 
 game to play. The shooting is outrageously entertaining, the ragdoll never leaves a dull moment 
 to see how the terrorists lifeless bodies fall. Throwing a grenade, hearing the explosion, and 
 then absolute silence never gets old. This is a challenging, fun, amazing game that everybody that 
 calls themself a shooter fan should own. If you like the revolutionary cover system, the great 
 graphics, amazing AI, or plain fun shooting, you should get this if you have any doubts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastershake1337
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  good graphics and sounds, fast past action cover system is ok could have been better, it's HARD 
 don't plan on moving much unless you want to reload last check point, other than being really HARD 
 at times the game is solid better than previous rainbow games worth buying but you may get frustrated 
 at times. Repel system is awesome nothing like hanging hundreds of feet from the Vegas strip upside 
 down popin' terrorists with a pistol is great. Blind fire comes in handy when enemies have got 
 your squad pinned down. Weapons are pretty good terrorists have some good guns to that you don't 
 have access to through the resupply crates. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duflont
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  For you who like the forerunners to Rainbow Six, this is the Rainbow Six game for you! It has great 
 character and weapon models with flashy effects. It features the new coversystem that has a good 
 function that no other coversystem has. While in cover you can aim, with out aimin with the weapon. 
 Not such a great deal you think, but wait untill you have tested it. It gives the game a whole 
 new feel, you have much more controll over the battlefield with that feature.
  
  Other than that it contains a good singleplayer with mediocer story but a AMAZING multiplayer that 
 is a dream come true for all you tactical fps fans out there. A must own! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drumerdude361
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 29, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Lately when Ive played a first person shooter it can really tend to be repetitive and I for one 
 like the ability to hide behind cover and see yourself. This should be used moree often in games 
 like this. The whole story is pretty cool what with the mexican terrorists in vegas . The graphics 
 on everything are really top notch. And also you have a huge array of guns on and off xbox live 
 which is really fun to play. There are so many ways to play on live too. I think the only problem 
 is sometimes w/ the ai of your squad on sp. Sometimess they just wont take cover. Oh, and there 
 arent any 'real' cutscenes from what Ive seen so far. All in all its a must have game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingpoby
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 29, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  So far what I have seen in the campain is pretty good. The music itself emerges the player into 
 the ambiance right at the beginning of the game, in Mexico. Right at that moment I realized the 
 graphical similarities with Gears of War. It is indeed the same 3D engine, UNREAL 2007. So the 
 graphics of Rainbow six look pretty good.
  
  Beside the campaign, Terrorist hunt mode rocks. There are many games that when you finish the campain 
 there is nothing left to do. But what better than killing bots the way you want to, and earning 
 medals by killing them. You can also play with online players on that mode, so when you're tired 
 of playing against other players, you can cooperate and hunt some terrorists.
  
  The multiplayer is the best part of Rainbow Six Vegas. It is highly addictive. It is fun and it 
 does'nt matter if you loose, because you still earn experience points. Of course, you earn a lot 
 more of those experience points when you win a round.
  
  It is a tactical game but you don't die to easily and you get enough chances of killing enemies. 
 It is an overall well balanced game.
  
  Fun Fun Fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 29, 2006 5:26 am PT
Review:  GOOD- Pretty long and intresting story; Stunning visuals; Great sound effects and voice acting; 
 upgrade your weapons; tons of casinos to resuce; easy squad control; Brilliant A. I
  
  BAD- Pretty Hard; Maybe abut to hard
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  This is the best Rainbow Six game todate, 
 to be honnestt Tom Clancy games have been doing great for the 360, and This game makes it up there 
 for being one of the best Tatical game made, with brilliant AI enemies to fight that'll Flank your 
 cover and take cover themself , they'll do anything to take you down, speacking of going down, 
 if you get shot a couple of times then you die, harsh, but makes it realistic, so you need to take 
 cover alot, take cover behind anything then turn around the corner and kill who ever you see, the 
 tatical part of the game is brilliant, you send your allies to another place and tell them who 
 to kill, and its very easy to do, make sure you kill the most dangrous bad guy first to make an 
 easy mission to complette, but it is'nt that easy to do, as theres only like 1 way of taking out 
 a group of bad guys in a room with ease, so spend time to figure out what to do.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics in this game are stunning, the lighing in the casinos and the ripple 
 effect of the waters look amazing and the framereate holds up with no struggle at all with no bugs 
 and glitches, you could say the graphics are perffect, but in some parts of the game the lighting 
 does'nt look right and drops the stunning look.
  
  SOUND:
  It has brilliant sound effects of exsplotions, gun fire and classic casino noise effects, and i 
 realy like the voice acting in the game which is the best in the clancy games
  
  ORVERALL:
  If your looking for a FPS game, and a Tatical game in one, then your in luck, its 
 rare to find one like this, so dont miss your chance!!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitsel
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 28, 2006 11:46 pm PT
Review:  Story= Very In-Depth, Following A 2-3 Day Period Covering Many Trully Cinema-Worthy &amp; Emotional 
 Moments Including A Rainbow Operative Traitor, North &amp; South American Mixed Terrorists, Rainbow 
 Operatives Being Captured &amp; Fighting On American Soil For One of The Most Grippin Experiences 
 Since Splinter Cell Chaos Theory. BTW: The Game Is Leaning So Much Towards A Sequel That There 
 Is Even A To Be Continued Title At The End of The Final Level.
  
  Graphics= Not So Amazing So To Speak As A Game Like Gears of War or Maybe Even SC: Double Agent 
 Has A Bit Better Graphics But These Will More Than Suffice For Next-Generation!
  Gameplay= This is The Amazing Part... The Cover System Does Not Even Begin To Be Sufficient In 
 Response To The Extremeley Intelligent Enemy AI, The Friendly AI Is Very Good But Lacks In Some 
 Rare Occasions To Identify Enemies Quick Enough. Covering, Blind-Firing &amp; Grenade Throwing 
 Are All Funer Than In Any Other Game As Here They Actually Work And Work With A Vast Response! 
 The Envoirments Are Varied But Have Plenty of Small Room &amp; More Large Room Clearing As Well 
 As Entire Floors &amp; Streets! My Only Real Complaint Is That The Enemy AI Seems A Bit Too Smart 
 For The First Go Around Especially And There Should Be A Switch To Third-Person-View? Option When 
 Taking Cover And Maybe A 'SWAT-Roll' Move To Move From Cover To Cover Quickly Like In GoW. But 
 The Weapons, Explosions &amp; Overall Gameplay Are Just Simply Fun And Immersive, Just As The Story!!!
 
  Sound= Accurate And Fun Sounds Provide Realistic Firefights &amp; Are So Detailed And HD That 
 Even Reloading Is Fun!
  
  Overall= I Would Rate This The Best Game of '06, GoW Is Right Beneath It But This Game Just Feel 
 More Worth Replaying, Dragging You Further In-Depth And Really Gives A Solid And Complete Feel. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trinimom
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 9:23 pm PT
Review:  At first, the controls are something to get used to, but thats not a big deal, and you can easily 
 get use to it from practice, but when you play it, its so frikin fun. The single player mode is 
 pretty good, and ordering you guys works real well, but can get a lil slow paced, and in moments 
 ware you get stuck with a lot of badguys, you wish you have cheat codes cause it just gets pretty 
 frustrating.
  
  Multi player/online is ware the game's at. it feels realy good killing someone in survival mode, 
 especialy if its 7 on 7. feels like a frikin battle zone. The stop, and pop works real similar 
 to gears of war, but its feels so much better, since it takes a few shots for a person to die, 
 and realy punishes someone who makes the wrong move, and the PEC thing is also fun. didn't do the 
 camera thing, but you dont need to, especialy if your waring a mask. over all, good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteveO1966
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 28, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  I don't care too much for warfare games, but for some reason I picked up Rainbow Six Vegas. I was 
 impressed the moment I put the disk in and started playing. It's got great graphics (even on normal 
 tv's) and even better sound. My favorite features is the vision. Take a snap shot of your face, 
 and actually have you playing you in a video game! I should lower my rating on this game to at 
 least a 9.5 if not a little less due to a few issues, which are:
  
  1. Very long levels, with no save points!
  2. When playing online, the game tends to freeze.... 
 A LOT! I was ticked when in the middle of returning fire on someone who was shooting at me.. the 
 game froze. I had to actually press the power button on the system to get it to shut off and reboot. 
 This has happened 3 times in one day.
  
  Other then the above few things, this is the game I play the most now, usually online! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmielnik
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 28, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Singleplayer:
  Vegas has an average Campaign. Its very fun but gets kinda repetative. Other than that singleplayer 
 isnt crown jewel. The story is kinda believable and gets a little far fetched. Although the game 
 puts a very good feeling of what it would be like to be in an actual terroist situation. The AI 
 swears and yells at you. IT shocks you at times. I remember when I was pinned down by a terrorist 
 and was blind firing, im missed him repeatly and he yells and swears at me telling me how bad of 
 a shot I am. This was very suprising. Multiplayer:
  This is the reason to get the game. Vegas has the best Multiplayer since GRAW and Far Cry for the 
 360. Xbox live is an action packed experience that keeps getting better. (Unlike Double Agent where 
 it got boring after everyone knew where the hiding spots where.) Rainbow does a good job of establishing 
 the leveling up features. The more you play the faster you level up. This allows you to unlock 
 new uniforms, armor, camo, guns, and acessories. Rainbow is a extremly fun multiplayer.
  
  Overall: Rainbow is one of my favorite games for the 360. However, it is my favorite multiplayer 
 game. Basically a 8.5 campaign and a 9.8 multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damned_beast
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 27, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow six: vegas brings this long time tactical shooter back to life. With its new cover system 
 that is super easy to use, and the awesome multiplayer.
  
  Rainbow sixs gameplay is nothing short of great, the games new cover system is easy to use but 
 at times can get frustrating. You could be behind a wall and sometime the enemy can shoot through. 
 The gun play is amazing the guns are pretty much all powerful. The games story will start you off 
 in Mexico and bring you all the way to sin city, all of which you are hunting down, terrorists. 
 But the way to whole thing is told is a breath of fresh air for this long time series. Multiplayer 
 is fun, probably the best on the system, but with the frequent campers and spawn killers the games 
 multiplayer experience is quickly brought down. On xboxlive you create your own elite, its fun 
 and very in depth. The graphics are pretty great, they are probably the second best looking graphics 
 on the system, in single player, but in multiplayer that graphics seem to have been brought down 
 a little bit. The games achievements are great; it doesnt really get much better than this handful. 
 With some in single player and the rest in multiplayer.
  
  Over all Vegas has saved Rainbow, and is probably the best rainbow six yet. Pick it up if youre 
 a fan of tactical shooters, or great multiplayer shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1Amonamarth3
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 28, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Great looking and feeling shooter. Fun gameplay and multiplayer, it's perfect for Rainbow six or 
 shooter fans! Graphics are stunning compared to past Rainbow 6 games. Ai difficulty is smarter 
 than before and perfect for the game. Gamers will be happy to know that you no longer die in a 
 couple of hits, but can recover. The story will take you from mexico to Las vegas and all around. 
 The gameplay did not receive a perfect score for its minor glitches or problems such as the countdown 
 glitch, but its nothing too bad. Ubisoft has made this game and i believe its in the running for 
 multiplayer of the year, or one of the best online games to play. You can play this game on LIVE 
 for hours and not get bored. It's an instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daningis
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 28, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  This is simplay a very good game. My parents got it for me on Christmas and I wasn't expecting 
 it, and honestly wasn't very interested. But I got bored after I finished Gears of War so decided 
 to pop it in, which was a great decision on my part. RBSV is a very refined tactical shooter. I 
 remember playing previous rainbow six titles and the tedious planning that was required before 
 each mission. You would have to plan out all the steps of your computer players and tell them when 
 to stop, and even then they would often get shot because they were stupid orthey would get stuck 
 somewhere. RBSV lets you give all commands on site to your partners. The commands are basic (follow, 
 hold, move to) but effective and easy to learn. Also, the AL is smart in this game. Your two partners 
 do a reasonably good job finding cover and following commands. That all being said, RBSV is hard. 
 I thought at the beginning that my teammates would be stupid and useless and therefore more of 
 a liability than a help during the game. However, you CANNOT beat this game by yourself. You need 
 your teammates and you're forced to learn how to use them effectively because if one dies, you 
 fail the mission. And as of now, my computer teammates have been saving my ass more than I have 
 theirs, lol. The enemy AL is also not stupid. They communicate with each other, take cover and 
 throw all types of grenades and flashes. They have frustrated me on numerous occassions thus far, 
 which is a good thing. Overall, VERY GOOD GAME. EXCELLENT GRAPHICS, EXCELLENT GAMEPLAY, GOOD SOUNDTRACK, 
 COOL MISSIONS, LOVE IT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximum_maximus
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  I have ahd experience with one or two of the previous Rainbow Six games, lets just say that it 
 left me with a less then impressed, empresion. Therefore, one can imagine my scepticisum when I 
 first heard of this new addition to the franchise. As a matter of fact I hade more than one opportunity 
 to pick up RBSV and decided, not to, that is now a decision that I have come to regreat. I watched 
 the trailers and listened to the reviews and finally decided to give it a try. Right from the very 
 beginning I noticed that RBSV is nothing like the others at all, this is a good thing by the way, 
 in fact it is by far the best first person smi-military shooter that I have played. I would go 
 so far as to class it with Halo in turms of entertainment value and would even go as far as to 
 say that RBSV is everything that Ghost Recon should have been. Being an X-military person myself 
 it was easy to see the real world tactics that were being used in RBSV and that in itself was very 
 refreshing. There was not a single dull moment, from the very start of the game to the very end. 
 The graphics are simply among the very best on the market to date and the sound, cinematic and 
 game-play are all equally as good. I am certain the there is not much that I can add to all that 
 has been said about RBSV and so I will simply give my recommendation, go out as soon as possible 
 and buy this gam and add it to your collection. By doing so you would have joined the millions 
 of gamers globally who have already done so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CJ_09
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2006 6:33 am PT
Review:  With the release of Gears of War right around when Rainbow Six: Vegas was released, RB6: Vegas got 
 no attention. I thought GeoW was the best game when I got it but then I bought this and I think 
 this is better in everything. The multiplayer is sick, the demo made it look bad, but really the 
 multiplayer is amazing and challenging. The cover system works very well in this and makes every 
 move one to think about. The customization of your soldier is more expanded from Lockdown and more 
 weapons and everything. This game is simply awesome, everyone go buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperSix6075
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 28, 2006 12:13 am PT
Review:  if you really want to get tactical this would be the game for it ... and its so well meshed that 
 almost anyone could do it... granted it would be nice to see what your health is ... the graphics 
 are amazing ! all around A+ its difficult but fun because of how tactical it allows you to be.. 
 best ive played so far havent gotten online with it yet but cant wait A+ all around wetther your 
 a fan of 3rd or first this meshes the 2 so well best work ive seen since splinter Cell 1 and the 
 first rainbows gj ubi..... worth 60 bucks all around ! ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKretinousQ
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 27, 2006 11:57 pm PT
Review:  Vegas shows how a games series can just about go on forever. Since the first Rainbow Six game on 
 the PSOne to all of the other console and PC incarnations, it now goes next gen.
  
  Graphics have had a huge ramp up and sometimes you could be fooled into thinking some of it is 
 real. Only online do the graphics suffer but to be honest its great fun and it's only the character 
 models that suffer. Also added is a cover system, very similar to that of Gears of War apart from 
 the fact that there are no fancy moves and moving out of cover to another piece, isn't quite as 
 glamourous.
  
  Go online and you are shown a character he/she is yours. You can modify them with new armour, camoflage 
 options, guns, masks... and the real cool feature is the ability to put your face on the character 
 if you have the Xbox Live Vision. It does take a while to do it but when you get it all right then 
 it looks fantastic.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas will have you coming back for more for a very long time with a very challenging 
 single player game, co-op story mode, co-op terrorist hunt, the standard online modes and the continuous 
 updating of the game with improved usage with 360 accessories and the gameplay can only improve.
 
  
  Thanks for reading, TKQ out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjwoer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 27, 2006 11:41 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is just about as good as it gets. This tactical shooter manages to improve on 
 its already impressive predecessors, and it does so without jeopardizing the franchise's legacy 
 or style.
  
  Amazing graphics and the kind of sound you expect from a next-gen game grace R6 Vegas. The visuals 
 are simply stunning, far out-gunning admirable games like F. E. A. R. and, yes, even Gears of War. 
 The realism here is outstanding.
  
  Moreover, R6 Vegas brings this realism to its gameplay and to its weaponry. Everything here is 
 enjoyable -- even if you do find yourself playing several checkpoints over again because of an enemy's 
 unexpected shotgun blast or a hidden ambush. Believe me, you won't mind replaying whatever parts 
 might give you trouble.
  
  I believe this is one of the top three games released exclusively for the 360. The point is, you 
 need to own this game: you need to play it, enjoy it, and experience it.
  
  There is almost nothing I can critique ... and I'm a hard man to please. Rainbow Six Vegas is awesome. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evanznotdead
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  I had spent much of my time waiting for my xbox360 for christmas to play Vegas, so I had a lot 
 of anticipation. Once I got it, it was no letdown. The gameplay is amazing. The A. I. is extremely 
 smart and the environment's interactions makes it even better. If you have a great audio player, 
 turn it way up to hear the game's amazing sound. The explosions, breaking glass, screaming terrorists, 
 and guns are an intense addition. There is so much depth to this game. You can take so many approaches 
 to the levels and there are a lot of weapon choices and unlockables. The multiplayer is also great. 
 This game would still be perfect without it so its even a better plus so an already great game. 
 If you want just plain fun, a smart tactical game, or great multiplayer: THIS GAME IS FOR YOU! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cazeronilooshis
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 27, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  All the hype about Gears of War being the best 360 game is wrong. R6 Vegas is the best game out 
 on 360 right now, and probably will be untill Halo 3 comes out. There is not that much you can 
 say is wrong with this game. It has great visuals, and a great story in the single player campaign. 
 The multiplayer is really good too. It seemed lik a juiced up R6 Lockdown. The gamemodes are the 
 usual R6 in the multiplayer (survival, sharpshooter, ect.) . Two of the very few problems with this 
 game though, is that all the guns sound pretty much the same, sometimes in campaign there are some 
 bad guys that hide and you can find them and they shoot you from a blindspot. All an all (this 
 i think) , is the best game out on 360. The difficulty seem almost perfect on normal, and very cahllenging 
 on realistic (hard) . Takes a while to learn all the controls. But this game is very worth your 
 time and $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geodisicdome
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2006 4:42 am PT
Review:  i havent had rainbow six: vegas for the xbox 360 very long but i'm enjoying it so much i've been 
 playing it pretty much non stop since i got it. I have completed many of the missions and experienced 
 all of the weapons and enviroments.
  
  Gameplay: 9 - Realistic
  Graphics: 9 - Stunning graphics throughout the game including reflective water and scenery.
  
 Sound: 8 - The sound effects are spot on and the music is fitting.
  Value: 10 - Good replay value and fairly long and interesting story.
  Tilt: 10 - Good.
  My 
 analysis doesnt seem to be as good as i had hoped, but im sure you get the idea based on the numbers 
 alone.
  
  All in all, Rainbow six: vegas is a fantastic game which you should pick up if you are a fan of 
 the fast improving genre of tactical shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbtowner
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 27, 2006 3:47 am PT
Review:  I have played many games in the Tom Clancy collection and many of the previous Tainbow Six games. 
 Each new game continous to top the previous, and with this new addition of RB6: Las Vegas, it blows 
 the others away. The exciting and interesting story line of an urban terrorist assualt on Sin City 
 is exciting, the enemy AI is so good, it makes you play smarter and more realistic. The multiplayer 
 is what takes the cake, fast, realistic and highly addictive. A ton of online features that keep 
 the game from being borring. The online Co-Op is superb and can keep you and your friend entertained 
 indefinately. I don't even know why i stopped playing to write this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshua6775
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 26, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the series now for quite some time, so liking this game wasn't going to be that 
 hard of a sell on me to start with. After finally getting my copy of Rainbow Six Vegas, I can definitely 
 say that the shooter category on the Xbox360 has taken quite a few nice steps forward this holiday 
 season with this one right up there with the best releases as of late.
  
  Anyone owning an HDTV will be treated to one of the better offerings thus far on 360. Graphically 
 this game measures up to most everything I've seen in the genre, save for maybe Gears of War, but 
 that is not a fair comparison to make considering Rainbow Six has it's own flash and style that 
 makes it stand on it's own merit visually. The surround sound detail is also top notch with this 
 one as well. Bullets sound as if they're coming in from all sides, voice chatter is all around 
 you and the footsteps raise hairs on your neck just before the firefight breaks out. Awesome job 
 on the overall presentation.
  
  The controls are an extension of what we already know with the series, while adding a couple nifty 
 touches along the way, mopst notable being able to duck and tuck to cover. This mechanic is a lot 
 like you see in GOW, only not as heavily leaned on for survival. As helpful as it is to duck and 
 snipe, Rainbow still allows you to run and gun more than GOW will and having the freedom to choose 
 your own pace is always good. Aiming is tight, the weapons are nice and balanced and hostiles respond 
 fairly realistically depending on how high you set the AI. R6 in the past has had some of the dumbest 
 AI I'd seen, but those issues seem to have been addressed in this edition. Good controls, good 
 level design, great presentation, fantastic co-op modes and multiplayer make this one a must have. 
 I like this game more the more I play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxmax1234
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 11, 2007 2:54 am PT
Review:  This is the best shooter ( after Gears of war ) of the last 3 year.
  When i started playing it was very boring, because you need to learn al the controls. But after 
 a half an hour, you know everything and you really get into the game. its so intenes if you jump 
 into a room, its just like you'r really in it. And the missions rooms are very big, so you can 
 get a lots of cover everywhere.
  But don't think there are no difficults problems in the game, I already counted 3 or 4 bug's. and 
 the most difficult is that you cant but you'r mans t diffrent directions. If there are 2 way's 
 to soot them, you can't get them to them in 2 way's. thats the only thing that's difficult. But 
 the references to splinter cell are al little to big, there are also missions where you really 
 need to be silent becease else the whole mission is becoming more difficult.
  
  But after al the graphics are great, but the gameplay is a little difficult in the beginning. But 
 still, I really want to play it over again.
  
  And the online gameplay is great. but sometimes you get a lot of experience point for nothing, 
 and sometimes nothing for a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzyclam
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 26, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  this is an awesome game its really cool i like the blood effects and the fact u can rapell and 
 ur squad is super good they are crazy wack i love it and love the grenades it is sooo good crap 
 its good god its awesome i love when u lose ur squad and then u leave them and how u rappel out 
 of helicopters and shoot while upside down if this game was a girl she would be the hottest girl 
 ever thats how good the game is if u want one of the best games for xbox buy this its wack 
::::::

::::::
UserName: for_the_horde
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 26, 2006 7:23 am PT
Review:  Rainbow six vegas is an amazing game. With surround sound, you will feel as though you are an actual 
 Team Rainbow soldier, in the middle of vegas.
  
  Team Rainbow's newest mission finds the team at arms with Irena Morales, a Mexican terrorist that 
 is smuggling bad guys across the border into the States. Intel puts her in the small border town 
 of San Joshua del Mosquiera. In Mexico, Six learns that a major assault is being planned in Las 
 Vegas at which point the game switches settings to the glitzy and bright neon of Nevada's hottest 
 nightlife. The story is presented via briefings and overheard terrorist conversations. All of the 
 voice-overs are well done here so it's a pretty decently presented plot. We'll leave the rest of 
 the story to you, but take note that there is a decent storyline in place, and that Ubisoft's latest 
 effort is setting the stage for future entries along the same storyline. Unfortunately for fans 
 of the original tactical Rainbow Six it's likely this means the series is never going back to its 
 challenging and thoughtful roots.
  
  Buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TStilwell
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 25, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  I have been following the Rainbow Six series ever since its debut with the original Rainbow Six. 
 While that game had several flaws (not the least being the extremely long planning phase of each 
 mission) . Rainbow Six strived to be very accurate and in this measure, they were. In real tactical 
 operations, the assault is carefully planned to every minor detail before the team executes the 
 mission. However, it did not make for a very entertaining game. While this game had many sequals, 
 the latest installment, Rainbow Six Vegas, has combined the best elements of the first game as 
 well as elimating some of the flaws. The game's interface makes it possible to effectively issue 
 tactical commands without slowing down the action. Which is good, because the battles are fast 
 and furious and you simply do not have the time to issue complicated orders while you are under 
 fire. The storyline is generic: terrorists want to blow up stuff and kill a lot of innocent people 
 and it is Rainbow's job to put them down. However, the change of location, being the city of Las 
 Vegas, NV, makes for a very different experience than trugging through the jungles of South America 
 or defending some forgotten warehouse or nuclear power plant. Overall, this is a very entertaining 
 game and should bring those who have been put off by the previous direction the games took back 
 to a wonderful series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameboy360
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 25, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  I remember my child days when i would find my friend and we would stay up all night playing the 
 original Rainbow 6 for the '64. Sadly the games lost their depth and strategy elements to bigger 
 explosions, flashier graphics, and just plain stupid shooting elements. Vegas, though, goes back 
 to some of its roots, some. Some of the stretegy elements are back and the team did a very good 
 job with them. You can asign your teamates to take out up to two targets for when you rush a room. 
 Now you can use a killswitch/Gears of War style cover system that works very well and is need to 
 survive on the harder dificulty setting. The sad thing is that unlike the original you cannot use 
 very door, every room, etc in buildings to ensure the best strategical advantage. Some things are 
 actually greatly scripted like enemies flying out of doors or busting throught the skylights when 
 you cross some invisisble line which is very frustrating. The graphics are amazing. The lighting 
 effects around Vegas whether indoors or outdoors are perfect for the desert paradise setting. The 
 guns are second to none with slide action and fully detailed reload actions. Something that i especially 
 like is the visible wounds on terrorists as you unload on them, especially when they catch a round 
 in the eye. The sound is well how, how it would sound if a terrorist syndicate attempted to take 
 over viva Las Vegas, simple as that. This game has a crap load of replayability. Online would seem 
 amazing although ive nevre played it firsthand, and Co-op is certaintly fun, but if you arent able 
 to get your hands on a friend and dont have live well there isnt much to do with the campaign considering 
 the enemie pop-up factor. Over-all this game is a must buy for any shooter fan and others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jflores
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 25, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of Rainbow 6 since the series hit the PC way back. My family and I spent countless 
 hours playing Rainbow Six 3 and Rainbow Six 3: Black Arrow on xbox live for original xbox because 
 we were hooked on the gameplay.
  
  This is the best Rainbow 6 to date. It has excellent graphics and intuitive controls. I play on 
 a regular tv, but my father-in-law has an HDTV and it looks great on both. The sound is unreal, 
 I have a high end 5.1 system and it sounds great. The gun sounds and rumble combine to make the 
 weapons feel solid, like you are actually holding one. There aren't as many weapons choices as 
 past Rainbow games, but they compensated for this by making each weapon customizable so you can 
 have a gun just the way you like it (sniper scope, reflex scope, bigger magazines etc...)
  
  The single player is pretty short, I've beaten it on normal. Turning the game on the realistic 
 setting makes it extremely tough, and I've yet to beat it. The AI is some of the best seen in a 
 Rainbow game, rarely do I get frustrated because my teammates won't do what I want. The multi-player 
 is where the game really shines. It has a variety of game modes for broad appeal. Each mode has 
 enough maps to keep players entertained that only like to play one or two modes. The persistent 
 character system works sort of like BF2, but simpler. I personally like the idea, although others 
 do not. Basically, for everything you do online, you earn XP, which gives you ranks. As you rank 
 up, you unlock certain camo colors, armor, and weapons. I'm pretty low ranked and I can compete 
 with higher level players because the weapons are balanced and unlocking a new gun just give more 
 choices, not necessarily an advantage. For fans of the series, this is a no brainer. The multiplayer 
 is fun and engaging, with the most diverse choice of game modes offered in a Rainbow game. For 
 those who like good shooters, this also is a solid pick up. Only those who hate FPS or Tom Clancy 
 games will dislike this game. Excellent gameplay, weapons feel, sound, and game modes make this 
 one great game for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RipaX21
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 24, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Now before you write this one off as another Rainbow Six Lockdown you should take a look inside. 
 This game offers a lot, and if you like tactical shooters then you will enjoy every one of it's 
 treats.
  
  Gameplay - Single Player
  This is, as you probably know, a tactical team based first person shooter. With that being said 
 it is also the best of its kind. For those of you that are familiar with Rainbow Six games you 
 should feel right at home here and it should take you no longer then 10 minutes to learn the new 
 features. The most noticeable of these features is the cover system, a very intuitive, no-nonsense, 
 one button system. Simply walk up to cover and pull the 'L' trigger. To leave cover you let go 
 of the 'L' trigger, it really couldn't be any simpler. When your in cover you can peek out to fire, 
 blindfire, and issue team commands. Speaking of team commands there are a few new ones that are 
 particularly useful. You can tell your team to either fire-on-sight or to return fire only. They 
 are both useful for different situations and are toggled with the bumper. The other new team command 
 is you can mark targets before entering a room by priority. For example; you are approaching a 
 room with two entrances containing a hostage and three terrorists. One terrorist is standing in 
 front of one of the doors, another terrorist has the hostage at gunpoint and the last hostage is 
 up on a balcony. You use your snake cam (yes thats right, Sam Fisher style) and tell your team 
 that you want them to take out the terrorist near the hostage first and the one on the balcony 
 second and you plant a breaching charge on the door with the terrorist in front of it. Tell you 
 team to open and clear from the other door while you denonate the breaching charge. Three terrorists 
 dead in less than a second. Gameplay - Multiplayer
  The multiplayer is the same world renowned Rainbow Six multiplayer you have come to expect. Roughly 
 10 different gametypes including co-op, team based, or single and ranging from deathmatch to capture 
 the flag this game delivers on all levels. The 4 player co-op is as good as it has ever been and 
 the team based battles are even better than ever. With the revamped PEC mode, with less focus on 
 class types, it makes playing the multiplayer rewarding as well. The game features 10 world class 
 maps with locales in Las Veags, Mexico, Hoover Dam, and City Streets. Graphics
  The single player graphics are outstanding, the environments are amazing. All the lights of Las 
 Vegas really showcase what the 360 is capable of and the character models are very well done. The 
 multiplayer graphics, while not as good as the single player's, are not bad either. There is noticably 
 less detail and the character models are not as sharp, but its a small price to pay for such stellar 
 gameplay.
  
  Sound
  Terrific. The score, to voice over, the guns, the explosions, and the other sound effects are all 
 top notch. An orchestral score sets the intensity of battle and can also be used to notify when 
 danger is present. The guns are all right on, being as it is a Tom Clancy game this should be expected.
 
  
  This is a game that should not be missed, whether you are a Rainbow Six fan or not. You will not 
 find multiplayer better than this, at least for a while to come. Phenomenal game Ubisoft, a well 
 needed entry into the series after Lockdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aurelien48
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 24, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow six is created by Tom Clansey and I love them they make great games! for example most of 
 the rainbow six specially the last one and ghost recon: advance warfighter. they are great and 
 tactical games that you have to think aobout your moves. Rainbow six vegas is really good and fun 
 to play. The gameplay is really good because you can pick from many weapon and costume. the sound 
 is great. the graphic is good but not the best. and when online with great people this game is 
 great and further you get into single player higher rank you go up and unlock weapons and cloth. 
 this game is to buy or play because its great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hawaii6U
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 24, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  (Note: this review is strictly based on my personal Campaign experience, and is not associated 
 with the game's Multi-player) .
  
  The Good:
  
  Rainbow Six: Vegas utilizes a covering system like no other; it delivers thrilling, and sometimes 
 intense single player battles; and it offers a decent array of weapon customization. But this still 
 doesn't add up to make much of an exciting game.
  
  The Bad:
  
  Rainbow Six: Vegas' story leaves a lot to be desired; playing Cooperatively Reduces the graphics 
 to last-gen quality; most of the weapons have little or no variation; the campaign lacks a significant 
 amount of replay value; most of the levels seem very repetitive; the dialog is sometimes cheesy 
 and incredibly pointless; the language is very vulgar, and R6: V offers no option for reducing this -- also 
 pointless -- addition to the game; the achievements are mostly for online multi-player, and are unobtainable 
 in single-player or split-screen; and perhaps the worst factor of this game is that when playing 
 cooperatively, the game removes the only features that make this game's campaign somewhat enjoyable.
 
  
  Like I've already stated above, Rainbow Six: Vegas lacks an extreme amount of replay value, as 
 progressing through the game more than once will only make it even less enjoyable -- unless you're 
 going for the achievement points. And it gets even worse when you play it cooperatively... as the 
 game not only completely removes the storyline, but it also removes your teammates, the video feed, 
 your ability fast-rope from helicopters at the beginning of levels, and it even removes your lady 
 friend from the game entirely.
  
  You will also find that the dialog of both your teammates and the enemy is extremely unrealistic. 
 Not to mention that even when your enemy's are trying to hide from you -- they will very often scream 
 out a pointless and vulgar cuss-word for no apparent reason, and the downfall of this is that the 
 only way to turn the language off is to turn the voice volume all the way down, which -- unfortunately -- also 
 turns off the voice of your character, your teammates, and your Intel that you get from the helicopter. 
 Which makes for a very boring experience.
  
  Now about the weapons: as I mentioned before, the weapons are mostly the same. (Aside from the 
 extreme variation of Sniper Rifle, Assault Rifle, etc...) You will most likely find it pointless 
 to put down one weapon over another, as it takes a lengthy and awkward amount of time, and the 
 weapon you pick up will mostly be no different than the one you already have.
  
  The Story the game is also very low quality, and very predictable for the sharp minded gaming enthusiast.
 
  
  The level design is also somewhat disappointing -- as you will find that you are usually cramped 
 into a small hallway, which also makes for a lot of repetitive game-play.
  
  And aside form all I've already mention about this game, the controls are somewhat mixed... and 
 weapon switching is far too sluggish.
  
  There is also the Terrorist Hunt Mode, which is fairly not enjoyable, and in which you have no 
 option to have your Coop Buddy re-spawn.
  
  Overall:
  
  Overall, Rainbow Six: Vegas' Campaign is -- in my opinion -- not worth the experience. (Nor the $50.00 
 to $60.00 for that matter) . And you are definitely better off getting a more superb game like Gears 
 of War. (If you are having trouble deciding between the two) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kgfreak
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 23, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must have, even if you just want to play multiplayer this game kicks butt. Stunning 
 graphics are well presented, all weapons play and feel right and like they have kick ass power. 
 Get this if you look at someones face while they are talkling their mouth moves as if they were 
 saying the words. And the you would think the quality of this feature would be abysmal it truly 
 looks great and is a nice touch. The idea of a FPS in Vegas scared me but it provides environments 
 that just make the game so playable if you don't buy this game at least rent it or you will regret 
 it later. I LOVE THE MULTIPLAYER AND YOU WILL TOO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 23, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  I've never been one to enjoy strategic shooters, mostly because the A. I. of your squad mates was 
 so bad, it just brought the whole experience down. Well, the critics can say what thay will about 
 the next generation, but that is no longer a concern. With Gears of War, Ghost Recon, and now Rainbow 
 Six, it is clear that the stakes have been raised. This is one intense shooter. You must be quick 
 and accurate on your trigger finger. Enemies are smart, and will put you away if given the chance. 
 Realism is now at all alltime high. Graphically, the game is extremely sharp, as the finest details 
 are there to behold. Missions come in a wide variety, and are never too frustrating. With all this 
 good stuff, here comes the bad. Why can't games like this one and Ghost Recon have descent stories? 
 No cinematics, no suprises, no... anything! The story is told completely through conversations on 
 your radio com. Boring! When I play a game, I want to be pulled into it as if I'm watching a movie. 
 This is what (in my opinion) holds these types of games back from greatness. But again, if you 
 want intense action, great realism, and just plain fun, this is one of the best games for the 360. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Amazing Tactical Shooting, Graphics Look Great, Multiplayer and Co-op Rock, Many Weapons 
 and Gadgets, Directing Your Team is Easy
  
  Cons: A Little Hard, Directing and Battle Cries Get Repetitive, Strange Music At Times, Music and 
 sound effects make it hard to hear dialogue Tom Clancy is mostly known in the video game world 
 for his game series, based on his books, titled Splinter Cell. Focusing mainly on stealth, Splinter 
 Cell helped to revolutionize the stealth game. Rainbow Six, also a popular series of games, also 
 belongs to Tom Clancy, and the latest game based on his popular books is one of his best.
  Terrorists are blowing up casinos and high rate hotels, taking hostages, and are armed with top 
 of the notch weapons and gadgets. As Rainbow Six and his team, you're going to fight fire with 
 fire. Throughout the game, you'll be on the hunt for terrorists, trying to find out who they are, 
 and what they want. If you're not familiar with Tom Clancy video games, Rainbow Six can seem like 
 a shoot first, think later type of game. It's not. In fact, It's almost the exact opposite. In 
 Rainbow Six Vegas, taking cover is essential if you want to survive more than a couple of minutes 
 in the field. Youll have plenty of places to take cover, ranging from debris from buildings, to 
 slot machines in a casino. The cover system is extremely satisfying and realistic. By simply pressing 
 the L button, you can put your back to a wall. You can then move along that wall and look around 
 one of its corners. By pressing the R button (Fire Button) , you can fire around corners without 
 putting yourself at risk. This is called blind fire . However, its not as accurate as peeking 
 around a wall, and firing with precision. Also, if the walls low enough, youll be able to shoot 
 over the wall, or by pressing up, you can fire with precision like you can around a wall. Its 
 a great formula that should be used in all tactical shooters. The game features many different 
 guns. Snipers, handguns, machine guns, you name it. The many different weapons coupled with the 
 different gadgets and grenades at your disposal, make this game even more amazing. Your gadgets 
 include rappels, night vision goggles, thermal goggles, the snake cam (for spying under doors) 
 and a couple of other things to help you get your mission done, including the ever popular fast 
 rope. There are many different grenades; like flash-bangs, smoke grenades, C4s, and a couple 
 others. When grenades are used on you, its just as devastating as you think. Flash-bangs especially! 
 The graphics look amazing. Realistic gunfire effects, and facial features make the game feel fresh 
 and even more intense. One of the cool things about the graphics is that when you get hit, and 
 take damage, your vision gets blurry, and when youre hit too much, your vision starts to get dark. 
 Its a really cool feature. However, taking cover, and avoiding fire for a period of time will 
 make your vision clearer (For those who dont play shooters, when your vision gets clearer, your 
 health is going up) . Early on, you meet up with your team. You can direct your team to different 
 areas, or to cover, by pressing the A button to where you want them to go. A small, lit beacon 
 will appear where you directed them. You can also set your team to assault (fire at will) or 
 infiltrate (fire only if fired upon) . Directing your team to a shut door (and sometimes an open 
 door) will give you options on how you to enter that area behind the door. While on assault: you 
 can set a charge on the door, blow it up, and storm in; storm in; or throw a grenade in. While 
 in infiltrate: you can throw a flash-bang in, and storm in; storm in; or throw a smoke grenade 
 in, and storm in. Youre teammates can die too. At first they get injured, (unless a headshot occurs) 
 then they will remain on the ground unless you go over and heal them (with a shot of...... adrenaline?) 
 with the A button. You can also instruct your other teammate to heal them, but that puts him at 
 risk, and then, if he got injured, youd have to put yourself in the line of fire to heal both 
 of them. These different things are easy to control, and are extremely fun to do as well. The music 
 is pretty good. There is some weird music at times, but the action and sounds of terrorists and 
 teammates screaming keeps you from listening to most of it. However, the sounds of guns, screaming, 
 and other things make it hard to hear the dialouge. Another thing about the sounds is that they 
 get a bit repetitive. Youll be commanding your team most of the time, and those commands seem 
 to repeat themselves, and so do the responses. Its easy to ignore though. The campaign isnt the 
 longest campaign, but still provides some value, and when youre done playing on the easy difficulty, 
 its fun going through the harder difficulty with a friend. Multiplayer competitive is fun too. 
 Overall, theres no other game like it. Its fun, its challenging, and its realistic (as far 
 as the cover and shooting thing goes) . What happens in Vegas with Rainbow Six, doesnt stay in 
 Vegas. As a matter of fact, it makes a heck of a tactical shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaRealScaraB
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 23, 2006 6:51 am PT
Review:  The Rainbow team is back in this action hit as you become Logan, newly promoted leader of his own 
 small squad. This franchise just received its first major update with the launch of this new title. 
 The Ubisoft Montreal team have outdone themselves this time, using the new Unreal engine brilliantly, 
 even the tactical cover system. The game-play in this new addition has been given an overhaul. 
 Those expecting the same Rainbow will only get that treatment in the multi-player aspect. The new 
 cover system mentioned before completely changes the way your mind works around a combat system, 
 and the AI does as well, making you have to take cover often, taking fewer shots than you normally 
 would in any FPS game. Although at first this system is a little clunky the first time you use 
 it, it is quite easy to get into. The rest of the game has a much faster pace as well, which is 
 good because in essence, Rainbow is special forces, not SWAT. Another game-play feature that is 
 back is the wonderful selection of weapons and equipment, fans of the series will all remember 
 the numerous modifications that can be placed upon weapons (scopes, laser sights and the like) , 
 and this can be done to almost any weapon. Nice fixes include the ability to place a silencer on 
 your weapon during the game (as in while you're in a combat situation) and take it off whenever 
 one feels like to as well. The friendly AI in this game is really special, the way they will duck 
 in and out of cover depending on where you tell them to stand is clever, and if you bump into them, 
 they won't stand like idiots in your way, but actually remove themselves from the place they are 
 blocking. The enemy AI is also very smart, although there are instances of the AI doing things 
 that wouldn't be considered clever, but that's just being nit-picky.
  
  The one complaint I have, and this is also a bit nit-picky at this point as there are basically 
 no flaws in the game, is that the sounds of weapon effects are gloriously realistic, but are kind 
 of soft volume wise. Grenade affects do include the normal ear whistling when one goes off near 
 your brain, but just beyond that point the boom sound that one normally hears is quite limited. 
 This however is compensated by a wonderful visual effect, with cars exploding, pieces of machinery 
 breaking and other miscellanious objects flying around, it is always a wonderful picture.
  
  The multi-player mode is quite fun, taking styles from previous games, as it has an old-school 
 feel to it. Different and exciting game modes and a persistant character ranking system make this 
 extremely interesting, however don't attempt if your connection speed is not strong enough as the 
 net-code for the game is not the greatest in the world, due to the use of the Unreal engine. All 
 in all, an exciting experience, that will keep you head banging for a while as you try to figure 
 your way through puzzles of visceral, tactical combat. A must buy for anyone with even a faint 
 like for shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cabooserckr
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 22, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas is one of the best games ever and the best game on the Xbox 360 tied with Gears 
 of War. Rainbow Six: Vegas takes tactical squad-based combat to the next level. You want to get 
 into cover and order your teammates to hold their fire, raise hell, etc. You won't get through 
 this game very well without using your teammates. The best part about this Rainbow Six is that 
 if your teammates die, you can heal them, whereas before, you were left alone. You'll need high 
 intelligence and fantastic tactics and maneuvers to get through the entire game on Realistic and 
 kick ass in Multiplayer. Speaking of Multiplayer, this is always the best part of Rainbow Six. 
 You go through God-knows-how many ranks (I never really counted.) but it's always worth it. For 
 each rank, you unlock new armor or guns. If you encounter people with Riot Helmets and Night Vision, 
 etc., watch yourself because they are most goodlyness. In Multiplayer there are tons of gametypes 
 you can play. Co-op Story, Co-op Terrorist Hunt, Attack &amp; Defend, etc. The thing is that all 
 these gametypes are actually quite fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j2johnson
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Let me start with THE GOOD: There are just entirely too many outstanding elements to mention, but 
 what the hell ... Ill give it a try...
  
  * For anyone whos new to (or not much for) online gaming, RAINBOW SIX: VEGAS alone will change 
 your mind, and will make the relatively high price of Xbox Live worthwhile. * P. E. C.  The Persistent 
 Elite Creation feature allows you to customize your online characters appearance over time while 
 you collect experience points which add up to promotions in Rank (Private-to-PFC, Corporal-to-Sergeant, 
 Captain-to-Major, etc...) and will unlock equipment, weapons, armor, and ton of customization options.
 
  
  * Multiplayer is very well developed and nicely diversified with a great mix of co-op and adversarial 
 modes along with large maps to choose from.
  
  * Powerful A. I. tactics truly prevent the mindless run-n-gun approach ... no, seriously.
  
  
 * You have intuitive &amp; easy to learn command controls over your team in single player.
  
  * There are multiple tactical-approach decisions to make around every corner throughout all 
 the maps.
  
  * Magnificent HD graphics elevate all the elements of gameplay to a completely new level of realism.
 
  
  * The amazingly realistic (and even butterfly inspiring) fast roping &amp; rappelling feature will 
 have you reacting out-loud in about the same way you did when you saw Travis Pastrana land his 
 double back-flip ... okay, maybe not ... but you get the idea.
  
  Moving on to THE BAD: ... okay, I suppose there are a few things, but its all gonna sound pretty 
 knit-picky...
  
  * The single-player story (&amp; multiplayer co-op sort of) relies on plot devices that are kind 
 of weak, and the way it finishes is less than satisfying. * While the A. I. Terrorists are tactically 
 amazing from room to room, the group next-door always seems to have severe hearing damage ... because 
 no matter how loudly and long a gun battle rages on, the Tangos next door never seem to hear it.
 
  
  * ... and yes (sniffle, sniffle...) I agree, the Realistic (hardest) mode is just too damn hard 
 (sniffle, sniffle...) , especially in Single Player mode (boo-Fn-hoo) . This is actually one of 
 the reasons I LOVE this game! It hurts so good!
  
  * NO CHEATS!!! Yeah, I agree ... this is actually a good thing ... no, a GREAT thing. If you see 
 someone who has unlocked the Rainbow Six Legend achievement trophy, then you can rest assured 
 that it was truly earned when they completed the single player Story Mode at Realistic difficulty. 
 And you can sit back and say Wow out loud to yourself ... or to them if your headsets on.
  
  Okay, I admit it. Before I discovered RAINBOW SIX: VEGAS I openly hated-on the entire online 
 gaming thing ... because I didnt get it. And because every online game I tried sucked ... in my 
 opinion. This game has changed my mind. Its the sole reason I signed up for Xbox Live. Its so 
 much more than just a room where I kill you, then you kill me, and then I kill you again, then 
 you kill me again, and again, and again... ahhhhhh!!! Instead, theyve actually given us the option 
 to play together (co-op) against the games incredible A. I. Now maybe its just me, but that seems 
 MUCH more entertaining than just shooting each other over &amp; over again. No offense intended 
 to those who love doing that. But even that style of gameplay is more enjoyable for me in RAINBOW 
 SIX: VEGAS because of their incredibly expansive and realistic maps.
  
  BOTTOM LINE: This game Fn ROCKS!!! Theres no reason to wait. Go get this game right now. Why 
 are you still reading this? Go!
  Seriously, what are you waiting for? GO! Get your ass to the closest store thats selling RAINBOW 
 SIX: VEGAS ... and BUY IT!!! You wont regret it!
  
  ... your significant other might regret it, but you wont! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjhink3
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 22, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  RB6 Vegas is absolutely one of, if not the most stunning first-person shooters out right now. Cool 
 weapons, graphics, sounds, and most importantly gameplay makes this game pretty sweet. Whether 
 it's the strikingly cool singleplayer campaign that takes your interest, or the innovative yet 
 classic online experience that allows you to keep track of your in game achievements/rankings. 
 The ranks in the online compel the player to get more involved and motivate one to play more in 
 order to unlock new armor, weapons, and/or other miscellaneous items. Another cool aspect of the 
 game is the many game modes that include attack and defend, terrorist hunt, co-op story mode, and 
 etc... If you're looking for a new cool game to get wrapped up into, or you just wanted see how 
 much better this rainbow six is compared the varied classics then this is your thing. Thanks for 
 reading... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_U_M_E_G
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  Well Done Ubisoft, Ubisoft Montreal more specifically. The last rainbow six game I owned was Rainbow 
 Six 3: Raven Shield, and what a fantastic game it was. However, since then the add-ons, expantions, 
 and most of all Lockdown wounded the series. However, with Vegas R6 has ensured that it is indeed 
 NOT dead! Everything about this game is state of the art: graphics, authenicity (sound + guns) , 
 gameplay, level design. All of these factors culminate into an experience that rivals that of Gears 
 of War. All I have to say is I feel bad for whoever has to choose game of the year this year: Oblivion, 
 Gears of War, Rainbow Six: Vegas. The 360 is shaping up to be outstanding and the logical winner 
 of the console war. Do yourself a favor and pick this up and get to playing... NOW. WHY ARE YOU 
 STILL READING?!
  
  Favorites:
  Authenic Guns
  4 Player online Co-Op
  Outstanding Multiplayer support
  Creating your own character via Xbox Live Vision (quite hilarious)
 
  Terrorist Hunts are very tense
  Realistic difficulty is extremely challenging but not impossible (love that)
  Campaign is freaking 
 awesome (good, if not believable, story)
  HUGE fanbase (including myself)
  
  Not so much:
  Multiplayer is very difficult at first
  Sometimes sound glitches 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 101problems
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 21, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  tom clancys rainbow six vegas does a great job of showing the xbox 360's power in many ways. the 
 stunning visuals are just part of the fantastic gameplay mechanics to make you belive that you 
 are actually in the game the cutscenes are exhilerating and edge of seat stuff! this is a must 
 buy for any hardcore gamer the learnign curce is just right and will keep you playing well through 
 those sleepless nights. i belive that this is the best in the s3ries to date . rainbow six is back 
 and this time its as sensational as youve ever dreamed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: broodgrunt117
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 21, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are amazing in this game. As soon as you hit Vegas things get insane, i found my self 
 dying on multiple times because i was admiring the environment. The fire fights get insane, your 
 team is under fire and no options for movement, you have two guys laying down suppressive fire 
 on you, all the while you have to stop a bomb from blowing up. That is just a small fraction of 
 the intensity of this game. The A. I on both your team and the enemies is great. They take cover 
 effectively, listen to your orders, and they don't just die as fast as possible. The team you have 
 control of is great, they kill guys with ease, breach doors, and don't die on you all the time. 
 The online play is fantastic. It's like if counter strike met GRAW. The ideas from counterstrike 
 are similar but way more intense fights, the weapons are so awesome especially with the customization 
 options. The biggest complaint i have is the cover system. It's great and fun but feels some what 
 tacked on. The cover is not close to as good as Gears of War ( witch is soooooo super good) but 
 it feels more like it should be there than Perfect Dark zero's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warlypwnage
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 21, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  I have such mixed reactions with this game. I did rent it, based on the good reviews and good gameplay 
 movies. At times while playing, i felt like this game would be a definite purchase, and an epic 
 game. Other times, it felt like it was just not that great of a game. Heres the positives first.
 
  
  The graphics and sound are excellent, and they should be considering the power of this console. 
 enough said about that.
  
  its the gameplay where my focus is. At times I really felt like I was the leader of a highly efficient 
 swat team. The cover mechanic works well enough that it is very entertaining. The battles inside 
 the casinos themselves are really, really fun. Slot machines burst open with coins flying all over 
 the place, and the casinos look authentic. Giving my team orders such as go here, or go there was 
 ok, but its been done better in games like socom. This game had a very realistic feel to it. Enemies 
 die pretty much from 1 or two bullets. I like that in a game like this. But thats pretty much 
 where the enjoyment with this game will end, and it will end after only 7-9 hours. Now the negatives.
 
  
  The guns. To me, they really all felt the same. Every machine gun just seemed to look different. 
 There didnt seem to be much different with each one. U could customize each one with either a 
 laser sight or a scope, but big deal. They all felt like they shot exactly the same. (except of 
 course different types of guns, from a pistol to a machine gun to a shotgun) I also didnt like 
 the AI of my teammates. They got me killed more often than not, and heres why. Typically in a battle, 
 the smart thing to do is send them in to a place of cover while you try and pick off the enemies 
 around them. But far too often they would get taken out. Ok so what right? I can still do this 
 on my own and succeed. Wrong, u have to save them before a certain amount of time goes by, or they 
 die. This is basically the only way I ever died, when I had to rush and try to get rid of the enemies 
 and save my dumb teammates. It kinda hurts the realism I think the game was going for, u simply 
 put a needle in a teammate and hes up and running full health again. If this was such an important 
 mission, why wouldnt the swat team or whatever have backups waiting? Maybe I missed something. 
 Im also no fond of the healing system, get shot a couple times, no big deal, just hide and auto-heal 
 with No negative effects. I felt like Wolverine and that I had a seriously unfair advantage over 
 the enemies in the game, that also hurt the realism. Another HUGE gripe I have is that you just 
 dont spend enough time in the slot machines areas. They were the best part of the game, but there 
 was just not enough scenes with them. BTW, the first level is in Mexico streets and was terribly 
 BORING. The last level was on a dam and not very fun either.
  
  All in all, its not a bad game by any means. I highly recommend this as a good rental, ull finish 
 it in about 4 days if you play for 2 hours a night. I do want to purchase this game, but NOT for 
 $60. I think its worth about $30 if its only the single player you are after. Hope my review was 
 helpful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadownets
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2006 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Vegas is overall a great game, the graphics on it are awesome and the whole vegas part is great 
 like putting Fremont street in the game. The game play is awesome. Its hard on realistic mode so 
 go for that if you want a challenge sometimes its very frustrating but it always makes me want 
 to go back and beat what seemed impossible. Sound is great from the slot machines spewing out cash 
 when they break to all the explosions and everything else. game play is fun and i always feel like 
 i can do it again without being bored and enemies are at random numbers too. when you start over 
 because you die there maybe 5 instead of the 3 there was before and placed in different spots. 
 overall a perfect game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kolidan
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Hello everybody welcome to my game summary of Rainbow Six made by Ubisoft and made for the Xbox 
 360. The release date is December 1st 2006
  (This is only a summary because I havent played this game enough for a full detailed review) Here 
 is the summary for you Finally a Rainbow Six game that is worth playing! I havent played a rainbow 
 six game since the original rainbow six 3 game on Xbox which wasnt a great game. But Since that 
 one, I felt the graphics and gameplay took a major turn for the worse.
  
  Now with the next-generation here, things that werent capable on current generation are easy on 
 next-generation and they make the game so much better. The graphics are great, the gameplay mechanic 
 is somewhat easy to learn, the game is a must own if you like fps'.
  
  The great innovation is the use of the left trigger as your cover button its not to easy to learn 
 for first timer but mastering is pretty easy and makes the game better
  . With just a pull and hold of the left trigger, you can get into and out of cover. The only draw-back 
 is that its harder to aim. Being used to using the left trigger to aim does take time to re-learn 
 aiming but after you get the hang of it, your back to having a blast with the game. So I dont 
 recommend playing this around the same time with CoD3, or any other shooter for that matter. With 
 great sounds effects of each gun with/out the silencer and the explosions will thankfully no be 
 able to make you ears bleed . Its not GoW (nothing will be for a while) but great in their own 
 respect with a lot going on and bigger maps and better sound which does make this game decent.
 
  
  The online component is phenomenal! More match types and more players in one room make the online 
 much better than GoW. Although different styles of gaming, all-in-all the online atmosphere for 
 R6 is better. With better multiplayer than GoW the online play keeps it going, and going, and going 
 for like more than 30 hours or so
  
  My Comment
  Firstly Im sorry this is just a summary I havent been able to play the game enough for a full 
 detailed review. But for the times Ive played it Rainbow six is a great game for the Xbox 360, 
 if you like FPS this game is right in your ally with big maps great online play and cool graphics 
 these are the signs of a really cool game which Rainbow Six is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kev_Dawg
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 19, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  Rainbowsix has been around for a real long time, it was mostly around on the PC then moved to consoles. 
 The game alone changed within the years it has been around for, but then again all games change. 
 Rainbowsix Vegas has a gameplay somewhat like Gears of war, but in it's own style. I never liked 
 Rainbowsix and it's series, but for some odd reason this one got my attention and I ended up buying 
 the game. The real different to the game is the game engine, this game does not have a strong engine 
 like Gears of war does. Gears of war has much more nice graphics than what Rainbowsix has, but 
 don't get me wrong, this game still has nice graphics. The gameplay for Rto this game is fun as 
 hell, I love playing online and just swinging down a rope into action and just mow my enimies down, 
 it's real fun and cool. If anyone wants to buy a second game cause I am sure you all got Gears 
 of war, buy this game it's worth the money and it's real fun, trust me on this one.
  
  Rainbowsix Vegas is a great game and I know for a fact the new game in their series will be as 
 great or better than this one . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerectoff
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 18, 2006 6:04 am PT
Review:  Rainbows back, and good news, its nothing like Lockdown, this is actually fun to play and its like 
 playing a really cool Black Arrow on the 360.
  
  Thank god ubisoft have gone back to the old ways and hopefully listened to the gamers and not down 
 a EA and just spurted old crap after crap after crap.
  
  Fingers crossed we don't get ripped off on the map packs, and legs crossed we get a Warehouse map 
 redux!
  
  Nice selection of weapons and gadgets, like the GPS device that allows you to track nearby enemies, 
 and the PEC system is a lot more friendly now you don't have to pick classes, which was just stupid 
 on LD.
  
  I love this game, its the best RB6 title to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SCOOTERDUDE
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 17, 2006 10:11 pm PT
Review:  I love all of the rainbow six games. So, I will not lie about how I feel about this one. First 
 of all I love it. It is one of the best Rainbow games that I have ever played. First of all, I 
 love the graphics. I think that UBI did an amazing job with the graphics. Graphics is a main part 
 in video games and UBI did an amazing job with that. The campaign is very funny and has an easy 
 to follow story. The AI is a little on the dumb side in my opinion. The only thing that is not 
 that great about campaign is that they leave you with a to be continued at the end. This make 
 you scream at the TV but at the same time you think how great it is that another game is coming 
 later on. I like the fact that you can rappel and fast rope. That feature in the game made it so 
 wonderful for me. I guess it is the realism and the outside the norm feeling that I got when 
 I went sliding fast down a rope, in Campaign and multiplayer. Multiplayer is great because there 
 really is no difference in feature between the two games. There is a great variation between different 
 maps and I like the wide range of game types that they have. I like the fact that you can play 
 co-op. The only thing is that I would like to see more than 4 players be able to take on a co-op 
 mission. They just released a patch online and it was much needed I have to say. I really did enjoy 
 this Rainbow six game and I cannot wait until Rainbow six Vegas 2 comes out. Rainbow six Vegas 
 easily gets a rating of 9.7 out of 10 in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miyagi12
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 17, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  The cover system is if not better than Gears of War. No doubt Gears is a fun game, but this game 
 actually makes you fell like your in a movie. The guns are crazy good. You can pretty much customize 
 every part of your weapon, to laser scopes to better sniper scopes. The coop is probably the best 
 part of the game. You always have to work as a team and have each others back and that makes the 
 whole game fun. This game also has a mix of splinter cell moves which you can do. The difficulty 
 is like perfect. Trust me this game is worth every cent !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dat_Boi_SiLo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  On point, the controls feel very reponsive, and feels real. The recoal really makes you feel like 
 your in the game. The Rainbows Six Series has always been known for it realism, and Vegas is no 
 different. Online is also solid, make lag sometime, but i don't see it as the servers fault, its 
 more like other players connections. With all the different types of 1games it keeps you intertained. 
 The AI is great doesn't just stand up and let you shoot him, it will hide and pop out when your 
 reloading and hurt you. I gave it a 10 because i found no errors in the game its just amazine.
 
  Graphics: Graphics... wow what can i, just stunning, we all raved about how Gears of War looks, 
 but ive got to say Vegas is on the same level (or better) . The shading is almost perfect, i found 
 myself just in aww at how real my shadow looks. The bullets look like there really hitting the 
 walls, cars, and people. The blood pops out of the bodies of the enemies just like you see in movies. 
 Vegas looks great, just great the body models look stunning. The lighting is great, and it just 
 right in all aspects. I see no other reason to give it less than a 10!
  Sound:
  Your back is to a wall and your looking around the corner, and out of nowhere shots hit the corner 
 and you hear it! This game sounds great, the sounds really gets your nerves going. The music kicks 
 in at just the right times and sets the mood for the action. Play this on a THX sound system and 
 you will see why i gave it a 10!
  Value:
  If there is a game that help the next-gen price continue is this game, $59.99 ($69.99 for the LE) 
 is well worth it. With the single player, being solid and the AI being great, and the online play 
 helping the game keep its replay value. Another 10!
  Tilt:
  I have four words for this.... GO GET THIS GAME! seriously... 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXists
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 17, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  The Good &gt;
  - Gameplay is really what shines
  - Unlike GRAW, Gameplay in Single and Multiplayer is the same
  - Cover gameplay is very well 
 done
  - Character customization has significant depth
  - Large selection of weapons
  - Online Ranking system is cool
  - Co-op is a blast, 2nd best after GOW
  - NUmber of players 
 online is impressive
  - AI is quite good
  - Adversarial is good but co-op is way better
  - Well balanced Achievements
  
  The Bad &gt;
  - Compared to GOW, it looks 5 years old
  
 - Story is really really weak
  - Gets rather repetitive
  - Music is meh for Vegas
  - Needs more creativity; doesn't feel next gen
  - A couple of missions in SP are based on luck 
 (Dante's Theater)
  - Save anywhere is missing
  - Too linear 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stealth89
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 19, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  its finally happened. someone made a console game worthy of the name Rainbow Six. time after time 
 gamers have seen this name slaughtered by mediocre R6 games on consoles. but now, from the geniuses 
 at Ubisoft Montreal, we have the best R6 game since R6:3 for the PC.
  
  graphics are awesome, the only problem is that when there is a lot (and i mean a lot... theres tons 
 of it) action on screen, the games frame rate may drop a bit, but thats only for a few seconds. 
 game play is also awesome, and the only minor problems here is sometimes, your buddies AI isn't 
 the brightest in the world (but don't let this discourage you, the pros of the AI DEFIANTLY out 
 way the cons) . the sound is great, with rapid music to keep your adrenaline going, and the gunfire 
 sounds very real. when a bullet from an enemy that me and my team have somehow missed whizzes by 
 my head, I've ducked in real life.
  
  if you are a fan of the R6 games, have no fear, this will satisfy all of your tactical needs. this 
 game is defiantly necessary for any R6 or FPS fan.
  
  Update - I've been online with this for quite a while, and it makes this game even more amazing, 
 so I tweaked the score a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clinton015
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 17, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow 6 was overlooked by the majority of gamers wound up playing Gears of War, and they will 
 probably continue to play it for some time. This doesn't take anything but players away from Rainbow 
 6 though. It has a solid online mode and a persistent mildly paced but extremely difficult Single 
 Player campaign. Highlights in this game are the visuals are the most realistic I have ever seen. 
 This means they are great graphics of realistic things. Gears of war still has the best character 
 models and overall graphics. ONLINE- Rainbow 6 online features your standard Deathmatch, Sharpshooter, 
 and Objective game modes as well as a well designed customization feature that lets you create 
 your character from your own face to your choice of gear. Also building on my favorte feature of 
 Ghost recon multiplayer, R6 Vegas has a coop mode for both the regular campiagn and a Terrorist 
 hunt mode similiar to GRAWs coop modes. CAMPAIGN- The highlight of Rainbow 6 Vegas is its single 
 player campaign in Las Vegas. The skyline is breathtaking and the story is a mayor's nightmare, 
 All Out War in the streets between police and terrorrists, and of course Anti Terror teams like 
 team Rainbow can come too. If you like the previous Rainbow games you will love this one, and if 
 you felt the old ones were to slow then you will also like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyderfan1212
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 17, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  I have always had a slight interest in this game ever since it was announced so long ago. I was 
 never extremely exicited though, as much of my interest was placed on Gears of War. That changed 
 when the Single Player demo came out on market place. I was blown away by the visuals and the top 
 notch tactical, and intense action it delivers.
  
  Overall Gameplay- For both the Single Player and MP parts of this game it is played almost the 
 same. You use a cover system (much like the one in Gears) so you don't well die. You press L to 
 slide into cover and than you tilt the control stick to aim while in cover. All the gameplay focuses 
 around this cover system which works well.
  
  Single Player- In single player you play as a Rainbow Six leader (who knew) and you are in command 
 of two other men. After an unpleasent visit to Mexico you lose both of your men and than are promoted 
 for it (I don't know either) Anyways you move on to sin city, Las Vegas to put down the recent 
 terrorist threat. It soon becomes clear that you are fighting the same terrorist organization as 
 in Mexico, and the leading figure, Isabella. The gameplay is intense throughout but the plot seems 
 very generic and at the end of the game there is a painful cliffhanger that leads me to believe 
 that won't be the last time I fight in Vegas. The men you control are pretty smart, much better 
 than those bimbos in GRAW. They listen to your orders well and it never gets boring to see them 
 execute storming a room perfectly.
  
  Multiplayer- This is where the game really shines. There are tons of gameplay types. 16 players 
 online and best of all, NO LAG. I literally have not lagged once in that game. The gameplay is 
 as every bit intense as the singeplayer component., but now you play with your friends. It is really 
 nice to execute plans with your friends.
  
  Graphics- The visuals are aboslutely amazing in Single PLayer. The lighting, textures, and characters 
 are highly detailed. However, like in GRAW there is noticable visual downgrade in the multiplayer. 
 It does not hurt the game much but it is kinda of dissapointing. Sound- Crisp, powerful, and solid. 
 Good voice acting, strong weapon sounds, and overall very nice just to listen.
  
  Overall- Rainbow Six Vegas is a great game and should be purchased by anybody looking for a tactical 
 shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaroofC
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 17, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  lll admit when I first saw the title.. i thought oh dear, lockdown.. and vegas ?? sounds a bit tacky 
 right? But oh no...
  
  Excellent Game... Playing on Realistic and my oh my, is it !! Excellent strategy reminds me of 
 GRAW, id like to call it a good warmup until Graw 2 comes along :) ... but a TOP games besides it... 
 !!
  
  Now this isnt a complaint nor a negative point about the game.. But I wouldve liked the option 
 of full 3rd person or 1st person given as a choice, but thats only because I loved GRAW so much 
 and wanted a repeat of it to the max.. Nevertheless this game reminds me of an action movie in 
 I cant think of how much further the player can actually feel like part of the action... Superb 
 !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RabbidDawg
Rating: 3.8
Date: Dec 16, 2006 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Why oh why does this game look and play worse than previous gen 360 games? I mean look at GRAW. 
 It was a graphical power house and had the game play to boot, and yet this Tom Clancy game fails 
 to look that much better than a High-res original Xbox game, and its a 3rd generation game... what 
 a joke. Heres my Review of this sad game.
  
  VISUALS: Hmmm... this game needs some help in this department. The only thing next-gen about this 
 game is the lighting effects, and thats it. Almost all the textures are blurry, anti aliasing is 
 absent (which is expected as the Unreal Engine doesn't support anti aliasing) Th character models 
 are ugly and blocky, I mean this game looks like a game from the original xbox only with hi-def 
 textures which still look blurry. If you look at The Chronicles of Riddick for the original xbox 
 (which graphically was the best for that system) and look at this game... Theres not much difference 
 except, for the lighting and the blurry textures are clearer. Visually this game flops. Theres 
 nothing detailed or interesting about it.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Stop and pop FPS style... Lame.. Pass. Its bad enough that on Gears one button does everything, 
 but the button lay out is a joke for this game, theres controls strewn all over the place, and 
 the holding against covers works just as crappy, and at times doesn't seem to work at all.
  Theres a wall in front of you, you hold the L trigger and for some reason sometimes, A LOT OF TIMES 
 it just doesn't want to seem to hug the wall, this glitch is riddled through out the game and it 
 sucks.
  
  At times when you do hug the wall the character seems confused and doesn't appear to want to go 
 or know how to go or shoot in the direction you are trying to make them go, yet another crappy 
 glitch.
  
  I mean REALLY how do we go from GRAW to this? GRAW wipes the floor with this game visually and 
 game play wise. Its like The devs didn't even bother to utilize the Unreal engine, or the 360. 
 Cant wait to see what the PS3 version Looks and plays like... it cant get any worse than this.
 
  
  SOUND: The one good thing about this game is the sound, and thats it.
  
  VALUE: I'm not sure what you would call a value in this game. The single and multi player sucks, 
 there is nothing tactical about this game, its run and gun with cover, nothing more, a terrible 
 attempt at instilling Gears type stop and pop with a First Person Shooter. For me there is no value 
 in this game.
  
  If you want a good tactical game go with GRAW, a first Gen 360 title that blows this game out of 
 the water. I mean come on, the idea of this game was cool but for me it fell short, I stick with 
 playing Doom 3 for my original xbox, as that game looks and plays better than this worthless attempt 
 at a FPS.
  
  Oh and as far as story goes.... what story? Hey I like blasting terrorist as much as the next guy, 
 but give me a game that pits you against 911 terrorist then we will talk. I would rather shoot 
 aliens, go to war etc, than have another lame FPS about terrorist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhantomNemesis
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 16, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas is the next game in the Rainbow Six series, a tactical shooter theme that pitches 
 you as an elite squad going against the worlds most dangerous terrorists and situations. This follows 
 up Rainbow Six: Lockdown, a bit of a bump in the series of good Rainboow Six Games.
  
  Unlike the original Rainbow Six games, Vegas takes on the theme of Lockdown via have no selection 
 in squads, thus you really get into you characters instead of one soldier you picked. As well as 
 not being to plan your attack, in the original RS games, you could plan how you would beat the 
 situation, and enact your plan to hopefully reach victory, this also doesn't feature in Vegas, 
 due to the levels being a lot larger.
  
  Vegas starts you off in Mexico, trying to capture a woman named Irena, fighting your way through 
 a small army of enemies, everything goes out the window and you extract, only to find things are 
 worse in Vegas! Sent in there to restore order, everything merges into one storyline.
  
  The weapons in this game, although limited, are extremely detailed, sound, looks, everything. Unfortunately, 
 loading out in weapons only offers a small selection, so you may want to grab that P90 off that 
 Merc you just killed, as you can't always grab it from a weapons cache, while adding to the realism, 
 it's annoying to wait for that one weapon to appear.
  
  Commanding your team is a big part of Vegas, and it works perfectly, while allowing you to order 
 complex commands, it engages them with a few buttons, so there's no need to stop and start. This 
 can also be done through youe Headset using certain commands, although it isn't always reliable 
 in the heat of things. When your teamates takes too many hits, they go down and you have a time 
 limit to revive them through ordering your other teamate to help or doing it yourself. Although, 
 if you take too many hits (Vegas uses a Gears of War style health system) you die instantly without 
 an option of revival, this can get annoying at times when you think of your team as super soldiers 
 that are revived easily, and you die everytime a bullet comes close.
  
  While being similar to Tom Clancy's other excellent tactical shooter, Ghost Recon, it uses a Gears 
 of War style Cover System, exactly what you need to survive this game. While in cover, you can 
 peek out and sneak off a few shots, or blindfire insanely. Your teamates aren't as perfect at using 
 Cover though.
  
  Live features some new things to anything on the 360, using the new Live Vision camera, you can 
 imprint your face onto a skin, and play with it online, as you advance in rank, new unlocks become 
 availible. While these are not massive upgrades (meaning you won't be getting beaten down by someone 
 who owns these) they are nice things to have as you play through Vegas Online.
  
  The AI is quite good, but non-comparable to AI in games such as FEAR, they run to cover, but do 
 not respond to flanking, and almost seem to give up when a grenade lands next to them.
  
  Vegas is an excellent game, not a ripoff of GRAW, nor GRAW 2 of a filler for that, btut a decent 
 Rainbow Six game in it's own right, and sets the series back on track after the problems of Lockdown. 
 While the game is quick and does keep you in the heat of combat, it is not the average run and 
 gun game with some team commands stuffed in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irate_Hobbit
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 24, 2007 10:54 pm PT
Review:  This game has some really awesome aspects while few are a bit poor. The series doesn't seem keen 
 on realism anymore. You have Halo style health system and seemingly unlimited revive shots you 
 can give teamates. The story simply lacks enough detail to be remotely believeable with its many 
 logic gaps. Its has some very lame dialogue. Voice acting is generally ok, but that dialogue read 
 like a bad movie. That is saved by awesome sound effects and some nice scenery. The action and 
 shooting will possibly grip you enough to want to finish the story. The graphics are very, very 
 good though a bit lacking in the multiplayer. The physics involving bullet impact are great. The 
 checkpoint saves are rediculous and frustrating as you'll be shot by the last man and be forced 
 to clear 3 rooms yet again. Ever hear of save as you go? The multiplayer gameplay issues involve 
 a lack of older maps and the Halo health system which still doesn't make sense for this game but 
 doesn't hamper the MP enough to worry about for that part of the game. Alot of customization and 
 probably downloadable content promises to keep it from getting boring later on. Not to mention 
 2 single player modes, 2 co-op modes, and a large amount of multiplayer modes. This is a game that 
 will have a great following on Xbox LIVE for some time. Some people just love to know you can be 
 taken down with one shot and it adds to the suspence in every online mode. Though if you are not 
 a multiplayer gamer, this is a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmayronne
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 16, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a big fan of the Rainbow Six series. I even tried my best to like Lockdown. This 
 game definately gets the series back in the right direction offering some very spiffy graphics 
 (the casinos look great, and you can cause damage to almost anything) . The character models of 
 your team mates look highly detailed and animate nice and smooth. Unfortunately your enemies and 
 the victims that you save from time to time don't share that high level of detail, but its not 
 THAT noticeable. Sound is good, machine guns will rock your speakers assuming you have a decent 
 surround sound set up. Music is there going from calm to tense depending on the situation, as most 
 games are doing these days. Gameplay is...... well if you've played any of the other rainbow six 
 games you will feel right at home with this one. In addition they've added a take cover feature, 
 similar to gears of war in some ways. It adds a little depth and realism to some of the many shoot 
 outs you will have with terrorists. Overall I'm impressed, not blown away, but impressed none of 
 the less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TW2004
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 16, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  R6: Vegas looks brilliant thanks to the use of the Unreal Engine 3. It's obviously not as attractive 
 as GOW but what game is?
  
  The features for Vegas are excellent, particle effects, smoke the way your enemies blood splatters 
 across walls and objects is great.
  
  All of the characters animations look realistic, and all the weapons look like the real thing. 
 The environments are very detailed, too, and near enough everything reacts to your bullets. Shooting 
 glass makes it shatter realistically, blasting slot machines to make money spray out while the 
 alarms cry never gets old. The new cover system is great, its kinda weird releasing this after 
 GOW because you get used to the cover system and you can still put it into use on this game which 
 is great.
  
  The frame rate is not entirely stable and some areas look below most of the games standard, but 
 it is still a nice looking game overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fman12
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 15, 2006 7:45 pm PT
Review:  This game totally blew away my expectations. It is awesome. The graphics are superb. Gameplay is 
 great. The fact that you can control so much about what your team does is awesome. You can tell 
 them to open and frag or clear. You can tell them to set charges. You can tell them to do almost 
 every thing is rules. This game is really hard though realistic is extremely hard but it is the 
 challenge I've been waiting for in a new game. The sound and detail of the environment is top notch. 
 The weapons that you can choose are awesome. Also the fact that you can customize them with scopes 
 and other things. If you have played any of the other rainbows and didn't like them this one will 
 certainly change your mind. If you have played others this is a great add on to the series. This 
 is definitely a buyer. If you want an awesome strategic shooter that is rated right behind Gears 
 of War you have to get this. This game is a bench mark for other shooter games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serbianballa07
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 15, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game for the past two weeks now i've come to the conclusion that this is the 
 best game i have played for the 360. Rainbow Six is one of the most well rounded game to date. 
 The single player is extremely fun and challenging. The cover system is also the best right now 
 (even better than Gears of War in some aspects) . The is also a huge arsenal of guns, armor, bombs, 
 and other gadgets to choose from when you are customizing your online character. There's also a 
 mass amount of online games like Attack and Defend ( 2 teams fight for control of an objective 
 one team must retrieve it and the other team must stop them ) , Team Sharpshooter ( 2 teams in a 
 game to see which one has the most kills when time runs out ) , Team Survival ( 2 teams in a game 
 of last man standing with no respawn's ) , Retrieval ( 2 teams race to locate the bio-hazard canisters 
 and bring them to the team depot for points ) , Sharpshooter ( free for all with respawn's ) , Survival 
 ( kill anyone and everyone no respawn's ) . The online mode for this game is what really puts the 
 finishing touches on it. If you love to play online then this is the game for you lots of excitement 
 and lots of fun. You can also take a picture of yourself with the live cam and make a face for 
 your character using ours. This game is a diffident must have this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jb_409
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 15, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  This is the best Rainbow Six ever made! I just played it at my friends house today and loved it! 
 The graphics are extravagant, the gameplay is realistic, and it is an all around fun game. I didn't 
 play that long but the thing I realized to be the coolest is when you shoot an enemy that area 
 of his body is damaged. But something I didn't like is when I rappled down the sides of buildings, 
 the camara would go to the most awkward positions. Last, the part that I think showed off the Xbox 
 360's full potential is the scene when the casino blew up, and the windows busted all around you. 
 That was the best cut scene ever. On some parts the sound was a little late with the gunfire, but 
 besides that the game was great. jb_409 out! (making fun of Ryan Sea crest) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeinSC2
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 14, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Historically, I've hated the Rainbow Six titles. They seemed to be overly reliant on you baby-sitting 
 your squadmates and the gameplay just seemed to be borderline tedious. Vegas changed all of that. 
 No, it's not a run-and-gun game, ala Doom or Quake. It is pretty heavy on flanking your enemies, 
 so you still have to be extremely careful when you move anywhere. But it is an absolute blast.
 
  
  First, graphically, this game is phenomenal. Vegas is such a terrific locale for a game like this 
 and this game is legitimately beautiful. The training levels in Mexico are fun --- but the game 
 goes through the roof when you finally make it to Vegas. Casinos are one of the all-time inspired 
 locations for squad based combat as there is never a lack of hiding places and cover to launch 
 attacks and counter-attacks. If you are too aggressive, you can walk right into a shooting gallery 
 where the enemies will chew you up, but occasionally, attacking before the enemy manages to dig 
 itself into position is the wiser action.
  
  Your squadmates tend to make too many dumb choices for my tastes, but they are vital to your survival 
 and will do a lot to help you survive. The enemies are hardly dumb as you will have several laying 
 fire on you to allow their teammates try and flank you. The enemies that drop in via skylights 
 tend to be easy targets for a slaughter, but that is the only noticeable problem with A. I routines. 
 Enemies and teammates yelling out orders is all the more immersive.
  
  Even if you've never liked R6, such as I didn't, you should give Vegas a shot. You will not regret 
 it and you will play one of the toughest, but most playable, titles released in a long while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 14, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - Classic rainbow six 3 gameplay but more fast paced shooting and 3rd person covering 
 system . Much faster paced than GRAW . Graphics - The graphics aren't anything special but they 
 are good enough
  
  Sounds - bang , boom , door open , rappel
  
  Value - The multiplayer is what really shines about this game . Co-op is the best co-op of any 
 game ever and the multiplayer matches features a new mode similar to one flag ctf . Also you can 
 customize your character and unlock new outfits , guns , and armor . Bad Tilt - Widescreen only 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRyOrange_basic
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 14, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  For those who played GRAW, it's hard not to compare to the two, both has excellent similar gameplay 
 that employ cover and planning and similar graphic. R6 has an able story line that put player in 
 the heart of vegas and it's casino, there is a variety of indoor environment which may ultimately 
 look TACTICALLY the same. While R6 gives u options to approach the problems, it is sometime frustratingly 
 insufficient (unlike game such as SWAT4) . Stairs in particular are an issue for me. Furthermore, 
 in SWAT4 there is a option to flash/smoke &amp; clear along a corridor or open space which I believe 
 in so valuable other then just go ahead, this is especially clear when there is a firefight in 
 large spaces. Enemy AI are so capable of employ grenade of all kind it's frustrating that teammate 
 cant do so (btw, enemt AI grenades are amongst the most intelligent i've seem) . Camera can some 
 time be found wanting but overall a competant game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wayne2k7
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 25, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  This is another game that i've thoroughly enjoyed playing.
  The single player campaign is very gripping (and in places hard, which is a good thing as most 
 games lack a good challenge these days) .
  The multiplayer is superb. You create your own character (you can even put your own face on it 
 with the vision camera!) and level up with the more you play online. This in turn unlocks new armour 
 outfits/colours and new weapons to use. So far i've noticed quite alot of bugs in the game (enemies 
 just appearing, gettin stuck when in cover, easy way to get points and crasing etc.) BUT a new 
 update has been added today and so far have had no problems so fingers crossed!
  Graphics are fantastic. Awesome textures and good lighting/shadowing and effects. The gameplay 
 is also very good and the control system works very well.
  This game is generally a good game all round. The multiplayer really made this great for me so 
 if you have an xbox live account and gold membership, buy this now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterpinky2000
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 13, 2006 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Graphics - First things first, right? Well, not exactly. But I guess I wanted to get this out of 
 the way. A) They aren't as good as Gears of War. Nothing is, so far as I've seen. Even the videos 
 of Crysis don't look that much better to me. B) They're still amazing. Textures are pretty high-detailed, 
 models are great, effects are all pretty good. Nothing incredible with lighting but nothing shabby 
 either. Great smoke effect, cool effect for flashbangs.
  
  Caveats: graphics are significantly worse during multiplayer or terrorist hunt. The game downgrades 
 the texture quality significantly.
  
  Controls - The scheme here is really intuitive and I was loving it after playing for maybe 15 minutes. 
 You have so many things you can do with your gun (silence, change single-shot/burst/automatic fire) , 
 a few guns to choose from, a few grenade types, a few different vision modes... orders to give to 
 teammates, etc. You also have a cover system. Yet somehow they fit it all onto the buttons we have, 
 which is amazing. I applaud Ubi on a great control scheme. People are right, the cover system is 
 better than Gears of War.
  
  Gameplay Mechanics - This is definitely stop-and-pop gameplay like Gears. The differences: it's 
 more tactical. Positioning matters about the same, but what weapons you use matters a lot more... use 
 of grenades becomes essential, as do teammate orders. Knowing the layout of a big area is pretty 
 important lest you find yourself ambushed or attacked from behind.
  
  The way the game works is basically a corridor crawl with minor difficulties until you reach a 
 big room. The big room normally has multiple entry points and you can tactically plan out an assault. 
 Some of these big battles are incredibly challenging, so you feel good once you get through them.
 
  
  Story - Well, there's a reason Tom Clancy's name is on the thing after all. If you like that, then 
 you'll like this story. I was personally indifferent to it. Single-player is not very long, only 
 6 missions (although they are long missions, perhaps 1.5-2 hrs each) .
  
  Multiplayer - A lot of fun. Terrorist hunt is a great mode for co-op play with friends. It's really 
 really difficult, so beating a map feels like an accomplishment. You really have to learn the layout, 
 learn the points where they can flank you or attack you from behind, and work together (one person 
 taking care of front, one of back, for instance) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shotgun4292
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 13, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow 6 Vegas is a very big step fowerd from all the other rainbow 6 games. The game shows off 
 the 360 graphics like never before. It also shows off vegas. Vegas has never looked this good. 
 It is one of the best shooter of the years right up there with Gears of war. The difficulty is 
 hard but thats not a bad thing. It's also a long game and that is a great thing because that means 
 the game will last a long a time. Xbox live is the best of the year. This game features so many 
 diffrent types of game modes on online whitch keeps making this like an enigizer battery it just 
 keeps going and going. Overall this is one of the best games of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rogerwaterz
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 13, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Despite the difficulty of this game, it still comes across as one of the most easily played games 
 in the series. It is challenging, although somewhat frustrating in some areas, but gives you a 
 very rewarding feeling once youve completed the single player game. The multiplayer is fun, fast 
 paced and challenges you to improve by its skill/ranked based system that allows gun unlocks. There 
 are no real noob guns, thanks to the multiplay being very balanced. Every gun is balanced, with 
 a clear advantage and disadvantage. The game itself is a stunning graphical acheivment, although 
 my Xbox 360 hardly breaks a sweat playing it. The sound track works well to build the tension in 
 the game, although ive found its easier to kill people when listening to Death Metal. WARNING: 
 IF YOU DO NOT LIKE EXTREME PROFANITY, DO NOT BUY THIS GAME! One of my pet peeves is game manufacturers 
 using the F@#$ word. They use the F word alot in this game, so I cant play it around young'uns. 
 It is rated M for a reason. That being said, the language and voice acting is VERY good. It really 
 helps the aptnosphere of the game. NICE JOB ON EVERYTHING REDSTORM! 9.7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drpepperman12
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 13, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  This has very excellent single player immersion in to the R6 series and just amazing multiplayer. 
 But what do u expect. This is R6 first time on the 360 and wow it hit hard and fast. Just like 
 the way you can take out the people in a room. The single player has not much but great graphic 
 and really amazing AI. The multiplayer is where it is all at with tons of maps and a great assortment 
 of weapons. The live feauture is amazing going to battle with so many people, but there are so 
 gliches with the miches. In all its an amaing game a most for christmas almost up there with gears, 
 but nothing could top that till. You know what. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertruchotzke
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 13, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  While the story could have been less GRAW if you will its still a good look on what it would be 
 like to be a Rainbow. The graphics are great really shows off that Unreal engine. The multi player 
 features are very deep and addicting. The campaign is very fun and challenging you really at times 
 have to rely on your squad to cover you or you'll end up restarting. The achievements are well 
 placed and obtainable. The ranking system is also great. They could have made a better match up 
 system by rank but what can you do. You'll just have to show your skills against that Lieutenant. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popsadent
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 13, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  In rainbow six las vegas you play as a relatively new squad leader of elite international special 
 ops soldiers in and around mexico and las vegas. The graphics in rainbow six vegas are NOT really 
 that good. The single player character models look fairly good but the envirenments and effects 
 just dont look that nice. There is a very big problem with aliasing making the edges of every model, 
 wall and shadow look very weak, but thats just lack of power in the console at that point. I must 
 admit the lighting is very good though. One thing that ticks me off is the initial menu screen 
 where the camera circulates around the vegas strip. This looks like crap, especially when it shows 
 the dantes casino lights. Its so jaggy It looks like bloody poop smeared over pipe cleaners. The 
 gameplay is a stop and pop style, but is very non-propelling. You go from car to car, wall to wall 
 checking around the corner over and over till your head explodes. And the cruddy dsave system makes 
 you go back way to far if you die. The mulitplayer is where this game shines though. The Persistent 
 career mode makes its online pretty good. As you play your character ranks up unlocking new gear, 
 guns, etc. The PEC mode is good but the gameplay you have to go through is boring. But you can 
 map your face to your PEC man and thats cool.
  
  The controls setup is good but it responds sluggishly. At times you will die because of his slow 
 reaction time. These things all add up to a pretty mediocre game. This games all hype. RENTAL!!!
 
  
  FANBOYS, EAT YOUR HEARTS OUT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 12, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  What happens in Vegas comes to your 360 with this new installment to the series. Its definatley 
 safe to say that Vegas is the best title in the Rainbow Six series and generally stands as one 
 of the most well done first-person shooters made recently.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas has gameplay that is pretty similar to the other Rainbow Six games. You will 
 have a squad with you at almost all time and you will get to order them around. The commands that 
 you can give your squad members can end up being pretty detailed, for example, you're getting ready 
 to breach a door, you can peer under it with a snake cam and target up to two enemies and give 
 the order in which you want them dead then choose one of the five ways you want them to bust into 
 the room. Rainbow Six also forces you to actively take cover which leads to a system similar to 
 that of Gears of War, when you put your back against cover, the camera will switch to third person 
 and you can move along that cover as well as blindfire from out of it, or peer out for a precise 
 shot. The singleplayer missions seem very non-linear, because there are just so many ways to play 
 out a given situation, will you rappel down a building or go through the service entrance, will 
 you sneak around and dispatch enemies quietly or go in guns blazing? These are all choices that 
 have to be made a lot in this game and it makes every mission very fun to expirement with and try 
 a different way. A minor problem I have with the singleplayer, is that the missions are very challenging, 
 but the checkpoint mode is far from forgiving and will end up making you have to repeat several 
 firefights to get back to the point you originally died at.
  The multiplayer in Rainbow Six is also pretty good. You have a co-op mode with its own missions 
 unique to the singleplayer. With up to 3 other players this mode can be quite fun and, as it always 
 has been, one of the most appealing aspects to a Rainbow Six game. The adversarial mode will also 
 be very similar to other Rainbow Six games, but what is notable about this installment is that 
 there seems to be much more freedom of movement, you can fast-rope or rappel down building and 
 take cover behind almost any object you see. One problem I have with both the multiplayer is that 
 a lot of the games start to get very laggy.
  
  The graphics in Rainbow Six are very good. The lighting effects and enviornments are fantastic 
 and really make the individual casinos you're in and the entire city of Vegas come to life. The 
 models are also very detailed and well done thanks to great bump/normal mapping. The textures sometimes 
 seem a little washed-up and there is an extremely annoying effect that blurs everything in your 
 vision when a shot even grazes you. Rainbow Six Vegas sounds amazing. The voice acting is top-notch 
 and all the sounds are great and aren't repeated very often. Additional sound effects like being 
 able to hear terrorists having coversations with each other or taunting you in a fight as well 
 as the sounds of the fight going on in the streets of Vegas really add to the experience.
  
  With a great singleplayer campaign, which offers a very non-linear experience and is worth 
 playing again on top of a good co-op campaign and adversarial mode Rainbow Six Vegas will last 
 you a while.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas is a great first-person shooter and by far the best game in the series. This 
 definatley helps the series recover from poor titles like Lockdown. For anybody with an Xbox 360 
 and is a fan of the series or in general likes action games Rainbow Six Vegas is a must-buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quagmire555
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 12, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Positives: Best place to possibly set a shooting game in. Biggest selection of weapons in any game 
 i've ever seen. All have huge uses in game. Great gameplay makes you feel like commando with rappeling 
 breachign through casino's, etc. Excellent multiplayer supports up to 16. Ability to make your 
 own character. Terrioist Hunt mode very fun, and challenging.
  
  Negaties: Very hard to get out of way of grenades. Can't gamble at the casino's
  
  My god when 
 i got this game did i never put it down. I may be only 1 of 10 people to say this game is better 
 than gears of war. I make a h uge recommendation for this game. Most fun you will have until the 
 next Rainbow Six Game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capcom49
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  This has to be so far my favorite FPS! This game is insane, I have been playing this game non-stop. 
 The story mode is great and is the basics for the controlls, but the real game is online mode! 
 This had to be the best online shooter. The sound, the maps, the characters, weapons, and feel 
 is realistic. The best thing is the leveling up system, it dosent matter if you win or lose you 
 always get points to higher your rank to get new items, weapons, and gear. And the different angle's 
 are great, and the wall hug! If you like battlefield you'll llove this more. I'll be playing this 
 untill the next one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bartwon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 12, 2006 4:31 am PT
Review:  the single player game is pretty all round except for the halo 2 style ending but the game really 
 starts in the multiplayer. it has it all player customisation, gun customisation, tonnes of realistic 
 weapons, very solid visuals. the maps are pretty solid and they cater for both teams so its pretty 
 even no matter what team you are on. the ranking system is a lot better then a lot of other games 
 and there unlockables so that theres always something thats driving you to win your matches other 
 than pride.
  
  all round its a great tactical shooter that should be in everyone collections, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marco0798
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 12, 2006 4:09 am PT
Review:  to be honest im no fan of the rainbow 6 franchise i played a few on the PC and didnt enjoy them 
 whatsoever.
  However this game is just great. the story is great it looks stunning and the sound is awsome.
 
  the game play is one of my favourite things about this game, it resembles Gears of war so much 
 its uncanny but i think that it has been improved since i find it to be better it almost feels 
 like u r playing and improved GoW when it comes to gameplay this is a must buy for any FPS lover 
 or if u simply enjoyed GoW because if u did then you'll most likely love this one. great game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidrogue9
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 12, 2006 12:05 am PT
Review:  This is the game I've been waiting for, I had held off for ages in the purchase of my 360 Console 
 until there was a good selection of games that I was into, Rainbow Six, Ghost Recon and Splinter 
 Cell I now have them all. The graphics and lighting in this game are just amazing which really 
 add to the atmosphere in the game. Starting in Mexico is a nice warm up to get use to the controls 
 and doesnt lay anything too heavy on the player when getting started. Then its on to Vegas where 
 the action never stops. The atmosphere in the game adds to the intensity of the playing which really 
 gets you in the mood and psyched up for the missions. The weapon choices is also as you would expect 
 great ranging from Sub machine guns to assault rifles, grenades etc which give you lots of choices 
 when it comes to how your going to do your killing.
  
  The scenery and sounds are fantastic and with a surround sound system really immerse you in the 
 game This is definatley a game to add to your collection as soon as you can afford to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maniaclepc
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 11, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Unbelievable graphics and sound are the first items up for appreciation. I had a choice of being 
 able to purchase one of two games, and while the one I didn't choose remains at a 9.6 and number 
 one, I am still inclined to rate this even higher. I love the weapons. What else can you say about 
 modifiable weapons? About the only thing I'd change is being able to select your team mates, as 
 opposed to being partnered up with Jung Park and Michael Walter. Even Logan Keller could be made 
 to be modifiable, but I really can't complain. I love the helicopter rides. Did you get a look 
 at the fountain?!? Amazing. Being able to play mini-games is also a good deal of fun. With a modest 
 amount of improvements, this game is still, by far, the best I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therabidbob
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Holy crap! This game is actually better than Gears of War! The graphics are good, not excellent, 
 but very solid, but the real draw is how intense this game is. Playing the stages multiplayer is 
 the real draw here. Get some friends together and you can choose what stages you want to play, 
 and tweek the the level of challenge. The single player mode is very good, better than painting 
 a fence that's for sure. I hate doing that. What makes this truly great is just how real and intense 
 the combat is. No exploding, wall walking onster, just mexicans, and you. I think mexicans. I'm 
 not sure. Also the ability to customize what weapons you'll take with you before each mission is 
 icing on the cake. play game or it will play you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VooDoo1144
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 10, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  I remember my first time playing Rainbow six when it came out on the PC in 1998... It was the first 
 real tactical shooter that we have ever played. We were given many options and tools to complete 
 missions that felt just right in the realism department... terrorists take over a certain location 
 and it is up to a team of counter terrorism experts to fight them off and rescue the hostages. 
 I still can feel the sweat bead up on my brow waiting outside a door knowing that when I give the 
 command my other team will bust in at the exact moment that my team does... the battle will seem 
 like it takes a while... but in reality it only lasted a couple of minutes at the most... if you 
 were smart.... the hostages were rescued and the enemy never even got to fire a shot at you... they 
 never were given time to process the reactions needed to stop you. When they started making R6 
 games for the console I was left wondering what kind of depth I can expect form games that were 
 pared down to the absolute basics... my fears were answered with what comes out to be a standard 
 shoot em up with the damage ramped up... sure you could only take a couple of hits (that means realism 
 to some) but you were also only given one team that you could control... and no means to plan the 
 attack before hand... this spelled doom for the series... at least to me. When lockdown came out 
 we all lost faith... it was a poor game in almost every respect... it was really bad and left us 
 wondering what to expect from a franchise with such a fantastic pedigree. The developers of Vegas 
 seemed to have listened when we told them that lockdown was crap and they attempted to give us 
 the best tactical shooter that they could fit in the limted console controls... lets see how it 
 stacks up. Story.. Can't really knock on it to hard... Clancy seems to hate mexico or something 
 but I still feel it lacks the tension that GRAW has... you never really feel any drive to finish 
 the story... just to clear the next room... but it is good enough to keep playing and that is all 
 that matters. Graphics.... I love the single player graphics... they have that right look and though 
 they are not as good as gears of war... they are good enough for me. The models for the team are 
 great and the terrorists stand the close up test... they look good even if you walk up to them. 
 The multiplay took a hard hit... I would understand if Gears of War did not looks as good as it 
 does in multiplay... but I have to understand that there is more to the levels in this game... lots 
 of things interacting that can tie down the processer when you have several players running around. 
 Sound... This is a really buggy part of the game... I love it when it works correctly... the guns 
 have a git punching pop and the terrorist speech is downright funny... sometimes I find myself waiting 
 to breach a room to listen to what the tango's are saying... and I love the loose language... adds 
 immersion. Gameplay... I love the new gameplay mechanics... though I wonder why we still can't plan 
 out the whole mission with the map like the first one... it was a great feature and seems to be 
 lost forever. Your squadmates are easy to control and the action seems to pace really well. I am 
 wondering why we have the checkpoint system... it really gets on my nerves to no end... I like to 
 save alot so I can try many different methods... but I can't do that here. Multiplay... This is 
 why I bought the game... I love the game when I have a team that understands how to play the game... but 
 alas we have many halo players here and they destroy the game with constant grenade chucking and 
 shotgun camping... I know I know.... its tactical ... no... it's pretty freaking lame! I like the 
 rank system.... I don't like having to grind so much to get stuff though... it's a shooter... not 
 a RPG... I want all my options... and it seems most of the unlockables are not the best in the game 
 anyway. I am glad that I can remove weapons from my games... It helps when I can force people to 
 actually try to play the game and not screw around like little kids. Overall.... This game is great... pick 
 it up for the best time you will have in multiplay and enjoy the decent singleplayer.... I am glad 
 it seems to be getting back on track. Buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cropentax
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 13, 2006 7:10 am PT
Review:  Well well, of all Tom Clancy's games i love this one. It is so real makes the hair on the back 
 of my head stand up. Makes one feel like you are remaking The Rambo movies only no jungles and 
 missile launchers and dudes everywhere. The game play is good and graphics only gears of war can 
 match. The sound of the bullets and firepower scare me with a surround system. What i love about 
 it is the way you can bend in the corners and take out the bad guys, oh and they don't spare us 
 with all the bad language and they keep the fire coming. Also the Realistic on this one is every 
 gamers' dream. Vegas is Splinter Cell without all the rules of taking easy on the terrorists with 
 fire power. You can be as hostile as you wish with. For me Vegas is the game of the season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khankster
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 10, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  I don't really have a lot to say about this game except mostly that I like it. I prefer shooters 
 that lean more toward sci-fi, and don't care much for military shooters because I'm not very much 
 into military themes. Rainbow Vegas suits me a bit better because the military theme is toned down 
 a little and favors more of a civilian feel. Also, I'm more interested in online multiplayers than 
 campaigns. Regardless, both are excellent on this game. The graphics are a little better in the 
 campaign, but the multiplayer graphics don't slouch. In fact, they're a LOT better than the first 
 round of Xbox 360 games like Quake 4 (one of my all time faves) . The only complaint I have about 
 Vegas is that I wish you could set the respawn time to zero; I hate having to wait 10 seconds every 
 time I die and having to watch someone else play, plus it breaks the momentum. Doom 3 and Quake 
 4 let you right back in the game each time, you just lose your place and respawn in a new location 
 of the map. Other than that, this game is a definate must-have for anyone's game collection, especially 
 for people who like shooters. I really feel you get your money's worth. I'd put it in the top 5 
 games for the 360, and the best Tom Clancy game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wii_sean_wii
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 10, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas is just a amazing first person shooter! The best thing about this game is the 
 gameplay the control that you have over your team mates is just like a real elite commando. Things 
 like making your team mates stand at a door, selecting which terrorists to kill and having them 
 through grenades in a room full of terrorists it just can't be beaten. There are two masterpieces 
 to this game. First you will come to a part in the game where you order your elite commandos to 
 move to a door, one moves up against the wall and the other ready to charge into the room. So you 
 leave them to wait for your orders move to the next door leading into the same room where there 
 are about 3 terrorists. Look under the door choose the two terrorists your team mates will take 
 out but keep one spare for you. And with on flick up on the D-pad they charge in kill off the two 
 terrorists and as they do that you charge through the door and kill off your own target. Now you 
 don't get more elite commando then that. The second thing that puts the C in elite commando is 
 the fact you can repel on the side of buildings with your team mates. The repel trick as been taken 
 right out of Splinter Cell but you have two other commandos that follow you down the side of the 
 building with you. As you and your team mates walk down the side of the building you will want 
 to select the terrorists your commandoes take out, as soon as you've done that order your commandos 
 to attack the terrorists using the D-pad. And they will fly through the window and take out the 
 selected terrorists as they do that, you fly in aswell and kill off your own target. Take that 
 you terrorists!!! If there is one thing that you notice it has to be the beautiful and high definition 
 graphics that have you feeling like your battling through real casinos in Las Vegas. Even though 
 the casinos are fiction you won't care because they are all look and are based on the real casinos. 
 And the artistics on the commandos are just amazing they just look like the real thing. If there 
 is one thing wrong with this game it's the music. If you could only hear the background music and 
 not see the game you would think your fighting in a bingo hall not Las Vegas the home of Elvis 
 Presley the king of rock and roll. But the game is so good you won't care one bit. The shooting 
 a grenade explosions are just as good as the best first person shooters, but I don't think that 
 we are going to get better from the sound effects just because they are just complete quality. 
 My conclusion of this game is it's a must have. Buy it now. Go on if you don't buy it you will 
 be missing out so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekey
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 10, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  Like mention in the review deck Its the best Rainbow six thus far. It looks good plays great and 
 it has a great ballance of weapons. And the tactical aspect pf the game is unpresidented. Its deffinately 
 a must have game especially for the 360.
  Its more then just a simple reload and shot kind of game, you really have to use cover and use 
 your weapons CAREFULLY. All this and a great story to go with it!!!!
  
  Gameplay: great enough to make you want to play more and more.
  
  Graphics: One of the best 
 seen in Rainbow Six.
  
  Sound: Top of the line Value: it's a lengthy well written, game with a lot of replay value. (You 
 would deffinatly play this game through again.
  
  This is one of several must have games for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 10, 2007 1:55 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  
  I like how the game handles for the most part. It is your basic ubisoft controls (they are pretty 
 much the same for every game it seems) . My main gripe is that you can't sprint or roll. Jumping 
 can be a chore. I do like the raised difficulty of controlling your weapon and the harder the firepower 
 the harder it is to control. Graphics: 10
  
  Very detailed game has a very realistic feel. PLayer, auto and building details are excellent. 
 Fire effecs look amazing and explosions even moreso. Car damage looks realistic.
  
  Sound: 8
  
  I really do not like it that you cant hear the sound of a grenade hitting the ground 
 next to you. That can be a problem, especially with the douchebags that do nothing but toss grenades 
 in spawn areas in multiplayer. The sound is nothing diffferent than any other shooter.
  
  Value: 9
  
  Xbox live always adds replay value to shooters given that the servers can handle 
 all the players. No surprise here but the online is excellent. The storyline is more intruiging 
 than GRAW. Tilt: 8
  
  Its a great game, and I will continue to play, but it is like it is lacking something. It just 
 really bothers me that there is a lack of sprinting and rolling. The multiplayer raises my opinion 
 of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2006 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow 6: Vegas is yet another great game for the Xbox 360, and another great game in the Tom 
 Clancy game series. All of the Tom Clancy games are renowned for their tactical or stealth gameplay, 
 and this is no exception.
  
  While I love Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, I though what that game lacked was enough tactical 
 strategy. No busting open doors, no flashbangs. This game however has all that. Most of the game 
 has you running through a Las Vegas casino completing objectives, like rescuing hostages or killing 
 someone. Pretty basic really. But, what makes the game fun is that you order your squad around 
 and have them do stuff independently. And the great thing is, the squad's AI is very good.
  
  They will take cover automatically, fire when fired upon, and overall just act well. It's always 
 satisfying to use an optical camera to look under a door, pick up to two primary targets, have 
 your squad get prepared, and then order them to throw a flash bang in and clear the room. It's 
 also very easy to do this.
  
  The only thing about single player I find frustrating sometimes is that every once in awhile, you 
 get to a part that just seem impossible, due to enemies who outnumber you, or enemies who have 
 really good aim, or even the occasional shotgun equiped enemy who can kill you in two shots from 
 a long distance.
  
  Also, this is just single player. Multiplayer is quite unbalanced, due to a variety of cheap tactics. 
 One is spawn camping, in which the opponents sit outside where you spawn and kill you as you try 
 to get back in the action. Another are the one hit kills, in which players who have great pin-point 
 accuracy can always aim for the head and kill you in one shot. I mean, this happens from across 
 the maps with a submachine gun, which isn't balanced at all .
  
  Multiplayer though is still pretty good and really fun. It's best to play regular player matches 
 instead of ranked, at least at first. You realize you just need to get better. I think some of 
 the gameplay wasn't thought out all the way, but it's still enjoyable, and we can hop it gets fixed.
 
  
  The graphics in the game overall are pretty good. A few oddities kinda annoy me though, like shooting 
 a bag of money and have bullet holes where you shot, just like you shot a wall or something. Or 
 shooting a table with chips on, expecting the chips to go flying, but not seeing anything. Also, 
 anti-aliasing seems pretty poor. But, other than a few things, the graphics are very good.
  
  Overall though, the game is great. Another good Xbox 360 game that is definitely worth owning. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Laenue
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 9, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is good, simple fact. The fighting is extremely realistic, like the ducking. It's better 
 ducking than Gears of War, you can get off the walls easily and you don't accidentally jump against 
 them. The aiming feels responsive while not being too loose. The movement is fluid as is the team 
 control. And so that you're sure about it, stacking a door, checking the room with the snake camera, 
 and clearing it, is probably the best part of the game. Now to the AI, oh the AI. Simply stated, 
 I have never been outflanked by an AI unit before playing this game. Now I've played this game, 
 I understand how good AI in games can be, and should be. The on problem is that on occasion, I 
 find it hard to stick against a wall. It's not always clear which walls you can stick to or not. 
 All together however, this makes a simply amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsm164
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 9, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  Having been in the real business of SWAT I can tell you that the way this game executes is darn 
 close to spot on! Graphically it looks great. The movements from the rappelling to the Austraiian 
 repel are excellent. Slicing the pie is possible, taking cover is great, your team mates yelling 
 Reloading , these all add to the realisim and make for a great game. There are a few glitches that 
 I have noticed with the game. Your teammayes can get stuck behind you , and force you to bump into 
 them in order to get them out of the way. Other than that its a must have in my opinion!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenjaminhoppe
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 9, 2006 7:14 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six has been lacking the past few years... and that is all over with now. The single player 
 games has turned things around and Rainbow Six is fun and tactical again. The cover system works 
 great and tactical game play is the only way to play. The single player game is a bit short, but 
 that seems to be a trend with games anymore. The ending is very Halo 2, but I guess that means 
 we should expect a follow up that is just as good if not better. That graphics are very good in 
 single player, but are scaled down for online play. The PEC mode is great, and as you rank up you 
 unlock new gear. I don't know if the desire to rank up or just good gameplay keep bring me back 
 for more. A few maps are a little uneven, but that are some really good, balanced maps that are 
 a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brobnado777
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 8, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best Rainbow Six I've Played. It is amazing. The graphics, the gameplay, the story, and 
 multiplayer all are in great sync to deliver a wonderful game pick this bad boy up. This game may 
 the best first person shooter on 360. The 2 different difficulty levels are both very challening. Though 
 i have not yet completed the normal Difficulty story i have attempted Realistic and it lives up 
 to its name to survive that you must be very tactical as in the Normal difficulty. All in all Rainbow 
 Six Vegas is a great game and shouldn't be passed by. If you have a 360 pick this up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bballer69
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 8, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game recently and i played for hours upon hours I have never befor played a great 
 single player campaign game.. other than gears of war.. i think the multiplayer could have been 
 better but other than that this game is amazing and everyone should own it. I thought the mullitplayer 
 graphics could have been better also the physics to the game are a little bit unreal.. but once 
 you start playing single player all that changes, the graphics on single player are almost perfected 
 in my mind and it is as realistic as going over seas to fight but you don't even have to leave 
 the couch this is why i think that Las Vegas is a must own game and anyone who doesent purchase 
 this game is out of luck for having a great time.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coxmartin
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 8, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  I pondered where to buy this one, the basic tactical game play and real life war sims (prefer SciFi 
 or Fantasy) is not what normally works for me but the tactical side of things is not that heavy 
 and of all of the game I have this has been the most fun.
  
  Graphics are good but not great like Gears of War but it has game play and that certain something 
 that makes me come back again and again.
  
  Even the online play is enjoyable, apart some the odd fool you occasionally bump into but that 
 is common to all online play from WOW to Unreal there is always someone who does not like to lose 
 and rather than take it on the chin has to through a hissy fit. I would recommend at the very least 
 you give this a rent even if it is not your normal game type. (select an action below) ______________ 
 Delete Message Edit Message View Edit History 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red47
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 8, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  I was a little skeptical when hearing about this game. I loved Rainbow Six 3 and Rainbow Six 3 
 Black Arrow for xbox but i did not like Rainbow Six Lockdown that much but is still pre ordered 
 it despite that. Anyway, reading about the game and its features really made me want to give it 
 a try, and then they released a demo. Once i played the demo, i was sold! Then when i finally picked 
 up the game i had a blast. It is so fun and is actually tactical again like R6 3 was. They have 
 some very cool features like a cover system that works BETTER than Gears of war, and some new wepons 
 and a rappel feature which is a blast, especially online. The single player is fun and a fun time. 
 It has a fairly lengthy single player, about 10 to 15 hours on normal difficulty. However, multiplayer 
 is where the game really shines. It has about 7 game modes like attack and defend, sharpshooter 
 ect. ect. It also has online story mode with coop and coop terrorist hunts. Also it has a very 
 cool stats system and you can even use the vision camera to get your face in the game which works 
 pretty good. Anyway, short and sweet, BUY IT. This is the best First Person Shooter on xbox 360. 
 If you are a fan of tactical shooters, and realistic models of wepons, then drop what you are doing 
 now and go buy it if you have not already. Thanks Ubisoft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackson84
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 8, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  I played a few Rainbow six game but, I never really got into them, maybe because I don't like to 
 play first person shooters. I do like how they incorperated third person view with the first person 
 view. This was one of the main reasons why I brought the game. You can control you team a little 
 better in Vegas than G. R. A. W. But I don't think one is better than the other though, I think there 
 neck n neck. Anyway the game is great for a person like me who hates first person shooters. I really 
 love the AI, and I like how my team don't always die on me. They can clear a room all by themselves. 
 I also like how you can customizr your weapons and they sound real great. Only think about the 
 weapons is that why do the shotgun have range? I'm far away from a bad guy and he has a shotgun.... shots 
 me then I end up dead. I'm not an expert in weapons or anything like that but I'm pretty sure a 
 shotgun can't kill you in the distants I had between me in the bad guy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dxes
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  After recently getting Xbox Live i can now review the multiplayer sides of these games so yay!
 
  
  Now i knew about the rainbow six games and have never been a real fan but this game has just made 
 me one...
  
  This game is actually very challenging but fear not for you will eventually overcome these obstacles 
 in time... the games firefights are intense as nuts... think about it as.. A tactical GoW... the 
 graphics are nothing short of amazing and earns a 9 for that... because of a few issues it has 
 been kept from a 10...
  
  I've never liked console FPS games but this changed my mind and i was quite surprised on how easy 
 it was to adapt!
  
  Gamespots review is fully fair with one exception which was the sound. I found the sound which 
 was actually pretty damned awesome...
  
  Online mode was incredible, the amazing gameplay and firefights are brought online and kick alot 
 of arse...
  
  above all you have to get this game... it has a great value for money and you wont regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djord02
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 11, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas is the kind of game that surprises you, and in a good way. When I first heard 
 about the game, I honestly wasn't all that enthusiastic. Oh great, another run-of-the mill Raven 
 Shield, I thought.
  
  Thankfully, this is absolutely not the case. RS: V excels in almost every possible way. The graphics 
 look great on the Unreal 3 Engine, and you will appreciate the glow of Vegas's lights and casinos. 
 All of the levels, with the exception of the initial Mexico levels, look absolutely fantastic and 
 well designed. And the environments feel very interactive. When a slot machine gets between you 
 and terrorist, you'll appreciate seeing chunks of plastic fly everywhere and the change that comes 
 flying out of the drawer. And grenades -- thank you Ubisoft for getting this right -- feel very 
 powerful. Throw a grenade at a group of enemies, and unlike Gears of War, you are going to do some 
 nasty splash damage. And the fantastic rag-doll physics send everyone flying. What really shines 
 in Rainbow Six: Vegas, however, is the gameplay. The cover system in the game works phenomenally, 
 even better than this years other top game, Gears of War. You can easily switch in and out of 
 cover by holding down the left trigger button. You'll find this works much better than holding 
 down the 'A' button in Epics GeoW, which will often get you stuck against a wall while trying 
 to run away from enemies.
  
  You can also do a lot of great, commando maneuvers as well, whether using a camera to peak under 
 a door or rappelling down the side of a building. There are many opportunities in the game to rope 
 down from a helicopter, or rappel down to a lower area. You can even jump through the glass of 
 a high-rise building and order your A. I. squad mates to do the same. It moves, looks and plays 
 fantastic.
  
  Customization is another great feature of the game. There are numerous weapons, and most of them 
 can utilize various attachments, such as silencers, scopes, laser-sights, etc. In addition, you 
 can use or unlock many different kinds of armor. You'll find that the stats on body armor really 
 affect gameplay, and while heavier armor will block more bullets, it'll cause you to move slower 
 than some of the more agile, light armor sets. You can also change the color of your armor and 
 apply various camouflage patterns to better suit your surroundings. Deep and customizable multiplayer 
 modes add additional value to an already great game. You can play full 16-player online matches 
 in a variety of mission types. There also is support for 4-player online cooperative play. All 
 of these features are appreciated, as is the unique, RPG-like ranking system. As you gain points 
 from wins and kills in multiplayer, you're commando will go up in rank, which gives you access 
 to additional weapon types and armor sets. It is a great system that keeps you coming back again 
 and again to collect all of the equipment. And some of this equipment, like the riot shield, fundamentally 
 adds depth to the game.
  
  In addition to being able to customize your weapons and armor, you can also scan a digital image 
 of your face onto your commando via the Xbox Live Vision Camera. The results can be surprisingly 
 realistic  not to mention, a bit creepy.
  
  On the downside, some of the guns are a little more powerful than others. Snipers may be disappointed 
 to find out that sniper rifles dont seem to fire as accurately or with as much power as in other 
 games. Ive shot people three times or more in multiplayer with various sniper rifles to no avail. 
 One shot, one kill just isnt the case in this game -- sometimes, even pistols can be more effective 
 than a sniper rifle.
  
  Overall, however, Rainbow Six: Vegas is a fantastic game with a long, rewarding single-player campaign 
 and an engaging multiplayer experience that rivals the best games available on the Xbox 360. Theres 
 not many guaranteed bets in Vegas, but this years Rainbow Six is a sure shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BajaBravo
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 8, 2006 5:39 am PT
Review:  When I first picked up Rainbow Six years ago, it blew me away. There have been many great games 
 since then, but nothing truly grabbed me the way that Rainbow Six did. As the franchise matured 
 the distinctive nature of Rainbow Six diminished somewhat it my opinion. Ravenshield was great 
 and Lockdown wasn't terrible, but compared to other games in the genre, it seemed that Rainbow 
 Six might have lost it's way. My expectations for Vegas weren't very high. Boy was I wrong.
  
  RS: Vegas nails it in just about every way possible. The gameplay is fantastic. There is able 
 opportunity to use different approaches to each tactical situation giving the player a chance to 
 explore there own style and adding great replay value. I find myself wanting to play levels over 
 and over again to try to find better ways to tackle them. The control interface is so natural I 
 can't help but wonder why any shooter would do it different. The gameplay mechanic of finding cover 
 is particularly superb. Graphically, Vegas is simply beautiful. From the outstanding environments 
 to the incredibly detailed characters and objects to the amazing dynamic lighting effects, this 
 game leaves nothing to be desired in the eye-candy department.
  
  RS: Vegas borrows heavily from it's sister franchises, Ghost Recon (GRAW in particular) and Splinter 
 Cell, but it does so in a way that doesn't feel like a shortcut or a cheap copy. It takes some 
 of the best elements from those great games and combines and refines them. The end result is a 
 masterpiece. RS: Vegas is, in my opinion, an opus.
  
  I'm anxious to see what they come up with next, but I'm quite content playing Vegas while I wait! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasukedevil
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 7, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Rainbow Six game... since Lockdown. And that game was an okay game but didn't 
 completely feel like a Rainbow Game since Rainbow Six 3. This game however sets the mark for one 
 of the best Rainbow Games since then and here's my review for it.
  
  The difficulty for this game is really hard even on 'Normal' mode. For me it was kind of trouble 
 some to get through most of the scenes (aka chapters) without dying once but instead each scene 
 I died at least 10 times through one scene... Making this game one of the hardest Rainbow Six's 
 to me.... yet.... It is still pretty lengthy as the main story is about 10 - 12 hours long.... it 
 would be less if I didn't die as much... probably making it a standard 10 hour game if you don't 
 more than twenty times... but 50+ deaths is about 15 hours of gameplay. Gameplay The gameplay is 
 the same as usual in a Rainbow Six game but this one however has incredibly good A. I. that makes 
 it a step- FURTHER into the series. There is about 25+ weapons in the game you can use in Single 
 Player and Multiplayer. You can unlock more guns in single player by finding them and using them, 
 that adds-on to your multiplayer. It's quite compelling to find all of them and there should be 
 a decent amount of weapons in every Rainbow Six game. There's the standard machine gun, pistols, 
 assault rifles, light machine guns, sniper rifles, shields, and much much more. There is a few 
 new guns but most of the guns you have seen before in a Rainbow Six game.
  The A. I. is much more agreesive in Vegas for one reason.... They will definately not be idiots when 
 they are far away... but when I was playing... the most idiotic A. I. would be when I'm much closer. 
 Of course the most frustrating thing that got me mad about the A. I. is your teammates A. I. They 
 don't always clear everything and they are only useful for defusing, opening doors, and other stuff. 
 They can tend to hold themselves for a brief amount of time but for the most part they can't hold 
 their own without you. You can't exactly have one of your teammates heal the other until you tell 
 the other to.... and if you have both teammates down... then you have to do it yourself or your completely 
 screwed. It's pretty hard to always keep your teammates alive, unless you make strategic plans. 
 There is alot of ways to get around in the game but for the most part it will take you a few tries 
 to figure out where enemies are, and if a certain door is the right way to go. You'll probably 
 get frustrated if you die multiple times, but you can always take a breather and play multiplayer 
 if your having a hard time on Normal or Realistic Mode . Multiplayer is of course really good but 
 you can't play multiplayer maps but instead co-op, if your not playing online or system link. I 
 don't have Live anymore but I tried out the Online at a friend's and it keeps the game fresh after 
 beating the Story Mode. Online should last you awhile but of course the achievements will be one 
 of the few things keeping you coming back for Rainbow. Graphics Graphics, of course the 360 holds 
 good graphics, as you've seen Gears of War. Graphics in this game are good as G. R. A. W. was early 
 this year. The cutscenes aren't really the best looking cutscenes you'll see... but destroying everything 
 in a Casino makes this game have a perfect for Graphics as most of the textures are completely 
 filled and everything looks shiny and nice. Sound The sound is good as well... Most Rainbow games 
 have great gun firing.... As does this game. The funny part about the sound... is you can hear the 
 enemies yell at each other. You can only hear this if your close to a door and there is some enemies 
 near that door or if your really close to them... say 20 - 30 feet in game length. The music keeps 
 the game solid but sometimes you might not hear music that goes with what's going on at all times, 
 but it still keeps the game fresh and exciting. Value Game has a good amount of value. 10 - 15 
 hours of value in the Story Mode. Terrorist hunt mode might be fun for a half an hour with a buddy... but 
 you won't really play that mode that much unless you want to unlock the Terrorist Achievement. 
 There is Six Scenes in Rainbow Six... each having two or more levels into it. Each level takes at 
 least 15 to 45 minutes at the most part. Multiplayer of course will keep you coming back for more 
 as well as achievements. This game is good for a rent if your just going for the Story Mode. Should 
 take just three nights to beat the regular mode if you take about 5 hours each night. Thanks for 
 reading and I highly reccommend this game if your looking for another Online Game and your a fan 
 of achievements and if your looking for another shooter (or rainbow six game) !!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darreo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  This kind of game is what people gawk over. I been playing thru on the 2 player co-op missions 
 (with various friends) &amp; this is another great multiplayer game I have to recommend to every 
 shooter fan out there. The game is flawless and Ive yet to see something in it that I dont like......... wait 
 4 player local would have been nice (Im almost sure 360 can handle it?) but I guess 2 is better 
 than 1. The A. I. are aggressive and react to bullets well (shot a guy in the leg and he hobbled 
 off to tell his friend were I was) Plus the A. I. Dialog is hilarious!! (You gotta hear these guys 
 talking..... pure comedy) , The sound is big budget movie theater quality no less. I have seen a 
 bunch of so so shooters out in the past few years but I havent seen this kind of tactical strategic 
 shooter / swat sim done this well before, Hands down classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: subsonicdust
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 6, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Las Vegas. The gambling capital of the world. Could there really be a cooler place to set a videogame? 
 It's one of the world's most famous cities, with its tremendous neon-drenched architecture, glitzy 
 nightlife and towering casinos. It also happens to be the setting for Ubisoft's latest - and greatest 
 - tactical shooter, Rainbow Six: Vegas. The plot is simple: terrorists have taken over Las Vegas, 
 and it's your job to take them out. As team-leader of an elite counter-terrorism unit, you'll get 
 to call the shots as you battle your way through the streets, rooftops and casinos of real-life 
 Vegas on a mission eliminate the terrorist threat. And it's frikkin' awesome! I actually bought 
 the game on Friday December 1st, the day it came out, but I've been gripped by it so much that 
 I've had to abandon what little remnants of my social life I have left as a means to fully experience 
 the game's dazzling online and offline features. As far as offline goes (i. e. the single player) , 
 the game is worth buying for its superb campaign alone. There are about 10 action-packed levels 
 in 'Vegas, all of which force you to think and behave like an actual commando would. The game's 
 slow, deliberate pace may not be for those who enjoy running-n-gunning, but 'Vegas has a lot more 
 depth to its combat that most other shooters, and it's here where the game comes highly recommended. 
 The game itself is comprised of many excellent new additions which easily make this game not only 
 the best Rainbow Six game to date, but the best tactical shooter ever made, and the quintessential 
 FPS of 2006. Most notable of the new additions is the brand new cover system. By pulling the left 
 trigger you can take cover behind any solid object, be it a wall, a car, or a burnt out slot machine. 
 From here, you are able to neutralise enemies from behind cover and even blind-fire to suppress 
 the enemy when you're outnumbered, allowing your squad-mates to move into position. It's a superb 
 new mechanic and provides a great new gameplay experience which EVERY future FPS should adapt in 
 some way; going back and playing Call of Duty 3 just isn't the same anymore, since every time I 
 approach a wall I want to be able to take cover behind it, not stare at a poor, grey texture wishing 
 I could. Then there's also the new rappelling system, which simply serves as a means to expand 
 your room-breaching repertoire. Dangling upside down on a rope outside a building, only to drop 
 an enemy with a single shot of your silenced pistol is insanely fun. If you simply want to scare 
 the holy hell out of the terrorists, then you can even just kick through the glass and unload on 
 your foes before they can say blackjack . The game really does do a great job of making you feel 
 like I AM a commando . But for a game to have a long-lasting challenge, it needs a good online 
 component. And it's here where Rainbow Six: Vegas really comes into its own. Using a much-expanded 
 version of the Persistent Elite Creation system (or PEC) first found on Rainbow Six: Lockdown, 
 'Vegas allows you to build an online character and save him from one game to the next. You'll gain 
 experience points for your character whether you win or lose. Once you've amassed enough of these 
 points, you'll earn a promotion and unlock new weapons and equipment to further customise your 
 character. It's a great system and it works really well. It's also another feature games such as 
 Halo 3 need to implement in some way, as it's a system that actually feels like your character 
 is constantly improving and evolving over time. Also, if you have an Xbox Live Vision Camera, you 
 can even map your face onto your character. The final result is pretty impressive and believe me, 
 there's a strange satisfaction to be had from shooting your friend in his actual face. Either that, 
 or I've lost my medication. Rainbow Six: Vegas is a refreshing return to form for the long-running 
 series. By mixing stunning visuals, liqueur-rich gameplay, an over-the-top storyline and some superbly 
 constructed set-pieces, RS: V is a strong contender for Game of the Year, and casts aside those 
 worrisome preconceptions that the series was dying off. My money's on black that you'll buy it... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 6, 2006 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Even though this game is clearly a tactical shooter, where hunting terrorists is the main theme, 
 it gives you a no nonsense approach and you can dive into it just as fast as a regular FPS. This 
 is a great advantage for getting into the game fast, however after a while you might miss some 
 more depth like you find in the Splinter Cell series. It is basically too easy, and has few options.
 
  
  Typically you just use your teammates a lot to go out in front of you and kill off all enemies. 
 And if they fail, you can step in and finish off the rest easily as the enemy's locations are now 
 known after the firefight. If your team mates are killed, you can easily revive them and they will 
 auto-heal if they just get wounded a bit.
  
  This makes the game feel a bit like an RTS, where you control two super soldiers who will be able 
 to clear out almost anything for you. Once you get used to this playing style, you will feel a 
 bit like you are cheating, and the game becomes rather repetitive and linear. Only when you play 
 without your team mates you will feel some pressure.
  
  However, the extraordinary graphics makes it a joy to play and the graphical diversity is a great 
 motivation for diving further into the story, which by the way never gets in the way of the action. 
 It is always delivered while you are playing.
  
  The city scene is amazingly realistic, and I especially appreciated the soft shadows and great 
 view distance. You can see miles and miles... Unfortunately the cities lack realism in the form 
 of civilian traffic. You will never encounter any cars or people in the streets, it all feels like 
 deserted ghost towns. Only really noticeable as the graphics otherwise is so amazing.
  
  The maps also suffer a bit from the hidden maze syndrome. Which means you get the impression you 
 have a lot of freedom to go everywhere, but in real you are inside a camouflaged maze where there 
 will be some cars parked in a way that will exactly block your way in that direction or other objects 
 making up the wall in the maze. This hinders your freedom, but also stops you from wandering off 
 and getting lost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonBlade035
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 6, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely amazing!!...... the singleplayer in this is very well made the lvl's are 
 challenging but who doesnt like a challenge? for me its just right...... i did not really focus 
 on the single i focused on the multi i just couldnt stop playing after the first lvl i played which 
 was part of terrorist hunt..... if youu like your other games do not play terrorist hunt first.... u 
 will be hooked for months!!! i rented it just to see what its like and its not a rental type game 
 its a buying type game!!! It is one of the best games ive ever played!! you'll make freinds fast 
 when you play terrorist hunt and coop story...... this game is a sheer masterpiece!!!! The graphics 
 are good not the best but very good!! the weapons are awesoome there must be more than 25 guns/weapons. 
 You can make ur own character in multi the character generation isnt extremely in depth but it 
 gives whats needed. In outfitting it gives you choices of your default weapons for multi depending 
 on rank is the type of weapons you can get. You can also choose your armor -- if any... it shows in 
 game how much protection it really gives but depending on the type of armor it brings your movement 
 down but your protection up a certain amount........ you can do everything in multi that you can 
 do in single which is very impressive!! and the game does not lose any graphical power in multi 
 unlike some games which is also inpressive!! This game is basically just totally impressive on 
 every front!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamespotcrazy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 6, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  To start off, I was very excited about this game, because I wasnt very happy how Lockdown turned 
 out.
  The first thing I noticed was it didnt play as clunky as the last 2 games did and I was very happy 
 about that. What I didnt like was that the graphics were (to me) only sub par, yet it was using 
 the unreal 3 engine, so I was hoping it would have a little better graphics, but its not a big 
 deal I mean only Epic really knows how to suck the true power out of the unreal engine. Another 
 thing I really liked was the online multiplayer. To me this is what makes the game shine, yeah 
 it might not have the best graphics, but the gameplay is so awesome. And its nothing like the last 
 2 rainbow's that were so frustrating online. And in my opinion its easier for someone who has never 
 played online before to pick up abd play this game versus the last games were you would hope online 
 and get your butt whooped and it wouldnt be any fun.
  
  So in conclusion if you are a fan of ubi (which you should be.. lol) , are a loyal fan of the rainbow 
 6 series, or you just love a good straightforward tactical shooter, then Rainbow 6 Vegas will be 
 in your 360 for time and time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dab78
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 6, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  The Rainbow squad are back in their latest adventure Tom Clancys Rainbow Six: Vegas. This time 
 the boys from Rainbow are on a mission to stop more evil terrorist from terrorising from as the 
 title suggests, yep, you guessed it sin city herself, Las Vegas. Strangely however, your first 
 op is in Mexico. You start the game flying over a fantastic looking townscape of a deprived Mexican 
 area a la GRAW style. The main goal of this Mexican mission is to bring you up to speed with the 
 controls and some pointers on how to take down those nasty tangos (Tango, as in phonetic letter 
 T for terrorist) . Unfortunately, the game goes down hill after this brief visit to Mexico along 
 with the story. You hit Vegas as it is being completely over run by terrorist and rioters. The 
 sheer number of (highly trained ex-spec-ops) terrorists would put any terrorist cell to shame. 
 Youll find that youre 500 kills achievement wont be long in coming. These tangos also are carrying 
 bang up to date hardware too (basically theyve got the same kit at their disposal as you have, 
 including grenades and goggles) . This is where the story gets silly. I cant believe this Mexican 
 tango army along with all their hardware would have gone unnoticed by an intelligence agency somewhere. 
 I know I know this is, at the end of the day a fictional video game. But when the box comes with 
 the boy Clancys name emblazoned on it, you expect a story that could be a bit more realistic. 
 I sometimes wonder want input Clancy had to this game, if any at all. Oh and I forgot to mention 
 that the worlds response to this invasion is to send in just three boys from Rainbow. Pur-lease! 
 Theres no more assaulting a house or building to rescue hostages or disarm bombs from ak47 wielding 
 political activists in exotic locations here. And, I feel the game is worse for it. Theres only 
 so much linear casino battles one can take before it starts getting boring.
  
  As for the gameplay, its good, but by no means great. For a game that claims to be a tactical 
 shooter the controls are very limited. The point of view and movement are controlled by the analogue 
 sticks just like any other shooter. Firing your gun with right trigger is again like any standard 
 fps game. The left trigger however activates a clumsy 3rd person cover system which doesnt really 
 work well at all. Nine times out ten youll be spotted if youre in cover mode or not. You can 
 aim via a small crosshair from which you can blind fire by just pressing the trigger. But dont 
 expect to get any kills with this method because you simply wont get any. So the other way is 
 to pop out from your cover using your analogue sticks at taking down your foes with far more deadly 
 accuracy (think of a far less well executed Gears of War style) . This, disappointingly is about 
 as tactical as this tactical shooter gets. The left bumper changes your team mates tactics from 
 shot at anything that moves (Assault) or shot only if shot at (Infiltrate) . Right bumper activates 
 your heat/night vision goggles which youll only every need if you or a tango throws a smoke grenade. 
 Y button swaps guns holding it down bring ups a menu of you inventory witch controlled via the 
 d-pad, X reloads your gun or if held down you can change the rate of fire and can activate the 
 silencer (which in turn tells your team mates to go silent too) . B button throws whatever grenade 
 type weapon you have selected or can apply and detonate a breaching charge that you can affix to 
 a door. Holding down the back button will bring up a map of the area. But due to the very linear 
 layout of the game you wont be using this much. The back button also tags enemies which Ill explain 
 later. The A button opens doors and issues commands to your team mates. Commands are limited though, 
 when you out in the open you can use your reticle and the A button to move your team mates, and 
 thats about it. You can however issue different commands when obstacles like doors get in your 
 way. You can get your team to Stack Up on a door. This basically means stand either side of it 
 where possible and prepare for entry. When your squad is stacked youre given the choice of three 
 orders which are different depending on what rules of engagement you have them set at (Assault/Infiltrate) . 
 If youre assaulting then youve got the commands: breach and clear (applies breaching charge to 
 door, detonates it and clears room) , enter and clear (opens door via door knob, enter through door 
 and clears room) and finally frag and clear (Opens door via door knob, throws a frag grenade through 
 open door, waits for the bang, enters rooms and clears up the remains) . If you are however you 
 are infiltrating you can: flash and clear (same as frag and clear but using a flash-bang grenade 
 that temporarily blinds and stuns your enemies allowing for an easy shot) , open and clear (same 
 as before) and smoke and clear (same as frag or flash but this time with a smoke grenade which 
 deposits a large cloud in to which you can obscure your self in) . Choosing what commands you wish 
 your team mate to execute is done again via the d-pad. You can also tell your team to climb ladders 
 and rappel over the side of some buildings. The D-Pad, as covered, controls most of the on-the-fly 
 menus in the game. But you can regroup or hold your team by pressing up on your d-pad during open 
 play. The instruction booklet says you can issue commands via the Xbox live communicator headset. 
 But if I were you I wouldnt bother because it just doesnt work. Before you enter a room you can 
 (allegedly) prioritise what enemy you want taken down first. Say for example there is an angry 
 terrorist with a gun held to a poor hostages head. It goes with out saying that you are going 
 to want him out of the equation first. The most effective way to do this is when your team is stacked 
 upon a door, then use your SnakeCam by pressing the A button on the lower half of the said door. 
 This then inserts a small fibre optic camera under the closed door so you can scout for enemies 
 without being seen. You can then, by using the crosshair tag two tangos as priority 1 or 2 respectively 
 by pressing the back button on them. This however does take time of course, and in most hostage 
 situations during this game, one of the terrorists will be venting about something he is unhappy 
 with and he will end up shooting the hostage from his own rage. Even if you havent yet alerted 
 them to your presence. So youll have to be quick. Tagging only seems to work during hostage situations. 
 Any other time and your team mates seem to take out whoever they see first. Ive often experienced 
 a tagged tango being the last alive in a room full of the lil blighters. The lack of Go Codes, 
 leaning (thats right, no leaning, no slicing the pie here) and no slowly opening doors controls 
 are horrendous omissions here for a game claiming to be a tactical shooter.
  
  The game doesnt play like a tactical shooter. It plays more like Gears of War, but no where near 
 as good. The game is clearly trigger driven and tangos spawn up when ever these triggers are tripped. 
 And, because of the linear one track layout of this game, triggers will be tripped. I have had 
 a tango spawn up 5ft away from on more than one occasion during this game. This means scoping an 
 area out first before running in is useless as tangos will often just automagically appear. This 
 just wont do for a tactical shooter.
  
  The graphics are good but not great. The opening Mexico level is incredible but the level design 
 and graphics go down hill there after. The graphics are satisfactory but nothing as amazing as 
 you would expect from a game called Vegas. The character models and guns however do look excellent. 
 But the tangos movement still looks bouncy and mechanical. This game is nowhere near the standard 
 of other games like Gears of War on the graphics front.
  
  The sound effects are great when you can hear them. The effects in the game seem to be either clear 
 as crystal or muffled beyond all recognition. This muffledness includes gun fire and explosions 
 too. This really detracts from some of the excitement and panic you should expect from this type 
 of game. The crack of guns firing at you is often heard as light subwoofered thump. This sound 
 defect also hinders spatial awareness especially if youre behind cover. The muffled noise means 
 you are unable to detect if the tango is just the other side of the wall or 100 metres away. Im 
 very much hoping this can be patched at a later date. The voice acting is nothing to sing about. 
 But its better than previous Rainbows. The tangos use (what I would say) more realistic phrases 
 towards you in the heat of battle. I was often called a mother loving son born out of wedlock, 
 or words to that affect. I was quite stunned at the language used, as this game only has a 16+ 
 rating here in the UK. The music appears slightly event driving. By this I mean it builds up from 
 monotonous loops to a full on theatrical sound track when the action heats up. The music works 
 well but sometimes when there is no action it can become a bit repetitive and tedious.
  
  I know Im spouting a lot of negative views here. But I should stress that this is by no means 
 a bad game. In fact I rather enjoyed it, despite its misgivings. I should note that Ive owned 
 PC versions Rainbow Six, Rainbow Six Rouge Spear and Rainbow Six Raven Shield in the past. I still 
 hold these games today as being among my favourite of all time. These games are what I hold all 
 other tactical shooters up against. Vegas doesnt deserve to stand in line with these fore mentioned 
 titles, even though it carries the Rainbow Six name. The PC Rainbows you had to plan your entry 
 and tactics first via a map then youd select your teams and execute. If you were seen by the tango 
 first you could almost guarantee death, as it was pretty much one hit and your dead. If you were 
 lucky enough to survive being hit youd be pretty much a sitting duck for the rest of the mission 
 because you werent able to shoot straight with any given accuracy there after. So my verdict is 
 that Vegas is a good arcade shooter but a poor tactical one. I would recommend this game, but Id 
 recommend Gears of War and or Call of Duty 3 before it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andy_Holt
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 6, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is a fantastic game!! The Good:
  
  Graphically brilliant
  good emphasis on team work
  a lot of weapons to choose from
  a lot of shooting and explosions
 
  the ability to choose your own plan of attack - as well as rappelling down building and the usual 
 frag/breach/flash/smoke and enter routine.
  its also damn good fun to play with great multiplayer and coop ability
  
  The bad:
  shotguns 
 seem to be very acurate at long distance
  your teammates AI can be unnerving at times
  you cant pick your teammates equiptment
  
  im playing it on realistic mode... its better that 
 way i think... like a real rainbow op :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  The Good: Amazing visuals, excellent online and offline gameplay, smart A. I., unique setting for 
 a Tom Clancy Game, it's Rainbow freakin' Six!
  
  The Bad: It get's somewhat glitchy on very rare occasions, terrorists cuss a lot, you have to wait 
 4 levels before getting to Vegas.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The long running Rainbow Six series has had it's ups and downs reciently. Rainbow Six 3 was a classic 
 that dominated the Xbox Live charts back in it's day. Rainbow Six Lockdown lost several fans with 
 it's mediocure gameplay and for being a bit too arcady for true fan's taste. Luckily, those who 
 liked the flair of Lockdown, but the tacticalness of 3 will all be thrilled with Rainbow Six Vegas, 
 the latest in the series. One thing that longtime fans may see as somewhat of a bad thing is the 
 departure of Ding Chevez as the leader of Rainbow Six. Luckily, the new guy is up for the challenge. 
 The main plotline for Vegas is that a group of terrorists have taken the city of Las Vegas, Navada 
 hostage and it's up to you to lead your team of Rainbow Six operatives to save Sin City before 
 it's too late. This sounds like a bit of a challenge, but nothing Rainbow Six can't do.
  
  The biggest new addition to Vegas besides the showstopping visuals is the return of more tactical 
 shooting action. Now, you can't just run out and kill all of the terrorists with a shotgun, you 
 have to use cover and your squad wizely. Speaking of cover, the new cover system is a very well 
 done fusion of Gears of War meets G. R. A. W. You shift into third person while behind cover and can 
 shoot around it to avoid getting hit yourself. Another big addition is the ability to pick up and 
 use a fallen enemy's weapons, which is a first for the R6 series. There are also boxes on select 
 levels where you can choose your arsenal and customise your weapons to your liking just like in 
 G. R. A. W. Want a sniper scope on your shotgun? Go for it. Besides the fact that you lost one of 
 your three squadmates in this one, Vegas' single player portion is intence and tons of fun. Your 
 squad has new tricks as well, such as stance commands and being smarter than usual. The guns are 
 great, as usual and the enemies are also smart, so it's not going to be an easy ride. One thing 
 that may turn off some people about the single player is that you don't start in Vegas right away, 
 instead, you start in Mexico gunning down Mexican terrorists. It's not necessarily a bad thing, 
 but you want to get to Vegas...
  
  The biggest thing the makes the Rainbow Six series so great is the online multiplayer modes. One 
 good thing that came out of Lockdown was the Persistant Elite Creation or PEC mode. This is back 
 in Vegas, but it works much better than it ever did in Lockdown or Critical Hour. Make your character, 
 including possably using the vision camera to map your face onto your custom commando, then fragging 
 your friends online. The online matches arte also a ton of fun and are actually much more enjoyable 
 than R63. All of the classic modes are back in full force, including the Terrorist Hunt mode with 
 up to four players working coopratively to get the job done. This is the best the Rainbow Six series 
 has to offer and is one of the best games of 2006. It may not quite be as good as Gears of War, 
 but it actually comes close. Close enough to merrit a perfect 10 grade.
  
  Gameplay: Classic Rainbow Six Gameplay with all of the flash of the later games.
  
  Graphics: 
 Amazing, clearly some of the best the 360 has to offer.
  
  Sound: Same here.
  
  Value: It's a fully priced game, but it's worth every penny. I'd recomend getting the Collector's 
 Edition if you want the full Rainbow Six experience.
  
  Final Thoughts: Viva Las Vegas!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theo_1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 5, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Once you get use to the mechanics behind taking cover and shooting from cover this game is incredible. 
 I personally think this is better than Gears of War it has great graphics and sound an wide assortment 
 of weapons and customizations for each weapon. I really like the fact that you can set the difficulty 
 to realistic and be forced to use strategy and take cover and use smoke bombs for cover to make 
 advancements. There are several ways you can enter rooms, first you use the snake cam to see who 
 is behind the door and tag the enemy as priority #1, and #2 for your teamates to take out then 
 you can put a charge on the door which will take out any enemy near the door or open the door and 
 throw an smoke bomb in and put on your thermal goggles and BANG BANG BANG! All this planing and 
 action is very fluid and quite seemless. Which makes the game near perfect. Online play is also 
 great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniper0303
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 5, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  WOW this game didnt look too good to me at first from the multiplayer demo but when my friend convinced 
 me to rent it wow this game is awesome. the graphics in single player are pretty dam good as well 
 as the story. The multiplayer graphics arent gears of war but the gameplay and the unlockable items 
 make up for the graphics alot. the weapon variety is awesome and they have just about any modern 
 gun that is around in this game. so for all the FPS lovers out there this game is a must have on 
 your holiday wish list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moykitfung
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 5, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  This is my review for Rainbow Six: Vegas after playing it for a few hours. Rainbow Six Vegas is 
 as good as it gets when it comes to a First Person Tactical Shooter game. The graphics are good, 
 but they definitely could've been better. It's a step up from the other Rainbow Six games on the 
 earlier Xbox consoles, but I would much rather see graphics that are on the same level as Splinter 
 Cell: Double Agent or Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter. I was a bit confused at the beginning of 
 the game when I was placed in a Spanish speaking country for the first 3 levels... I just kept on 
 thinking when the hell am I going to get to Vegas?. The music in the game is quite comical and 
 it leaves you grooving to the music as you blast your way through Tangos. I felt that the checkpoints 
 in the game were spread too far out. Theres nothing more frustrating than setting up a huge tactical 
 assault and die right as you begin to enter the next checkpointTHEN start back all the way from 
 the last checkpoint and choose your weapons again. However, the enemies will be in the same exact 
 location as before (unlike Gears of War) so if you get impatient like I did, then youll end up 
 running through the game and carelessly blast your way through the game. There are a numerous selection 
 of weapons in this game that will keep gamers entertained for hours on end. I play a lot of team 
 sniper in Halo 2 so I enjoy using the sniper rifle in Vegas, but I miss the steady breath feature 
 that is available in games like Double Agent and Metal Gear Solid. As I said earlier, this is my 
 review for playing Vegas early on in the game. I will write a much fuller review when I beat the 
 gamehopefully before my 14 day trial of Gamefly expires;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragon62586
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 4, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is just as realistic as it could be. It uses the Unreal Engine beautifully. (Then again, 
 what hasn't used it beautifully? lol) The single player campaign is the best storyline in any of 
 the Tom Clancy games so far. The ability to modify your guns from the sight to the silencer on 
 the end, this game has endless possiblities. There seriously is not a downside about this game. 
 At least not that I can currently think of. Multiplayer is just awesome! You can customize everything 
 about your character. You can finally make a character to resembe yourself with the Live Vision 
 Camera as well. Rainbow Six offers so much that other FPS's should really learn from. The online 
 ranking system is fantastic. The more you play, the higher your rank gets. (Duh!) Although, this 
 system is much more fun than just a level number that resembles your skill. Instead, you unlock 
 rank specific weapons, attire, armor, etc. Which makes you always want to come back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shorttynaz
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 4, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  I used to love First Person Shooters, but over time they all seemed like it was the same thing, 
 just different weapons, and a different map set. And they all got boring! But this game is different!! 
 The sound is #1 above and beyond all other FPS's in my opinion. I have a full surround sound set 
 up in my living room, and with a little volume, it seriously puts you right there! Each gun has 
 a distinct sound, and there are many! The echoes that you hear when in a building, or the sound 
 of shooting outside is unreal!! The second thing that makes this game unbelievable is the incredible 
 AI. When playing either in single player or online multiplayer (terrorist hunt or co-op story missions) 
 the computer players or bad guys are NEVER in the same place twice. And when spotted, they dont 
 just stand there. They run for cover as well. In terrorist hunt, they will run just like anyone 
 else. It makes it difficult, but in a VERY fun way.. And finally for the multiplayer. I have HATED 
 the online multiplayer FPS's because I am not the worst player out there, but am not very good 
 either. This game you dont have to be very experienced in order to enjoy the sharpshooter (deathmatch) 
 matches. In previous games, I would unload a full clip of 30+ rounds on another player and he would 
 still be standing. Then while reloading, I would take 1 shot to the head and would be dead. This 
 was so frustrating, I just gave up and stuck to the single player missions. This game however, 
 if you suck like I do, you still have a chance to rack up the kills. Everyone is on fair ground. 
 Regardless of how much armor someone has on, if you get 4 or 5 bullets into someone's chest, they're 
 down and watching you play for 10 seconds until they respawn. The game is awesome. This is by far 
 the first game on Xbox 360 that has me addicted! I seriously cant get enough. Anyway, hope this 
 helps. I would definitely recommend this game to anyone. And if you have Xbox live, you HAVE to 
 at least give it a try. You'll find yourself in teh same boat as me. Cant get enough!! Good luck 
 and I hope this helps!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quagmire75
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 4, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  my god, was november a good month or what?! Graphics: Rainbow Six vegas is basically right on par 
 with ghost recon: advanced warfighter in the graphics department. i might even give it up to advanced 
 warfighter in some areas, but rainbow six vegas definately looks great. the character models are 
 well done, and some of the flashy casinos look awesome and you feel like you are really blasting 
 your way through a big fancy casino. Gameplay: with an excellent cover system similar to that of 
 gears of war and ghost recon advanced warfighter in one, the game has nice gameplay. the framerate 
 is pretty consistant and smooth. there are a lot of different weapons to choose from, and they 
 all feel very realistic and look great. One cool thing worth noting is that you can customize your 
 weapons before missions. for example, i might add a laser scope, or a large capacity ammo clip 
 to my weapon. the customizations are not only cool, but they do change the gameplay. scopes will 
 help you pull off a headshot, some customizations help lower recoil, which helps out in those intense 
 firefights.
  night vision and thermal goggles give you the edge in dark situations, and the numerous types of 
 grenades help you to play tactically. the snake cam allows you to look under doors before you enter, 
 and from there you can assign priorities. for example, you can tell you team to take out the soldiers 
 in whichever order you want. so if a terrorist is holding a hostage at gunpoint, you can tell your 
 team that he is priority one, and they will take him out first when they enter the room.
  
  as in past rainbow games, you can order your team to stack up at any door and then order commands 
 of entry from there. the system works great and gives you the chance to plan and execute your plan.
 
  
  Sound: The game sounds pretty good. it really stands out when you are in a big casino, with all 
 kinds of machines and noises. the bullets flying around and hitting the slot machine, causing piles 
 of coins to fly out and the machine rings. there are all kinds of little casino rings and noises. 
 the game is definately rated M. the amount of swearing in the game creates a pretty realistic seeming 
 environment. there are tons of F bombs dropped, and threats made by terrorists. some of the conversations 
 that the terrorists have are sort of humorous and at least make for a chuckle here and there.
 
  
  Value: The games single player is great, because there are all kinds of weapon loadouts that you 
 can choose from, and being able to customize each weapon adds to replayability. it seems each time 
 you play through a mission, it is different. also there is an awesome coop system allowing up to 
 four players to play through the campaign.
  
  then theres the multiplayer. this is in my top 3 favorite on 360, among gears of war and call of 
 duty 3. there are a few different gametypes, and they are all pretty fun. many of them are objective 
 based and they make for some great gametypes. one thing that i feel the developers really scored 
 on is giving you the ability to do everything you do in single player in multiplayer. you and your 
 team online can repell down walls, use snake cams, customize weapons you name it. the P. E. C. system 
 allows for some of the coolest player customization i have seen in a game. if you have the xbox 
 live vision camera, you can take a photo of your face and the game will create a 3d model of your 
 face and put it on your online character. you can then play online as yourself, or if you want, 
 you can even play through the campaign with your best friends who all can look like they really 
 do in real life. overall the game is kick ass, and has me glued to it. if you own a 360 and like 
 shooters at all, this game is a must! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meconate
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 4, 2006 4:10 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Vegas is just showing how much the Rainbow Six series has evolved. From 
 the first Rainbow Six for the Playstation where you could only just about command your soldiers 
 and couldn't even see your gun, to Rainbow Six: Vegas were you can blindfire behind walls, fully 
 customize your character and even map your own face onto it. This has everything Gears of War currently 
 has, but much more.
  
  There are a few slight problems with the game, the face mapping can go a bit wrong and you could 
 end up with some weird thing on your head, but that just means you'll have to take another picture. 
 There may be a few things that may go wrong to, like your character sinks through the walls, but 
 thats only on online play with lots of lag.
  
  Now the online play is awesome, theres just too many things you are able to do. You can play 4 
 player co-op and at the same time, achieve awards. If you don't feel like a co-op game, you can 
 also just play deathmatch or team deathmatch with up to 16 players online. It's really a game worth 
 buying and now matter if you rent it or buy it, you know you haven't wasted your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NiNtEnDo4eVa
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 6, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  I've had a good 20 hours or so playing this game. And i have to say that it is addicting and is 
 a good game, but there was so much room for improvement.
  
  Gameplay:
  For the most part, the gameplay is pretty good. Except for a few things: no sprinting, and no rolling. 
 Maybe Gears of War has spoiled me, but in this day in age you CANNOT have a shooter like this without 
 sprinting and rolling. Don't get me wrong, games like cs work... but in this game If a grenade lands 
 next to you (multiplayer) you are dead. You cannot roll away, and you run way too slow to move. 
 The grenades don't even make a peep when they hit the ground (not that it would matter much anyway) . 
 The menus are a bit of an annoyance. The fact that you have to hold a button to cover and hold 
 a second button while selecting what you want on the arrow pad is extremely annoying.
  
  The cover system was also exceptional, but not as good as gears of war. I guess gears of war has 
 permenately spoiled us : [.
  
  On the pros, the single player storyline and gameplay is really impressive. It gets really hard 
 at times (even on normal difficulty) and the checkpoints are sometimes way too far apart, but the 
 campaign is really exciting. It really keeps you on your toes.
  
  The multiplayer is another story. Gameplay wise what i think is said above. There needed to be 
 sprinting and diving in this game, i dont know why they left it out. The online ranking system 
 is brilliant. It makes the multiplayer addicting and the variety of game modes will also provide 
 many hours of fun. The large variety of guns, gadgets, and customization on your character is a 
 huge plus.
  
  The one thing i don't understand is the CO-OP story mode. Now i only played the first map with 
 a friend, and we were stunned at how stupid it was. From the single player, you come in an helicoptor, 
 you are briefed by that laptop chick, and you actually have real objectives. In the co-op, the 
 only objective it said was get to the train station . Not the same as single player, no story backround, 
 nothing. This was extremely dissapointing since Gears of War had amazing CO-OP (minus the shortness 
 part)
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in campaign are simply stunning, especially when you get to vegas. It is really beautiful. 
 Nuff said.
  
  Now multiplayer. Why the hell did they tone the graphics so much in multiplayer? It takes so much 
 of the fun away for me, it looks like im playing Counter-Strike 1.5 all over again. This isn't 
 next-gen, this is something i should be seeing on an xbox or a ps2. Terrible terrible multiplayer 
 graphics, it doesn't even look like the same game you saw in campaign. I'm a gameplay over graphics 
 kind of guy usually, but this was just simply rediculous. And multiplayer is the most important 
 part of a game for me, so i was pretty dissapointed.
  
  Sound:
  Even though there is a lack of a soundtrack, the gun sounds and grenade sounds are really good. 
 Flawless, actually. I don't find anything wrong with the sound.
  
  Value:
  The campaign doesn't last long, though it was longer than i expected. Depending or not you can 
 stand the terrible multiplayer graphics, than this game might be a real keeper because the online 
 play is definately worthy of your xbox library.
  
  Final say?
  Rainbow six vegas was a highly anticipated game, but does it deliver? In some ways yes, in other 
 ways no. The graphics in single player and the intenseness of single player and multiplayer make 
 this a good game. The story in campaign mode and the online customization of your character is 
 also a huge plus and should bring hours of fun. But with terrible multiplayer graphics, gameplay 
 possibilities like rolling and sprinting that should've been there, and sometimes annoying controls, 
 it will probably leave you feeling it could have been so much more than it actually was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spcdragon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 3, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  When i first played this game i did not expect to much because i really never cared for the rainbow 
 six games. But i was greatly suprised with this game first of all the graphics are top notch. The 
 single player is done very well. It is a nice mixutre of action and stragety. Its not too easy 
 but yet still challangeing enough that you just wont run right through the game. The multi player 
 is where this game really shines. It has a lot of different game modes that are different from 
 your traditional fps which i really like especially the attack and defend game. The online coop 
 is a done very well where up to four players can play throught the game together. Overall this 
 is one of best game of the year and is a must buy if you are a fps or tactial shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaDark
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  I actually picked up R6V knowing that it was suppose to have an intense single player campaign.
 
  I normally play a game thru on single player before I even think about Multi... but the Face mapping 
 on this game made me eager to try it.
  Once I mapped my face, picked my equipement, and picked my look ... I decided to jump into the multiplayer.
 
  That was about 2 weeks ago, and I still haven't touched the single player campaign!
  
  This game is all about teamwork, if you dont play as a team... you might as well not go online.
 
  You will do excenptionally well if you have a buddy or two that play this game, since you know 
 you can work together.
  
  Sure, the graphics are watered down compared any other game, but with THAT many customization options, 
 and 14 players on a large map... they had to tone everything down.
  Gears of Wars spoiled people graphics wise, and although its a great game... I've gotten a little 
 tired of seeing the same 4 human characters, and the same 4 locust characters. In Rainbow 6, each 
 persons' character can be dressed as you please. Your chacater can have YOUR FACE if you have the 
 Vision Camera!
  
  The higher your rank, the more armor, weapons, headgear, clothes, and accessories you can unlock.
 
  
  I highly recommend R6V simply for its multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: canary_bird
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 3, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  The long awaited sequel to the best selling books and games has arrived, and this action packed 
 game has failed to bring you the in depth game play that the other rainbow six games have provided. 
 In this game you start off with about an hour long tutorial just to get you set up on the basics, 
 this tutorial seems more in denial as it has its own story line to it separate from the storyline 
 that has flashed across your TV screens more than a few times. You start off in Mexico City you 
 are tasked, well what else would you expect from a first person shooter, kill the terrorists and 
 help out some unlucky and argent hostages. Then the tutorial starts to pop up next thing you know 
 you are having to press the B button to get out of the tutorial menu more than the empty shells 
 that are falling from you gun at a non stop pace. Vegas breaks the trend of the old rainbow six 
 games and brings in a new one almost following after the highly publicized Gears of War, in that 
 you run, hide, shoot, reload, run, hide, etc, etc. The learning curve seems to just be too steep 
 for this kind of game it will take you about an hour to two hours to fully grasp the controls. 
 Example; you have to hold down the left trigger to duck into randomized trash and wrecks, hold 
 y to bring up the menu screen, keep holding left trigger, manage your meat shields better known 
 as your teammates, press x to reload, press the right bumper to put on night vision to see your 
 enemies that seem to blend into the background and to see through smoke, then revile yourself in 
 hopes of not getting shot by the unbalanced A. I and FINALLY you might get to shoot something. The 
 worse part of this is that it must all happen in less than 3 seconds or you will most definitely 
 get shot or your teammates will die after running on a suicide mission to get cover. This is the 
 worse and once your get past the clumsy controls and the unbalanced A. I, where at times it seems 
 the whole game is working to make you throw your control down in anger, there is a great game. 
 When you die you must start back at the last checkpoint and the checkpoints seem to be spaced fairly 
 evenly and at fair distances but at times this also changes its mind and has to running through 
 way too many cheap gun fights over and over again. At times there will be a spot where you think 
 that a checkpoint should be but are sadly disappointed to find that all there is, is a mini cut 
 scene. The way the story is reveled is excellent; you see a small screen in the upper left hand 
 corner that normally has your eye in the sky Joanna Torres. She will give updates on missions and 
 give you broadcasts from local television stations. The screen is small enough to ignore in a fierce 
 fire fight but big enough to see the detail in Joanna's face. The storyline is actually quite well 
 done, which is a big surprise considering most other first person shooters have just the same old 
 kill him to pass kind of story. This brings me to the graphics. The graphics are definitely next 
 gen. with nice smooth surfaces and the suites of the S. W. A. T members make you flinch. They seem 
 to move when you move and react to the environment. The backgrounds are eye catching but unfortunately 
 the invisible walls are also. I mean come on, this is next gen. people there shouldn't be this 
 many flaws, this game should be polished until the game guide glows with next gen. graphical beauty. 
 The hostages you take make you reconsider the 400 to 600 dollars you spent on a next gen. consol. 
 They look like something from the PS generation. Multiplayer was more run and gun than tactics 
 and group command, like the single player. There isn't much to say about it expect that if you 
 are going to buy this game, that would be the reason why. Over all this game prides its self with 
 the name Tom Clancy and its fast rate action more than its game play mechanics and over all realism. 
 There is a great game under the surface of this game; you just have to dig to find it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erp47
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 4, 2006 3:36 am PT
Review:  Las Vegas? Interesting setting for a tactical FPS. But stop the presses. Rainbow Six Vegas is most 
 definitely the best shooting game I have ever played, if not the best game. The story is basically 
 exterminating terrorists who have a chokehold on Las Vegas, by rescuing important leaders and squads. 
 Although not exactly revolutionary, It's a realistic story setting. In graphics, R6LV is one thing, 
 amazing. the uniforms have excellent texture, the fires are wonderfully colored, and the level 
 design is excellent, knowing that with every turn you take, there could be someone ambushing you 
 with an MP5. The blood also looks pretty sweet.
  The gameplay still blows me away. Unlike most shooters, even on 'normal' mode, you're toast if 
 you stand out in the open for more than 4 seconds. You want to have something blocking you at all 
 times, and 70% of your rounds will come from behind a wall. There is kickback while you are firing, 
 resulting in more realistic accuracy. You can also be snooty and have your squad check out any unknown 
 areas. Possibly the coolest thing in the way of gameplay is fast roping and rappeling. You can 
 jump from 3 stories and get down in 3 seconds or bounce down a skyscraper, break the glass, and 
 whale away on unexpecting prey. Awesome.
  The sound isn't bad, but it could stand some improvement. The same techno loop, however exhilarating, 
 gets kind of boring after being played for 8 levels. Possibly the most hilarious voice acting I've 
 heard in a long time also makes it's appearance. Sample; Gimme cover! No! f#&amp;$ you! Classic.
 
  Just buy R6LV. Please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Partigiani
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 3, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game yesterday and i could`t imagine that this game was so impressive. You feel like 
 you are a trully special operations soldier , with all that amazing guns, equipments and armors. The 
 graphics, the sounds, the AI teammates and enemy`s and the storyline of this game is so well done 
 that makes you think that you are in a real battlefield. The storyline is so great and innovative 
 with great scenes, good dialogues and diferent situatons. One thing that i really loved in tactical 
 shooter games is the conciliation of strategy with action, and no other game can be better than 
 VEGAS in this requirement. You will need to use good tactics with your teammates to eliminate your 
 enemy, while that, you will also have a shooter experience just like cod 3 IF you are just like 
 me a tactical shooter fan you NEED to buy this game !!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlost82
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 3, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Great Game, I bought it before Gears of Wars and now I spend all time playing this instead of GoW 
 I thought it was going to be not as good as GoW but everything is so great, the story mode, and 
 the multiplayer is excelent, also to mention the graphics are the best of all. I recommend it a 
 lot, o oi forgot to mention that making your own character for multiplayer with your own face is 
 so much fun. ! ! What i play the most is the story mode in multiplayer with 3 more friends, the 
 difficulty of the game is just right to spend some time learning to play and having much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kithooton
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 3, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  II really like games that are First person shooters with a bit of Spice, i. e. You got to be on 
 your toes, think before you do, or just run and shoot what ever is moving until you see the bloody 
 spray it the walls, Games such as Counter Strike, Tom Clancy Series, F. E. A. R, Battle field 2/ 2142. 
 Now Rainbow Six, well I did play the RW: 3 and it was ok, played the demo of RW: Lockdown and I 
 wasntt happy at all, rubbish and it felt like the makers just wanted to rush it so they could 
 get another Rainbow on the shelves to get a bit more money out of us gamers. RW: Vegas is Bloody 
 Amazing, Very realistic and so so cool. Everything from tactics to equipment is spot on. The AI 
 is 10/10, they are smarter than you think, the talk, and they will if they can flank you if you 
 dont put your self and your team fellows in good potions to counter-attack the terrorist. There 
 are plenty of options you can play with, and your will be playing this game all way through 2007/8. 
 So you do get a running for your money. In Campaign mode, its a good story, the action is there, 
 Guns Blazing, Grenades, stuff Blowing up every where, things smash, Rag doll effects, GREAT STUFF, 
 not to difficult to control things, not as hard to control as GRAW I think. So Ill stop there, 
 dont want to tell you everything.
  
  Multi Player: its the Best and better Game that I played online when talking about First person 
 shooters. Its what Counter strike source should have been, loads and loads of options on there 
 to play with. A Rank system slightly like battlefield, weapons and equipment to unlock, and also 
 you can take a pic of your self with the Xbox Live web cam, and stick your face onto the model 
 solider, and your mates can see you in the game, really funny stuff.
  
  If you like, First person Shooters, like Counter terrorist hunting, and like th online that goes 
 with it all, than go and have a go.
  
  Kithooton U. K 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo3Beast
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  Well Although i havent played it yet im still giving it a nine out of ten just becuz i havent played 
 it... If i were to play then i would probly give it a perfect ten.... Graphics look awesome and 
 ive read the multiplayer is sweet so cant really beat that.. Im rating the game high on what ive 
 read.. so im trusting the other reviews ive been hearing and that i really think that this game 
 is going to be big... Bigger than Gears of War... Once i get my 360 that'll be the first game on 
 my list...
  
  Im outta here Brandon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wbe_xLink
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 2, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Es bueno enfrentar largas misiones, y usar trucos nuevos como la camara espia, es un buen ejemplo 
 de un FPS bien logrado, sin el nivel de dificultad ( a veces absurdo como un tal Legendario ) que 
 llega a aburrir y con un dinamismo muy interesante.
  La inteligencia artificial de los compa&ntilde; eros esta bien lograda, y de verdad colaboran para 
 lograr los objetivos.
  El nuevo sistema de comandos es mas simple y permite un mejor de la situacion.
  La representaci&oacute; n 
 de la ciudad de las vegas esta muy bien lograda, y aunque en ciertos aspectos el juego recuerda 
 a Splinter Cell: Double Agent, tiene la capacidad de sobre salir por su formato propio.
  Mejor armados, que bueno que se puede equipar una combinaci&oacute; n de 5 items (unque hubiese 
 querido cargar un poco m&aacute; s granadas) .
  Bienvenido equipo Rainbow ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoda101280
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 2, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Vegas is a great game from start to finish and any fan of the series 
 or first person tactical shooters in general will have hours upon hours of fun with this title.
 
  
  You start the game out solo in Mexico with orders to rendevous with the other two members of the 
 team you just been put in command of. This mission, is in a sense your tutorial as you will get 
 in-game tips and instructions on how to execute certain actions that you will put to use throughout 
 the game. Anyone that has played Gears of War will quickly notice that Vegas has taken a lot from 
 that game in the sense of executing actions. Most all the things you do and orders you give are 
 context sensitive and mapped to the 'A' key. Which, much like in gears of war works very well and 
 keeps the game running smoothly so you can enjoy all the action. The health system also works similar 
 to Gears of War, where getting shot damages you (obviously) but hopping behind some cover for a 
 short bit of time replenishes you and gets you right back in the action, there's also no health 
 bar and mainly you gauge your damage by how bloody/bruised your screen gets as you get shot but 
 the system works well and you won't have any problems being able to tell when you're going down.
 
  
  One of the things I really like about Vegas is that it forces you to use cover, it's not a full 
 time run and gun game. It's more friendly to run and gun tactics than Gears of War but using cover 
 and waiting for enemies to reload or pop out to fire is a very realistic and rewarding way to approach 
 the game. It's also nice that while pressed up against a wall or some other form of cover you can 
 see your character in third person, which is always appealing for me because I love being able 
 to view the details and gear of my character.
  
  A lot of Vegas also centers around squad based combat, giving your team orders and using them to 
 effect assualts on the enemy. I personally like how you're usually given multiple options on how 
 to approach an objective. On one of the eary vegas missions where you start out on top of a tall 
 tower building, there are 3 entry scenarios. There's a roof access stairway leading into the building, 
 you can repel over the edge, or there's a skylight where you can fast rope into the room. These 
 three dynamic access points give you a few combinations for approaching the objective. You and 
 your team can all assualt from one way, you can send you team over the side to bust in through 
 the glass distracting the tangos as you fast rope from the skylight right behind them. You can 
 even shoot out the skylight from the roof as a distraction so your team can then come in via the 
 windows or the door and have the element of surprise. The combinations just make it more fun as 
 you can complete the same assualt in different ways each time.
  
  Ordering your team is as simple as pointing at a contect point in the game i. e. a door or rope 
 attachment point and pressing the 'A' key to order them to execute the associated action. After 
 ordering them to stack up on a door for example, you then get a set of options associated with 
 the D-pad. Breach the room using a charge, clear the room without distraction aides, frag and clear, 
 etc. Ordering the team is very intuitive and plays in flawlessly with gameplay.
  
  Starting out there doesn't really seem to be a HUGE variety in weapons, I mean you have SMG's rifles, 
 sniper rifles, machine guns, shotguns, pistols, etc. but there are only a few of each, you can 
 however get more as you play through the game and you can also pick up any weapons that the enemies 
 drop which is a nice touch.
  
  If I had to point out something I wasn't happy with in the game it would probably have to be issues 
 with the cover system. For the most part it works very well but it seems like it was only designed 
 for cornver related cover, i. e. peeking at the edge of walls or what have you, which is what you'd 
 expect but the problem (s) usually come in when you take cover before you actually get to the corner. 
 Lets say there's a waist high wall, and you're going to use it as cover to peek and fire around 
 the corner/edge of it. Many times if you go into cover before you're at the corner, that is you 
 put your back to the wall and try to walk along it until you get to the edge you'll often get awkward 
 camera angles that make it hard to see the enemy. Usually hopping out then back in to cover clears 
 that right up but it can be annoying sometimes but overall it's a very small issue.
  
  All in all Vegas is a great shooter and one of the better games out for the 360 right now, surely 
 a must by for anyone who enjoys tactical shooting at its finest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cejay0813
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 2, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Vegas is just as much of a good game as is GOW, hands down
  
  **Graphics were on point in the SP and were toned down slightly for the MP, but who honestly cares. 
 Everything still looks beautiful on HD
  
  **Gameplay is perfect to me. All the different maneuvers you can do, really make you feel like 
 you're some sort of tactical bad @##. The AI is hilarious and actually pretty smart for the most 
 part. They can't make them rocket scientist though, and you'll notice that when you flank one who 
 is in cover, and he decides to sit there a bit too long. I also crack up every time I hear, Cover 
 me... F**k you, cover me. I've actually sat and watched some of the hostage situations cause they're 
 so darn funny. I haven't really noticed any glitches as far as the animations go, it really runs 
 pretty smooth. And I actually like the cover mechanic more than GOW for the simple fact that you 
 are in control of being in the cover, you don't just stick to it. That is one of the most annoying 
 things about GOW. LASTLY, the guns are very nice. Sometimes I like to use actual real-life guns, 
 besides a gun with a chainsaw bayonet, so it's a change of pace. Not for the potential firefights 
 you can get into though. This game sports some intense firefights, SP and MP alike. You and some 
 friends on coop mode set to realistic is a blast. Basically you honestly won't pay much attention 
 to the graphics not unless you're a perfectionist, next-gen whining, graphic junkie.
  
  **Sound is very amazing. Especially if you are on an HDTV with surround sound. Hell I cut the music 
 off and just let the various pops of different guns take me to heaven. And like I said the AI is 
 hilarious. Overall its a great game and a must own for the X360. GO OUT AND BUY BEFORE YOU RENT 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arr1023
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 2, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is an extremely fun game with a great story mode and co-op mode, but the best 
 part of it is the online multiplayer modes on xbox live. This game is worth your money. Definately 
 a must-buy if you like FPS games or want to try them.
  
  I have yet to beat the story mode, but it is difficult. The feature that really makes this game 
 great is the online multiplayer, it is extremely entertaining and i believe is the best multiplayer 
 out for the xbox360, maybe the best one out until halo 3.
  
  BUY RAINBOW SIX VEGAS NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gantor360
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is the best one of the series because of its amazing graphics, alsome sound, 
 the cover system, and more. The gameplay is a great time and the story line is great. One of the 
 best reasons for a good review is its online mode. The cooperative missions are very fun and exciting 
 and amazing. The aiming system is also a very good and easy to do thing that the game has. This 
 game is one of the best games I have next to Gears of War. I knew that it would be an amazing game 
 and I was obviously correct in all ways that a game can be great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DurdyRubberX
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 8:12 am PT
Review:  Ubisoft deserves it's props this year with this most amazing experience of game play and visual 
 display on the XBOX 360. With it's game play itself you are introduced to a whole new game with 
 a fresh taste of what you love most in the Rainbow Six series and believe me you will not be let 
 down as well as it's online gaming where you are introduced to new maps that are just stunning 
 and fresh along with some of you original maps from past favorite games. All in all you will not 
 be disappointed and if I could rate this game out of 10 slot machines then I would most defiantly 
 have to give it 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hawaii_Dragon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 1, 2006 11:40 pm PT
Review:  All i know is that 10 minutes into the game i got to rappel down a building upside down and shoot 
 a terrorist in the head with my hand gun. I after i did that i was pretty much in love with the 
 game. The single player mode is pretty well done. The AI is actually pretty good. At first i was 
 afraid you would have to baby sit your team a lot but thats not true. I hate to admit it but I 
 still get much satisfaction from shooting terrorist lol headshot . Multiplayer is awesome. To tell 
 you the truth the system to advance in rank isnt the best but its still pretty addicting trying 
 to rank up. After a while the same old maps start to get reppetitive and nobody's tactics really 
 change much depending on what map your on. I like how you can costumize your character, but its 
 kinda lame because some of the camo is useless. For example they have desert camo and snow camo. 
 There is no snow level or desert level. They dont even really have a dark level so night vision 
 goggles are almost useless.
  
  Hopefully in the future they will release new weapons, armor, levels, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Machiko_Mech
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 1, 2006 11:11 pm PT
Review:  When Rainbow Six: Lockdown was released, many of the Rainbow Six franchises followers found themselvesperturbed. 
 The game introduced an uncomfortably large number of arcade influences that were seen by many as 
 absurd and were almost universally unwanted by the series more diehard fans. Those fans may breath 
 a sigh of relief, and consider Rainbow Six Vegas something of a return to form; by adopting a very 
 small number of arcade-style influences while both harkening back to the former style of gameplay 
 the series has traditionally offered as well as taking a large step forward.
  
  For those who are familiar with both titles, the game is very much like a hybrid of Rainbow Six 
 3 and Gears of War (which is not to say that they stole the concept of more active cover system, 
 as both games were in development at the same time) . The new concept of cover works well at almost 
 all times; problems with it are rare enough to easily be forgivable. And with an excellent single 
 player campaign and an (almost equally good) coop offering, R6: Vegas is a game that should not 
 be missed.
  
  The story does it's part, and is of sufficient quality to feel like more than just some kind of 
 hollow justification for gunning your way through multiple fictional casinos.
  
  Graphically, the visuals are top-notch: well modeled characters and environments covered by very 
 detailed textured are offset by glossy neon lights abound. The sound (in the single player campaign 
 at least) is satisfactory. The music and sound effects properly perform their role, and the voice 
 acting is more than satisfactory. The sound in coop, however, cannot be so highly lauded. No music 
 is available, the story aspects of dialogue are removed almost in their entirety, set aside a few 
 pieces which, now being alone, seem out of place and inappropriate above all else. Also, there 
 is an all but complete lack of ambient noise at times, making it seem more like youre fighting 
 your way through a casino in space rather than Vegas, though a few sounds here and there can, at 
 times, mitigate that problem.
  
  Overall, the changes made ensure that the Rainbow series is, as of this release, once again in 
 top form. Armed with a comfortable selection of weaponry and grenades, well-honed difficulty levels, 
 and top of the line graphics and sound, Rainbow Six Vegas is an offering for the 360 that is not 
 to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chriso1322
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 1, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  I got a copy of COD3 2 weeks ago and got bored of it pretty quickly so i heard Rainbow Six Vegas 
 was a very good multiplayer so i downloaded the demo and didnt like it much but then i started 
 to explore the level more ( Calypso Casino) and got more kills so then i loved it. Today the game 
 came out so i went and got a copy and thats the first Rainbow 6 game i have played and i love it. 
 i had GRAW and i admit i was great at that game but this is a whole new level this game has the 
 use of gadgets and thermo goggles not just borig night vision even in multiplayer . The best part 
 is customizing you character because u can customise from his/her clothes, armour, headgear and 
 even put your face in the game using the vision cam. I Like the weapons alot cause you can customise 
 them the way you want like by putting on a scope or laser sight. The single player is very good 
 because you have co-op with m8s or over xbox live but its not as good as multiplayer. PS only reason 
 ive played 10 hours or less is cause i only got the game today but im sure ill play it for alot 
 longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greven39
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 1, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas is a great game with amazing visuals and smooth gameplay. The single player 
 experience is challenging, but not impossible. Multiplayer is fun and full of surprises. The layout 
 of the Vegas streets, like The Strip or Freemont Street are dead on, (being a resident I should 
 know!) . The casino atmosphere was a little off, but not by much. It would have been nice to have 
 the real properties allow their names for use in the game, but that's really nit picking. Another 
 fun thing would be to leave the Strip and recreate some more suburb sections of the town as well. 
 The weapons have a realistic feel to them, though I think there is a lack of variety. The AI is 
 pretty good. The computer opponents use cover effectively and feel like real bad guys. Multiplayer 
 is fun as well, with all kinds of scenario based action to enjoy. One disappointing thing is limiting 
 split screen multiplayer or co-op to 2 players without System link. It's fun in Ghost Recon to 
 have 4 people on the same box online and you just can't do that in this game. That aside, it's 
 a fun game with a realistic feel and many, many hours of enjoyment.
  
  Viva Las Vegas! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simmons55
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 1, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  I like a lot of others, was really excited about this game, picked it up this morning and was literraly 
 stunned by what they had done. The single player felt like a copy of ghost recon, the graphics 
 (in single player) were just as good and the engine feels about right but it was missing the great 
 feel and charm that game captured, with that said it was briefly entertaining.
  The multiplayer however felt like it had been developed in someones lunch break, i loved the other 
 rainbvow six games but this has ruined the series, it tries to do too many things and end up doing 
 them all unsuccessfully. If you are a die-hard rainbow fan pick this game up or better yet rent 
 it, there may be something you like that will compel you to stay but with far better games on the 
 market this is not for the casual gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 1, 2006 4:49 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas follows the same premise as the previous R6 games but this time sets the story 
 around a central location (you do actually start the game in Mexico) . This is the first Rainbow 
 Six game to make the next-generation, with fans of the Xbox series (excluding Lockdown) , myself 
 included, waiting with bated breath.
  
  I must admit that I was slightly apprehensive about this game after playing the demos. The single 
 player demo was good, but was also a bit linear and suffered from framerate issues. The multiplayer 
 demo also appeared laggy and slow and had some pretty rough textures, especially after playing 
 Gears. Having now played the full retail game in both single and team multi-player I can honestly 
 say my fears where unfounded  this is an amazing game!
  
  The core gameplay from previous R6 games, particularly Black Arrow, has not only been retained 
 and but enhanced to a level that makes this play and feel like the most realistic shooter out there. 
 Additions include, an excellent cover mechanic -as good as Gears-, greater flexibility of team 
 orders (GRAW) , better team AI, Tango tagging on breach &amp; clear, snake cams (Splinter Cell) , 
 rappelling (Splinter Cell) ,, destructible environments (cars etc) , equipment drops (GRAW) and 
 more. The end result is some of the most immersive games I have experienced. You really feel part 
 of the environment and right in the heart of the action. First Gears, and now Vegas, really set 
 the standard for all future shooting games. If anything, the slower pace and realism of Vegas make 
 the experience all the more tense and spectacular.
  
  The level design is excellent, with plenty of variation: from tight claustrophobic allies and buildings, 
 to sprawling yards and warehouses. Each level/checkpoint is huge and there are nearly always a 
 number of alternative routes and strategies that can be employed. You are able to use you team 
 to perform complex flanking manoeuvres, as well as multiple room entry points for the ultimate 
 flash and clear.
  
  The graphics are nothing short of beautiful with some highly detailed textures, water reflections, 
 smoke, draw distance and heat haze (GRAW style) . The Unreal3 engine (as used in Gears) is really 
 put to exceptional use again in Vegas. The guns also look fabulous and have a satisfying solidity 
 when wielded. Each gun can be customised with different sights and lasers, so you can take a basic 
 Sub and upgrade it with a sniper sight if you wish  very neat.
  
  Like most of Ubisofts 360 games the sound is excellent too. All the weapons have superb effects 
 and the muzzling (you can silence most guns) is really neat and atmospheric in close quarter conditions. 
 The usual 24 style music accompanies the missions and menu screens and is good enough to be catchy 
 without irritating.
  
  The multiplayer, like the single player, also plays and looks a lot better than the demo. The maps 
 I tried where varied, detailed and action was lag free with a decent framerate. I could even hear 
 the enemy talking with an echo effect! There a large number of game modes that will result, I suspect, 
 in Vegas being played online a lot longer than Gears. All the single player controls and actions 
 are retained, even the snake cam.
  
  There has been much talk of the inclusion of camera support in Vegas. Scanning my face to the in-game 
 avatar was very easy, with only two photos needed, and took about 2-3 minutes to render. It is 
 quite strange to see your self mapped onto an avatar in this way but it seems to work. I could 
 clearly see my big nose and fat head emoticon. The camera did make me look slightly bald (I have 
 a crew cut) and grey but I think these were down to the light conditions. You can modify the camera 
 settings when you take the picture to allow for grey or poor light.
  
  Your game avatar can be further customized with hats (locked to start with) , glasses, armour and 
 camouflage clothing (whose colours can be customised further) . I have tried to create a CTU TAC 
 team look to my avatar and it kind of works. There is no doubt that this level of customisation, 
 although not changing the gameplay, does add another level of immersion to the experience. However, 
 I do wonder how long it is before we start seeing crazy things like a cat or dogs head. (I was 
 tempted with my cat!) .
  
  This game is terrific value for money. As well as an exceptional main game you have coop (two modes) 
 and multiplayer to keep you Tango busting for many months. The additional features, avatar, ranks, 
 and achievements give Vegas plenty of mileage and Im sure people will still be playing in 3-6 
 months time. I cant comment on the single player game length, but even on the normal difficulty 
 it is blooming hard and I cant see many people finishing it in less than 10 hours.
  
  In summary, Rainbow Six Vegas is an exceptionally good game and comes hot on-the-heals of Gears 
 as one of the games of the year. I must be honest and say it brought a tear to my eye when I attached 
 the silencer and bagged my first stealth-based tango  simply brilliant! Rainbow is back, and back 
 at the top of the first person shooter tree. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dracosoul
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 30, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  This is definitely the best of all the Rainbow's so far. They did very good on this one and it's 
 not garbage like the last one was. It's back to it's old original days on the Xbox when you used 
 to just go on to get into a match and play. Definitely alot of replay value and worth every penny 
 spent. The graphics aren't the greatest they could be, but when the maps are as big as they are 
 and the environments are interactive slightly like they are, it's worth losing a little graphic 
 quality to fit all this in and not be a glitchy laggy game. Buy it if you haven't already, you 
 won't be disappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crispana
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 30, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Las Vegas The place to be. Best known for its casinos and luxury hotels. Very important people 
 visit Las Vegas everyday and millions of dollars are spended here making it the perfect target 
 for a terrorist attack. Thats where Rainbow Six strikes in to save the day. The game begins with 
 a mission in Mexicos border thats pretty much a quick tutorial to the game controls. After the 
 mission gets sabotaged by a mole in the system you end up loosing you teammates and on a chopper 
 to Las Vegas thats currently under terrorist attacks. You jump right into action where you meet 
 your new team and get ready to kill some terrorists. The game takes place in a bunch of casinos 
 and hotels that are crawling with terrorists that sometimes have hostages and most of the time 
 are willing to kill them on live television. Your main objective is pretty clear, save Las Vegas 
 from terrorist and thats what youll be doing most of the time. The games new features start 
 with new rappelling and fast roping thats pretty useful when climbing buildings or flanking enemy 
 territory. The use is as simple as pressing A. Other interesting features is that you can now 
 cover on any flat platform by pressing LT on your controller. Whats cool about the cover system 
 is that you automatically go to 3rd person view when you take cover. Animation when taking cover 
 is pretty nice and there are several options when you are on cover, one is that you can open doors 
 while taking covers, blind shoot, blind throw a grenade or pop out and shoot. Weapons in the game 
 are very nicely done with a lot of detail and all of them used in real life by the police special 
 forces. Another very cool new feature is that you can now customize you weapon with different type 
 of scopes, lasers, silencers, ammo and theyre all organized in different templates: Submachine 
 guns, light machine guns, assault rifles, sniper rifles, shotguns, pistols and explosives. The 
 amount of weapons in the game is enough and all of them with theyre pros and cons so people will 
 choose different types of weapons for different occasions. The graphics on the games story mode 
 are very realistic and keeps the style that GRAW used for its game. The frame rate is very smooth 
 so you shouldnt have problems with it. The story is all in real time, with the missions been transmitted 
 by Joana Torres from a chopper that drops you in all the hot spots. This style is used on GRAW 
 too so if youve played GRAW you will notice how similar this 2 games are. Multiplayer on this 
 game is awesome. The stuff you can do on multiplayer are very similar to the story mode so you 
 will have no problem changing to one and other. The games system is based on something called 
 PEC (Persistent Elite Creation) that allows you to build an online identity and save your progress 
 from one match to another. Win or lose you will gain experience to improve your characters over 
 time and unlock more options to further customize your character. Character customization is very 
 nice and if you have your Xbox Live Vision Camera you will be able to take a picture of your face 
 and put it on your online persona. This makes a really good use of the Unreal Game Engine. The 
 games achievements are all pretty easy to get if you play the game a lot. Most of them are unlockable 
 on multiplayer mode. Rainbow Six: Vegas is a great first person shooter that involves you in the 
 game as you play. They make great use of the casinos and hotels on the different maps. Story mode 
 is not as good but the multiplayer makes it be a must have game for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flanker15
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 3, 2006 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow 6 is no more. The game I played for years has died, in its place a game that puts action 
 over authenticity. After Lockdown I had mixed hopes about this game and although not quite as bad 
 as Lockdown, Vegas fails in the same way. By far this is one of the best action FPS out now but 
 it's the second worse RB6 game to date. There are countless little things in Vegas that add up 
 to a game that dosn't deserve the Tom Clancy title.
  
  Graphics: Very impressive, not as good as GoW ofcourse but still very pretty. The MP graphics although 
 have taken a beating on a ridiculous level so it loses marks there.
  Sound: Very good, the guns sound great and you'll never get sick of that sound enemies make when 
 you shoot them in the head. Problem is the voice acting, it has an American stereotype a Asian 
 stereotype and a tough black guy stereotype.
  
  Gameplay: Seriously jarred from a realism point of view, health regenerates your pistol has unlimited 
 ammo and the ai of enemies is poor. The whole game seems to revole around walking over script triggers 
 to spawn a bunch of enemies that will usually charge you and shoot you in the face. No old RB6 
 gameplay is present, there is no tactics in deciding where to go since all levels are linear. There 
 is no way to play it stealth since enemies will automatically know where you are except in a few 
 parts. The most offensive part was when I walked into a room and literally saw a bad guy spawn 
 next to me.
  
  Value: Almost zilch from single player it's just kill fest and don't expect anything from terrorist 
 hunt either. It involves enemies that spawn in to rooms next to you and then auto home in on your 
 position. Multi is its saving grace with interesting gameplay and enemies that don't auto home 
 or spawn in. It is ruined by regen health and radar though, not to mention the stupid weapon stats 
 (SMG beats AR at range) .
  
  Tilt: They have killed one of my favorite series, don't expect sympathy from me.
  
  Overall: 
 If you like action with some cover taking then you might like this game, if you truly like the 
 Rainbow Six series then you probably won't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nave686
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 29, 2006 11:25 pm PT
Review:  I'll be honest the last game I thought I'd find myself playing this week was another Rainbow Six, 
 let alone Xbox 360 game, as any time I enter the room I tend to gravitate to my Wii. The way the 
 path has turned is with me on XBL dealing head shots like mothers on halloween. While Its not a 
 Halo level game, this title promises great story line gameplay that won't let you leave dissapointed 
 and replay-ability if you are hooked into XBL. My big let downs start with not as crisp a game 
 I would expect coming from UbiSoft Montreal, a studio with some of the biggest-of-the-big name, 
 high graphics, movie budget video games in the industry. (Splinter Cell, Prince of Persia, Far 
 Cry, and the up and coming Assasins Creed, and need I even mention the final Myst game? One of 
 the best Puzzle games ever!)
  Plus the game doesn't give you a whole hell of alot of replayability with out Xbox Live. So far 
 as a Plot this game is one of the standard strait as an arrow story lines you'll see. Without a 
 major plot twist and without a decent ending you wont be dissapointed at the end but you won't 
 ever be really want to play through it again. Besides, Ding Chavez is one flakey guy. I kinda wonder 
 what type of car he drives... But I digress. Overall Story mode gives you a good kick of enjoyment 
 and suspence and can be completed well within a single weeks rent with less than two hours play 
 over a few days. If you don't have Xbox Live or don't like to talk to other people, then rent this 
 game rather than buy it. But if you do have a social life or XBL account Then do we have a multiplayer 
 for you.
  In multiplayer groups of up to 16 can duke it out to see who can kill the most virtual people. 
 If you like games like James Bond then this multiplayer is right up your ally. Its got the first 
 person feel but allows time for extended firefights that give skilled players more of a chance 
 than the spray-and-pray first timer. It lets the down and dirty, shotty usen, pleabians get into 
 it with a very powerful automatic or pump action shotgun or gives the conservative a sheild and 
 pistol to deal out the pain behind a thick wall of kevlar and metal. Don't get caught up with charging 
 in too much as this game is more tactical than a zerg rush. You need a fair amount of team work 
 in the team based games and a fair amount of tactics in the Free For All's. Over all it plays great 
 and gives you a good experience if you break your Gears of War disk from overuse.
  Astedically the game is wel done although at times seems to be sort of half-polished. It may be 
 just be after 3 weeks of GoW I need the amazing graphics and sound, But Counter Strike: Source 
 for the PC has much better exsplosions in graphics and sound. While it is polished I feel that 
 A little more could be done to help it out to make it truely a fine game.
  Overall there arn't many FPS games of the NextGen that pull off this type of gameplay. Definitly 
 a buy for the hardcore, but try to rent it before you find yourself dissapointed and out $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mryupcarlseen
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 29, 2006 11:23 pm PT
Review:  After finishing Rainbow Six: Vegas one word comes to mind; SOLID. This game has no real flaws. 
 After getting wrapped up in the Gears of War hype and coming away slightly dissappointed, I rebounded 
 nicely with RS Vegas. The gameplay features are very solid. Shooting, crosshairs, weapons, technique, 
 A. I. and teammates were well thought out and well executed by the games developers. The gameplay 
 also feels more realistic then most FPS's. Enemys are not complete retards and especially towards 
 the end of the game get very tough. Graphics are top notch, not on par with GOW but then again 
 nothing else is either. Cool stuff about the game: -you can customise weapons -large weapon variety 
 -teammates are actually worth a damn and contribute to the objective -cool gameplay in regards 
 to having to find cover (more realistic) -cool and USABLE gameplay features such as infared and 
 night vision goggles, rappeling, snaking cams through doors ect. -good variety in gameplay settings 
 and objectives Overall a fantastic game with great replay value. DEFINITLY THE BEST FPS ON THE 
 360 TO DATE and better then Gears of War. And you can quote me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D_cook100
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 29, 2006 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Pros;
  Take one shot with the sniper rifle -- youll see why this game is rated so high. This game has some 
 of the most satisfying gun recoils, fantastic sounds, and true weapon punching power out there. 
 You wont stop giggling when you whip out your light machine gun and make carnage among a street 
 packed with fantastic AI and destructible environments. In fact, just sit there and listen to the 
 AI curse at you and cry over their fallen comrade. Even today i noticed my character moves his 
 mouth when i talk online. Plain and simple: It's just FUN. Cons;
  A little buggy- sometimes I will fall through the 3D for a split second and sometimes respawns 
 are funky. Also, sometimes when you aim at somebody, and it looks like youre gonna hit him, it 
 will hit somewhere else which can be frustrating when youre pinned down. Wish-list;
  The PEC could be a little more in-depth when you do not use the camera, it would be nice to be 
 able to customize the faces. Also, I would have hoped for a better tracking system for stats and 
 an easy way to understand when I am gonna rank up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8bitantichrist
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 29, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  If you have any liking for the tactical shooter genre, you probably know Rainbow Six. Since it's 
 birth on the PC, R6 has seen numerous sequels, expansions, and reinventions, and most agree that 
 it peaked with the near-flawless Rainbow Six 3. Well, Rainbow's been to Vegas, and they have some 
 stories to share with you.
  
  Rainbow Six has always been the thinking man's shooter. Standard run 'n gun tactics will always 
 leave you full of holes, as it is best to plan carefully, coordinate effectively, and make your 
 move decisively. With the series' original gameplan in mind, Ubisoft took everything great about 
 tactical shooters and made quite possibly the best tactical shooter available. First, commanding 
 your team couldn't be easier or more intuitive. A simple tap of the A button will have them move, 
 clear rooms, rappel, fast rope, heal each other, or a number of other things. Efficient room clearing 
 requires a good idea of the situation you have to deal with, and the best way to deal with it. 
 Sometimes a quick, violent invasion is called for. Other times, a subdued, stealthy approach will 
 work better. While this does lead to some frustrating mission failures and deaths, it always teaches 
 you to be more careful in the future. Now that I mention death, there are a good number of ways 
 to kill your enemies here. You have your shotguns, assault rifles, machine guns, SMGs, handguns, 
 and a very cool riot shield at your disposal, as well as any weapons you find on your fallen adversaries. 
 As you progress, you'll gradually build your arsenal. Your buddies are pretty proficient at whacking 
 the bad guys too, and will save your tail on numerous occasions.
  
  The big new addition here is the use of a third person cover mode. If you played Kill. Switch back 
 on the Xbox or PS2, or more likely the awesome Gears of War, you'll feel right at home here. The 
 left trigger will snap you to whatever you want to hide behind, and by moving the left stick you 
 can pop out to take some shots at the enemies unloading on you. It works well overall, though sometimes 
 it reacts in strange ways to certain movements. (Leaning out a narrow doorway is a good example.)
 
  
  The combat in Vegas is simply divine. Trading bullets in third or first-person is intense and chaotic, 
 with both sides yelling commands to each other, shooting wildly, and causing truly epic amounts 
 of property damage. The beautiful casinos are lavish and gaudy, with neon lights, slot machines 
 that break and spill out change when shot, and several destructible objects waiting to be obliterated. 
 At it's best, this is the most fun I've ever had with a squad shooter.
  
  On the other hand, a few things bug me a bit. More often than not, death comes in instant form, 
 be it a shotgun blast from a guy you didn't see, a grenade, or a withering hail of sudden gunfire. 
 It gets particularly distressing in dark areas, when night vision is too bright and thermal vision 
 not bright enough. It's annoying, but not enough to make you hate the game. But these minor flaws 
 can't tarnish the brilliance and ambition of this game. And the co-op and adversarial multiplayer 
 is absolute perfection, too.
  
  Where many were afraid that Vegas would be a blemish on the franchise, Rainbow Six Vegas is a gorgeous, 
 extremely well-executed tactical shooter that just happens to be an absolute blast to play. Any 
 360 owner with a knack for blasting terrorists owes it to themselves to pick this one up. And unlike 
 the real Las Vegas, you can proudly tell everyone everything you did there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maidendude
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 29, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  1) This game is great, it blends action and tactical stealth perfectly. Like Gears of War you can 
 take cover behind walls. To me I believe that this game does a better job at it than Gears, especially 
 since it makes since for this mechanic to be in this sort of game. The graphics are great, not 
 as good as Gears but awesome none the less.
  
  2) The controls are good a little cumbersome though. The L trigger is used for hiding hind walls 
 and such. The R trigger shoots, A is action, X reloads, Y switches weapons, B throws grenades. 
 Now I usually get confused with B throwing grenades and the Right bummer that switches from night 
 vision and thermal goggles. I sometimes finding myself accidentally throwing grenades when I want 
 to turn off my goggles.
  
  3) The story is nothing too special, but it is fun to play through since some parts of the game 
 does get highly intense. The real fun is online. There are a bunch of different game modes, my 
 favorite being attack and defend, this is when one team attacks the other which is defending a 
 box. The attackers need to work together to come up with a plan to infiltrate the base holding 
 the box, grab it and return it the a designated area. The online portion is loads of fun and there 
 are plenty of games to find and play. One of the fun part is leveling up your character from 1st 
 class to private 1st class and so forth. Also there is plenty of achievements that you can only 
 unlock if you play online.
  
  My only gripe is that sometimes the AI is lacking, but it is truly not that noticiable since most 
 of the time they try to do their best to kill you. Other than this, this is a game worth buying, 
 you won't regret it especially if you like tactical shooters and action pack games, since Vegas 
 is perfect blend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: advanracer
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 13, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  1. Graphically.. its ok.. typical Rainbow Six type format.. dont believe me? Play the 'Other Rainbow 
 Games' FIRST.. before Las Vegas... you'll see =P
  
  2. Control system, hmmm... in a middle of a fire fight?.. well it slows down by bout 2 seconds.. and 
 the Cover system?!! LOL.. NOTHING compared to GEARS of WAR. i mean.. its full of stalls n twitches 
 resulting in exposing your character and eventually gettin GABE GREASED! LOL... the Targeting system.. its 
 ok.. if ya want to go head on/ point and shoot, But, from an exclosed area? i'll let ya folkz figure 
 that out on your own..
  
  3. OH yeh.. BTW.. REMEMBER THIS... TEAM HACK ... LMAO. ONLY THEN.. you'll REALIZE why... 4. On this 
 day and age... of tactical shooters.. i think its time to retire.. the FIRST PERSON  
 was AGES AGO.
  TODAY.. tis' all about the combined aspects of..3rd person for over-all global perspective.. not 
 the typical point A to point B (whats in front of you) , along with the OVER-the-SHOULDER firing 
 (at least you can still be in a middle of a firefight and see your surrondings on a wider-field-of-view..
 
  
  5. WOOHOO.. UNLIMITED PISTOL AMMO!! .. IS THAT A CHARITY MOVE OR WHAT??? LOL... man.. pls. LOL. just 
 in case ammo runs out from blind firing or wucha call it... shakey'sight-on full-auto-spray-and-pray-type 
 play. LOL!!! TIME TO  LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigfella411
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 29, 2006 8:35 am PT
Review:  This game is a good solid game that any fans or new comers to the rainbow six series should have 
 in their collection!
  
  The first level, or the tutorial level may make you question the game, but as soon as you get deep 
 in the streets of Mexico you will be hooked. The enviroments are beautiful, and the AI, for the 
 most part, is reliable for sending your teammates into the thick of things and being able to survive. 
 Although there are times when you will wonder, like when someone comes up behind you and shoots 
 you first, and your AI counterparts are just as dumbfounded as you are. Luckily this doesn't happen 
 too often.
  
  Offering a wide variety of weapon choices and customizing the single player will keep you hoping 
 and guessing what will be the best solution for what is just around the corner, you may also find 
 a weapon combo that works well, like I did and swear by it.
  
  Online multiplayer for this game is great, although if you loose players on Xbox live the only 
 way to even out the teams is to quite the session and begin a new. Offering up new weapons to be 
 unlocked as you rank up, you will keep coming back for more action and looking to frag as many 
 friends online as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulbeach
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 29, 2006 7:14 am PT
Review:  Years ago, I played the 1st rainbow 6: I found it way too hardcore for my tastes. Now, Rainbow6 
 Vegas rocks, big Time! Graphics, sounds, game-play everything is pretty much top notch. What I 
 found most fun is the auto-shotgun: watch the effects on a wall while using it against opponents 
 during a multi-player experience: tons of dust and particle effects fill the screen and blood splatters 
 in 10's of little patches, feels sooo real. The 1st time I experienced it, I felt numb as it was 
 so real.
  
  The single player was pretty nice. Ordering the AI partners with simple and very intuitive controls 
 was great. One of the best AI partners I've experienced in a long time. You can give them orders 
 from a great height then provide them with cover as they try to reach their destination gunning 
 down opposition. Yes the AI is sometimes stupid, but most of the time it acts very intelligently 
 through most situations.
  
  The multi-player was also a blast, trying all the different weapons was great: I sticked with the 
 auto-shotgun after trying it :) . the many different accessories brings freshness and pushes original 
 and new tactics to multi-player battles. Try C4! The levels were pretty fun, one of them quite 
 probably being inspired by one of the fathers of modern shooters: Golden eye.
  
  In all, one of the best overall shooters out there. Try it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hegemonious
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 29, 2006 5:26 am PT
Review:  R6 Vegas is a superb shooter and a must own for all shooter &amp; action fans. So what if already 
 own Gears of War, the content &amp; execution of Vegas is defferent enough to warrant the purchase. 
 I love just like Gears of War you can take cover and recharge your energy, this keeps the action 
 going. If you make that tactical error you're not punished for it. The sound is also top notch, 
 Vegas has some of the best sound you have ever heard in a game. The first time I took cover behind 
 a car as it was being riddled with bullets, I heard glass breaking and rounds pounding the vehicle. 
 I popped up to return fire with one of the many assalt rifles and you could hear the echo of each 
 round. It reminded me of the movie Heat . If you saw the movie you'll know what I'm talking about.
 
  
  The graphics are top notch as well and by now if you don't have a HD TV by now I hope you saving 
 for one because you just cannot fully appreciate just good this game looks without one. The lighting 
 &amp; subtle details are just simpliy amazing.
  
  As for the control, the only issues I can complain about is when are taking cover it's difficult 
 to move. I was not sure at first how to move the stick to manuver the player, it was always in 
 some weired direction that was out of sink with the players' placement. Although rare when you 
 were behind cover and you want to pop out to fire it just wouldn't. Neither issue detracts from 
 the game that much but every so often it would cause a mistake. Or you'll miss that perfect shot. 
 The story is OK. Not much to talk about could of been deeper. All &amp; all a superb game that 
 deserves your attention, Halo 3 better be good because games like Gears of War &amp; Vegas makes 
 tough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BK-Sleeper
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 28, 2006 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six has been reowned for it's great teamwork and story elements within the games. Though, 
 ever since Lockdown and Critical Hour, the franchise has been going downhill. Enter Rainbow Six 
 Vegas, the first entry into the next generation, which, in only one installment, redeems the entire 
 franchise in a way that has only been witnessed few times in the history of the industry.
  
  The story of Rainbow Six Vegas, though, takes some elements from other stories, but is still 
 engaging. You start out as Logan Keller, the new field leader for Rainbow Six. You will soon ask 
 yourself, what happened to Ding Chavez? Soon, after you fight your way through the beginning levels 
 and have two of your men captured, Logan talks to Chavez himself, and it seems the former hero 
 has been given a promotion to operations leader. There's even a mention of Rainbow Six Lockdown 
 in which Dieter Weber is captured and Chavez goes off the reservation to get him back. Logan tells 
 that you Chavez, who only replies That's right. But I had a hell of a lot more experience than 
 you did leading my team. Soon, you find out that an attack on Las Vegas is connected to the woman 
 you tried to capture in Mexico.
  
  Rainbow Six has always remained a first person shooter. In this new installment, the feature of 
 cover, included with third person, is one of the highlights. At first, it was viewed as a useless 
 feature, until used in action. In fact, the cover mechanic is very helpful, though blind fire could 
 have been touched up a little. The HUD now excludes a life bar, which takes on a Halo 2 sort of 
 help, in which you must get to cover when shot, and wait until the haze is gone. The 'leaning' 
 feature is gone, which is a disappointment to many original R6 fans. The inventory and action buttons 
 now take on a ghost-recon approach, where you hold the button until the small menu pops out and 
 you select what you desire.
  
  One of the key points of R6 has always been guns. There hasn't been much customization, but there 
 were a lot of guns. In this, there aren't a lot of guns, but there is customization. Basically, 
 all you can really customize is the scope, and if you want a bigger magazine for the weapon. Chances 
 are, the only scope you'll be using most the time is a reflex scope. I'd recommend that. Laser 
 sighting, though, is pretty much useless and is just a way to get spotted easily. The voice and 
 musical score return in top notch. The nu-metal riffs have been replaced with a sort of techno-like 
 music that is reminescient of Splinter Cell, but still retains the mood. Voice acting during intermissions 
 and other HUD activites remain great, though when in action, your teammates will use the radio, 
 even when you're right next to them, and you still can't hear their real voice. It's a little annoying.
 
  
  One of the best features of the series returns as a persistant online character in multiplayer. 
 Basically, you make you own character, then whether you win or lose in online matches, you will 
 unlock stuff such as body armor or weapons. Everything is balanced too, as where if you get body 
 armor, it will lower your mobility. Hurray balance!
  
  The last, and most certainly should have been first, feature of this game is the graphics. The 
 R6 series was never really a looker. This is one hell of a looker. Everything from the gunshots 
 pinging off of the objects, to the effects of a smoke grenade, everything looks absolutely brilliant 
 and detailed. Especially the R6 commandos you lead into battle. Each of them are detailed down 
 to the last pore for some of the best graphics this generation.
  
  The real last part, and shortest, is the AI. The enemy AI, of course, is very smart, even on normal. 
 When one moves up, another will cover. They will flank, take cover, and even retreat and regroup 
 for another attacked. At times, they will even outsmart your own teammates and take them out. Sadly 
 though, your teammates aren't 'as' smart, but are still smart. They can shoot and shoot, and take 
 off a few stragglers that you are too busy to take care of, so basically they just watch your back.
 
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas retails for $59.99 at most outlets. It's a must-buy for the casual shooter, a 
 must-rent for the casual gamer. It has full Xbox Live support, and multiscreen co-op, as well as 
 4 player co-op online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HTWingnut
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 28, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Here's my mini review of Rainbow Six Vegas for the Xbox 360 since I couldn't wait for the PC version 
 and so far it has been spectacular! So far I have only played single player, but multi-player has 
 a lot of potential to be good. Will do that when I finish the campaign.
  
  Overall, great gameplay, intuitive controls, and spectacular graphics. The friendly and enemy AI 
 are also very good. Your teammates tend to get out of the way, and even comment that you're in 
 the way if you tell them to go somewhere, and you are blocking them. Enemies don't always magically 
 find you, and are subjected to the same contraints as you are. There are many different kinds of 
 enemy types too, so you don't just have a bunch of generic soldiers.
  
  If one of your teammates falls, you can magically heal them by giving them an injection or tell 
 your other team mate to do it for you (as long as they aren't at risk of getting shot themselves) . 
 You don't have the same luxury however, but if you're shot, your vision gets progressively worse, 
 until you can get to cover for a few seconds and recover.
  
  There is frequent use of smoke grenades to take advantage of your thermal visor, as well as night 
 vision, both by friendly and enemy forces. There are also flash bangs to blind the opponent, or 
 for them to do to you. In between most levels you are airlifted by chopper to another location, 
 at which time you can change out your weapons. In some locations mid-mission, there are resupply 
 crates that will let you just reload or choose new weapons. Usually you are loaded up with enough 
 ammo for the mission, especially if you make use of your team members as they seem to have unlimited 
 ammo. But if you decide to you can pick up enemies guns (no grenades) .
  
  Most of the environment is destructible and everything can be used as cover. Use of cover is the 
 most amazing aspect of the game, as you can use any wall, slot machine, or anything on the ground 
 to hide behind. Then you can shoot blindly for suppressing fire, and with any luck take out a bad 
 guy. This feature alone makes the game feel so much more realistic and enjoyable.
  
  While R6 Vegas may not be as complex as other Rainbow Six games, you still have control over your 
 three man team to breach doors entering rooms with bad guys, while you take another entrance to 
 flank the enemy. There are fast ropes and rappel points in many locations too, allowing for multiple 
 ways to approach a situation. The levels are quite varied as well, but for the most part you're 
 usually needed to eliminate the terrorists with a few hostage rescues and bomb deactivations from 
 time to time.
  
  Graphically, I am thoroughly impressed. Hopefully the PC version will be as good if not better. 
 The Vegas scenery is very recognizable, while the battles that ensue take place in fictious casinos. 
 There are slot machines and gambling tables amidst the elegantly laid out casinos, along with all 
 the lights and chinging sounds well known from the casinos.
  
  There is very little to NOT like about this game. My one little gripe is that there are checkpoint 
 saves that can be spread fairly thin. In some cases you have to trudge your way through a few difficult 
 areas without dying before it will save again. There are TONS of enemy forces to annihilate as 
 well, almost annoyingly so at times.
  
  I look forward to some multiplayer gaming as well, as you can play the campaign with up to a total 
 of four players, capture the flag type game, hostage rescue, or just kill the terrorists. While 
 Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Double Agent may have fallen flat, at least based on several people's 
 accounts, Rainbow Six Vegas is sure to please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icybl00d3d
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 28, 2006 7:15 pm PT
Review:  A really fun game that u will enjoy for a very long time and you can play it over and over. i finished 
 it 2wice and i still wana play it again and again. the gameplay is amazingly fun and you will be 
 shocked of how the game starts it just sucks you in and when you play it and look at the clock 
 youll notice u have been playing it for hours withought realizing. the sound is amazing i was playing 
 it in my room and when i took it downstairs on the surround system... it made me jump outta my 
 seat it sounded soo real that my dad was just watching me play it haha so.. yea buy it its really 
 fun.. not like gears of war .. you can play this over and over 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightHawk2032
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 28, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  While 2006 has given us some incredbile shooters including both Call of Duty 3 and Gears of war, 
 one stands out above the rest. Rainbow Six Vegas. This game looks great with the new Unreal 3 engine, 
 and while it may be true that Gears of War has slightly superior graphics (though the difference 
 isn't so drastic) it's the detail, design, and gameplay that steals the show. Having played through 
 both protions of single and multiplayer, i can tell you there is nothing better than rappelling 
 down the side of a building, breaching through the glass, takes cover, swinging around and busting 
 some heads before swing back around to reload and move in. The game has a good balance of tactics, 
 and a little pinch of we don't suggest it, but if you wanna go alone here, try it. Some times works, 
 other times you get your ass handed too you. Again, the ability to rappel and take cover are incredible, 
 and to say even smoother than Gears of war. (though gears of war you can do certain moves while 
 in cover, the generas are different here.) The looks and sounds of the weapons, not to mention 
 the reloads are dead on, and look/sound terrific. Gameplay wise, the people who have the least 
 fun are the morons not using there heads and running in guns ablazing and getting blow apart. As 
 rightly they should, while technically you can move in and take guys down, it's when you blindly 
 rush a room like an idiot you get messed up, then these same retards come on and complain about 
 the game. The differnt multiplayer modes are fun, however it's attack and defend which is a real 
 joy to play. one team chooses a spawn point and moves in while the other team chooses there area 
 to spawn and defends the objective. Great fun. What adds even more is the custimization of weapons, 
 and abundance of weapons, and better yet, the gadgets and character custimization. While more armor 
 slows you down, it gives you more protection, and Visa Versa if you use less armor. The ability 
 to completely make your character the way you want is great, and you never see the same character 
 model twice while kicking ass online. Co-op is a blast, with the A. I both in single player and 
 multiplayer are great. Rainbow Six Vegas is a must buy, and with out a doubt the best game of 2006, 
 while the single player is great, the multiplayer is the shinning star here, and it fills in just 
 nicely! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artcantravel
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 28, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  Whether you are into online play or not, this game offers something for every shooter fan. The 
 graphics and sounds, especially in high definition with surround sound, will have you recoiling 
 from surprise gun shots. Amazing.
  
  The multiplayer is intense. You live and die by the headshot. The different available body armors 
 can allow your character to take quite a pounding but one well placed round will dropped even the 
 best equipped. Chose your engagements wisely, expose yourself to the hail of bullets only if you 
 can get the kill. I have spent quite a lot of time playing on Xbox live and have not experienced 
 any lag, even from other players. The scenarios are almost always different and there are enough 
 maps to keep you entertained.
  
  The single player is almost never dull. As you make your way through Vegas, hordes of terrorists 
 will attack you. Don't be bashful about laying down some serious cover fire to prevent movement. 
 Controlling the flow of the battle is the key to victory here. The AI is good enough to run flanking 
 maneuvers if you stay in any one spot for too long. Overall, the Unreal engine has taken the Rainbow 
 Six franchise to new levels. Even if you were not a fan of the previous games, dont rule this 
 one out. This first person shooter could be the next game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jizohnrobertson
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 28, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  I am not a huge fan of Tom Clancy titles. I have never been a fan of the Splinter Cells or Ghost 
 Recon. They are good titles, don't get me wrong, they are just not my type of game due to the extremely 
 slow pace and cumbersome controls. However, when I downloaded and played the demo of Rainbow Six 
 Vegas on my 360 for the first time, I knew Ubisoft had something more to my tastes than their previous 
 installments. This game is not a run and gun like Call of duty, but there are many times when you 
 are pinned down by the enemy and you must think fast and hit hard. This makes for some intense 
 battles as you must react quickly with not only you, but your squad as well. This brings up another 
 point; your crew. These guys possess some of the best team AI that I have ever seen. They can clear 
 rooms for you with or without your help. They always make good use of cover and never stand in 
 harms way during a firefight (like when your guys stand in the middle of the streets and get whacked 
 in ghost recon) . Overall the graphics are really nice and the character models are not shabby either. 
 The game plays as smooth as butter and the controls are intuitive. Never once did I have to think 
 about the hunk of plastic in my hands to wonder which button does what (which is another gripe 
 I have with other Clancy titles) . If you like a good first person shooter with intellignece then 
 this is a no brainer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkcellblack
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 28, 2006 4:58 am PT
Review:  I am sure that many of you waited for so long for the release of this Xbox 360 title. To make a 
 long story short, i have been following this game since the begining, so i anticipated its arrival. 
 This game (of course, it's Rainbow) has an arsenal of weapons and grenades/gadgets to choose from. 
 Awesome cover system and blind-shooting action.
  
  The story mode is VERY LONG and is a very unique twisting storyline for any single player gamer. 
 Unfortunetly, i don't think that is enough. To get the full apparal of this game, you need to be 
 able to play with mutliple people, wether through system link, xbox live, or heck my personal favortie, 
 just hook up four controllers. I am going to have to say that playing with your friends in your 
 living room may be more pleasing than xbox live. Some of your weapons on xbox live are locked due 
 to low rank. To use my favorite weapon, the AK-47, you must be a master sargent.
  
  The online is wonderful anyhow. If you get in a 14 player match of players VS players you will 
 be instantly addicted. Though the game is recent, it is hard to get a full fledge multiplayer match 
 going. But once i entered a room we played for 12 hours. Another thing i will warn you of though, 
 is that video games still can't get the shotgun right, some people can literally snipe you with 
 a shotgun, making for a cheap and easy kill, which can be dissapointing and VERY noobish.
  
  So i will warn you fair and square, many will be dissapointed if you do not have mutiplayer 
 compatability, just buy a controller, 2 player terrorist hunt kept me addicted for a while.
  
  darkc3ll out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RearEntry
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 27, 2006 10:24 pm PT
Review:  AWESOME MULTIPLAYER!!!
  The game is tactically perfect in its difficulty and realism. Environments are beautiful and challenging. 
 But this game's true strength lies in its multi player, especially the coop missions work great. 
 You are constantly required to discuss a plan of entry with your teammates, and you help each other 
 by voice...
  All in all an excellent game
  well this has to be 100 words... so I ll keep on writting some more bs... blah blah blahhh
  Damn... 
 still not 100, I guess its more typing and more blah blah All I wanted to do was write a review 
 to share my feelings on this game and now look at all this.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRIPPL312
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 27, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Ive been playing rainbow six since the second installment came out on the pc. the first one to 
 come out on the xbox was a awesome game and i didnt think the game could improve on a grander scale. 
 i thought that i was right after the follow ups on the xbox but Vegas changed all that for me. 
 the gameplay is sill dead on and hasnt changed from what it always was its only improved. the controls 
 are the same with a little more user input this time. the ai in the game has improved but it wasnt 
 much of big difference. the graphics are what make this game stand out at first. this game truly 
 deserves the moniker next-gen . the audio and sound put help put this game on a higher level. all 
 aspects of this game are great. flaws are to a minimum and dont bother any of the gaming experience. 
 the onlineplay can be a bit sluggish at times but thats the only thing wrong i can figure with 
 terrific game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Pure Xbox sweetness again. This game rocks. I would really be surprised if it didn't. Xbox has 
 set the bar way high now for putting out quality games. Just when i was midway through Gears, they 
 release this masterpiece. I know this is not an exclusive, but would you want to play this game 
 any other way than next gen and of course 360 delivers again.
  
  I am totally commited to xbox now. Thank you again for another great game.
  This game starts 
 out in mehico with very intense action and never lets up. You don't have much of a tolerance from 
 bullets as you will die after getting hit about 2-3 times so you really have to use caution and 
 skill. This makes the game even more realistic. All in all, i'm having a blast with this game Mmm 
 Vegas sweetness !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FarCry194
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 27, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  I have always been excited for Rainbow Six: Vegas, ever since I saw the demo for it at E3. I have 
 always loved tactical shooters and FPS's, and with Vegas, I get the best of both worlds. I came 
 in having high expectations for the game, and they were totally met. I loved the bloody realism 
 and the attention to detail on the guns. The single player is very solid, and it keeps you coming 
 back. However, the multiplayer is really where this game shines. This is so much fun to go in and 
 create your own character with whatever you want, and the multiplayer is one the most addicting 
 modes ever. In the end Rainbow Six: Vegas is just plain awesome. It has the great graphics, sound, 
 and replay value. Vegas is the tatical shooter to have this holiday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gruug
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 27, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  Sorry to rain on the parade here. While I think that RB6: Vegas is pretty good I think there are 
 several problems which detract and lower from the rating. First of all, let's speak of the AI. 
 While the AI has been said to be good, I have had many problems with friendly AI not seeing enemy 
 AI even though they are face to face three feet away without any obstructions between them. Even 
 though it is pretty funny to see two opposing force memebers just staring each other down it certainly 
 detracts from the feel of what should happen. Second, have encounter numerous glitches in game. 
 One annoying one was loading in for the first encounter on the Mexican Streets. Chopper came in 
 and dropped me off but instead of being on the streets I was below them in some netherworld . No 
 way to get back to the proper place but to restart the game. Another was during a chopper ride 
 all the building suddenly lost all textures. Finally, during multiplay split screen have had many 
 instances where there are stats displayed at the end of a level that appear to be garbage. Something 
 like 123456612 kills. I know I am good but not that good (grin) . Anyway, the game is good to a 
 point. If only it were not release with these sorts of issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xdRabbitx
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  This game has the best multiplayer action to date, just as the old Tom Clancy games had on the 
 original XBOX. But it also has a great story mode and co-op play. The latest additions give you 
 an opportunity to customize your player with thousands of different possibilities. With the customize 
 option, you can customize your pants, knees, elbows, chest, head, hands, and of course exactly 
 every last detail of your gun. This game is unbelievable, and if you decide to pass this up than 
 you mide as well give up gaming all together.
  
  Along with the recent customizing additions. The game has several new gaming types and modes online. 
 Instead of only the few gaming types in the old bow like Team Survival, Vegas gives you 12 different 
 gametypes to play. So far the 2 favorites have been Team Sharpshooter and a new one called Attack 
 &amp; Defend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pieman_III
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 27, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  This game is utterly amazing in all the ways I had hoped that it would be. Graphically it looked 
 great. The game play? Utterly amazing. Sounded sweet, great fun online and off, just overall a 
 fantastic shooter through and through.
  
  The single player is a great place to start. It's not so easy that you just fly through it but 
 not hard enough to make you get angry at the game. The locations look absolutely amazing, and the 
 chopper scenes are just spectacular. A true joy to play through.
  
  Then we have the multi player. A lot of people have ragged on the graphics of the multi player 
 far to much mainly due to the demo, but frankly, I think the graphics look wonderful. The game 
 play is awesome whether playing Co-op with friends, or shooting others online in the many great 
 game modes it is just overall a blast to play (p. s. Go Team Discovery Channel!)
  
  There are a few downsides however. The glitch in attack and defend with the bomb which makes it 
 so the bomb arms automatically even if you die while doing so makes many maps almost unplayable 
 and often I find I can't hear certain team mates after changing the map or game mode. Hopefully 
 these problems will be fixed soon.
  
  None the less, Rainbow 6 Vegas is by far one of the best in the series I have ever played, and 
 being a big fan of the series, I was not disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CJoel
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 27, 2006 4:02 am PT
Review:  I was impressed by the Campaign (offline) but I was shocked the see the Multiplayer graphics look 
 identical to the original XBOX. Play the Multiplayer Demo first before purchasing this game . The 
 environments and character models in multiplayer are sub-par. I will pass on this game. Bring on 
 Wolfenstien and Halo3 !
  
  Unbelievable ! I was impressed by the Campaign (offline) but I was shocked the see the Multiplayer 
 graphics look identical to the original XBOX. Play the Multiplayer Demo first before purchasing 
 this game . The environments and character models in multiplayer are sub-par. I will pass on this 
 game. Bring on Wolfenstien and Halo3 !
  
  Unbelievable ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomMooreBox
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 27, 2006 1:47 am PT
Review:  The first Rainbow six inspired me to buy a PC back in 98. I bought the game before I even owned 
 a PC. Like the Scientist giving himself smallpox to find the cure. (forgive me if it was some other 
 disease... facts) Anyway. Ive played this series. I know this series. I've gown up with it. I've 
 never been too keen on the console ports. Played em but never got the same intense white knuckle 
 experience. I played Raveshield until I just couldn't play it anymore. I also like the ghost recon 
 series. Like 360 GRAW but think the PC title is a lot better. When I saw the screenshots for VEGAS 
 I thought to myself. PC. Well I've just played one of the best looking, most intense, and exciting 
 shooters ever on a console. RAINBOWSIX Vegas xbox 360......
  
  The game is amazing. The controls are intuitive. Using the left trigger to hug walls and other 
 cover .... impeccable. Leaning around and over walls. Blind firing and grenade throwing. Like riding 
 a bike. The AI is generally great. It gets better and slightly more aggressive as the game progresses. 
 They love smoke grenades but now they're hittin me with the incendiary. They flank, shout expletives. 
 Your squad mates do a fairly nice job on their own as well. There is no planning phase in the game 
 which might disappoint the hardcore fans of previous rainbow games. As for me I always skipped 
 that portion because I felt like it ruined the element of surprise. So no love lost. They've opted 
 fr a more on the fly system which seems to compliment the flow of the story. No longer does the 
 franchise opt for the jet around the world solving small problems like an oil rig hostage situation 
 off the coast of Venezuela. The story is big. Is it captivating. Sometimes. As long as the firefights 
 and challenges are there, I'm happy. And they are. So in a nutshell. If you own a 360 and you like 
 gorgeous tactical firstperson shooters with a ton of replay value. This game is for you. ENJOY 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheQuesoMan
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 26, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Must admit, I was a believer in thinking the R6 series should just eventually die off... but now 
 that I look back, I'm saying, What the Hell was I thinking!? 
  
  PROS: - Awesome gunplay - Pleasing graphics - Impressive multiplayer features - Manageable controls 
 - Decent story - Great weapon choices - Cool new pseudo-Splinter Cell moves - Easy team command
 
  
  CONS: - Slightly restricting environments - No real ambient sound to immersive yourself
  
  To sum it all up... a must play, or even must buy! This game is just pure fun wrapped up in 
 a $60 package... from the creative use of cover objects, oodles of weaponry, and impressive graphics... 
 look forward to the multiplayer as well.
  
  My only real gripe is that I wish they had a free-roaming Vegas, where you'd be able to select 
 which objectives you wanted to handle in any order or something. The multiple route feature is 
 rather poor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donnie_mcgee
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 26, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Not since the original Rainbow Six on the XBOX have I actually enjoyed a Rainbow game. This game 
 comes off great with a ton of options to appease FPS fans who may start to become jaded with all 
 the FPS's that have come out lately. This game has just enough new stuff like camera support and 
 online RPG elements to keep you interested and feel satisfied for a very long time. Now I'm ready 
 to see what they do with the expansion packs they will eventually come out with over Marketplace!
 
  Single player is alright, the environments are great. The AI is sort of shoddy but it's pretty 
 intense and the enemies will keep you interested and challenged. I like the online multiplayer 
 the best, achievements are cool, and single player is okay if you like co-op. I'm not a huge fan 
 but it does the job great for those who are into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sosotiit
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 27, 2006 5:04 am PT
Review:  Wow this is an immersive game, I did not want to leave my X360 for a minute. I know It has been 
 said, but I did not have that feeling on a shooter ( I am not including stealth in this) since 
 R6/3. It is good, good , very good.
  
  We just got two great games for the X360, Gears of War (GOW) and Rainbow 6 Vegas (R6V) ; both are 
 shooters with cover system. Each cover systems is well adapted to its respective game. br /&gt;
 
  
  GOW is a shooter with cover system that has a ' Run and Gun' Flavor ( maybe this is too much , 
 but let say a brawl attitude) .
  
  R6V is a shooter with cover system that has a 'tactical' flavor, I'd say 'Full Spectrum Warrior' 
 and some note of 'Splinter Cell' at times.
  
  Ubisoft, bring more of these quality product, R6V, Splinter Cell, Prince of Persia Two Thrones...
 
  
  I do not want to complain, but maybe two potential improvements:
  1) The save system is mostly good, with checkpoint fairly well distributed. Strangely the first 
 mission in Mexico is made awfully difficult due to some checkpoints really too long. The checkpoints 
 after that were well placed. Just a personal preference, would be to have more of them on normal 
 difficulty (or an easy difficulty level with more checkpoints) in order to test various approach 
 to some part of the game without having to redo 15 minutes. It would had replay value. For Realistic 
 level it is great.
  
  2) I had too often to come back close to my teammates to reposition them because from where I was 
 I could not do it. Full spectrum warrior does that much better. Either when we open the map, we 
 could move a pointer on the map to tell them where to go, or switch to a teammate view to indicate 
 the desired movement.
  I guess it cannot be the absolute best at everything!!! , but if you like tactical shooters, this 
 is the game of 2006 on the next-gen console.
  
  EDITED: in fact when you play this game do not let the first mission convince you, because it is 
 not the best by far. It felt more like Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter than R6V. The remaining 
 five missions are much better
  
  soso, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jrrock009
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 26, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  Rainbow six Vegas is Ubisofts newest in the Rainbow franchise. Ubisoft has added a lot of new 
 features to this game. Like the new cover system and the redesigned PEC mode. They stuck to their 
 roots with multiplayer, other then the added cover system. Singleplayer is nothing less then amazing 
 in both graphics and gameplay. The sound in the singleplayer and multiplayer is outstanding. One 
 thing I loved about the sound was it changed depending on what type of gun you had. For example 
 if you used a SMG the sound would pretty much be near you and you would hear it around you. If 
 you used an assault rifle or sniper though, firing a single shot would make it echo off in the 
 distance and it sounds realistic. Graphics are notable better in singleplayer and co-op then in 
 the adversarial modes. I believe it was because Ubisoft wasnt achieving framerate like that wanted 
 to. Multiplayer is very well done and all the maps live up to rainbows past as well as a couple 
 old favorites make their return. Streets aka city street large for original Rainbow six 3 fans 
 has made its rusty return, as well as the downloadable map from Black Arrow Killhouse. The rest 
 of the maps vary from a Mexican villa to the vaults of multi-million dollar casinos. There are 
 a few things that are wrong or bad about multiplayer. They made it so you can only take 2 of each 
 type of offensive grenades which is perfectly fine. What they did to balance this although is not 
 fine, they made the grenade a lot more powerful most of the time making it impossible to get away 
 from. The flashbang work very well from what Ive noticed now, in past games they were useless 
 and often never worked. The biggest problem with multiplayer right now is its voice problems. Its 
 like gambling who you can hear on your team or the other. Im sure a patch is in the works but 
 for now its extremely annoying. I love the PEC mode and how it really doesnt give you anything 
 better then anyone it just gives you something cooler. The cover system works very well in multiplayer 
 which was a surprise to me. I was thinking that someone would be able to sit in third person and 
 pop out and kill someone. It still is sort of like that but if the person he is popping out on 
 is paying attention he will be able to shoot first and often kill first. There is a brief pause 
 actually its more of a transition time from cover to aiming. Its fast but sometimes not fast enough. 
 The new attack and defend mode is a fun change of pace offering up more of a counter-strike feel 
 to it. All the old favorites are back as well conquest, retrieval, survival, sharpshooter, team 
 survival, team sharpshooter, as well as terrorist hunt and co-op story.
  
  In conclusion this game is probably my pick for the must buy game of the year even over Gears of 
 War, because of its ability to appeal to everyone. Singleplayer fans have a great game to play 
 and multiplayer fans have multiple game types to choose from. This is in my opinion the best shooter 
 of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ice_man_1985
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 27, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  at first rainbow six was one of the best tactical shooter out there , and know one can compet with 
 them on there genre , next they blew it off with lockdown and other bad games and still they continued 
 with pride and then sierra brought swat 4 to our lifes and we loved it alot i mean not all of us 
 but most of us did , and at last they bring us what we want with RS: V and blow us with many nice 
 features like wall cover in a 3D perspective with actuall FPS , and what amazed me in one of the 
 main gameplay is when there is two doors in front of you one in the right and one in your left 
 and you send your team witch door you prefer and you order them to clear this room but they will 
 wait for your signal until you reached the right door then you decide if they normally enter or 
 use explosives door breach and then we both enter and make them sleep for the rest of there lifes 
 .
  
  if you like swat 4 or the old rainbow six classics then your gonna love this one alot , and believe 
 me your not gonna find better than RS: V in tactical games so you got nothing to lose .
  
  graphics :
  
  the new unreal engine will blow your mind in vegas environment gameplay :
  
 
  gameplay :
  
  the old rainbow six gameplay is back with a major extra features , that your gonna like it alot 
 .
  
  why wasting time , if you like tactical games you should buy it , and if not then your gonna like 
 it and maybe you will be a fan of tactical games after you play RS: V , and im not kiding . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheOneDubb
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 25, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, I was quite disappointed in the new Six game although this doesnt mean its not 
 at all fun to play. It is fun, but this game was fairly highly anticipated, especially via FPS 
 fans, and seemed to act like the US postal service on Christmas Day .. They didnt deliver. The 
 trailer made it seem as if it would be immersive with plenty of cut scenes to support the story 
 line. But like GRAW, there is close to zero cut scenes. The closest thing to a CS is speaking to 
 some chick in a helo who gives you your mission objectives and information pertaining to said objectives. 
 Thats it. Besides the lack of engaging cut scenes, the mission based game play is smooth and well 
 managed. The environments are clean and look surprisingly realistic. The casino missions are most 
 impressive with all the bells and whistles ringing continuously from the dollar, quarter, and nickel 
 slots. Like most of the new Clancy games the plot is pretty weak all thing considered. Ubisoft 
 must be running out of creative ideas because the story line reads as regurgitated garbage they 
 have already previously created. There is a wide array of weapons which is a good thing. You can 
 carry your choice of 2 main weapons ranging from machine guns and assault rifles to gauges. You 
 then have your standard issue pistol complimented with 2 gadgets such as a flash bang, smoke grenade, 
 or frag grenade. You can also customize your weapons adding laser sights, scopes, and increased 
 clip capacity to name a few which is really nice. All and all, the missions are enjoyable but seem 
 to lack a certain replay value that other Six games had. The controls are arguably the worst aspect 
 of the game. The cover control scheme, while great in theory, did not translate well to the actual 
 controller. You can utilize cover by approaching an object and holding the left trigger. This places 
 you up against the wall or object but you must continue holding down the left trigger to maintain 
 the cover. Why they didnt copy and paste the Splinter Cell wall hug is beyond me. That was incredibly 
 user friendly with a simple click of the thumb stick and your against a wall or door. Once in cover, 
 you can use the stick to peak around the corner or pop around and have a clear line of fire. However, 
 it isnt very responsive at all. On occasion, when you push the stick to pop around to fire, he 
 just puts his head out and looks around like a douche bag. And when you want him to just peak around 
 the corner he will pop out and prepare to fire. Its frustrating to say the least and I found myself 
 completely ignoring the cover option throughout the game. Even though I was spotted far more often 
 than I would like to have been but thats thanks mostly to the AI. If your sack hits your upper 
 thigh too hard while running and the AI is in the vicinity, they will hear it and immediately begin 
 firing. B button to chuch a grenade!?!? Enough said.
  
  With the mission play and controls down we will move onto the savior of the game, Live play. If 
 it wasnt for the Live this game might have been dangerously close to clocking a low to mid eight. 
 The online play is extremely customizable. You can alter the face, facial hair, and gear of your 
 Live character. There is also additional equipment you can unlock by ranking up. This aspect of 
 the game is quite an addition and adds some depth to the overall experience. The actual Live play 
 has a variety of game modes although its not as expansive as GRAW. If you play a lot online the 
 games Live play alone is worth the buy. There are a few bugs that need to be worked out but thats 
 expected from any new Live game. Overall, Rainbow Six is worthy of being a purchase and added to 
 your collection. Its Live replay value is high which supercedes is relatively low mission replay 
 value. However, I do miss the old Six setup. Anybody who played the original Six on the N64 will 
 remember, being that it was the greatest Six game to date. You could control both Rainbow squads 
 with a touch of a button rather than actively playing just one person in one squad. When they will 
 bring that back, I dont know, but lets hope Ubisoft will learn from their mistakes and make a 
 better Rainbow Six next time. .... 8.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ampofo100
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 25, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancys raimbow six Lasvegas is simply one of his greatest scince Ghost recon and the splinter 
 cell series but hows this game gonna do this holiday seson some might ask my answer just fine. This 
 game gives us a sleek look wich is nice to see and a very sturdy frame rate those to asspects already 
 give us an ok game not to mention this game has amazing visuals and even better gamplay about up 
 to 20 hours of gameplay most of that time comes just learnig how to master the game overall this 
 game lives up to Tom clancys reputation and thats why I gave it a solid 9.6 it you have a 360 this 
 is defenitly the game to buy if your done gears of war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: De3emon
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  The well known Rainbow Six series is one that i have never really goten into. I had played a demo 
 of one as a pc gamer and i liked it but I slipped my mind, and it was a long time until i remembered 
 it, and Vegas caused me to remember this once amazing game and i knew as soon as a saw 1 pic that 
 i would love this game forever.
  
  This game has so much stuff to do to keep you in the action for days and days. All the little features 
 that you can read about in Gamespots article really do how through and there is so much more that 
 you have to find out about by just playing the game, and all of this has come together so well 
 that I am able to play it forever and never get tired of it unlike GRAW, GoW, CoD or any other 
 game in my pile. This game is truly one that should not go unnoticed.
  
  As for people whining about the graphics i would like you to look at some screenshots on this website 
 of the game, and i would like you to go and tell Ubisoft in their face that those graphics are 
 ugly. If you even have to full game, go up to a wall and look at the incredible detail in every 
 pixel of the texture and you will find yourself to be fully wrong.
  
  Al-in-all, this game is a timeless game with amazing graphics, great gameplay, great multiplayer 
 and great everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Player5KJ
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 25, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  creating characters are the greatest thing to have in multiplayer FPS and i wish the COD series 
 but i still love COD the best and i do not agree this game owns GEARS OF WAR because it just doesnt 
 beat it but enough of Gears of war. this is one of the top six games out there but COD3 was one 
 the second place game out of the world!!!! i tell u that is kick ass and dont say COD3 is not Been 
 there done that. because thats uncalled for so dont say that. why a hundred words for a review 
 i hate that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Janpieterzun
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  The king is back baby; and its good to be king. Sorry kids I cant give it to SOCOM, no way 
 no how. What is it? It is what separates the pretenders and the contenders. In the case of tactical 
 shooters Rainbow Six: Vegas is the #1 contender pound for pound, round for round. This series has 
 been the tip of the spear when it comes to tactical shooters with its illustrious roots on PC even 
 though dumb down for the consoles the shooters pedigree shines through. A lot of the old features 
 are missing I especially miss plotting your course through levels. R6 Vegas is in no way light 
 beer in contrast from its PC predecessors in fact its in the zone on its own. The single player 
 is typical R6 hunt down the terrorist fanfare, the graphics are up there. The sound nice, the AI 
 on realistic is spectacular if not brutal. FEAR, Gears of War, Call of Duty 3 and R6 Vegas do you 
 know what they all have in common? Aside from being spectacular shooters all have equally spectacular 
 and different multiplayer modes that each feels distinctive of the other. I own all these titles 
 and for each the multiplayer is a religious experience in its own right. From 4 player co-op, to 
 escort the hostage, to diffuse the bomb, to death match and team death match R6 Vegas has the 
 most complete multiplayer experience of all the triple AAA titles released this holiday. Its 
 a must own for anyone that is remotely normal and actually HAS friends. This is one of the series 
 I wished Microsoft shelled out the dough for to keep it on one platform. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gabriel_peru7
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  Hanging upside down outside the unlicensed Stratosphere casino called Vertical Spire, a thousand 
 feet above the neon Strip, your silenced 92FS pistol aimed at the head of an unsuspecting terrorist, 
 one thought creeps into your mind.
  
  Hey, that's the Bellagio! 
  
  Yes, across the Strip the fountains of the sprawling casino resort continue their magical light 
 dance, comfortably oblivious to the terrorists that have taken over Sin City. As Logan Keller, 
 you don't have that luxury. With a quick order to Team Rainbow, your squad breaches the tower restaurant, 
 exploding through the glass windows in an expertly-timed assault, just as you squeeze the trigger.
 
  
  Vegas, baby.
  
  Team Rainbow's newest mission finds the team at arms with Irena Morales, a Mexican terrorist that 
 is smuggling bad guys across the border into the States. Intel puts her in the small border town 
 of San Joshua del Mosquiera. In Mexico, Six learns that a major assault is being planned in Las 
 Vegas. We'll leave the rest of the story to you, but take note that there is a decent storyline 
 in place, and that Ubisoft's latest effort is setting the stage for future entries along the same 
 storyline. We're hoping Ubisoft goes with a more exotic locale than Rainbow Six: Carson City or 
 Rainbow Six: Reno, but we'll have to wait and see. Either way, it's clear that the Rainbow Six 
 franchise is back as a premier tactical shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da_Joker87
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 4, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six starts off well in the campaign and seems like a great game in and out. The A. I of 
 your squad mates are impressive and with this Rainbow Six being the first ever of its series that 
 I've played I'm highly pleased with the purchase. XBOX 360 seems to be shootin' out winners left 
 and right. First Gears of War, then Call of Duty 3, now this!!! :) I don't know what else to say 
 about this game. Despite the noticeable sound issues in the campaign and multiplayer, everything 
 else about the game out weighs those flaws. The multiplayer set up online is fantastic. The game 
 gets a little jumpy when playing online multiplayer but you're not really worried about that because 
 the environment, the player models, bullets flying past you as you run for cover and the realism 
 of the tactical aspects of the game are state of the art. I recommend this game for everyone who 
 enjoys FPS's. It may not have a value equivalent to Gears of War or Halo 2 but it certainly is 
 an instant classic. Rainbow Six: Las Vegas passes with flying colors. P. S: The fragmentation grenades 
 in that game are BEAUTIFUL!!!! :O) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itlnjeff
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2006 12:05 am PT
Review:  The game is outstanding from a tactical standpoint. The enemy AI is very good and unpredictable. 
 You have to check every aspect of every room before entering. Just like real life. Also when shooting 
 and moving your accuracy is affected. Being a real war vet I know the importance of using cover. 
 I like the fact that this was added just like in advanced war fighter. The weapons are all real 
 and having shot the majority of them I can tell you the mechanics are dead on. The reloading procedure 
 is the real thing. This is a definite game to purchase not rent. Don't be expecting to be Rambo 
 when you go in or you'll be dead. Isn't war great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iTcaL
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 24, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  As a big fan of shooters, i am proud to say that this is the best shooter for the 360. Single player 
 is very challenging and quite long, multiplayer is the most fun i've had in a long time, graphics 
 are great, and the customization feature is awesome. DIFFICULTY: Hard - There are only six levels 
 in the game, but dont let that fool you. Each level has just about 4-6 different scenes. So it 
 probobly takes 1-2 hours for each level. Like I said, this game is hard. I found myself dying plenty 
 of times. That just shows you that you have to think about how your going to storm into a room 
 many times. If you happen to be amazing at this game, then i recommend playing realiztic mode where 
 you die in 1 hit. STORY: 9/10 - The story is a classic Tom Clancy story with terrorists taking 
 over Vegas and you have to stop them. There's a couple of twists and turns making it interesting, 
 however the ending wasn't that great. Once you beat this by yourself, go online and play with your 
 friends in co-op story mode. GRAPHICS: 9/10 - Not that much to say except for Vegas looks real. 
 The lighting is amazing i couldnt believe how realiztic vegas looks. However, the people in the 
 game aren't as good of graphics as gears of war but still great. MULTIPLAYER: 9/10 - Multiplayer 
 is fun and addicting since you can customize your character and rank up. You can player Free for 
 All, Team, CTF and many more. I didnt give it a 10 because theres not a good party system. You 
 can't make a room with your friends and go through matchmaking like Halo 2. Instead you have to 
 find a room and tell ur friend what room to join. GAMEPLAY: 10/10 - Very awesome thats all i have 
 to say
  
  Overall 9.7. There's not that many problems with the game except that co-op story is glitchy as 
 some levels u fall through the map. Despite that this is definately a must have for all 360 gamers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyboy070
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 24, 2006 5:06 am PT
Review:  First, as I always try to start, I will start with graphics. They are awesome in this game. Almost 
 as good as gears of war. With that being said, I did find a few glitches with it. There was more 
 then one time I loaded a level without bump mapping. So far this has only occured in single player. 
 I also know that the designers will often sacrifice graphical loading to speed up standard things 
 like level design, terrorist locations... ect. Gears Of War does it sometimes, Halo 2 did it. But 
 this never caught up. I had to reload the check point, obviously a glitch that should've been caught 
 in design. Also I did notice a few things in the world that liked a little detail. Like weapons. 
 Each weapon had its own correct designations and designs for safeties, firing rates.. ect (i'm a 
 bit of a weapons fan so I've seen a few of these before) but they lacked.... character I guess. 
 Weapons that get used for such things as this get scratches on them and these didn't. They also 
 have a kind of texture, but some kinda lacked it. I found that a little dissapointing. Other then 
 those 2 things most of the world is designed to look realistic, not dreary like gow. So if you 
 think that RB6V doesn't look that good, then start thinking in a more realistic sense and you will 
 notice that absolutely awesome lighting affects, the interesting texture to the high quality carpets 
 in the casino... ect. They worlds look good. Next are controls, which ubi soft has always done well. 
 This case is no exception . You have multiple choices for stick and button layouts that all make 
 sense and are usefull. Given also the standard inversion and sensitivity adjustments. They never 
 skip those. Over all, good controls but gow got another one on them. The cover system is great, 
 but at times I find it hard to control compared to say gow's simple A button push to get into cover. 
 Instead they make you hold L and push out, which sometimes gets a bit akward. I think this helped 
 push up the learning curve a bit. Not a game breaker, but maybe the should've thought that part 
 through a bit more.
  
  Gameplay, Single player. This is were the fun comes in. I will get this out of the way now. They 
 did a great job with most of the weapons. The ones I know for sure, (ak47, MP5, UMP45, G36C, MK23 
 .45, 92FS, the deagle, and the basic shotgun sounds) mostly sound right and they definitely nailed 
 down the looks of all of them. The one part I'm glad they fixed is the random inaccuracy of the 
 weapons in the game. All these weapons are accurate right out of the box, and now it seems the 
 accuracy rating has more to do with autofire. Meaning they hold a tighter grouping in full rock 
 in roll VS. your single shots. It seems that most single shots are dead accurate. Also, it seems 
 that range may be tending more to damage rating. Because I was hitting some people with the AUG 
 at long range easy enough, but it seemed ot take a few more hits. The only real gripe that I have 
 is the sound for the 92FS. This is a nine millimeter pistol. Many US law enforcement and special 
 forces use it for its toughness and reliability, I would buy one for the lifetime warranty, if 
 I was a .45 acp fan. Either way, the sound seemed completely wrong, and to be honest sound more 
 like their old shotgun sound! WTF? Otherwise, they got really good in the accuracy dept here. Single 
 player game play feels a little bit like gow, only you need to be much more carefull with what 
 you are doing. You are only good for a few hits here, but the shock system for your life is a bit 
 more forgiving. I think it has to be because the made the game significantly harder. AI wise, they 
 don't just pop up and shoot at you and get down. The communicate and flank you and if you don't 
 keep your eyes open you will find out how many hits you can take. The vision blurring and darkening 
 as you take hits is a neat way to indicate just how bad off you are, but also makes it very difficult 
 to react and get out of they way when you can see. Again, I guess a more realistic thing. Anyway, 
 this is the first in the RB6 line that actually has an intersting story line. I won't give the 
 full details, but it is definitely alot better then the past. It also leaves you hanging, something 
 that has come along with all big name games recently and is almost to the point where it is getting 
 annoying for me. Overall fun, tactical gameplay. Think on your feet or die stuff. However, it does 
 get a bit rediculous in the end. The start to give you situations where cover is slim for you, 
 heavy for them and they give you so many enmies to take on at one time that most actual leaders 
 would've said, BULLSHEET! and found a different way. This , I know was supposed to be an increase 
 to the difficulty, make it more challenging. It succesfully made it more irritating actually. Not 
 many instances like this, but enough. Also, this time you can't spend to much time to enter to 
 save a hostage. If you do, they will be executed. Accurate, but sometimes annoying. I just started 
 taking my time and if they died I said oh well, and reloaded the check point. Multiplayer is every 
 games replay value. They always want you to replay the game, as they should, but the multiplayer 
 is where more of the fun is at in truth. With that being said, they hit the multiplayer hardcore 
 with this one. In fact I would put this part on par with gow for several different reasons. First 
 we'll start with customization. It rules. Pick your standard face. Do you want facial hair? Do 
 you want camo on it. Or how about just a bunch of scratches and and bleeding spots to make him 
 look like he had a bad day? Wait, lets bust out the vision camera and put my face on it! It actually 
 doesn't look half bad when you do that either. Since they can't 3d it really, or bump map it it 
 is a simply flat picture, but it is still neat. Next would be your clothing and armor layout. Both 
 of which have unlockable articles. You unlock them by gaining experience points that up your rank 
 . Those points you will recieve win or lose. Though usually gain more winning, I did notice a still 
 comparable amount will losing. They do compare how well you did do overall. Anyway. After you select 
 your cloths, and the color of them. Possibly a hat, a mask and sunglasses, you can now select your 
 armor. THis part is actually kind of important. I spent the first 2 games I played taking guys 
 out with one or 2 shots, with the pistols! You aren't protected if you don't have armor! You are 
 fast, very fast infact, without armor, but yoiu won't last long. ON the other hand, the more armor 
 you carry the slower you are. You can almost be a walking tank with the amount of armor you carry, 
 but you will be slow, and the slowness can make you pay. You still aren't invincible, specially 
 to head shots. Ottherwise the good old single shot kills are back, but now you have massive maps 
 and different ways to cover yourself from it instead of just leaning out from behind a corner! 
 You have multiple pieces of cover and several ways to pop out. Trying mixing them up in a good 
 fire fight, that way he can't just focus on the part you dropped out of last time. Also, the game 
 will let you line up before poppingout on on closer targets. I recommend that, this way your enemy 
 doesn't have a chance. Might as well make it unfair for them. The only thing that RB6V doesn't 
 have that gow did have was the completely awesome ways to end people. When you have such cool choices 
 as sticking them with a nade, shot gunning them to pieces, chainsawing them, curb stomping them, 
 or just shooting them down and to death, that kinda leaves the good old boom he's dead and thats 
 the end of it feeling a little... old. Still, none the less it is a lot of fun and has multiple 
 game types that should proof tobe fun for anyone. It isn't quite perfect, but it is pretty close. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colinjennison
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 23, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  I wish some of the reviews I read would have warned me how bad the graphics are in multiplayer! 
 Compared to GRAW, this game looks last-gen. I don't see any excuse for this, and I certainly don't 
 understand how all the reviews seemed to overlook it...
  
  Other than that, the game is great! The graphics in single player are good, although I still preferred 
 the GRAW look to this old-school approach... There's a lot more repetition of textures or colours 
 or something in this game... I'm no graphics expert unfortunately. The sound is incredibly good 
 as always... I love the sound in Clancy games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tucker1-2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 23, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is awsome. The best and funnest multiplayer came I played. Somethimes i could get into 
 cover but that was my first time in the game so that is why it got a 9 from gameplay. The graphics 
 are great i dont see anything wrong with them. Online is awsome just awsome I have a bad connection 
 and it rarly lags. This game will last a looooooooooooong time.
  
  Multiplayer; 9.9
  just plain fun nothing wrong with it the best multiplayer i played its perfect with awsome maps
 
  
  Singleplayer; 9.9
  Also very fun nothing more to say
  
  So just go buy this game dont listen to the people that say this game has bad graphics and that 
 is sucks
  this game is awsome
  
  Go Buy It You Wont Be Sorry 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow six vegas realy brought the series back to that clasic rainbow six feel the campaign is 
 very cool it starts in mexico belive it or not then it switches to vegas which is under attack 
 by these terrorest bastards. the cover system is simalar to GOW but it kind of alternates between 
 1st and 3rd person which can get wierd at times... the muiltiplayer custimising your avatars face 
 to make him look like you with the xbox live visson camara is geuinuss and it works to.. This is 
 overall the best tomclancy game ever maybe best game ever . The graphics in the multiplayer are 
 soid better then graws but single players better than gow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oscarmayer936
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  This time, in tom clancy's rainbow six vegas, you can completely customize and buils your own soldier 
 just the way you want them. Your vision camera even gives you the option to build a charachter 
 with your own face shape! That is totally awesome. This game also adds the taking cover aspect, 
 as did gears of war. While in cover, peek around corners to get a clean shot on the enemies. Multiplayer 
 is extremely fun and tense. You can climb ropes, slide down the outside of a building and surprise 
 the terorists. The list of possibilites goes on and on. This is by far the best rainbow six yet. 
 Its a huge step up from Rainbow Six Letdown, i mean Lockdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Filosophic1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 22, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of true life military stories, such as the ones shown on The Military Channel, 
 or the Discovery Channel shows on Navy S. E. A. L. S training, you are going to love this game. Today's 
 tactical shooters are becoming more and more immersive, and realistic, and Rainbow Six Vegas is 
 right there on the top of my list of must play games for military aficionados. One of the first 
 things you will notice when you begin playing the game is the richness of the environment you are 
 in. The sound effects right from the start are top notch, and despite a touch of cheesy voice acting, 
 pull you in to the game. Once you have completed the short mission tutorial running through the 
 streets of Mexico, and rendezvous with your team, this is where modern tactical military buffs 
 will really start to take notice of the game. When members of your 3 man kill team walk in front 
 of you, or you sweep your weapon in the direction of your team members, you will notice the muzzle 
 of your weapon drops away from pointing directly at your team mates. Weapon look, operation, and 
 recoil effects are also all top notch. Team member and enemy A. I. are outstanding, with enemies 
 attempting to flank you, and your team members providing more than adequate cover fire, and voice 
 support. You will quickly discover that you must take cover, and not stand in one place for too 
 long. Giving team commands, selection of and use of your weapons is very easy to get accustomed 
 to, and will become almost second nature very quickly into the game. Entering and clearing a room 
 either by the use of flashbangs or frag grenades is done seamlessly by your team members and is 
 extremely effective in clearing a room of terrorists. While I have not yet completed Rainbow Six 
 Vegas, I feel extremely confident in recommending this game to anyone who truly enjoys a tactical 
 shooter that makes you think about your actions, and what the consequences of those actions might 
 be if you choose wrong. Mistakes will more often than not get you killed quickly. And while this 
 might be frustrating to some, the check points are spaced very generously, and you will not find 
 yourself backtracking too terribly much. If anything at all, dying frequently will make you take 
 a longer look at what you are doing, and rethink your plan of attack. While running and gunning 
 will work in some situations, taking cover, and moving stealthily will keep you alive much longer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andre2great1972
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  this is indeed the best rainbow six ever made. and for the xbox 360 the graphics in this game is 
 amazing. i cant say much about it, i played the demo and also tryed the online played and it rocks 
 i really love the graphics this is really worth a 10+, but i give it a 9.5 beacuse of some of the 
 music in the game really doesnt follow the game, or maybe im wrong, but i recommend everyone to 
 buy a copy of rainbow six because it's the best rainbow ever, hope to see you online to all! the 
 game isnt hard for anyone whose played rainbow before wont have any problems at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tctctctc
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Playing the game on Realistic setting makes this game a challenge in any mode, but especially in 
 single mode because you rely on the friendly AI to help out. It can be difficult on this setting 
 but if you're patient, then it should be OK. This isn't the kind of game where you can run and 
 gun through it, you need to take your time and observe the enemies. The graphics in the single 
 player story mode (and terrorists hunt) are very similar in quality to the campaign mode in GRAW, 
 so that makes this even greater here. Nice choice of weapons and there are reload stations where 
 you can get more ammo, or choose a different set of weapons, including throwing devices (grenades, 
 smoke grenades, etc) .
  
  You can also use the enemies dropped weapons after you have killed them, and if you have the same 
 weapon, switching from theirs to yours and back will give it a full load of ammo. The big downfall, 
 and this is my opinion, is that you only get checkpoints scantily, and they are far apart. Not 
 being able to save during the mission can make it frustrating when you play on the harder difficulty, 
 because if you get killed after spending a half-hour getting close to the next checkpoint, you 
 venture back to the one before. If I look at this positively, then there is a bit more satisfaction 
 of having to get through it in this way when finished.
  
  As far as the multi-player goes, there are tons of choices to make and what kind of play you like. 
 There is coop up to four players in story mode and terrorists hunt just like the single player 
 campaign mode. I cannot list the various weapons and other types of multi-player games and setups 
 you can have, but they are abundant and loads of fun. The downside, though not too bad, is it can 
 lag at times in multi-player, and I have a very good internet connection. The graphics in multi-player 
 are not that great, but it is OK. When you compare the graphics in GRAW's multi-player, it looks 
 a bit sad considering the great scenery and graphics applied so well in GRAW, but not Rainbow Six 
 Vegas.
  
  I gave it a seven for graphics overall because in single player story mode, I give it a 9, but 
 in multi-player, I give it a 5; average 7 resulting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slappnuttz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 24, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  If you had told me a week ago that a game was going to come out that I enjoyed more then GEOW, 
 I would have told you to go F yourself. But I believe it has happened. I played this game for 8 
 hours straight yesterday and had to pull myself away from it so I would go to bed. Graphics - Ok 
 so the graphics are not to the caliber of GEOW but they are better then GRAW. The coloring is awesome 
 and so is the depth of the maps. The online graphics are a little worse then the SP graphics but 
 what do you expect when you have 16 people able to play.
  
  Controls - this is where I give the 10. The controls for this game are so natural. I love how they 
 made the LT pull yourself to cover and then you just release to move. It took me less then 15 minutes 
 to get the controls down and after that it was smooth sailing.
  
  Gameplay - There is so much to talk about. There are so many maps and so many different options 
 that you could play this for days and never do the samething. The online and SP are heart pounding 
 and the AI are extremely smart.
  
  Sound - When we were playing the terrorists mission you can actually hear them talking crap about 
 you. There was one time that I stuck my head out and door and then went back and I heard the AI 
 say what ? Are you too scared to get killed? . That is just plain funny and my friends and me spent 
 more time laughing about what the AI was saying to use or when they were swearing then we did talking 
 to each other.
  
  Overall - this game will not get the high score that GEOW received but that is purely because of 
 the graphics and the fact the Gears was so different then any other game. Las Vegas is my true 
 favorite and I feel sorry for my Gears copy because it will not get played for a long time to come. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 22, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  It took a few minutes for me to get the controller down and the sticking to walls with the left 
 trigger. After I got the idea what was going on, this game turned into a pretty good experience. 
 I have nothing really negative to say about this one. The games visuals and sounds are pretty on 
 point for what we have to come to expect from Tom Clancy games. This Rainbow Six starts off in 
 Mexico and goes from there. The multiplayer is fun and most of the achievements are pretty well 
 for online play. My over-all opinion of this game is it is well worth the price and the games for 
 the XBOX 360 are comming to what we are expecting. UBISOFT did a nice job to bring this one out 
 for a Nex-Gen (current-gen) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daniel52587
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  Lets start with the gameplay. Its perfect. First off, the cover system is flawless. The cover system 
 in Rainbow Six Vegas can take a paddle to Gears of Wars and say BAD Gears.... repeatedly. Thats 
 saying something. All you do is hold left trigger and he seamlessly puts his back against the wall 
 and exits first person view. You have a little reticule when you are against the wall so you can 
 line up a perfect shot before you swoop around and dismantle a terrorists face. Speaking of, peaking 
 is simple. Just scoot to the edge of the wall and simple move the analog stick right or left off 
 the edge and he swoops around ready to shoot. So you hold left trigger, lean in which ever way 
 with the analog, and then give the right trigger a squeeze. That simple. The AI is great. Both 
 friendly and foe. The friendly AI is just a treat to watch. They execute breach tactics with dead 
 accuracy, literally. The friendly AI will also tell you when an enemy is trying to flank you. Its 
 not just a scripted speech, if you take a look at your map you can see one or more of the enemies 
 trying to swoop to your side or back. Yes, believe it or not but the enemy AI is quite intelligent 
 99.9% of the time. They do flank you, but thankfully your team has mastered the art of killing 
 people. So no worries as long as you know where to put them. The only flaws I saw in the enemy 
 AI are when you flank them, they sometimes stay behind the cover they have already chosen. Even 
 if you two are staring at each other and you have you sights on is face. He will just star back 
 and maybe try to shoot you, but he doesnt think to get up and run to a better position. But this 
 is really something you have to look for, since he should be dead the second you swoop around with 
 the shot already lined up. The other I noticed is if the enemy plans to breach through a door, 
 sometimes they dont stop flowing through even as you kill one by one. But this is rare. The graphics 
 are top notch. The movements are fluent and smooth. It is fun just to watch the game. So long if 
 its someone who is good at it playing. The audio is great as well. Especially if you have 5.1 surround 
 sound. It puts you in a deep hypnosis as you watch the beautiful game move and hear the bullets 
 whizzing past your head from all directions. The online is perfect, especially with good teammates 
 who work together. Nuff said. I have on word to sum up this game, PERFECTION. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpookyX
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 22, 2006 6:19 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six and I have had a long and sorted past. I began my love for the series back with the 
 original R6 back on the PC in 1998. It actually was the game that first got me playing online with 
 people because the experience was like nothing else at the time. The tactical realism when most 
 PC games at the time were sci-fi shooters was a breath of fresh air. It was really innovative allowing 
 you not only to engage in gunfights but also plan them out beforehand by marking waypoints and 
 rules of engagement on your map for you and your A. I. team-mates to follow. It was also tough as 
 nails because one wrong move and you would find yourself dead in a second with one shot. Playing 
 cooperative or adversarial matches online made it all the better. Eagle Watch, Rouge Spear and 
 other expansions followed uping the graphics and visceral experience. Raven Shield on the PC still 
 maintained most of the quality and tactics but when the game of the same name came to consoles 
 it seemed to lose some of its focus on realism. Granted, Raven Shield on Xbox was fantasic for 
 consoles and the best adaption of the series to the console yet. However, it also seemed to have 
 a more arcade flavor. Scripted events were introduced which definitely made the experience more 
 dramatic but then again more predictiable. The multiplayer was still very solid and it was good 
 to see the franchise expand in popularity. Black Arrow and so on was more of the same but the series 
 took a real dump when it reached Lockdown. Despite, the introduction of persistant online characters, 
 which was a great idea, the game felt more like Halo with terrorists than something worthy of the 
 Rainbow or Tom Clancy title. Thankfully, Ubisoft must have been listening and have righted past 
 wrong bringing Rainbow Six to the forefront of what we fans once loved.
  
  They ousted Ding Chavez, the long time main squad leader and John Clark, although I don't understand 
 why since they certainly were not the ones at fault here. Actually, the whole team is gone replaced 
 by only three team members on your Rainbow squad. The ethnic diversity is still there living up 
 to the Rainbow name but it is a bit disappointing to go from the standard four to only three. However, 
 what the team members lack in quantity they make up for in quality. You team members are much smarter 
 than they ever have been in not only staying out of your way but also keeping themselves alive 
 when possible. The team commads for you to issues have becone both more streamlined and more effective 
 making them easy to issue on the fly while also giving you all the past options of tactics including 
 some new ones. Having the team storm a room from one side while you attack from another has become 
 something of beauty enabling you to not only select method of entry but also paint individual targets 
 for your team to try and take out first before others. Enemy A. I. is also much smarter and versatile 
 than before.
  
  The best feature introduced overall has to be the cover system. It is similar to the cover system 
 used in Gears of War but more intutive than even that. Here you simply pull the left trigger which 
 sweeps you from a first person perspective to third person allowing you to take cover and shoot 
 from behind almost any object imaginable. What makes it so easy is that when you want to release 
 yourself from cover you simply release the left trigger. This prevents you from accidentally getting 
 stuck on an object making the transitions super smooth. The graphics in single player are very 
 good with loads of detail and objects scattered about. Almost every buzz word you can think of 
 is employed in this title. Bloom, normal mapping, lighting effects are all used to great effect. 
 Unfortuantely, it seems the graphics were turned down a notch in multiplayer for performance reasons 
 but it still is not an ugly game even then by far. Not that one is even going to get a chance to 
 sit and admire the scenery because you probably will be too busy trying to keep your head from 
 getting a hole in it. The sound is also excellent with very convincing voice acting, ambient sounds 
 up the wazoo and a musical score that almost seems too good to be in a video game. Gunfire is as 
 realistic as one would imagine and explosions are powerful. The dialog is also for the most part 
 well written and offers a lot of variety. Your team members not only keep you company with their 
 often funny remarks but also offer advice on handling certain situations.
  
  Multiplayer is what always made the series stand out but its nice to see that attention to the 
 single player offering a story with drama and twists. The developers admit getting ideas from 24 
 and it shows but without all the fluff. Its a gritty experience that feels very realistic and immersive. 
 The single player game keeps you going without any cutscenes having all the progression happen 
 in game so that you do not have to launch a mission from a menu like the series was known for in 
 the past. Don't worry you can still change weapons and equipment between and even during missions 
 by way of outfitting boxes found along the way. Its harder to say whether single player or multiplayer 
 is better this time than in others but multi is still the shining gem. Not only are there a nice 
 selection of modes to choose from such as Attack and Defend where one team tries to grab a briefcase 
 while the other protects it but cooperative play is absolute bliss. It offers 4 person cooperative 
 play whether you play the campaign or the ever popular terrorist hunt. Being able to talk over 
 Xbox Live Headsets coordinating your moves together is something everyone should experience. I 
 find it strange that you can have 4 member teams here but only 3 on the single player. Maybe it 
 was A. I. considerations.
  
  Overall, there have been a lot of great games being released on all systems this holiday but I 
 think that this game should probably be the one that gets game of the year. Its innovative, offers 
 both excellent single player and multiplayer and probably the best replayability since Halo 2. 
 Do not miss this game as it is a must buy. Believe me, this is not the fan boy talking but someone 
 who has been playing games for probably too many years and is happy to find that there are games 
 to still get excited about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcgillmaine01
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 22, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six is at it again. But this time it went back to its roots (and developers) . A new cover 
 and shoot system has proven these guys still know what there doing.
  
  Game play: Lets get use to these two words, Cover and Shoot. We got a good taste of this with 
 Gears of War. Which did a great job at it. But rainbow the takes a different approach on it. You 
 use the L trigger to get behind cover. And a big difference in both games is that in rainbow you 
 get 360 degrees of freedom. Which helps a lot with your 6 (backside flank) . But without Cover and 
 Shoot this game would be just another shooter. Now a bar has been set for other games. Aside from 
 that the game play is solid. The computer AI is dead on point. I love when I don't have to baby 
 my teammates around and for the most part they can hold there own. Tangos are getting smart in 
 this game also. With flanks to smoke and gas. These guys put up a good fight even on the normal 
 difficulty (I recommend playing on realistic for the challenge) Graphics: Needless to say it's 
 an Ubisoft game. And they have a rep of great looking games. And with Rb6 they do the same. Great 
 player models make you feel your really in a swat team. The setting is in Vegas. So they had there 
 work cut out for them. But the scenery looks amazing. The casinos look great. And the destroyable 
 environments is a nice addition. Guns all have a nice look to them. And when you zoom in you can 
 see right down the sights. It's the little things that you notice in the game that really makes 
 it great. Now to the MP. The rumor has it that UBI had a build of the MP graphics running in Next 
 Gen (like the SP) . But the frame rate couldn't keep up with it. So the game is shipped with a toned 
 down version of MP. And when I say toned down I mean almost worst then RB6: BA graphics (which were 
 great at that time) . But to call the MP graphics next gen. Your not a gamer........... (Call of 
 Duty, Gears of War is an example that it an be done) , But read on to see how that really didnt 
 effect the MP.
  
  Sound: It's Tom Clancy and his game always sound great. The guns to the ambient sounds around you. 
 You feel like youre in the game really playing it. Not to much more to say about that. If you 
 got the set up (5.1) then you'll get everything out of the sound.
  
  Value: Rb6 games shine in this. I'll start with the offline. You and your buddy can play the game 
 split screen. And for the 1st time you can see your gun (have to be a RB6 fan to get that) . You 
 can play co-op story mode and T-hunt (Kill every thing walking on the map) . And then you can jump 
 on Xbox live and play endless game types. Then there's the PEC 2.0. I love a game where you can 
 be yourself. Yes you can use the Xbox live camera for input of your face on your guy. Its a nice 
 feature and takes a while to get working right. But when you got it. it looks scary real. I want 
 to join the army just to look like myself in the game. You also rank up to unlock different apparel 
 and guns. But everything is balance from the start unlike the last 2 games. The game can't old 
 with Xbox live. I get the feeling of the 1st time a played Rainbow Six 3 on Xbox when live was 
 just a baby.
  
  This won't get game of year. Maybe MP of the year. But any fan of a realistic shooter knows that 
 when Ubisoft, the Rainbow six guys backed up with Tom Clancy seal of approval, makes a game, its 
 the best out there. And now with a new cover and shoot system the game gets even better. It's a 
 must buy for shooter fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dkxzachman
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 2, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  its rainbow six everyone you know how it is. Its fun its exciting and its got pretty good graphics 
 now. I have bought the game and do enjoy it very much. Since gears of war visuals are hard to compare 
 on the 360, but i do know that this game has way more depth to it and i will gladly play this over 
 gears of war any day. So please go by this game its 100000000000000 times better then the demo. 
 Go BUy THIS GAME Right now and you shall not be disapointed. With the unlockable custimization 
 that earns you new unlocks as you level up, much like battlefield 2142, its amazing!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NonyoBizness
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2006 1:16 am PT
Review:  Amazing game. It's my fav Rainbow Six yet........ combines some of the best elements of all of 
 them &amp; adds new touches. I had a lot of fun with the game and plan on beating it a few times 
 on both difficulties. Online play is amazing of course.......... there was nothing less than that 
 already expected. But the single player was really really fun and helped to satisfy my FPS hunger 
 that I've been having lately.
  
  The graphics looked beautiful on my nice big TV and the story flowed nicely. It keeps you engaged 
 the entire time since you know almost every room or corner, there will be enemies around. The average 
 gamer will probably find this diffucult but rewarding...... and the more hardcore gamers like myself 
 will find this to be just right..... I never have found any game to be so tough on any settings........ 
 but of course the realistic mode will take you more time to beat and also to master....... but 
 by the time you finish it you should be ready to kick some a$$ online (i highly recommend beating 
 the game on either or both settings before getting to involved with the online features) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendofYaslint
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 21, 2006 9:53 pm PT
Review:  It's hard not to compare R6V to Gears of War due to how much each game relies on making the player 
 use cover to survive intense and dangerous firefights. But while R6V is slower paced and more realistic, 
 it is also better for it in many ways and makes the game a great game to pick up when taking a 
 break from all the gears action.
  
  Tactics and cover are your two best friends in this game. While it is not as challenging as it 
 could have been, it's still stiff enough to keep most FPS tactics fans having fun.
  
  Visually, the game is a knockout. Running on Epic's unreal technology, the game looks brilliant. 
 Some of the color pallets are a little bland but once you reach Vegas the games visuals are a sight 
 to behold. 
  
  Surround Sound is also top notch and most of the guns are very loud and sound spot on.
  
  The 
 champaign, while shallow in terms of story, is still a must play and is easily fun enough for one 
 or two play throughs again.
  
  The game supports four player co-op and this alone adds tons and tons of replay value.
  
  Last 
 but not least is the brilliant mulitplayer portion of the game. This is where the game truly shines 
 as one of the best games you can find for a next gen system as well as one of the best FPS games 
 on the market.
  
  If you like tactical shooters or just great looking shooters with a little depth and challenge, 
 then this game is going to put a huge smile on your face.
  
  I know I've been loving every minute of it so far. I never thought I'd be able to enjoy another 
 shooter this soon after playing Gears of War so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 22, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  So in this Rainbow 6 you're no longer playing as Chavez you're a new comer taking orders now from 
 Chavez. You're name is Logan and you were sent to Mexico to eliminate this terrorists group run 
 by this woman named Irena. While you're there you lose two of your men in the mission over at Mexico. 
 Once you get out of there alive. They take you away to Vegas while you await orders from Chavez. 
 You're told to help out two other members of the 6 to eliminate the threat at SIN CITY known as 
 Vegas. If you do this for them. They will help you find your man and you'll be reunited with your 
 team. So in other words you'll have to do a favor in order for them to do a favor for you.
  
  The game looks amazing if you've played gears of war you'll be familiar with the cover system 
 in this game which I love. I think all first person shooters should have cover in a game. It makes 
 the game better to play and it also keeps you from dying so much in games as well instead of going 
 back or hiding being something. This way you'll be able to shoot while behind cover which reminds 
 me a lot of Gears of War. The multiplayer supports up to 16 players which is cool. Also has a variety 
 of maps and different types of multiplayer games. Also one thing I'm really looking forward to 
 doing is playing 4 man Co-op on xboxlive. Playing with your buddies in 4 Co-op could be an interesting 
 and fun way of going through the game.
  
  If you're a fan of first person shooters with tactical strategy and with cover you should definitely 
 get this game. Also if you're a Rainbow 6 fan waiting for the next best thing in the Rainbow 6 
 series this is definitely it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_PREZIDENT
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 21, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  This is my First Rainbow Six Vegas game, and I heard a whole bunch of Information of this game. 
 Information like the Mulitplayer as always being perfect, graphic are bad, solid story line, etc. 
 Here is my 2 cents on the game.
  
  Gameplay: I really like first person shooter, and I really enjoyed GRAW. What I liked about GRAW 
 is the covering system, and many people have said that putting a covering system (like GRAW) in 
 this game is bad. But let me say it fits the game well, makes the game more realistic. Though Single 
 player is quick, take a minute and enjoy Las Vegas and hit the strip as bullets whizz by your head. 
 I never owned a xbox, I never had the chance to enjoy the online service. I know now I missed allot. 
 Multiplayer is the best in this game. The maps are huge and detailed very well. This will keep 
 you guys hooked. Though you'll run into some lags, but not as bad as it was in GRAW.
  
  Graphics: Why do people complain about the graphics? Though not like Gears of War, the graphics 
 in this game are still amazing. You'll run minor frame rate problems and some weird animations, 
 but its not annoying. Also take this in mind graphics dont make game perfect, its the gameplay.
 
  
  Sound: Wow, just wow. On a 5.1 surround sound its perfect. While playing the Mexico level and hearing 
 the stuff that was there. I almost felt like I took a quick trip to Mexico. If you dont have a 
 5.1 surround sound, the sound are still great.
  
  Value: I bought this game for 50 dollars at Fry's. Money well spent, but I know most store are 
 selling this game for 60 dollars. If I bought this game for 60 dollars, its still would of been 
 money well spent. There are allot of replay value on this game.
  
  If you alway been a Rainbow six fan, this game should not be missed out by you. If this is your 
 first Rainbow six game (like me) , pick this game up. It has to be one of the best first person 
 view game and best multiplayer game and you'll definitely enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: escalade1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  This is my favourite Tom clancy game, rainbow six is the best FPS game in its series since raven 
 shield , Lockdown sucked penis on a bun. Its about time Rainbow Six returned to their roots and 
 got back to its original tactical shooter, i loved how you can arm your men and yourself with a 
 wide variety of weapons like an ak-47 with a scope thats sweet. Or arming your guys with totaly 
 kick ass guns like the deagle, and a shothammer shotgun and being able to command your men to charge 
 onto the terrorists with kick ass force. The newest feature not to forget creating your own person 
 to fit your taste in looks and such, since its going to be on Xbox360 this game is gonna make it 
 to the VGA's 2006 and hopefuly be in the category of Gears of War which is a totaly AWSOME game. 
 Im getting Xbox Live just for this game which will PWN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sergiosissylala
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 21, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Definately get this game. It is by far the best Rainbow game ever made. It combines the great aspects 
 of all rainbow games and Ghost Recon man. The battles, right from the start feel alot more open 
 and in depth. The new features such as the snake cam, hugging the wall, and better squad controls 
 are awesome. I've only played the first couple levels so far but already this game is a masterpiece. 
 I love the fact that you can take the silencer on and off of your weapon whenever you choose. Also 
 the fact that you can carry two rifles as well as a pistol and grenades. Totally bad ass guys Purchase 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFry
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  The Rainbow Six franchise in the console (mainly famous in xbox) is now back onto its roots (after 
 the horrible Lockdown and Critical Hour) and brings new features in it that makes it even better.
 
  
  The new stuff in the game is that you don't have a health bar. Its like in Call of Duty 2 where 
 you being shot and you go in blur effect. Its neat but its kind of annoying while trying to shoot 
 and can't actually see. Another new add-on is the rappeling. Its awesome, you can either tag an 
 enemy so your teammates know which person to shoot first. Or another tactic is to shoot from the 
 window (upside-down!) . One major add-on is the tactical "Rules of Engagement". Its a system where 
 you hold the L Trigger against any wall, product placement Dodge Durango, and etc. and can decide 
 to stop-and-pop. This was featured in Gears of War but this one does it less better. Its kind of 
 annoying that you have to hold the L Trigger for a long time instead of just pressing it and you 
 don't have to hold on to it.
  
  The single player has a basic plot. Its basically Rainbow Six dealing (or mainly killing) with 
 terrorists. The terrorists are in Las Vegas and one by one they are taking out each casino. The 
 plot is too simple yet its acceptaple to cool plot-twists and awesome action. The control system 
 to get your team doing stuff is actually pretty easy (just like 3 and BA) . Overall if you don't 
 have online, the single player is definately worth a rent, its that good.
  
  The multiplayer is mainly the overall highlight to the game and its really the best multiplayer 
 experience you'll ever find in any console game. It supports up to 16 players on Xbox Live, you 
 know? The first time you go in, you can customize your own character (who is the person you're 
 playing in the game as a terrorist or a counter-terrorist) . There are two matches, RANKED AND PLAYER. 
 They are both the same except RANKED really alters your rank (Just like in Halo 2 you can go from 
 Level 1 to Level 50) . The maps are big which could be a problem since there will only be 16 players. 
 Some maps can be confusing while othere are perfect. Some maps are actually classics, I mean that 
 they from either R63 or Black Arrow (such as Streets, love that map) . However although with some 
 issues with the size of the map, they are all both beautiful and neatly constructed. The graphics 
 in multiplayer is less better than the single player graphics, though. The gameplay is really hard 
 in terms of now you have a cover system and a person can just come out and shoot you. I had a GREAT 
 time with this multiplayer and looking forward to play it for a long time.
  
  Overall, this is a COMPLETE PACKAGE and newcomers will fall in love to it and any fan of R63 or 
 Black Arrow will not be disapointed with this one.
  
  The Good: The single player has a cool story, awesome action, and overall a good time; The multiplayer 
 is the best multiplayer experiences out there; the add-ons are good: no health-bars; finally there 
 are no 10 years old screaming at our years... for now
  
  The Bad: Even though there are no health-bars, when you get shot the blur effect is annoying; Its 
 hard to find a match SOMETIMES; When using the cover system, its very frustrating to hold on the 
 L Trigger for a long time; there are however some notable glitches on the level and the sound; 
 Not really worth it if you don't have online to play MP; whatever happened to DING! Chavez? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightsmoke
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  The graphics in this one are far superior the previous versions although it is on the Xbox 360 
 so it is to be expected. The game handles very well and the controls are very responsive and smooth. 
 If you are looking for a tactical shooter on the Xbox 360 then I would suggest getting this game. 
 The game is very similar to the Socom series except that the action is much more fast paced and 
 has more of a variety as to what you can do. The setting is of course Vegas and it looks amazingly 
 well done simulating the actual Las Vegas. If you are a fan of the series than I say that this 
 game is easily a must have for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan ----117
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 21, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  Not much has to be said about this game it is nearly perfect in ever way.
  
  Graphics: oh my GOD this game looks like fear mixed with bright lights (that is a complement by 
 the way....) and it looks funny when you blow people up with grenades.
  
  Gameplay: This is where Vegas really shines. Not only is the single player game amazing but the 
 multiplayer is something to behold, although alot of the time there will be some whiners.
  
  Sound: This is yet another amazing part of the game, every gun sounds different and the grenades 
 make such fun noises while people are screaming after getting hit with one (does that make me a 
 bad person?)
  
  Overall: This is a game no 360 owner should miss, it goes right next to Gears of War in my favorites. 
 Enough said 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savingmay
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 20, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Ok so I got the game today (I live in Chicago) at EBGames. I've been playing for a few hours so 
 far and this is what I think. Don't flame me because of course I don't yet know everything about 
 the game since it came out today.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  -First of all the multiplayer graphics are indeed the demo graphics. Whether you liked them or 
 not, they are the same kind of graphics. In my personal opinion, they obviously aren't next generation 
 graphics but they are good enough.
  -The single player graphics on the otherhand, are something else. The body textures are phenomenal. 
 You can see every facial gesture and movement perfectly, its beautiful. The environment is great 
 too, but it does have some downfalls. There are big garbage cans all over the place in the first 
 level that block certain areas... and there is also broken walls and such that block pathways as 
 well. It would be kind of nice to have a free moving environment. Other than that, the environment 
 looks and feels beautiful.
  
  8.8/10
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  -This is where the Tom Clancy series shines like no other. Man, I haven't gotten far in the single 
 player yet but it is damn fun. You start out in Mexico where you need to infiltrate your way to 
 a certain destination (which will show as a white circle/checkpoint on the map) . Here they have 
 a great tutorial while your in gameplay basically showing you all the buttons and even some tactics 
 to sneak your away around the enemies. I actually felt like Solid Snake from MGS here for a second! 
 Haha. Once you reach your team, is where all the fun begins. It is great how you can lead your 
 team throughout all the maps. Give them directions, shoot at them (if you want) , or heal them. 
 All it takes is one button to guide them to where you want to go, and of course you can choose 
 to have them assault or infiltrate.
  -The multiplayer gameplay is basically the same as the demo. One thing I thought was very cool 
 was that most of the outfits you have to unlock. Gives us something to look forward to later on 
 in the game. But after I finished outfitting myself, I ended up trying to join a game (there was 
 only 5 games to my recollection) , but boy was there a lot of gametypes to choose from! I can't 
 name them all but there are tons. (i'm sure if you read some reviews you can reasearch all the 
 different game types) .
  
  9.5/10
  
  SOUND:
  The sound is the one thing I would rate the best. Its amazing! You can hear every step you take, 
 you can hear enemies many many many feet away. What was the coolest part was if there are enemies 
 in a closed room, and you walk up to the room you can hear them talking, and even use your sensor 
 to look inside the room by sticking it under the door. It made the story so much more realistic. 
 Then when you walk around (this was in Mexico) you can hear all the Mexican music and such. The 
 sound was in such great detail.
  
  10/10
  
  REPLAYABILITY:
  -C'mon this is Rainbow Six. Go ahead, put the coop on realistic mode and try beating the game on 
 it. It will take you plenty of hours. And once you beat single player you can go and play multiplayer 
 for a good thousand more hours. Replayability is obviously a 10/10.
  
  10/10
  
  OVERALL::::::: 9.5/10 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
