-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/rainbowsixvegas2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Some of the best tactical shooter action on consoles to date.
 New sprint ability speeds up the whole game.
 The control scheme has evolved and is better than ever.
 Looks and sounds great.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Takes too few risks.
 Your AI partners still go nuts occasionally.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 19, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.3, 66 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 5,624 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date: Mar 18, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Rainbow Six Vegas 2 isn't the best sequel ever made, but it's still a great tactical shooter in 
 its own right. 

  If the original Rainbow Six Vegas felt like the first night of a trip to Sin City, its recently 
 released sequel feels like the second; a little worn, but still a lot of fun. There's still a casino's 
 worth of content and the best gameplay this side of Caesar's Palace. Plus, the introduction of 
 a sprint button not only increases your speed, but also quickens the pace of the entire game. On 
 the other hand, the cooperative play has been pared down a little and the expanded experience gains 
 are about as glamorous as pillow mints -- even if you are grateful for them. A third night of this 
 might be too much to handle, but if you like to place bets with bullets at all, you'll definitely 
 want to put some money down on Rainbow Six Vegas 2.  

           Scared civilians add gravity to some firefights, frustration to others.      

  Despite 
 the name Tom Clancy in the title, the Rainbow Six games are hardly known for their ace storytelling 
 skills. Having said that, the way the original Vegas ended on such a terrible cliffhanger ending, 
 when all it really had to do was give you a reason to kick some terrorist butt, was especially 
 disappointing. Fortunately, the campaign in Vegas 2 makes no such errors. You no longer play as 
 Logan Keller. Instead, you hunt terror and save hostages as a custom character referred to as Bishop 
 in the campaign. Although the specifics of the overarching story are pretty easy to lose track 
 of, one thing is clear: There are terrorists and you have to get them before they get Vegas. However, 
 there are a couple of great scenes in the campaign. For example, there is one where you're supposed 
 to meet up with a guy to find chemical weapons, only the terrorists meet up with him first. Because 
 he's wearing a communication device, you can hear the proceedings as you make your way through 
 the level. First, the terrorist in charge rails angrily, then the guy pleads with him, then the 
 terrorist rails some more, and then the guy starts screaming "NO, NO, not THAT!" Then there are 
 no more words, just animal noises of pain, fear, and more than a little loathing. Other moments 
 don't seem quite as authentic, especially those that involve civilians. While it's nice that they're 
 in the game, you'll occasionally lose if you fail to prevent the terrorists from executing one 
 of them. That's just plain silly because it's unlikely that a group of commandos would leave a 
 bunch of terrorists and weapons behind because Hank the Hostage bit the dust. Also, it's so easy 
 to die in Vegas 2 that you really don't need the extra "game over" screens.  

  Just like in the previous game, you play through each stage with your two not-so-trusty sidekicks. 
 They're like roulette wheels in the way they oscillate between deadly efficacy and utter helplessness, 
 though the odds are actually stacked in favor of them doing the right thing. Their normally smart, 
 super-effective behavior actually makes it even more striking when they get stuck behind the occasional 
 box. The campaign isn't very long, but it has its share of awesome firefights and is a good way 
 to warm up for the online play.  

  Although many of the locales aren't the first ones that would come to mind if someone asked you 
 to imagine a shootout in Vegas, they are inventive, nonetheless. There are a few nondescript warehouses, 
 generic loading docks, and lame industrial areas that could just as easily be in Rainbow Six Fresno. 
 But, then, there's also the theater level. This is a full-on replica of a decadent theater complete 
 with stage, backstage, seats, and a balcony. The tricky thing about it is that one team has easy 
 access to the balconies, while the other is pinned by the somewhat open stage. If a player from 
 the latter group can make it across and exit stage left, hopefully with a close-range weapon like 
 a shotgun, he can get all  No Country for Old Men  on the snipers watching the action below. How 
 quickly the hunters become the hunted.  

           Where theres smoke, theres about to be fire.      

  The best way to cross any open 
 space in Vegas 2 is to sprint, and that can now be accomplished with the push of a button, which 
 is similar to what you've done in nearly every shooter that's come out since Gears of War. But 
 unlike the reckless and half-blind dash in that game, Vegas 2's version is easier to control. It's 
 also more versatile because you can sprint sideways, as well as forward. However, when you see 
 a grenade rattle on the ground in front of you, you'll wish you could also sprint backward (you 
 can't) ; realism be damned. Sprinting is a small, minor addition to a great big game like this, 
 but it has a major impact on Vegas 2's pace and gameplay. It's obviously a good thing to be able 
 to run a little faster when you're trying to close in on a flash-blind enemy, and it goes with 
 the shotgun like peanut butter goes with jelly. Sprinting around a corner while pulling the trigger 
 on a shotgun blast before the gun is even half on the screen and catching your enemy with a mouthful 
 of buckshot is one of the sweetest kills the series has seen. Less obvious and less gory is the 
 overall effect on the pace of the play. Sprinting provides a welcome shot of adrenaline, especially 
 online.     

   

  Speaking of the Internet, online play used to be the only place you could go to level up your soldier 
 and unlock new gear, but that is no longer the case. You can now gain experience points, ranks, 
 and equipment by playing through the offline content. And, it's all universal. If you become a 
 sergeant by playing the heck out of terrorist hunt campaign, you'll still be a sergeant when you 
 log onto your system's network. The main perk here is that by playing through the single-player 
 campaign first, you'll enter online play with a few weapons and clothing-customization options 
 already unlocked. This really doesn't add anything to the game as much as it fixes a minor flaw 
 with the original -- you should have been able to gain experience points offline all along, although 
 it didn't matter to most players because the online content is such a huge part of the game. This 
 meager expansion of the experience model is also noteworthy considering Call of Duty 4's recent 
 strides in the developmental department. When it comes to creating your character as you play, 
 Vegas 2 has pretty meager cards.  

           Who knew casino rooftops were so exciting?      

  Despite this, the options for online 
 players have actually slimmed down a little when you compare the original with the sequel. Previously, 
 four players used to be able to tackle the campaign cooperatively, but now, that number has been 
 reduced to two. That may sound crazy and retroactive, but four players can still tackle terrorist 
 hunt. And to the game's credit, it's easy to drop in or drop out of the two-player campaign. There 
 is one co-op issue, though, that makes no sense: the fact that your two computer controlled companions 
 are both controlled entirely by only one player. The other player feels like an awkward stepparent: 
 You know you have good advice, but the kids just won't listen to you. It's clear that giving each 
 player one minion would have wreaked havoc on the stacking and breaching system, but there are 
 ways around this issue. If it were easy to transfer control of one or both minions between the 
 two players, the tactical options would have been even broader, and both players would feel like 
 they got to play with the nifty order giving.  

  The other new additions are multiplayer modes: team leader, total conquest, and demolition. Team 
 leader is the most creative because it blends a VIP-style match with elimination play. As long 
 as your VIP is alive, your guys can respawn at will. But once he drops, every death is final. Coming 
 back after your leader has been assassinated is possible, but not probable. Total conquest isn't 
 a complete departure from the conquest mode featured in the original Vegas; now, you must hold 
 three transmitters for 30 seconds. This is a fun, frantic mode because your objective is constantly 
 changing between assault and defense. You always know where to go, and you usually have a good 
 idea of where to find the enemy. Finally, demolition is a classic bombing mission where one side 
 tries to blow up a target while the other tries to defend it.  

  Though that last mode is old school, the graphics are anything but. Though there are occasional 
 instances of texture blurring and fill-in during frantic online play, there will also be times 
 when you'll get blasted by an unseen enemy because you were too busy admiring the walls. And what 
 walls there are in the game. From the gritty, sweaty walls of Kill House to the deep red and dimly 
 lit papering in the theater, Vegas 2's walls are unmatched, except perhaps by BioShock's. The characters 
 look good too, especially when you're shooting them. Blood spurts from bullet wounds, splattering 
 nearby walls as the gun noises pound and the controller rumbles with approval. Well, the Xbox 360 
 one does, but more on that later. The music and sound effects are also excellent. The audio queues 
 are as clear as they are life-saving, and the music is rousing. The track in theater is especially 
 epic and unusually operatic for a military shooter.  

           Riot shields are awesome against rocks and bottles, but not so good against grenades. 

  Though there are differences between the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 versions of Rainbow Six Vegas 
 2 that make the 360 version slimly preferable, both unequivocally capture the same excellent experience. 
 The lack of rumble in the PS3 controller is still a drag. Also, it takes a little longer to find 
 a good PS3 online game for three reasons: fewer people are playing, you can only see a match's 
 latency once you've joined, and you will randomly be unable to connect to certain servers. But 
 the graphics are comparable and the gameplay is identical, so overall, the PS3 version is easy 
 to recommend.  

  And that makes it better than most games because Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is the best tactical shooter 
 on the market. It doesn't gamble as much as it should and, instead, seems to take cover behind 
 the formidable foundation established in the first game. But to its credit, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 
 does make one big gameplay tweak and provides another highly playable single-player campaign. It 
 also provides a decent suite of cooperative options and more excellent online multiplayer. Though 
 its experience system is now clearly behind the one found in Call of Duty 4, no game has a better 
 control scheme or more satisfying tactical play. This ace belongs in every shooter's hand.     
 
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (436 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: cowgamer12
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2009 4:20 pm PT
Review:  RSV2 Is a game that is a tactical shooter, That has awsome graphics, great story, and amazing gameplay. First 
 the story is pretty AWESOME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! It has twists and turns. I am not going to tell u because 
 I do not want to spoil it. The graphics are as AWESOME as the story. the company that makes the graphics 
 are called unreal tecnolgy. But they seem pretty real looking to me. They are so cool I thought I 
 was really wachting something liive on tv. That is how good they are!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Do not even 
 get me started about the gameplay. Like I said before it is  
 the idea of the cover sytem. Because in 2003,2004,2005 you had to point behind a wall then run out, then 
 go back. It was so dumb. But know you could just stay there. In a nutshell the game ROCKS!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyyfox1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 2:18 am PT
Review:  ok i have not played alot of these games. i have not even played the first vegas game. but i found 
 vegas 2 at the store for a good price and i thought i would try it. it was the smartest thing i 
 have ever done. this game is incredible. most of the time you are running around shooting at guys, 
 with 2 ai teammates. the action is fast paced. the gun fights are intense. you can play co-op online 
 with a friend as well. everything is made to be like a real war situation. you have to order your 
 team around and try and out-smart the other team. the cover system is well done with cover points 
 you can get to and you must use it to your advantage. the cool thing about it is you can use your 
 left trigger to duck into cover and still look around to shoot. this game is very good. i recommend 
 it to most gamers. this is not an easy game. so if you are just getting into gaming, try something 
 else. but if you know what you are doing, this game has it all, and it is challenging. and also 
 it has great multi-player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwekane
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a awesome game and they continued to use that great cover system that i 
 think is a huge advantage in the game. The storyline is fun and you get into it because it does 
 continue from the last game. You can now add to your gun (like put a scope on it, or add a laser 
 point, ect) the multiplayer is a huge update from the last game you now actually respawn in terrorist 
 hunt, and the live is better. The only thing i didn't care for about this game is the gameplay 
 is to much of the same and thats why i gave it a 9.5 instead of a 10. I think they should have 
 added more to the gameplay because it felt exactly like the previous Rainbow Six Vegas, the graphics 
 were more updated but other than that there wasnt much change. Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a great game 
 and all around fun on live and on single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Welshman25
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a pretty good game overall. It's a great tactical shooter. I like the cover 
 system and the weapons all look and sound great. The sprint feature is really nice as well. One 
 thing though: it is WAY too easy to die in this game. Like 3 machine gun shots and your terrorist 
 hunt is over. It does make the game challenging and a bit more realistic than, say, Call of Duty 
 4 (regenerating health) , but I don't really like it. I also really like how you can completely 
 customize your character (clothing, armor, guns/grenades, etc.) . The singleplayer mode is great, 
 although the story isn't really there at all. The multiplayer is one of the things I was looking 
 forward to when I bought this game, but I was pretty disappointed with it. I hated the vertical 
 splitscreen because it was really hard to play on. play Online, it was hard to find a match that 
 you could actually play on (lots of "the server is full" and "the game is in progress" messages) . 
 Even when I found a playable game, I really didn't have much fun on it. The terrorist hunt mode 
 is pretty fun by yourself, but online really isn't all that great. Overall, RSV2 is a good tactical 
 shooter, but the online multiplayer isn't all that great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DualDarkscout
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 6:14 am PT
Review:  The single player is great, the multiplayer is good and coop mode is good. I played the single 
 player mode twice. I played by myself on normal mode, then I played it on hard mode with my friend 
 online. I didn't really no much about the story because I didn't beat the first one. I still didn't 
 really care because the game is so great. It's fun telling your teammates what to do, but one of 
 the only problems is that at times they're stupid. That's really the only problem I had with story 
 mode. There are lots of cool guns and armors, which affect how fast or strong you are. You can 
 have lots of attachments like the silencer, high capacity mag, different scopes and other stuff.
 
  
  Armor is very important because in multiplayer mode people have different types of armor, which 
 could make them faster or more stronger.
  They have also a free map pack that has a good amount for free. In conclusion and in short, this 
 a great game to me and has a lot of cool customizable stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Booze_messiah
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2009 8:15 am PT
Review:  This game had me hooked right from the beginning with all of the character customization that usually 
 is not included in shooters. The idea of unlocking weapons, armor and clothing is pretty cool along 
 with the leveling system. 
  
  The campaign is really fun and not just about mindlessly storming a room and blasting your enemies. 
 The story isn't anything special but the game-play really makes up for it. The voice acting is 
 pretty much par for the course. The enemy AI is actually decently smart. The only real issue I 
 have with the campaign is sometimes your team will get stuck when given orders, of course you can 
 usually fix this by going back and directing them to move to a different spot first.
  
  I haven't had a chance to play a lot of multi-player yet but, what I have played I have liked. 
 There are plenty of different games to play here so there is a good chance you will find your niche. 
 (this coming from a guy who is horrible at deathmatches and such) I find the terrorist hunts are 
 very fun and can be pretty challenging as well. 
  
  It is hard to find things not to like about this game, and since you can find it for a discounted 
 price now, I don't think you can go wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiMoNeZ042
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2009 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 offers excellent overall game-play features with a very user friendly cover 
 system which can take any gamer, regardless of level or ability, and turn their regular run and 
 gun tactics into a precise and accurate tactical rainbow operative.
  
  With a unique Persistent Elite Character creation mode, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 allows the user to 
 consistently alter or tweak their characters tactical image. The game however lacks some additional 
 types and forms of modifications to ones Character and weapon. There are several things that the 
 game could have done to make the P. E. C system even more immersive. Ubisoft should have incorperated 
 a multiplatform modification system for the weapons. For example, allowing the gamer to put on 
 more than one modification such as a scope of some sort and a high capacity magazine or a double 
 mag.
  
  If you put aside the qualms with the lack of Customizable options, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a great 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patzcool
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2009 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow 6 Vegas 2, I haven't played the first 1 so ill just judge it on a game not a sequal. This 
 is a great game I love the cover system, multiplayer and the co-op. Its just this game is a little 
 hard for me I just keep getting killed so easily so you have to take it real slllooowww it took 
 me awhile to get used to this but its satifying just to get through a level. The multiplayer steals 
 the show Its actually really great i can just keep playing it. Also i wish they put more detailed 
 graphics in the game just kinda sloppy but overall it looks nice. levels are long like gears of 
 war 2. I would suggest to pick this title up if you hate being slowed down in shooters and hate 
 dying easily i wouldn't recommend it to you. but all in all your getting yourself a nice little 
 package. Thanks for reading this review check out my others R6V 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazves
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 6:51 am PT
Review:  Actually, i completed this game at realistic difficulty, completed all of the terrorist hunt's 
 at the realistic difficulty, and i still wanted some more. Story mode is kinda shortly, but interesting, 
 i liked the thing you unlock weapons, and get ranked up, personally i'm 1st Lieutenant as I remember, 
 i achieved the rank of 1st Lieutenant when I finished story/ terrorist hunts on realistic and spent 
 some time online. Difficulty level changes the gaining XP, and online you get even more XP. The 
 achievement's are normally accessible, nothing too easy, nothing too hard. The stock of weapons 
 is quite good, and the stock of all the appearence and armors is nicely done. Gameplay, graphics, 
 sounds and all the **** is good. Worth to play if you like tactical shooter's :) Also there are 
 many modes on line, so you everyone will find his fondness and enjoy the game :) R6V2 is worth 
 the money you pay for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19robson
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 5:34 am PT
Review:  Ratings: 5=Excellent  1=Very Poor
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Gameplay: 4
 
  Sound: 4.2
  Graphics: 3.5
  Campaign: 4
  Online (Multiplayer) : 4.2
  Replay Value: Depends on the pace of the game you like
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is not a sequel it is just an expansion to the original Rainbow Six Vegas 
 which I am not knocking because it was a great success. Everything in the original R6V is back 
 in R6V2 along with some improvements. The most notable improvement is addition of the sprint function 
 and the ranking and XP system. Another improvement is you can invite a friend in to play the co-op 
 for campaign.
  
  Multiplayer has not changed much from the original R6V which is a good thing. There are 6 different 
 game types that can be chosen from with all different game types. Very different to COD4, it is 
 more tactical and slower than COD4 due to the ability to cover. Reflexes don't help you as much 
 as in COD4. Which makes it a very different game as you cannot just run out and start shooting 
 you have got to be patient weigh up the options and try and second guess what the other team is 
 going to do.
  
  Favourite thing on the game: Cover system and customizations and gun selections
  Most Hated thing 
 on the game: The graphics really let this down compared to COD 4 etc
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Recommended?
 
  Yes if you are after a reliable FPS game.
  Just wish I kept a hold of my copy. May go and get a copy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrclortho
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2009 11:10 am PT
Review:  officially hooked on tactical shooters now. Vegas 1 was a bit dated but Vegas 2 is much better. 
 Defiantly play Vegas 1 first because the story is a true continuation from hat game and you get 
 to transfer some items such as rank to Vegas 2.
  
  This game is just fun and it more than just a point and shoot. You MUST be smart about your game 
 play to get through on the harder difficulty. If you bust into the wrong room too aggressively, 
 the bad guys will be cleaning your brains off of the walls. You also get points for different types 
 and methods of kills which get you higher ranks and better weapons. Vegas 1 did not have this type 
 of scoring and it really adds something extra to the game. You start to think about HOW you want 
 to take a guy out so that you can advance in rank rather than just taking him out.
  
  Game play is a bit more refined as well and it an improvement over Vegas 1. All in all, I can see 
 myself playing the game more than once through in order to unlock new weapons and such. This is 
 something that I also did not plan to do on Vegas 1.
  
  The good: It kicks arse and the scoring system is vastly improved.
  The bad: Uhhh..... well..... I 
 don't know yet.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: didipot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 11:26 am PT
Review:  I bought the game because I was looking for some nice action FPS with a co-op mode.... But I wasn't 
 expecting the game to be so good.
  
  Story mode: It's fun and real life tactics became the normal action of the game... You can really 
 take advantadge of having team mates, even as bots they do a great job clearing rooms and helping 
 you out. With up to 4 friends, this story mode can turn into a very special game, making it a masterpiece... 
 It can be serious trying to find the best tactics to find the best way to kill enemies, and failing 
 can be very fun
  
  Online mode: Always fun, it can be competitive and cooperative, depending on your partners and 
 yourself... But it's always big fun.. You have a game to play for hour and hours
  
  
  Well, my review it's done, but since I have to write 800 carachs.... i'll say that I like supercars 
 and Lamborghini Gallardo it's a must.. specially the new LP 560 :O)
  
  Go and Buy It 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calwilliamson
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2009 11:53 am PT
Review:  When i got the first game i thought that it couldn't get better. 
  
  but i was wrong.
  
  one of the best things about the sequel to Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is the fact that no matter what 
 your playing your XP is going up. you could play campaign and go up a level and you'll be that 
 level in multiplayer. i personally never play campaign but i was using that as an example.
  
  customization of your character is also well done with a wide variety of armour, clothing and 
 weapons to choose from, you could play for a day straight and probably never see two identical 
 people. 
  
  although not a perfect game (with its occasional sound glitches) it is still a very well made game 
 and certainly an enjoyable one.
  
  as i mentioned before about the sound glitch it happens sometimes when someone fires their gun 
 and the sound keeps repeating until they fire again, some people don't hear others do it just something 
 we have to live with (or not depending if you have the game or not) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lopur94
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2009 10:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is the sequel to Ubisoft's first game and many veteran players know that it is practically 
 the same game with a new story and you can also sprint. But players new to the series will be surprise 
 when they wipe out hostiles in casinos, repel off the side of a building at nightfall, duck and 
 cover and face the other way as a flashbang soars across the room or defuse a bomb in a big theater.
 
  
  You play as Bishop, a battlefield veteran who is called back to service during a time of crisis. 
 You are the leader of Team Rainbow, a counter-terrorist group, and you fight with two trained teammates 
 Jung and Michael, as you play through the game strategizing every move. Equipped with two 2-handed 
 guns, a sidearm, explosives, heat and night vision, you and your team mates will save hostages, 
 kill terrorists and defuse bombs in many settings of Las Vegas.
  
  First off, this game is a tactical shooter and is more fun when plaued with patience and strategizing. 
 A lot of the trailers most people watched are the ones where you see gameplay of intense firefights 
 in the casinos. You are in control of Bishop BUT Jung and Michael can be controlled by you, so 
 you can tell them where to move to, who to attack, distract the hostiles, clear rooms, throw explosives 
 and such. If you tell them to move to a wall, they will get into position and use the cover available 
 so they're not idiots and if you lead them well and play the game right they will hardly die. Because 
 if they do, mission failed! 
  
  Rainbow Six has an awesome cover system for a first person shooter. When you're not in cover, you're 
 playing in first person but when you see and enemy pop up and you start taking a lot of damage. 
 You know you have to hide. When you're near a wall or some cover, you will hold LT and you will 
 go into third person and be in cover and then when you release, you will go out. So Call of Duty 
 fans scope is on the Right Stick. Wait, if you want a Call of Duty type of game, this isn't the 
 game you're looking for!
  This game is almost like a corridor and room crawl except the whole game is not all taken place 
 inside but the tense moments are inside. In the beginning, you will come to a room and just open 
 the door and blast your way through. After a couple of rooms you will think, "How is this game 
 different from other FPS games? This is just like the other FPS games!" Well, you're not playing 
 it right! Put in some strategy, surprise the enemy or get them while they're talking (which at 
 times they do!) . After a while you will tell your teammates to stack up against a door, use the 
 snake cam under the door to see the enemies' position and tag specific terrorists as priorities. 
 The you will start searching for other entrances to try and flank them or distract them. Then you 
 will wait at a different entrance, snake cam to check the enemies' position and then, the action 
 begins. Then you will either go in first to distract them or tell your teammates to open, frag, 
 clear or open, flash, clear or breach and clear. Then you pick off the remaining stragglers. Soon 
 you will clear rooms in this fashion and you will knock out hostiles with a couple bullets in a 
 couple of seconds when if you play it like other FPS, you'll waste a lot of bullets and grenades.
 
  
  Soon, you will start playing it the right way. Each area you will try to knock out hostiles in 
 one quick movement, as quickly as possible, as quiet as possible and as professional as possible. 
 If you fire your gun without a silencer or even if your enemy lets a couple bullets loose. Enemies 
 nearby in adjacent rooms or corridors will get alerted and will either come in hostile or wait 
 at the door, gun at ready.
  
  So the combat is pretty much infiltrate or surprise them. The story is around 6-8 hours, when I 
 played it and also the game has a ranking system. Each person you kill will gain you experience 
 points, you will gain a new rank after you've experience new points which unlocks new weapons for 
 you to take into the battlefield. Plus the game has multiplayer option, co-op option and a game 
 mode called Terrorist Hunt where you and your team hunt and kill all the terrorists in one map.
 
  
  Overall, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a great experience for gamers who enjoy stealth games or action 
 FPS games. It is a good break from normal shoot-em-ups with strategy put into it and you will enjoy 
 every single intense second until you're blinded by a flashbang. Those things are annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Vegas 1.5 probably would have been a much more fitting title. Barely anything has been added and 
 the game can be completed in under 5 hours. Even so, if you enjoyed the first game, you will enjoy 
 this one.
  
  Other than a very few minor additions, the game plays the same. The gunfights are intense and rewarding. 
 The cover system continues to be one of the best in gaming. Intelligent, tactical approaches to 
 situations are definitely the best idea. Your squad mates are incredibly helpful and fight like 
 the highly trained soldiers that they are (unlike, say, nearly every other squad based shooter 
 ever made) . They did occasionally display some odd behavior. Once, they got stuck at the bottom 
 of a stairwell and I had to go back to get them. They also had a habit of entering rooms backward. 
 This never really got them killed, but it just looked dumb. These issues weren't major and didn't 
 really cause too many problems. It is very easy to be able to rely on them to back you up, which 
 makes it that much worse in the second to last level when they leave and you are sent in alone. 
 It didn't make sense as to why they didn't come along and it was the most frustrating section of 
 the game. The only reoccurring glitch that really bugged me arose when you tried to stack up on 
 a door before your team. Once you command them to join you, they will tell you that they can't 
 execute the order. This forces you to walk away from the door, reissue the order, wait for them 
 to get into position, then get back in your spot by the door. This made the game feel less like 
 a tactical, squad-based shooter and more like a babysitting simulation.
  
  Even though the game is very short, a new gameplay feature was implemented to increase replay value. 
 Once you create your soldier (from a fairly limited character creator) and the game starts, an 
 experience bar appears along the bottom. Every enemy killed gives your soldier experience points 
 that will level them up through a large number of military ranks that begins with Private Second 
 Class and ends with Elite. The higher difficulty you play on, the more experience is earned. Kills 
 from your teammates earn you points also, but not as much. Each level unlocks new armor or camouflage 
 to equip. In addition to your level, there are also three other categories called A. C. E. S. to rank 
 up. Players who like to take the enemy out from a distance or with precise headshots will increase 
 their marksman rank. Others who like to mix it up at close range will improve their CQB (Close 
 Quarters Battle) rank. And finally there is the Assault rank for those that just like to blow crap 
 up. Performing actions related to each category increase the corresponding rank and rewards are 
 based on each. For example, the best sniper rifles will only be available to a highly ranked marksmen. 
 The A. C. E. S. ranks allow players to be rewarded for catering the game to their own play style. 
 These rewards carry over to online since the same character is used for both multiplayer and single 
 player.
  
  The environments can best be described as "meh." There is only one casino level and much of your 
 time isn't even spent on the main floor; strange for a game named 'Vegas'. The others aren't particularly 
 exciting. There is one level that is in a convention center, which was cool at first but I quickly 
 caught on that it was little more than one giant room. Another is in a night club, but without 
 the being full of customers, it looks like any other building. Most of your time is spent in backrooms 
 and hallways that look almost the same no matter what building you are in. While the graphics are 
 good, the environments are so ridiculously clean that they aren't believable. Other games, like 
 Gears of War or GTA 4, have dirt and smudges everywhere or debris floating around but the levels 
 in this game are spotless. The game is also almost completely devoid of non-terrorist life. There 
 is the occasional hostage to rescue, but you never see anyone that isn't directly involved with 
 you. Looking out a window or down from your chopper and seeing downtown Las Vegas completely barren 
 kills the experience a bit. The final level puts the last stamp of blandness on the whole experience. 
 It takes place in a sparsely decorated estate and can be completed in about twenty minutes; half 
 the time as any other level in the game.
  
  Although the game is quite fun, at the end of the day it is still simply an upgrade to the original 
 game and not worth a full $60 price tag. It contains nothing that wouldn't have been added to the 
 average PC game through a series of free patches and user mods. If you loved the first Vegas, then 
 it's a must buy. On the other hand, if you thought the last game was simply 'pretty good' then 
 you will probably get everything you want out of this sequel from a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macheteman99
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 24, 2009 4:14 pm PT
Review:  it has got it's flaws and perfections, but it is safe to say this game is decent and deserves some 
 applause. the split screen feature is great especially with the co-op campaign is as godly as any 
 other. haven't played XBL because i am not good enough, and because the campaign is just so darn 
 exciting! it is also nice to know that you have two beast guys behind you, but sometimes they are 
 dumb and don't know properly where to move, but u know.. crap happens. this game and the whole 
 series of Tom Clancy games really know what it's doing. that man is a genius and deserves recognition. 
 this game isn't entirely recommended for everyone, just people who like to control squads, and 
 don't mind just a bit of repetion. all in all i think fans of Tom Clancy will overall be satisfied, 
 it won't win game of the year, but it will give you a good time nonetheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GDawg333
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2009 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2. Very very very good game. Let me explain why.
  
  RSV2 is like Call of Duty put together with some awesomeness. Yeah, its just that good.
  
  
 First, u got ur story mode. U play as Bishop and ur 2 AI Teammates are some chinese guy named Jung 
 and a Black guy named Michael. Ur going around Las Vegas killing every terrorist u see. The kool 
 thing is u can tell ur teammates when and where to move, open doors, open doors and frag people 
 and other things like that. U can play by urself. (Which i completed.) Or u can play co op with 
 some friends. It helps a lot with friends. U got 3 difficulty levels, Casual (EASY) , Normal (MEDIUM) , 
 and Realistic (HARD!!!) . I just beat the story mode today on Realistic and got 75 gamerpoints for 
 the achievment. It was hard as hell, so many times i died. But it was fun. And im not done yet, 
 i still gotta unlock all the weapons and armor and get promoted. I'll get into those later.
  
  Next, u got Terrorist Hunt. U can play by urself again or with friends. And u can choose what 
 map and Difficulty level u would like to play on. Anyway u go around killing all the terrorists 
 in the map. I know, i know, it sounds just like story mode, but if u play it u will notice some 
 differences. Like no AI teammates.
  
  These are the 2 modes u can play in. U can also play on System Link or XBOX LIVE. REALLY I RECOOMMEND 
 U HAVE XBOX LIVE IT MAKES THE EXPERIENCE BETTER!!!! THANKS! 
  
  What else? The achievements are fun to get but there is this one called True Identity. Barely anyone 
 has this one because what u have to do is go out and buy a freakin xbox live camera and make a 
 character with it. Sounds nice and all but really, whos gonna go out and buy a camera for like 
 what 40 bucks isnt it? I really wanted to aim for every achevment, well now thats gonna be hard 
 until i buy one. It might take some time but i will buy one. Even though i hate this achievement....
 
  
  Oh the best part is the XP and A. C. E. S. Depending on what difficulty ur playin on, u will get XP 
 for killing terrorists. I recommend u play on Realistic because u get 10 XP per kill by YOU. Only 
 5 XP if ur teammates kill a guy. But really it goes by fast if u play on Realistic because if u 
 die, u keep that XP. More kills the better. The other thing is A. C. E. S. There are 3 kinds, Marksman, 
 CQB, and Assault. Im still trying to build them up. U get them by killing certain ways. Like for 
 Marksman, if u get a Headshot u get Marksman points for it. Its a kool way for u to improve ur 
 skills, aim, and even unlock more armor and weapons.
  
  The multiplayer is allright. Its not the greatest but i like it i guess. Like i said GET XBOX LIVE 
 WITH IT! Its so fun. Oh and if u wanna play with me my gamertag is DiatomicAustin. This is about 
 it for my review. Im still trying to get XP and acheivments currently. This is a good game and 
 u should buy it and keep it. I give RSV2 9 headshots outta 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splintercell88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Do you like tactical, squad based shooters, that require you to think on the move and make tough 
 decisions? If the answer is no... you might want to try an easier, more casual game. However, if 
 the answer is yes, this is the game for you. You play as a guy (or girl if you want) named Bishop. 
 Before you even become involved with the game, you are required to FULLY customize your character. 
 When I say customize, I don't just mean change the scope and mag size of your gun. I mean everything, 
 from body armor to camo to helmets. This is a game where the character looks exactly like you want 
 him or her to. Speaking of the guns, each one looks, sounds and feels authentic. Even the reloads 
 look great. The premise of the campaign is similar to the first Vegas, you have to go in and stop 
 the bad guys from killing people. But the story isn't what matters in this game. If this game had 
 a great story but bad gameplay, no one would want it. Vice versa however, and this is one FPS you 
 must buy. The gameplay is incredibly tight, and all of the mechanics works great. The cover system 
 is intuitive, and squad commands are quick and painless. The squad is smart for the most part, 
 but there are rare moments where they act like numbskulls. But in a game with this much content, 
 it doesn't even matter. You have to work your way through the campaign, trying to gain ranks for 
 your character to unlock more equipment. There is also a thing called ACES, and the 3 categories 
 are marksman, CQB, and assault. If you like shooting people from afar, your marksman skill will 
 shoot up quickly. This game is also improved over its predecessor in graphics and customization. 
 Overall, this is a great shooter game, and anyone who appreciates tactical shooters will love this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Djdiddles77
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 2:22 pm PT
Review:  I played through Vegas 2 mostly with a friend and I must say I had a great time doing it!!! The 
 story was so-so but the missions are fun and being able to create and customize your own character 
 was nice! One of the best points of doing the campaign mulit-player doing it online or split screen! 
 Having a friends help really added to the experience. Once we did beat the full game we didn't 
 stop playing! We went to the online play! I really enjoyed joining a group of people to eliminate 
 all threats in a certain map! This isn't the easiest task to do either so you can play this for 
 hours while only succeeding a few times!!! In the campaign and online modes you also have a level 
 up mode that will unlock weapons, clothing, armor and different camo colors to change the appearence 
 of your character! This is definately a great game and worth the money to pick up because you will 
 honestly play it for hours! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PowerTReveiws
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 8:13 am PT
Review:  The gameplay in this game is not unique. It is a simple first person shooter with a cover system. 
 There isnt much you can ask for. But this game delivers. So your playing the game. All the sudden 
 "CQB LEVEL 1 COMPLEATED" appers on youre screen. There are 100 levels to complete of marksman, 
 cqb, and assult. And you get points to complete these by doing tasks such as: shooting an enemy 
 using a rope, kill at close range, kill using explosives. Completing levels would earn you weapons 
 and experience, which ill tell you about later. Back to the weapons, there are so many weapons 
 in this game. None are truely better than others. You have about 5 shotguns, 5 snipers, 10 submachine 
 guns, and around 15 assult rifles, and a shield you can use with a pistol. ( Its similer the the 
 boomshield in gears 2) . Now somtimes you dont gets weapons for leveling up, you will get experience. 
 Ok, congrats you ranked up! Now heres the fun part, lets see what you have unlocked! By ranking 
 up you will unlock armor and camoflagues. this just adds to the completely superb caracter customization. 
 Get this game for around $30 at you local Blockbuster ( Its less expensive at blockbuster ) Have 
 fun and I hope my review helped.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: turky-sub
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Definatally the best Tom Clancy game to it's date. Learning curb ranges around 45 minutes depending 
 on what sort of gamer you are, if you have played predeccors of the Tom Clancy's series then you 
 should pick it up pretty quickly. 
  
  Controls are easy vry easily addapted but you may find it ennoying having to hold in the left troggor 
 button to use cover instead of just triggoring cover on and off by pressing it. nonethless controls 
 are excellent.
  
  The cover system has always been an exciting and genious way of creating a stop and pop gameplay 
 ethic, and it is rightly a feature included in rainbow six vegas 2 and hs also been moderated to 
 a more comfortable limit. 
  
  Gameplay is ofcause the most important factor in any good game. You will be happy to know that 
 it is well above standards if you are intending to purchase this. The First Person mode switches 
 to a 3rd person perspective when you enter cover and stays like it when you pop up and aim, but 
 ofcause returns back to FP when you exit your cover. With a click of the right stick you can enter 
 a cool aim through the sight precision to make your aim more accurate. A nice feature is tht you 
 can take on and off sound suppressors, laser sights ect... when you hold the X button anytime during 
 gameplay. Another great new feature is the aspects of customization of your character. You can 
 freely use different pants, body armour (light, medium or heavy) , shirts, helment and head wear, 
 shoulder and knee pads (yet again light, medium, or heavy) and many other armoury including different 
 primary and secondary weapons. 
  
  Graphics are excellent, nothing I can complaim about in this section. There are excellent blood 
 spray effects when you shoot an enemy that give you a nice reation of 'powned' in your mind.
  
  Audio is also at it's best, great gun sound efects, explsion effects, everything, hands down.
 
  
  All in all, this game is much beter then both GRAW games to great and more exciting to a large 
 limit. Get this game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CommandZer01
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2008 10:33 pm PT
Review:  when rainbow six vegas came onto the first person market it re invented what a tact shooter was, 
 now less then a year later we get vegas 2, but is it worth taking a second trip to vegas? more 
 of a yes and a no.
  
  
  STORY:
  
  The story in the first vegas was about terrorists and running through vega casinos and laying down 
 the law with massive firepower and guns, this time you play as Bishop and not logan keller from 
 Vegas 1, but you are still teamed with the same people while tracking down the bad guys from the 
 first one and cleaning up vegas, this game doesn't really take place in casinos but more of in 
 streets, old casino waste yards, and frankly very bland places but I will get to that in a minute. 
 The story is quickly hashed kind of like how Vegas 1 was the mummy, and vegas 2 is the mummy returns, 
 hashed, tried and true action and trying to flush out new tricks while reusing the same ones.
 
  
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Ok vegas 1 was groundbreaking with the unreal engine but everything is rehashed and reused textures, 
 my best prime example is how it just feels like some new levels with the same graphics, it is supposed 
 to be spoofed up but only ONLY if you play HD then I really noticed a huge difference in graphics 
 but what kills this game is the AMOUNT of framerate issues and lag issues dealing with it, and 
 also how tweaking with the brightness and contrast really changes the game. Honestly I think if 
 UBISOFT had actually spent 6-8 months cleaning up the graphics then we would have been blessed 
 with a great sequel, but since not, well you get what you expect a too quick sequel. 
  
  
  SOUND:
  
  another killer for the series, all the guns even the new ones, sound like someone 
 just knocked another guns fire toned it down a octave and said hey its this one. Also the voice 
 acting is complete garbage, the sounds of the terrorists are ALL RECYCLED! ALL VOICE WORK IS REUSED 
 FROM THE FIRST GAME! That is so not cool, seriously? SERIOUSLY! BAD UBISOFT! 
  
  
  MULTIPLAYER:
  
  If you loved the first game, then you will love this one, because now what 
 UBISOFT added is a exp system, totally making it way easier to earn gear, and now instead of playing 
 university for god only knows you actually get points, kind of like call of duty 4 just minus the 
 challenges, which I will get to in a minute, but the maps are plentiful and the levels are nice 
 designs I just want more of them to be out based from old rainbow six games, my only punch for 
 this game is simply that I hate how someone must host because my number one point is that I MASTERED 
 the M4 with the ACOG silencer on single shot, and lets just say I have been banned so much, my 
 server list will never show anything because they think I am cheating.
  
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  the gameplay is same old same old, just more of a upgrade, the sprint feature is a nice add 
 and the nade icons are also nice, the duck and cover system is "FIXED" but I don't feel it, it 
 just feels the same, and each of the guns feels different depending on how you use it. Still my 
 favorite is the M4 with a ACOG, I am a god, but anyway, its fun but its just a simple upgraded 
 game.
  
  
  OVERALL:
  
  Overall, the game is good but needed more time to fix and add more stuff into it, this game could 
 have probably been achieved greatly if yeah it just spent more time in the fire and was worked 
 on.
  
  Overall if you loved the series and if you didn't stay away or am just looking for a weekend game 
 just rent it whatever now its time for a funny story
  
  
  SO I actually sold this game because I was banned and nothing was showing up on my server lists 
 and no it was not my connection, its because I played it so much, so I just went over and sold 
 it and got battlefield bad company used, pwned. Life is gangster I am out.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Copperhead89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  So I couldn't continue keep playing Far Cry 2 and returned but decided to get this in its place 
 and DAMN... 
  I have not had this much much fun in a while & i never even tried Vegas 1.
  I started playing the story on "Realistic" (hard) mode & so far it has been quite convincing. It's 
 good to see a game where you actually have to try not to get shot & enemies take cover as often 
 as you.
  
  Character customisation is a nice feature that most tactical shooters don't have but eventhough 
 the majority of the game is played like a fps, while taking cover & leaning against an object or 
 wall the camera moves to third person view. Having different sunglasses, shirts & pants wont effect 
 you in any way, just the look. Armor however will either effect your speed or the amount of hits 
 you can take before dying which in realistic isn't much of a big deal to me, if your not into heavy 
 armor be prepared to go down in one ore two hits.
  
  The A. I. is pretty good here generally speaking but but the two other guys on your team can get 
 frustrating at times, I'd say their worst feature is their aim with grenades. I mean i can understand 
 if they throw one a couple of meters off the target but throwing one at a wall just so it would 
 bounce in between my legs, is just uncool considering it's an NPC. Even if it doesn't happen very 
 often, when it does it will make you... unhappy.
  
  Overall I'm having heaps of fun playing this game & If you like tactical shooters then I'm sure 
 you will love Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thrice8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 12:00 am PT
Review:  The original Rainbow Six Vegas was one of the first "must have" titles to grace next generation 
 platforms, featuring a refined control scheme, innovative and highly customizable multiplayer setup, 
 a fresh story mode, and most importantly, high-end graphics and sound, the original Vegas was the 
 most highly anticipated Rainbow Six title since Rainbow Six 3: Raven Shield arrived on the PC in 
 2002-2003. Banking on the overwhelming success of the original, it was only a matter of time before 
 a sequel arrived from perennial Tom Clancy publisher UBI, and with only one year of development 
 time under its belt, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 only half fulfills its role as a sequel. 
  
  SINGLE PLAYER LET-DOWN:
  
  Firstly, the story mode of Vegas 2 is extremely disappointing. Details 
 will not be explored here, as the story mode has been played through over and over again by thousands 
 of players by now, but the common complaint among these people is consistent: the story not only 
 is filled with countless plot holes and nonsense, but it strays from all of the elements that made 
 the original a memorable and pleasurable experience. It honestly makes little to no sense that 
 UBI Montreal chose to make a sequel bearing the name 'Vegas' yet chose to set the game in some 
 of the worst chosen and absolute weakest areas of its namesake location. Most of the playing community 
 finds the levels that deal with the Vegas that is known in public memory among the best ones in 
 the game, for example, casinos, theaters, and hotels. Unfortunately that is just one act in the 
 game, and every other one strays from this tried-and-true formula, creating a boring experience 
 that one is thankful for when it finally ends. Moreover, one of the most hated aspects of the original, 
 namely, when your player controlled character is on his own with no squadmates, returns and lasts 
 for almost an entire act, creating a hated and dreadful experience. A tactical, squad-based shooter 
 does not succeed in a single player evironment when the player has no squad, and that is evidenced 
 here. 
  
  Also, enemies remain completely unintelligent, often standing around waiting for you to kill them 
 and rarely using effective tactics to deal with your heavily-armed squad. Simply retooling the 
 enemy AI to seek cover where they aren't exposed in some way, then actively move to flank your 
 team would have been an improvement, or even making them more likely to open doors your team is 
 stacked against or counterattacking your team would have been a welcome and surprising addition 
 to the single player gameplay. Basically, the enemies are just slow-moving targets, and when the 
 single player is played through the maps are just filled with countless dead terrorists. It seemed 
 as though UBI tried to compensate for the lack of terrorist killing ability by increasing their 
 number in the maps. This is the wrong way to go about a tactical shooter, even if they are heavily 
 armed and elite-level troops, it is not realistic for a squad of 3 troopers to completely ravage 
 50+ terrorists per level. It would have been much more satisfying to decrease the number of terrorists 
 dramatically and increase their ability to effectively fight back in the face of the player. 
 
  
  SINGLE PLAYER ADDITIONS:
  
  The single player is not without its merits, as it features an excellent split-screen local and 
 online cooperative feature that is literally one of the best among any shooter for either next 
 generation platform. Allowing the player to customize his appearance and letting players jump in 
 and out of the campaign as it is progressed are two features that were highly sought after in the 
 original Vegas. Also, the gaining of experience points for the persistent elite character profile 
 in the single player game is also excellent, as it makes an otherwise bland and boring story mode 
 instantly replayable and more fun when played through with a friend. It should be a no-brainer 
 for UBI Montreal to retain all of these features when making a future Rainbow Six title, as they 
 essentially added a depth to the story mode that would not have been present otherwise. 
  
  MULTIPLAYER ADDITIONS:
  
  The multiplayer in this game is excellent as far as tactical shooters 
 go. The ability to sprint turns the strategies of this game on their head, as it is now possible 
 to suppress an enemy while a teammate rushes in on his flank to finish him off with a CQB firearm. 
 The multiplayer graphics are now on par with the single player graphics, one of the greatest complaints 
 of the original Vegas. The weapons are all well-balanced and virtually every firearm has a different 
 feel and handling to it, making it a pleasurable experience to switch up your weaponry to find 
 a different experience everytime. New additions are slightly minimal, but the additions essentially 
 came from fan requests (such as the M4 and the Rainbow Operative ballistic helmet and armor) , so 
 they are highly enjoyable. Weapon balance has also been addressed by UBI Montreal in light of the 
 constant stream of complaints from the player community of the original Vegas, as the MP7A1 no 
 longer dominates every weapon from all ranges, sniper rifles are now a legitimate option on maps 
 with long fields of fire, assault rifles have their place as highly effective mid to long range 
 firearms, and submachineguns dominate CQB but cannot be used to snipe. The addition of downloadable 
 content, more specifically, the new High Stakes mode that essentially turns the entire experience 
 into a more realistic and dangerous game that longtime Rainbow Six fans have been craving since 
 the release of the last Rainbow Six 3 expansion pack. High Stakes is basically the way Rainbow 
 Six games are meant to be played, as it makes scoped firing the most accurate way of gunning down 
 enemies, it removes the ability of the player to see around corners when stacked up against cover, 
 and essentially turns the game from one that can be played in a run-and-gun style to one solely 
 of tactical suppressing fire and flanking maneuver tactics. 
  
  WHERE TO GO WITH THE SERIES NEXT:
  
  The story mode of this game needs more work, it needs 
 to be engaging and fresh. The Rainbow Six series suffers from a tired repetition of the same plot 
 devices, fight disorganized unrelated terrorists, fight new organized terrorists, find out they 
 are in posession of a WMD which they plan to set off at location X, travel to location X and kill 
 all of them. It would be interesting to throw Rainbow Six into the middle of a global conflict 
 where they are performing hostage rescue and target elimination actions like many real-world counter 
 terror organizations, instead of allowing the series to dwindle down the path toward these seemingly 
 endless action-movie-epic but tired and hollow plot devices. Improvements to this series can be 
 found by overhauling the entire engine the game runs on, as the Unreal engine the game is powered 
 by has proven to be prone to lag issues (bullets will be severely delayed) in multiplayer that 
 can hamper any gameplay where the host has a subpar connection. The persistent elite character 
 mode also needs an overhaul, it is not ludicrous the borrow a page from shooter powerhouse Call 
 of Duty 4 and allow for challenges and progress bars to correspond with unlockable items. The customization 
 of weaponry should also be overhauled in any future titles; this was always one of the Rainbow 
 Six series strengths and it seems too limited in light of the firearm customization of other titles. 
 Essentially, future Rainbow Six titles should allow for multiple gun customization slots, such 
 as the ability to add a grip handle, a scope, a targeting laser, a suppressor, and custom gun camo. 
 Little things like these will go a long way in a series hailed for its tactical nature, customization 
 options and intense, engaging multiplayer. The tweaking of the cover system should also be implemented 
 to bring it in line with that of the High Stakes game mode, players should not be allowed to see 
 around corners while stacked up as it destroys realistic gameplay and allows for 'cover camping' 
 as players can leave their targeting reticule at head level, sit behind a wall and wait for a target 
 to run by, swinging out for an easy headshot. 
  
  It goes without saying that this game could have been much more than an expansion pack with a story 
 mode if there had been more new weaponry, armor and more engaging, varied maps included in it, 
 and as it stands this game can only really be recommended as a definite purchase for those players 
 looking to get a solid cooperative or multiplayer experience out of the game. Casual fans will 
 likely be turned off by the lack of new content and the prospect of being dominated in multiplayer 
 by players who know every hot zone of conflict in the maps and gamemodes. Still, this is a solid 
 title, and fans of tactical shooters will absolutely love everything this game brings to the table 
 that so many others cannot even touch; it doesn't do anything worse than its predecessor and slightly 
 builds on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: white_sox
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 1:41 am PT
Review:  The Rainbow Six series has been around almost a decade, and from one iteration to the next the 
 series evolves, for better or for worse. Vegas 2 really doesn't stray too far from the original 
 Vegas (released less than 2 years ago) which for most who played the first will enjoy. Much like 
 the previous games, Vegas 2 features a robust multiplayer mode, and this is by far the series' 
 brightest attraction. 
  
  Much like the original Vegas, the duck and cover mechanic is back for another go around in the 
 sequel. The controls are really fluid and responsive, and they all come pretty natural after getting 
 over a slight learning curve. The biggest edition to the gameplay in and of itself is the new run 
 button, which is simply activated by the top left button. This gives the player a quick burst of 
 speed, either from the front or side to side. Though it's a nice feature to have at times, especially 
 in larger maps, it doesn't always flow as well with the tactical style the game presents. You can 
 still one shot kill the sprinter, though if you have a beat on your enemy the run button is kind 
 of a quick cop out for those being pursued. Destructible environments also make their appearance, 
 which is a nice addition that can make any camper nervous.
  
  Vegas 2's story runs parallel to the originals for much of the game, though the later segments 
 of the game does follow the events of the original and completes the story arc of the original 
 Vegas. The story really isn't all too compelling, but at least the ending leaves you with some 
 closure and does not pull the good old "to be continued". The campaign can be played with two other 
 AI controlled characters, which are greatly improved over the originals. Jung and Michael are your 
 returning teammates and they must have gone through some extensive training in between the events 
 of Vegas one and two. Enemy AI is still high quality and offers a good challenge especially on 
 the higher difficulties and can take you anywhere from 6 to 10 hours to run through.
  
  The other and probably more preferred option is going through the campaign with a co-op partner, 
 via XBL or splitscreen with a second controller. It's kind of a letdown that the game doesn't allow 
 you to play co-op with 3 players while going through the story, which was an option in the first. 
 Instead of adding players, Vegas 2 takes them away? Which is a kind of confusing decision for any 
 developer to take. On the other hand allowing players to just drop in and out of the co-op and 
 playing through with full campaign are great editions to Vegas 2.
  
  Several familiar character make an appearance, but this time you take the role of the new character 
 Bishop, which is essentially you. This same character is used throughout the single player as well 
 as the multiplayer. There is plenty of customization that can be done to Bishop, such as helmets, 
 goggles, guns, and various armors. These upgrades are done though ranking up your character and 
 through the newly implemented A. C. E. S. award system. CQC, assault, and marksman are the three classes 
 and for completing them you can earn new weapons that go along with that specific class. For instance, 
 snipers get rewarded with marksman points and this goes to unlock long distance weapons.
  
  Graphically, Vegas 2 drastically improves upon it's predecessor, partially because the original 
 has aged pretty poorly over the last year and a half. Most notable improvement is the lighting. 
 The first Vegas looked really dull, and it never popped at all, even in the midst of glitzy Vegas 
 casinos. The sequel's environments go through the grittier and darker back allys, construction 
 yards, and strip clubs and still manage to shine significantly better than the original. The texture 
 resolutions also look improved and the game still keeps its solid framerate as well as its nice 
 looking character and gun models.
  
  Vegas 2 still sounds good and is still one of the top games to replicate a realistic sound and 
 feel to weapons. Machine guns will give you strong recoil and force feedback, submachine guns are 
 fast, and the snipers present a loud pop. That is unless you use the SR-25, which is new silenced 
 sniper and one of about ten new weapons added to the game.
  
  The multiplayer will still be one of your main reasons for coming back to Vegas, and unfortunately 
 it may send away some vets of the original. It's not necessarily that the game plays too differently, 
 but because some of the options have been left out very similarly to the limited co-op options. 
 For instance, in Attack and Defend matches the respawns can not be set to unlimited. Small changes 
 like this can really turn players off especially seeing as how they were options in the original. 
 Though some options have been stripped, it's still nice to see that not all games are going to 
 the growing popularity of a random matchmaking system. So instead of randomly being put in a match 
 with random game modes, rules, and players you can pick what you want out of a list of servers 
 where an individual picks the options. And it still allows this options with very minimal to no 
 lag. Ranked matches have also been botched from the original, and you will find most players being 
 pulled towards player matches. Many of the most played maps, like Calypso Casino and LVU campus 
 also make a glaring omission. Still many classic maps that appeared in the series before the original 
 Vegas like Trainyard and many new maps like Villa fill some voids left by the absence of the aforementioned 
 maps.
  
  Vegas also features two new modes, one in which plays very similarly to an assassination type game. 
 It's a very enjoyable mode, and it fits in nicely into the rotation with classic DM, Team DM, Attack 
 and Defend, and survival. Also, terrorist hunt returns and it is still very fun going on all of 
 the games maps and clearing out a set number of enemies, which can be set based on the host's choice.
 
  
  Vegas 2 certainly has its ups and downs and some parts don't incorporate as well as they were initially 
 intended to, but with much higher production values and new games modes it's still a worthy sequel. 
 After all is said and done Rainbow Six: Vegas 2 is still a high quality shooter and you're sure 
 to find something worth your time in Vegas 2 and it is certainly worth checking out for fans of 
 the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amesomeness
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is one of those games where you like at your first impressions but then with 
 extensive play with the game the fun factor fades away. First off the story sucks, lets just get 
 that out of the way now. Do not get this game for the single player. You could play single player 
 or 2 player split screen or 2 player online over Xbox Live. This doesn't make any sense because 
 it is a 4 man squad and since co op being now escential this generation you would think Ubisoft 
 would put more focus on co op. But not all is lost since Terrorist Hunt, a mode where up to 4 people 
 over Xbox Love can pick a certain map and kill a certain number of terrorist. You will find most 
 of the fun in multiplayer. There are only five modes in Multiplayer: Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, 
 Total Conquest, Team Leader, and Attack & Defend. The best mode is Team Leader. There is a ranking 
 system but its not nearly as good as Call of Duty. In Rainbow Six youy get points even for your 
 teammates killing people and what they do. But in Call of Duty the experience points reflects around 
 you and Call of Duty gives you a bigger sense of accomplishment. But the ranking system works in 
 every mode. After a while the gameplay gets repetitive. Also the multiplayer is laggy and its not 
 my connection because i have a triple A connection. There is also way more little kids saying Ha 
 Ha im Elite then in Halo and COD. You can get Elite easily just buy playing Alot. Story mode is 
 boring. Terrorist Hunt is only good with people you know or if the people you are playing with 
 are cool. The graphics are the same the Vegas 1. Vegas 1 had a lot of success. Giving the samething 
 with worse multiplayer, only 2 player co op, framerate drops, a experience system, and a bad story 
 is nit gonna cut it. Plus with all the great, better games on the 360 such as COD 4, Halo 3, GTA 
 4, Ninja Gaiden 2, Gears of War 2, COD WAW, Dead Space, Mass Effect, Bioshock, and more you should 
 pass on this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Not_The_Sun
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is easily the best in series! Almost everything that made the games before it not quite 
 as good as they should be has been fixed. Unlocking weapons is very rewarding and pretty fun. This 
 game feels a little bit like a SWAT team game with the small squads that you command. Commanding 
 the squad is easy, as always. The controls take a little getting used too. Dying is pretty easy 
 but the game is sort of short. The multiplayer an co-op are fun but don't have the longevity of 
 other online games. One of my few issues with this game is that you have all of the weapon upgrades 
 at the beginning of the game (scopes and such) . The offline team that you command is fairly smart 
 but needs reviving to often. This is fixed online. The online experience is no different than other 
 online games other than being more tactical. Buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 7
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 9
  Value: 8
  Tilt: 8
  
  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is not the best sequel made, yet it is still a great tactical 
 shooter. Definitely not better than the first of the Vegas series, Vegas 2 recycles the same weapons 
 and gameplay that we all loved, but I would of liked more new weapons, attachments, etc. Though 
 now you can create and customize your own soldier not only for multiplayer, but now for the single 
 player as well. As you rank up, you will gain new camo, body armor, clothing, and much more. The 
 challenging story is well thought out and consists of a surprising twist at the end. Terrorist 
 hunt is back with new maps and if you download the free fan pack, you will receive some old maps, 
 such as calypso's casino and some other gameplay tweaks. The multiplayer is not that great, especially 
 because you don't have an aimer, unless your standing still or in cover. The co-op is a good addition 
 but i would of liked to have the ability to revive my partners. The audio is superb and the graphics 
 are o. k. (pop-in texture problems) . Overall, Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a great game, 
 however, it did not feel so much like Vegas, as you will be mostly in or outside many warehouses 
 and malls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesameer94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a pretty nice game. Here is the breakdown of its components-
  
  Campaign & characters- Good story, but it is pretty short. The story is not that deep, and will 
 have you confused at times. The dialogue is also pretty bad. The terrorists will be endlessly swearing 
 and it becomes very irritating after a while. But, they are better than the ones from the last 
 game. Also, your character is fully customizable. 9.0/10
  
  Multiplayer- There is one mode called terrorist hunt that is similar to Gears of War 2's Horde 
 mode called Terrorist Hunt. In it, up to 4 players try to kill all the terrorists. There are several 
 competetive multiplayer modes, but they are mainly just traditional modes like Deathmatch and CTF. 
 However, there is one mode called uplink in where you and your team try to capture and hold 3 satellites. 
 8.5/10
  
  Controls- The control scheme is pretty tight. The cover system is very simple. For the XBOX 360, 
 all you have to do is press LT near some cover, and then you use the left analog stick to fire. 
 The other buttons seem pretty well placed. 10/10
  
  Sound- The sound sounds realistic, and all the bullets very good. 10/10.
  
  Graphics- Most 
 of the graphics look good, but there is occasionally lag. 9.2/10
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a pretty nice game. However, you would probably squeeze a lot more fun out 
 of Halo 3 or Gears of War (2) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wragg14
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  one pf the best games to date. SOOOOO worth buying. amazing. This is like call of duty 4 crossed 
 with gears of war making such a good game. The graphics are really good and so is the game play. 
 For realism i would give it a 10/10. Campaign is brilliant for the first 3 times but then stats 
 to get a bit boring. Another great thing is terro hunt. This is basically playing on one of the 
 maps and choosing your difficulty and density. (amonut of terrorists in map) A couple of downsides 
 are the taking cover... you have to hold LT to stay against the chosen wall etc. Penetration is 
 somtimes really anoying like recoil with a rifle scope. On your weapons you can have an upgrade. 
 eg. Acog scope. Red dot site/reflex scope. High capacity mag. Rifle scope. Recoil control stick. 
 Un fortunatelty no granade launchers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Speakerdan
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  This game was amazing so much that I played it every time I got the chance to go on it. You should 
 buy it!!!
  
  The sound is great as well because it all sounds realistic and amazing, sounds like you were there, 
 and even the background sound sounds like it was real and realy happened outside your window!!!
 
  
  Graphics are pure class, combine it with a good TV screen and viola, it's real.
  They are a lot better than the PS2's graphics and better than R6V1 graphics, this is great with 
 the sound combined, sounds and looks real.
  
  Story, it is a pure straight forward story.
  Three members of a team called Bishop (You) , Jung 
 Park and Michael Walters (Team mates) are on a mission to go out and perform objectives to disarm 
 bombs and rescue hostages who was caused by whatelse, Terrorists.
  This is where our team saves the day, play the game and beat and kick terrorist butt, it's up to 
 our heroes, or you???
  
  Also a feature is availible too, ranks!!! Earn you rank to gain exp, when you reach a certain ammount 
 of EXP, you will get promoted and promoted until you reach the best rank, Elite.
  Also another feature is here with us, Marksman (Long range kills) , CQB (Close quarter kills) and 
 Assault (Grenade kills) is there, earn these special medlas to get points until you reach a number 
 which eventually you will get a certain amount and unlock huge EXP ammounts or weapons. Great things 
 to the game.
  
  My coclusion is to buy, buy, buy it!!!!!!!!!!! Not even worth renting, play the easiest mode (Casual) 
 for a first taster then go to medium when you get better then when you think you are pro, go for 
 the hardest mode (Realistic) .
  You will remember this game forever.
  
  
  Made by Speakerdan. Copyright 2008.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kwh1te24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  I think that Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a pretty good game. I don't think it's amazing but it is a 
 lot of fun to play. Yes it is similar to the previous Rainbow Six Vegas, but this one is more in-depth. 
 Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is easier to rank up in. Remember in Rainbow Six Vegas when you would get down 
 to the last guy in terrorist hunt and you would die and not get any points? Yeah, that happened 
 with me too. It seemed impossible to rank up. But in Rainbow Six Vegas 2, you get experience points 
 for every kill you get now matter how many terrorists you take out. Another thing is that the single 
 player is a lot more fun. In Rainbow Six Vegas, I played the single player on realistic and got 
 stuck on one part and gave up after a lot of frustration and many wasted hours. But on Rainbow 
 Six Vegas 2, the realistic difficulty is not too difficult. I mean when you play on this difficulty 
 in the single player, it definitely challenges you, but it doesn't make the game impossible. Once 
 you play it on realistic for a little bit, you'll get used to it. It especially helps if you play 
 the terrorist hunt missions on realistic difficulty. As an all around shooting game, I would recommend 
 this game to just about anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSnack
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  I love this game too much, when I played rainbow 6 Vegas I really love the idea of the game but 
 there was a big problems in the first one it was the bugs in the games, but thanks god that these 
 bugs has been processed in the new rainbow six vegas 2.
  
  I wold like to represent my admiration in developers that they make the poeple who fight with me 
 more intelligent and they make the enemy more intelligent too.
  
  I love the weapons and the adding of the shields that was a great idea.
  
  the music make the 
 player want ot fight
  
  for the future projects I wish if Tom Clancy team to develop the graphics more at least make it 
 the same as the movie that they show it the first time when they announce the game.
  
  there is one thing that I didn't like in the game that the Logan's sound is not good as rainbow 
 six Vegas 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hinder109
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  R6v2 s deffinately the best rainbow game in the series. I really liked how they added more guns 
 to this game. it adds quite abit of replay value. The ability to create your owned character with 
 the LiveVision only makes this game better, the camo creation is another awsome feature. Heres my 
 full review.
  
  Presitation: the presitation is right up there 8/10
  
  graphics: the graphics in this game approve apon the original, but arent the best ive seen in a fps 
 .7.5/10
  
  gameplay: the tactical aspect of this game really adds a sense of realism. the movment and shooting 
 in this game are smooth. the ability to play the campaign in coop mode only adds more replay value.10/10
 
  
  controlles: the controlles are tight 9/10
  
  learning curve: about 1hr
  
  storyline: the story line in this game is pretty good. its ending is much more understandable, unlike 
 its predessors cliff-hanger ending.8/10
  
  The bottom line: r6v2 is a kick @ss game, and is a solid choice for any gamers collection. my finale 
 rating 10/10 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lathan94
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  The original Vegas was one of the standout shooters i played for the 360. Vegas 2 doesnt stand 
 out as much but i loved the first one and therefore love this one. They're isnt much different 
 except sprinting and better multiplayer. The single player is just more of what Vegas is known 
 for semi realistic cover based combat. I beat the single player campaign in less time than i think 
 it took me to beat the first Vegas but it was still very good if the formula hasnt gotten old to 
 you. One of the best times i have in a game recently was beating every terrorist hunt mission on 
 realistic. We did it in about 3-4 hours and we had a blast. So do 4 player co op terrorist hunt 
 and you with some nice folks and your bound to have good time. The multiplayer is better because 
 of the even deeper customization and the exp system kind of like Call of Duty 4. You can now gain 
 rank as you play until you get to the final rank elite. All through the way you unlock guns and 
 armor you can use to outfit your character. I give this game a 9, .5 lower than i gave the original 
 Vegas because i didnt see much change at all not that thats a bad thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluewave31
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Let us start with good things first:
  u can build ur own character change it anytime during the game.
  many weapons and i mean manyyyyyyy.
 
  great shooting and combat style.
  detailed graphics which run smoothly.
  you get to do everything you wish: descend from a building using robs. blast ur way throw windows. 
 blind guys using flash bombs.
  giving orders to your team is easy but they may get u mad some times with their heroic actions 
 any u will end reviving them instead of kicking ur enemies ass.
  
  Now the bad things:
  actually nothing except u may get a little board using snake cam all time if u don't want ur ass 
 to be kicked a lot.
  the story in general has its moments but nothing special.
  
  after all it is a great tactical first person shooter game which will be good for your game collection.
 
  sorry i couldn't review online player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EVallette
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  The Good: beautiful environments, excellent gun and explosion sounds, very big weapon customization, 
 a bigger rack of weapons to choose from, wonderful graphics and the new exp. system works well
 
  
  The Bad: short campaign mode, story line is very thin and basic, multiplayer is very shallow
 
  
  RBSV2 starts you off 5 yrs before the Vegas tragedy in part one and this time you are not playing 
 as Logan, this time around you create your own character who's code name is bishop. the game features 
 new weapons and customization options for them. RBSV2 now allows to you to play co-op campaign 
 with a friend online or offline. the campaign was not as enjoyable as the first one but it still 
 has its moments of thrills and excitement but the excitement ends quickly after you notice the 
 campaign is several hours long and isn't that much of a challenge like part one's. the campaign 
 really didn't make sense to me that much. the new exp system works well with the story allowing 
 you to level up during the story. the new exp system gives you rewards like weapons and gadgets 
 for leveling up to a higher rank like its predecessor. after completing the campaign you are left 
 with the multiplayer mode, which is not that fun like before. the new levels are not as enjoyable 
 like part one my only favorite level in part 2 is villa but in part one my favorite maps were calypso 
 casino casino vault and the campus.
  
  overall RBSV2 is still a great shooter but lacks a good and lengthy campaign and the multiplayer 
 is not what it used to be but its still fun when playing with a lot of people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwarriorz71
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a great game with a good cover system. The combat is fast and intense. the 
 graphics are decent but i have seen better. If a level up system is what you are looking for this 
 game has a great level up system and the fact the difficulty of the game affects how many points 
 you get is a good thing (easy= 1point hard= 3 to 5 points and relistic= 10 points) . The enemy AI 
 is smart your squad not so much. The character controles are good and very responsive it is kind 
 of difficult to control your squad (the Xbox360 d-pad is not very responsive even though it is 
 better to play this game on 360 dont let me keep you PS3 owners from getting this game it is very 
 good) this game has very good sound work and it is fun to deck out your war fighter in different 
 camos and gear. One great feature is making your own character that plays in the campaign and online. 
 this game is one of the best Tom Clancy games ever made and there are some good Clancy games like 
 ghost recon. Do your self a favore and buy this game you wont reget it (unless you hate great first 
 person shooters) =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShawnEffect_58
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 3:04 pm PT
Review:  This is honestly one of my favorite games of all time! This is the sixth game is the Rainbow Six 
 Series, and probably one of the best. It is based on a war with terrorism. The terrorists have 
 again threatened to unleash nuclear warfare on Las Vegas, and it is your job to not let that happen. 
 With an interesting campaign mode, and possibly some of the best multiplayer in recent history, 
 this game will keep you glued to the TV screen. Your character is fully customizable right down 
 to the weapon. You can even use your Xbox Live Vision Camera to create a character based off of 
 your face! AND YOU GET AN ACHIEVEMENT FOR IT! You can customize your armor, but beware, the best 
 protection is usually the least mobile, so it will slow you down! You can also customize your clothing. 
 On your weapons you can customize the add-ons. Choosing from Laser Sights, to extra ammo, you can 
 make the gun to fit you best. Your customized character and weapons will carry over into multiplayer 
 AND campaign, which is really cool. The mulitplayer is easy to catch on to and highly addictive. 
 I reccomend Rainbow Six: Vegas 2 to any 360 gamer looking for a good game. Go to you local GameStop, 
 EB Games, etc., and you can get it for about $35.00.
  
  -Shawn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dancewithknives
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Okay rainbow six Vegas was a revolutionary shooter when it came out . Now the game starts you out 
 as the first games protagonist's mentor ,Bishop. The game now shows you new angles and parts to 
 the story so you can (try) to understand why there are so many terrorists in vegas. 
  
  In addition to the new story line. you get new weapons aromor and attachments. Also instead of being 
 a fixed character you can instead customize your character in the story mode (so you can use multiple 
 armor schemes or colors and genders too) . You will meet some new faces in the story and some old 
 ones too, like Michael Walters and Jung Park Logan, Sharen, (both of theese characters had their 
 voice actors changed so they lost some of their personality) and Gaberil Nowak. 
  
  As for the combat, you get lots and lots of new weapons made for certian situations and battles. 
 As in the other Tom Clancy games you can't use melee combat ,but can play the game in cooperative. 
 The infamous terrorist hunt has returned (with online co-op patches too.) and also new game modes 
 and maps to play on. 
  
  Also like the original it has great sound systems for every single gun, regenerating health (even 
 though a few hits and your dead,) and the brilliant cover system. 
  Its fabulous AI for enemies and freinds alike are back. Like once I was playing terrorist hunt 
 and killed a terrorist then I heard his buddies talk to each other of how they were going to take 
 me out and it actually happened to me.
  
  the Xbox live gameplay is superb how it is like a perfect mix between call of duty 4, Gears of war 
 and halo 3 how you can take a few hits to die, regenerate health, take cover, shoot through wood 
 materials, and you also have alot of technology on your side (like aurmor sets deadly grenade, heat 
 vision etc.) . 
  
  So in the end if you want a realistic shooter with cool guns, awesome technology, realistic ballistics 
 and a great cover systems you should definitely pick up rainbow six vegas 2 ,you wont be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmullen666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 5:59 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty amazing, not quite that tactical in my opinion especially not in the multiplayer. 
 The Terrorist Hunt mode is quite tactical though.
  Let's start off with the story mode, it's actually pretty tough even on the lowest difficulty, 
 it's got an okay story it's pretty good. A little bit longer than today's standard shooting game.
 
  The Graphics are however bad considering other games, it looks as if they've pretty much recycled 
 the engine from the last game, so it probably has the worst graphics out of any game that's been 
 released in the past few months, which i was quite unimpressed with. 
  There is a cool experience point system called A. C. E. S. (can you get a cooler acronym for that 
 with a game with vegas in it's title :D) in which you can get point in both offline and online play 
 ( you get more points online though) . It consists of not only a normal ranking private, sergeant, 
 elite etc system, but also has these 3 sub categories: Marksman, Close Quartes Combat, and assault. 
 You get points in marksman for headshot and long range kills etc. Points in assault for assault 
 by killing shielded enemies or using explosives. and points for close quarters which you will get 
 this the fastest out of all of them by getting short range kills and shooting people in the back. 
 It's very cool because you unlock the new weapon's for that class (sniper rifles for marksman, 
 assault rifles for assault etc.) 
  The Terrorist Hunt Mode is also very interesting and more tactical then the other modes, you set 
 what map (these maps double as the multiplayer maps too) what difficuly, if you want team members 
 or not, and how many enemies. It's like serving a warrant on an area kind of feeling. You start 
 off and clear the usually urban area, room by room (enemies move around though so if you die don't 
 expect to go back and say "oh ok this guy will come out that door right at this moment". So this 
 can provide repetitive game play. It's also very hard. even with all assists on and low enemy density 
 it isn't anywhere near a walk in the park.
  The Grenade physics are absolutely apauling, grenades do not bounce or roll at all when you throw 
 a grenade you better make sure you want it exactly where you throw it. For example I was at the 
 top of villa (a suburban household map) in multiplayer and there were enemies beneath me and i 
 was on the roof so i through a grenaded at a 45 degree angle angle to the ground so it would bounce 
 then fall through the skylight, like a game with good physics would have. but instead it stuck 
 to the ground like a sticky bomb in team fortress 2. 
  Now the Multiplayer is pretty amazing, with the standard modes nothing really special, but it just 
 doesn't get old. There however an annoyance that after EVERY SINGLE ranked match it will kick you 
 out after the end of it saying it needs to keep everything balanced. The whole wall cover system 
 is kind of unfair however in multiplayer since it reverts to the third person, so a regular first 
 person could be walking through a doorway and he couldn't see anyone but yet the person behind 
 wall cover has a perfect view of them and can blind fire while being hardly exposed and just completely 
 unload on the person while the victim is left trying to sprint to the person position or cover 
 absolutely helpless.
  All and all though it's an amazing game that just doesn't seem to get old. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drgrady
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 (RSV2) is good, but not as good as the first. The developers took all the potential 
 from Rainbow Six Vegas, and threw it away to bring us this knock-off version.
  
  The game plays almost exactly like the first Rainbow Six Vegas, and the graphics look pretty much 
 the same as well. There appears to be no drastic improvements, so one would expect the game to 
 have an incredible story to make up for the lack of technical development. Why else would another 
 whole game be released instead of just an expansion? And the fact that the first game set everything 
 up for an immersive and exciting story with definite potential for fun plot twists just adds to 
 the expectation that the story would be amazing. Sadly, this is not the case.
  
  The obvious changes that were made between the original and this sequel are few. First, there is 
 a sprint button that speeds things up and gives the game a better feel, and is a very welcome addition. 
 When playing coop mode, both players can access their equipment inventory to switch weapons simultaneously. 
 It isn't a huge improvement, but it is definitely a welcome change. RSV2 allows for much more character 
 customization than the previous game with lots of different types of clothing and camouflage. Also, 
 the developers added a points system for how you manage to kill terrorists, and that is broken 
 down into marksman, close-quarters, and assault categories. This points system drives the new method 
 for unlocking equipment, clothing, and camouflage patterns. So now, instead of picking up a gun 
 and using it for a while to unlock it, players must acquire a set number of points in a specific 
 category to unlock different equipment. While the change is understandable, it was a huge disappointment 
 for me since I was able to unlock all the different guns in a single play through of the original 
 game. There is a slight loophole to this, though, since you can keep whatever gun you pick up in 
 the campaign until you drop it. So I was able to pick up locked weapons in single player campaign 
 and use them when starting a new coop game or terrorist hunt. And the points system is nice if 
 you play online much, because the points and unlockables are universal across all game modes, so 
 equipment unlocked in coop or terrorist hunt is available online as well. One of the more annoying 
 changes was that you get a couple of NPC squad mates in coop mode, and they are more of a hindrance 
 than anything with the exception of a few scenes where they could be effectively used as decoy 
 targets. To add to the frustrations of the NPC partners being incompetent to the point of always 
 standing right in your way and blocking doors, only one person can give commands to the NPCs. Generally, 
 that is fine, but when that one person goes down, it means that the NPCs just sit around waiting 
 for commands from someone who can not give commands. Coop play has also been reduced from four 
 players to two except in terrorist hunt. While that will not bother most players, it is a slight 
 disappointment to me. And for a minor change they should have made, it is too bad they did not 
 add an option to change the split screen display to horizontal.
  
  The game also had one major bug that frustrated me more than the NPCs' usual incompetence. At the 
 end of Theater: Center Stage, right as I had the NPCs stack up against the door to the stage where 
 terrorists have hostages and a SWAT guy is trying to negotiate, my NPCs stopped using their weapons 
 and equipment entirely, and stopped opening doors. They would still stack up and go where I told 
 them, but they would not fire their weapons or use charges or do anything that would in any way 
 inflict damage on the terrorists. This happened twice! The rest of the game seemed to be pretty 
 clear of any major bugs, but this was bad enough that I had to save the checkpoint and restart 
 my xbox to get them active again.
  
  The story in RSV2 is just plain disappointing! The story does not pick up where the first game 
 ended and does not follow the same characters. Instead, it focuses on another unit working in Vegas 
 at the same time as the original game but with a little period that picks up at the end of RSV 
 and finishes the story. The two games' stories are hardly connected until the last few levels of 
 RSV2. Oh sure, if you can understand the mumbling in the cut scenes from inside the helicopter 
 between missions, you will hear very brief mentions of the characters from the original game, but 
 that is as connected as they get for the majority of the game. Then, the entire story of both Rainbow 
 Six Vegas games turns out to be one of the lamest storylines ever. I'll sum it up in one sentence, 
 so skip the rest of this paragraph if you don't want to know. In summary, all of the terrorist 
 activity of both games was due to one guy's personal insecurity and his attempts to prove his worth 
 to a bunch of people he knew would kill him for the very actions that were meant to prove his worth. 
 How could anyone completely ignore all the potential that they built up in the original game and 
 end it like that?!?! And to make it even worse, they ended it such that any continuation of the 
 story in another sequel would have to be a contrived stretch!
  
  Coop terrorist hunt was really fun. I did not play terrorist hunt cooperatively in the original 
 game, but it is not much of a hunt in RSV2. If your gun is loud enough, terrorists will come from 
 all across the map so that you never have to leave cover assuming that you were smart enough to 
 find cover before firing. The main reason that terrorist hunt was fun in coop, is that there is 
 not much challenge to some maps. One map in particular had an easily accessible area where the 
 only two entrances were ladders, so we could cover both entrances at once and just kill everyone 
 as they came down the ladders. On high density, we got a pile of bodies so high that if a terrorist 
 actually made it to the bottom of the ladder, only part of their head would stick up above the 
 corpses which made them difficult to hit, but it was great fun. That also slowed the game down 
 enough that the guy I was playing with could run around the map without taking cover, and terrorists 
 would take at least three seconds, but generally longer, to fire their first shot. They couldn't 
 hit us at all. But playing terrorist hunt alone has so much less entertainment value.
  
  While the multiplayer mode is a big part of this game, I have not spent much time playing it, so 
 I will not comment on it. There are new game types online, but I only played a couple, and I did 
 not play any of them enough to comment.
  
  So the game was still solid, but the story was a huge disappointment, and there was not enough 
 technical improvement over the first Rainbow Six Vegas to make this one noticeably better. So I 
 can only half-heartedly recommend this game. There are several good points to it, but the original 
 was a more enjoyable game. Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is presented as though Ubisoft fired all their writers 
 and didn't replace them and then rushed the game out the door with only minor changes from their 
 previous game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameJunkieKyle
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 18, 2008 2:47 am PT
Review:  Ubisoft is smart, I'll give them that. They were able to take one relatively large game and cut 
 it into two medium sized ones. Rainbow Six Vegas and Rainbow Six Vegas 2 are so similar, they could 
 have been released as one game and I wouldn't have ever noticed it.
  
  R6V2's story mode is short and somewhat boring. The levels are all way too linear and the sense 
 of being "tactical" seems to fade away after the first few missions. Although playing the two player 
 co-op is worth a try, the single player mode in this game seems stale, and not much has changed 
 since the original. 
  
  Now that I've finished my little single player rant I can explain what make rainbow Six Vegas 2 
 worth picking up. The first reason being the Terrorist Hunts. Terrorist Hunt is a game mode that 
 puts four players via Xbox Live up against a set amount of A. I. terrorists with limited lives and 
 ammunition. Being tactical is crucial and I must say, this game mode was the highlight of my R6V2 
 experience.
  
  The game's team based death matches and objective multiplayer games are worth checking out too. 
 If you enjoy a more tactical type of gameplay you may enjoy Vegas 2 over Gears of War or Call of 
 Duty 4. The weapons are numerous and the game features a Call of Duty 4 like weapon progression 
 system which, in my opinion, was a nice touch.
  
  All and all Rainbow Six Vegas 2 plays a little too similar to the original and there isn't too 
 much new here. The single player was somewhat of a disappointment, but the Terrorist Hunts and 
 Multiplayer certainly make this game worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jambajuice95
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 13, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six has been a great series of games, and this is one of the best ones yet. The graphics 
 have improved from the last one. The gameplay in my opinion is a lot more tactical and the enemy 
 AI has also improved. One thing tnats better from this to Rainbow Six: Vegas is that you don't 
 have to play online to get your rank up and unlock new weapons and armour. I also like that there 
 are unlockables by the way you play the game. The more you attack from long distances and head 
 shots you get XP if you shot people from behind or up-close you get XP and if you kill people with 
 satchel charges and grenades you get XP. There are three different classifications to level up 
 and as to level up you usually unlock weapons or armour. Theres a lot more items to customize your 
 operative with including bandanas, gas masks, and different colors of clothing and armour. IN this 
 one you don't only use your anti-terrorist skills in casinos, but also in community centers, colleges, 
 and torn down amusment parks. Overall this game is a lot better than any other Rainbow Six game 
 that I have played to date..... except for one. And I think I'll review that one next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shootingrobot98
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  The first Rainbow Six: Vegas was a masterpiece of a game, so I expected a lot out of this game. 
 However, this game also has a few flaws, but the pros more than outweigh those. For example, I 
 really liked the character customization options; there aren't many shooters that have that. The 
 enemies are also very smart and always think tactically (ex. flanking you when you are putting 
 down suppressing fire on them) , but this usually only shows in the Terrorist Hunt mode. In the 
 campaign mode, they will usually stay in one spot while shooting blindly at you. While not an issue 
 by themselves, a bunch of enemies could have you killed in an instant. Why this happens, I don't 
 know. The game has a lot of balancing between the weapons, which is hard to do in a game with a 
 ton of weapons. However, one complaint I have with this is that sniper rifles in the game are relatively 
 useless, because the majority of the maps (single-player and multiplayer) are mostly CQC maps. 
 The game has pretty good graphics, but the textures turn bland up close; this is a problem that 
 a lot of Unreal Engine 3 games have (Halo 3, BioShock, etc.) . I just LOVE the sound effects in 
 the game, with the weapons sounding just like the real thing (yes, I have heard automatic weapons 
 fire before) . A thing about shooters that really pisses me off the reload animiation being incorrect 
 (cocking the weapon every time the weapon is reloaded, even if there are rounds in the chamber; 
 doing this will eject the round and waste ammo and time) and this is one the few games with the 
 reload animation being correct (cocking the weapon only AFTER the weapon is out of ammo) .
  
  However, this game also has some problems, many of them minor. For one thing, the enemies don't 
 flinch when they are shot at, not to mention that you can kill a guy by shooting him in the leg 
 (totally unrealistic) . The game also has a problem with the difficulty, since even if you are playing 
 on easy, getting killed is just a bullet away, and it happens frequently. The blood effects are 
 a bit glitched, as getting shot once while you are up against a wall will cause a large amount 
 of blood to get on the wall, which I think is a bit glitched. Apart from that, the blood effects 
 are pretty good, and it is one of those games where you can tell where you shot a guy (which is 
 good) . There are other small errors in the gameplay, but they are generally minor and they don't 
 bother me.
  
  The multiplayer is decent, but it is very basic and generally not fun compared to the multiplayers 
 of Halo 3 and Call of Duty 4. I prefer to stick to the single-player.
  
  This is a great game, and anyone who desires a tactical shooter with lots of action, buy this game 
 immediately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: syntary
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  How many hardcore veterans of Rainbow Six Vegas does it take to wipe out bravo team? One. Rainbow 
 Six Vegas Two is like heaven for the first person shooter junkie. It offers so much more than its 
 predecessor and lets not mention you don't have to be online to rank up! Ubisoft outdid themselves 
 with this new and exciting game. The Campaign is a great story that is fun to play a couple times 
 as it was in the first game however players will find themselves playing the campaign in RBSV2 
 plenty more times as online co-operative mode is now available. This allows characters to team 
 up with their friends to tactically complete the story mode with the help and warm lead compassion 
 of a human friend. The new COD style sprint is also very helpful and brings a use to the left bumper. 
 Though the campaign mode is fun in RBSV2 its the multiplayer that has everyone raving. The level 
 system is different than RBSV as it has two different categories to level in, ACES and RANK. ACES 
 are now a new ranking system that either give you more experience towards your new level or a new 
 weapon. ACES comes in three flavors, CQB (Close Combat) , Marksman (Ranged Kills) , and Assault (clover 
 kills and explosions) . Every time the player ranks by getting each of the specific skill kills 
 they either gain a new weapon or more experience from ACES. The weapons are usually related to 
 the field it was gained in (i. e. a level in marksman will gain you a new sniper-rifle) . Every time 
 the character gains experience from a kill or a rank up in ACES it goes in their rank meter as 
 in RBSV however ranking in RBSV2 will only give you a new rank title with a camouflage or a new 
 armor/clothing. Thankfully players will find it easy to rank as as team-mates who get kills net 
 their team-mates experience and ACES will grant up to 5k in experience points. RBSV2 was overhauled 
 with the live experience offering new game modes and a load of cool new levels with satisfying 
 gameplay and realistic graphics that provide for hours of fun. This definitely is a recomended 
 game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tensor44
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  First off... wow this was a surprise. A much better game they the previous one. On casual is vary 
 fun and fairly easy if you play it right, if you just run out there YOU ARE going to get killed. 
 Now on normal you have to play smart you must use you team smartly Ex. (using them to go in though 
 a different door while you come in the back way) . But realistic if your not under cover 24/7 or 
 you are boned. Hear you must use your team of you will fail hard core i recommend playing with 
 a friend over X-Box live or local player. Multilayer is great but not perfect. For instance sometimes 
 you will shoot a CP player 50 zillion times and he wont die, and it can lag. I havent played person 
 against person ( Ex. Death match) yet but i havent had the need to cuse terorist hunt is just so 
 damn fun!
  
  Over all great game, i recommend you rent before you buy
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hand4hire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 (RSV2) is a very cool and fun game. The graphics on RSV2 are pretty good and 
 the gameplay as far as how the controler is set up is very well done. The campaign has a pretty 
 good story line and how you control your temamates is relatively easy. Your teamates also aren't 
 mentally challenged, when you tell them to do something they will do it. I took advantage of not 
 being a loner and used my team a lot. This game has a very good cover system and works well. Now 
 to the multiplayer. The multiplayer is very fun and had many different types of games to play. 
 Also, the A. C. E. s system is very cool with rewarding you points for killing opponents in different 
 ways. The more points you receive the more upgrades, weapons, and outfits and armor you unlock. 
 This game is a fun, but if you're not going to play it online I would not buy it. However, i would 
 rent it because the games is very cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer3450
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  I admit, I have to agree with a lot of other reviewers. Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is essentially a remake 
 of the original. Character customization is a better, graphics are better, and squad commands are 
 smoother but nothing has changed. The AI has been significantly improved. When you have your two 
 teammates with you, they can be a major help, blowing down doors, springing ambushes, shooting 
 the baddies, etc. Its story line is excellent and complements the first Vegas. You have 3 difficulties 
 meaning you have replay value and of course it suits your gaming level. One key factor of the game 
 is the ability to customize weapons and rank up to elite via earning xp. You can unlock maps and 
 there is some great DLC. The online play is fantastic, many modes and it never gets boring. Not 
 only do you have a great story line but also Terrorist Hunts, where you are in a map and you have 
 to kill all the terrorists. As you unlock new things and rank up, you are able to change how your 
 guy looks, or girl! You can change their hair or armor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 1:17 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is the stunning conclusion to the storyline from the first game. 
 If you liked the first game, then you are in for a treat. It brings us more of the same (awesome 
 customization, more weapons) and improves upon drawbacks of the last game (solid graphics in coop 
 matches) as well as improved multiplayer game types and customization. 
  
  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas 2 answers all of the previous games fans with more of what we loved 
 and adds improved multi-player. Sure you can nitpick the story and how you didn't think it was 
 perfect but its the solution and ending Ubisoft gave us and they brought it to us in a year. I 
 can honestly say while surprised, the first game almost seemed liked a warm-up to this game as 
 this game felt finished and the coop over LIVE makes it all worthwile. I played through the entire 
 campaign online with my brother and we both loved every minute of it, even when we got killed countless 
 times. Coop over LIVE is where this game and the previous iteration shined. Tom Clancy's Rainbow 
 Six Vegas 2 is not to be missed if you liked the first game, which most people I know who played 
 it did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalathos
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 29, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Vegas 2 is simply not well made. I need to throw that out, as it explains most of the problems 
 with it. Its production was surely rushed.
  
  I actually thought Vegas 2 had better gameplay than the original, but this still leaves it sadly 
 lacking. Coop is improved over the original, but unfortunately the game is hampered by an absolutely 
 stupid plot. Not "extremely simple" or "uncomplicated" but downright stupid. The more you think 
 about it, the plot makes less sense until you arrive at the conclusion, "I have absolutely no idea 
 what they were thinking." I won't spoil it (not that it's worth spoiling anyway) , but if you haven't 
 played it, it's awful. Furthermore, so many little things happen during the game that are supposed 
 to enhance the plot, but just end up making RAINBOW end up looking not like an elite, best-of-the-best 
 counterterrorist organization but rather an inept, unprofessional ragtag force of mercenaries.
 
  
  On to the gameplay: while fairly fun, it is hampered by appalling visual and audio bugs. The visual 
 bugs include such things as weapons failing to texture themselves for whole minutes after the level 
 begins. At one point, I finished a level with a still-untextured weapon. The audio bugs include 
 horrifically and randomly unbalanced audio levels that sometimes make you strain to hear what's 
 happen and sometimes make you turn the TV down. The most amusing audio bug is what my friends and 
 I call "The Ocean Attacks," where when a character dies you hear a giant roaring noise that comes 
 out of nowhere and persists for several seconds, with no visual or any other sort of explanation.
 
  
  There seems to have been no attempt to improve the AI, either. You can still (especially in Terrorist 
 Hunt) sit back with a machine gun and mow down the lemming-like terrorists as they stupidly barge 
 into the same doorway/window over and over again, even as the pile of corpses gets to be so large 
 that it would make the area almost impassable for someone in real life. The AI remains either horrifically 
 inept or superhumanly effective. Either they stand there emotionless while you mow them and your 
 friends down, or they magically headshot you from a position where they simply should not be able 
 to see you. The AI's competence is made to look even worse by the inane things that the terrorists 
 say in battle.
  
  Tactics take a back seat in combat, which is mostly decided by spawning in enemies correctly. Tactics 
 can help you win, but that's true of HALO as well. For a "tactical shooter" I expected something 
 much more. My friends whom I play the game with and I frequently make comments like, "Bishop was 
 tragically killed as he attempted to spawn the next wave of terrorists."
  
  RIP Bishop. And RIP Rainbow Six. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: refreak-1
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas 2, as with it's predecessor, captures the gritty realism of tactical urban warfare. 
 No other game, exept maybe Vegas 1, feels more visceral and true to life when firing a gun. Even 
 with a small calibur pistol, you can literally see and feel the impact of the weapon's recoil. 
 The game's sound effects are perfect, from automatic gunfire to the splintering of wood, and the 
 graphics are truly a sight to behold. The environmental and particle effects couldn't have been 
 done better. The sunlight, for example, is actually blinding when coming out of a dimly lit building. 
 The new sprinting ability adds depth to the gameplay, and the bullet penetration adds to the overall 
 sense of realism. The online modes are awesome, and the co-op in my opinion is much improved over 
 the original in that you get the storyline and cutscenes just like the single player campaign, 
 which is a big plus. Everything just seems to flow better. However, you can only play co-op with 
 two players this go around, because they actually incorporate the second player into the storyline. 
 Some critics have stated that they just didn't do anything new or different with the series, that 
 it's pretty much the same game with a new storyline. My answer to that is... when you have an award 
 winning formula, why change it? Give the fans more of what they want, and they most certainly did 
 that. Thanks Ubisoft, congrats on another great game. Keep 'em coming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downloadthefile
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  This game is very good, for what it is. If you are a person who doesn't like shooters, don't read 
 on. If you are someone who likes when you have to make the decision to go on a full out assault 
 or snipe from a distance, this is the game for you. The AI for this game is very good, although 
 there are some glitchier moments when you have to backtrack and find them doing something you didn't 
 want them to. The enemy AI is good as well, and it anticipates where you are going to go. They 
 are pretty smart a lot of the time and try to flank, etc. It really mixes up the gameplay. The 
 way the game is so customizable really makes me feel like I am a part of the team and not just 
 watching from a TV screen. The guns all have a very distinct look and feel, and there are many 
 options to customize the guns.
  
  The story, is... really secondary. I don't think anyone will be making this game into a movie any 
 time soon. The action is such that a story is not needed. Just tell me who to kill, where, and 
 don't even go that far into why. When I first started I tried to listen to everything but it gets 
 to difficult to listen to the broadcasts while being shot at.
  
  The cover system is very good. ACES is a little bit weird because marksman gets built up so much 
 and the other stats really lag behind. This is especially true at later stages of the game.
  
  Overall I really liked it, and still like it a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poseidion
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  As it starts the page's review, it's not the best sequel but it really is an awesome game. The 
 reason I agree with that is only because I liked the scenarios from the first Rainbow more, specially 
 the ones in Mexico. But we can't take merits from Rainbow 2 just because of that. The fact that 
 you can sprint, give a few extra orders to your crew, nice T-Hunt scenarios, create your soldier, 
 excellent online, good story.... I don't know, it's just addictive. It really doesn't has much 
 not to like. A little mistake is that even if you take off your soldier's helmet w/the goggles, 
 you can still activate them. It's good and bad because that way you can change your soldier's appearance 
 and use the gadgets, but if you're trying to make a realistic game, that doesn't fit. And I'm afraid 
 that's the only negative comment I have. Enjoy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mot503
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of anything Clancy. I loved the first version of this game. The single player was 
 great and the multi player added several hours more of game play. Version 2 however was a bit of 
 a disappointment. The single player was a bit short with nothing to add from the previous installment. 
 Multi player was a complete let down. Buggy as all get out. I have to admit, at the time, I was 
 completely dialed into Call of Duty 4 multi player so it could have been a fluke. I tried twice 
 to play multi and both times were riddled with so much lag, I couldn't stay with it. I've never 
 seen such a lousy multi player experience in any other game. Hard to believe after the first version 
 had so much to offer. I'm not giving up on the series. I've seen other Clancy franchises wax and 
 wane. You can't skimp on multi player these days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  These days sequels to video games often do not stray from their predecessor's original formula. 
 This is quite true for Rainbow Six Vegas 2. Though Vegas 2 is an excellent game and equal to the 
 original in every way it doesn't do enough to make it better. That said, it's still a great game 
 with a lot of well implemented new features. To contradict these great new features though are 
 some unfortunate new features added in which keeps the game from being a better overall game then 
 Rainbow Six Vegas 1, these annoying new features are what makes the game equal to Rainbow Six Vegas 
 1. 
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 takes a change of story from the first game. The first game had one of the 
 most unsatisfying stories and endings of this generation. Luckily that old story was tossed away 
 along with the old protagonist Logan Keller. Now you play as Bishop, a character you can fully 
 customize and rank up while you play the campaign. The story is about a terrorist named Miguel 
 Alvarez and his plot to detonate various chemical bombs around Las Vegas. Of course in typical 
 Tom Clancy fashion this is a plot riddled with various twists and politics. 
  
  Of course anyone who plays these games doesn't come here for the story and you most likely shouldn't. 
 The story does a good job but like the first game it doesn't engage the player. At times it's hard 
 to follow because the sound can be a bit off but by the end you'll understand it all. It's not 
 a great story but it's effective and it sets up some great action sequences which is really all 
 that matters. 
  
  The single player campaign is full of various scripted firefights which are both intense and difficult. 
 This is the bread and butter of the single player which is what makes it worth playing. On the 
 normal mode it can be challenging but it's never anything unfair. This is an improvement over the 
 first game which I found overtly difficult on normal at times. There is also a new casual mode 
 which seems to be a theme for this game because various new features seem to be targeting casual 
 players for this traditionally hardcore franchise.
  
  There are many new improvements added to the single player which makes it both faster, slightly 
 more tactical, and more fun in the end. The addition of sprinting is great and well implemented 
 though it can be a bit awkward to hit the left bumper to sprint considering how much you will do 
 it within the campaign. It does help you survive though and it works well. There is also a new 
 system of tagging enemies which tells your teammates the order in which to kill them. This is another 
 well received new feature and it works well. My only complain is you can only tag two players, 
 I think three or four would have worked better.
  
  The best new feature in Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is the A. C. E. S feature which makes ranking up easier 
 and also unlocks your weapons. Though it is by no means difficult to level up in this system it 
 does give you incentive to play through the single player and terrorist hunts. It helps to make 
 the new rank up system better but my only complaint about it is that ranking up has become almost 
 'too easy'. I still think it's a good feature and one I hope to see return. 
  
  The last thing I'll talk about is the online. The online has sadly been changed from what I found 
 to be perfect. It's been essentially 'casualized'. Respawns have now been addded to Attack and 
 Defend, Team Death Match and Deathmatch which makes games shorter. They're still fun but I do miss 
 the old versions of these games which would often be long epic matches. Of course this makes the 
 online faster and you can get through more games in a day which many consider a good thing. I remember 
 there being a lot of complaints about how long the games in the first were and I can see why Ubisoft 
 changed it but it's not something I'm a huge fan of. 
  
  Luckily for me and fans of the first games online Ubisoft gave us two modes with unlimited respawns 
 and ten minute plus games. These are team conquest and team leader. These two modes are a lot of 
 fun and work as a sort of base capture mode and protection mode. They work well and are a lot of 
 fun to play. They are also the most played game types so it's easy to find a game in these modes. 
 
  
  Overall Vegas 2 is a great package and well worth buying, if you liked the original this one will 
 most likely appease you and it's a great value. There is a lot of stuff to do in it and the co-op 
 play is as excellent as it was before. The online has been given some disheartening 'improvements' 
 but there is also two new modes to appease fans of the old style. This game adds enough new features 
 to make another visit to Las Vegas worth the price of a ticket. 
  
  The Good: Co-op is as fun as before, Single Player has been changed for the better, Rank system 
 is heavily improved, Team Conquest and Team Leader are awesome!
  
  The Bad: Team Deathmatch, Deathmatch, and Attack and Defend were made worse, it's a bit too easy 
 to rank up, unstable framerate. Graphics appear dated as the engine is the same.
  
  Overall: A great game well worth buying.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBurgerKing2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 11:53 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  1) You can customize your character and weapons and you unlock more weapons and armor for your 
 character.
  
  2) You can rank up in multiplayer as well as in campaign mode and if you level up in the campaign 
 it also shows up in the multiplayer.
  
  3) Great graphics even though they havent changed much from the first one.
  
  4) The sound 
 makes you cringe when you get a good shot.
  
  5) The controls are sharp and will never fail you.
  
  6) You can play split screen co op.
 
  
  7) Very fun online mode.
  
  8) It answers any unanswered questions from the first one and it continues the story well. 
  
 
  Cons:
  1) Only 2 player co op online opposed to the 4 player co op in the first one.
  
  2) Short campaign mode.
  
  3) Controls are a little bit hard to get used to when you first 
 play but ultimately work well.
  
  4) Customization could be deeper.
  
  5) Same music as the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NuclearDefCon1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Man, Oh Man.
  
  I played though the first vegas and thought to myself, Yea its an ok shooter, no Call of duty 4 
 but never the less a good enough game with an OK story.
  
  A few months later i got Vegas 2. Imediatly i loved the fact you made a customer character but 
 at the same time i was kinda disapointed you didnt play the main character from the first game 
 Logan.
  
  Anyways from start to finnish of vegas 2, the storyline is fantastic and the customisation of your 
 charcater is brilliant. the game its self plays georgous and the cover system is excellent. Along 
 with your 2 AI team makes the single player campain is a fantasic achivment by ubi soft.
  
  The Storyline is sooo good im actully going to play Vegas 1 again followed by vegas 2.
  Its one 
 of those games where you dont want it to end!.
  
  As for multiplayer, i have had a very quick go of 2 player story and that is awesome as you can 
 actully play the story co-op now although when you die the deaths are lame as you just respawn 
 next to your partner insted of having to poke him with a needle.
  
  when i have a few attempts online ill update this. but fornow the game gets a 9.0 from me. 2 thumbs 
 up!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Struble1127
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  very good game best in tom clancy series a must own very good game best in tom clancy series a 
 must own
  very good game best in tom clancy series a must own very good game best in tom clancy series a 
 must own
  very good game best in tom clancy series a must own very good game best in tom clancy series a 
 must own
  very good game best in tom clancy series a must own very good game best in tom clancy series a 
 must own very good game best in tom clancy series a must own very good game best in tom clancy 
 series a must own very good game best in tom clancy series a must own very good game best in tom 
 clancy series a must own
  very good game best in tom clancy series a must own very good game best in tom clancy series a 
 must own
  very good game best in tom clancy series a must own very good game best in tom clancy series a 
 must own
  very good game best in tom clancy series a must own very good game best in tom clancy series a 
 must own very good game best in tom clancy series a must own very good game best in tom clancy 
 series a must own
  very good game best in tom clancy series a must own very good game best in tom clancy series a 
 must own
  very good game best in tom clancy series a must own very good game best in tom clancy series a 
 must own
  very good game best in tom clancy series a must own very good game best in tom clancy series a 
 must own
  very good game best in tom clancy series a must own very good game best in tom clancy series a 
 must own very good game best in tom clancy series a must own very good game best in tom clancy 
 series a must own very good game best in tom clancy series a must own very good game best in tom 
 clancy series a must own
  very good game best in tom clancy series a must own very good game best in tom clancy series a 
 must own
  very good game best in tom clancy series a must own very good game best in tom clancy series a 
 must own
  very good game best in tom clancy series a must own very good game best in tom clancy series a 
 must own very good game best in tom clancy series a must own very good game best in tom clancy 
 series a must own 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MightyJordan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  The single player campaign is excellent! The only real downside to it is that when playing in Realistic 
 mode, there are some parts of the game that make Call of Duty 2 on Veteran look like a walk in 
 the park!
  
  The graphics are good enough. Some people say that it looks worse than its predecessor, but I think 
 it does look slightly better. It shouldn't matter, anyway. This is a first person shooter. You 
 won't be spending your time admiring the scenery!
  
  Online play is tricky. Ubisoft seem to have a knack for making their FPS games completely different 
 from the norm of Halo 3 and Call of Duty 4 (Splinter Cell, for example) . It feels different. It's 
 also very tricky. You'll come across a lot of sharpshooters who'll take your head off if you stuck 
 it out in the open for a split second!
  
  Long story short, if you're a fan of FPS games, give this a go. If you're a fan of the series or 
 a fan of Tom Clancy, it's definately for you! It may be almost a carbon copy of the first Vegas 
 game, but it is still a great game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  For anyone who has played the first RSV then this sequel will be familiar ground. A little too 
 familiar but RSV2 is a more enjoyable polished version. For everyone else RSV is a good tactical 
 shooter that could have been great without a few annoyances.
  
  The single player hasn't changed much. You still control a squad of three. You being one and giving 
 commands to the others such as follow, breech, grenade, etc. This is fun for the most part and 
 your squad members do actually kill the enemy unlike a lot of other games. Your AI partners do 
 however get in your way sometimes but not enough to ruin your fun. The addition of a run button 
 really adds more to the experience than one might think. This gives the game a faster appeal where 
 RSV felt a bit sluggish in comparison. The graphics are basically the same just a little more polished. 
 The multiplayer graphics are however a lot better than than the original. Also you have what are 
 called A. C. E. S. which are points given to the player for killing enemies in different ways. Such 
 as killing an enemy with an explosive, headshot, from behind, etc. By completing these you unlock 
 new weapons that can be used in multiplayer and you also raise your rank. It gives the player that 
 much more incentive to play through the campaign. 
  
  As for the multiplayer it is either hit or miss. With all the competition it is hard for RSV2 to 
 compete. But they do have a niche that makes it worth a look if you are into FPS like myself. One 
 big problem I had was that most of the games you had 1 or no respawms available even in TDM. I 
 am the type player that enjoys games to a certain score because you can see what player is consistent 
 throughout the entire match. Total Conquest and Team Leader allowed respawns which made the multiplayer 
 not a total bust. Both of those games were enjoyable as a distraction from COD4 or Halo 3. There 
 is also a detailed stat page showing k/d ratio, accuracy, etc. The only problem with that is that 
 it didn't always update correctly which can be very frustrating at times. There are plenty of guns 
 to choose from such as M4, G3, Famas, etc. Anything in the assault class is the best in my opinion. 
 The problem is besides the look and strength of the weapon there wasn't much difference. All have 
 the same range and recoil as far as I could tell. Which brings me to the biggest problem in the 
 game. Once I learned this exploit I became way more effective in mp. The problem is you are more 
 accurate, with better range, and vision when you don't aim down the sight. Now come on that is 
 a major flaw in game design. I shouldn't be able to kill someone from across the stage by simply 
 putting my reticule on them. I should have to pull my gun up and go ADS. I found this very annoying.
 
  
  Overall a good game that FPS fans will enjoy but most will play it for a month or two and never 
 get it back out. I expected a little more considering COD4 came out months before RSV2. There could 
 have been more improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenghisKahn26
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  I admit, I have to agree with a lot of other reviewers. Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is essentially a remake 
 of the original. Nothing is very different. Character customization is a better, graphics are better, 
 and squad commands are smoother but nothing has changed. Despite that, I still have to give the 
 game a "Must Buy" review. If you have the first Vegas, trade it in, and get this one. (Note: if 
 you have ever played a Tom Clancy game, this will seem familar)
  Ignoring the first Vegas completely, here's the negatives, not that there are very many. Any one 
 used to Halo and COD will be surprised by this game. It is a FPS, but lacks most of CODs close 
 combat intensity and the brutal, smooth fighting of Halo. Considering, on the hardest difficulty, 
 all it takes is one or two bullets to kill you, you find yourself hanging back, sniping the bad 
 guys out. Not that this isn't fun, but on the hardest levels, thirty minutes can get you less than 
 100 meters.
  The AI has been significantly improved. When you have your two teammates with you, they can be 
 a major help, blowing down doors, springing ambushes, shooting the baddies, etc. There is the painful 
 occasion though, where they will get stuck behind a wall trying to regroup. And of course, they 
 can die, and if they go down and you can't heal them, well, game's over.
  Positives; A minor feature that they don't put in enough games is the character customization. 
 In Vegas 2, you can changes practically everything from hat to body armor and guns to sunglasses. 
 The difference here is the temporary third person mode, (happens when you peek around corners or 
 hide behind boxes) in which you can see yourself. The third-person mode is great, much like any 
 other TPS such as Army of Two. You can hide, look and shoot, while almost completely protected. 
 The guns' actions are realistic. Recoil, sway and decreased accuracy while moving are all included. 
 Enemies die realistically, under a realistic amount of bullets. Another thing that, for some, will 
 take getting used to, is that they really can kill you. Snipers are very accurate, and going around 
 a corner, guns blazing, will probably get you annihilated with a shotgun blast to the head. So 
 the enemies are good, but not quite as good as your own teammates, who can take care of themselves. 
 A feature I loved was that you can command them completely, telling them where to go, how to attack, 
 when to go silent, and how you want them to enter a room. (frag, flashbang, smoke first. Carefully 
 or guns blazing. Or, my favorite, blow down the door and turn the room into Swiss cheese)
  As far as storyline goes, it's pretty good, carries on well enough from the first Vegas. Intriguing, 
 but yet again, you'll care more about shooting up fools than the story.
  Summary: Great game, a must buy for 360 owners. It is replayable and addicting and the achievements, 
 medals and unlockable weapons, armor and other cool items (they can be used in online multiplayer) 
 only make it more so. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: noodle2102
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  Great fun to change your character completely from male to female. Camouflage, Type of armor. Great 
 ranking system. All in all a great game..... Get on and buy it!! I like it how you can change the 
 scopes on the gun, personally i like the laser sights :) . Terrorists, hunts are brilliant on your 
 own or with a mate. favourite guns are 500 tactical, with laser sight, p90 also with laser sight. 
 Villa (Terrorists hunt,) is a amazing way to rank up quickly. E. G. On realistic have some C4's 
 and some guns what ever you like... kill the guy near the truck silently go up the stairs plant 
 a c4 on the door make some loud noise when he opens the door detonate the c4. My favorite part 
 of the level is when you chase the guy through the houses. Also the ending level when you shot 
 the helicopter. Anyway i also think the last scene was the most difficult level 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyrock1234sp
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 25, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Let me start of by saying that when i first played this game i did not have xbox. I thought that 
 this game was amazing and the best game that i have ever played. After i got my xbox and got this 
 game first my opinions changed. I started to notice that the graphics were not that good. I hadnt 
 played much games before this one but the graphics were ok. The gamplay is ok and the guns are 
 too. I like the fact that you can customize all of your guns and what you want with them. That 
 is the best part of the game. The online is far too hard for me since i never play. 
  
  The missions are not good at all. They have no point at all. and it is kind of stupid that this 
 game takes place in las vegas. Most of all the missions take place in casinos which gets old and 
 the enemies dont come at you. You have to get to them first. They mostly just hold people hostage, 
 and you have to rescue the hostages. Overall this game was ok. They funny part about this game 
 is the way that the enemies swear at each other. They yell at each other like they are friends. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodykhaos13
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far the best game in the series. This game has great multiplayer and i love the 
 cover system. this game also has great character custimization! U Must buy this game. If u had 
 to choose Rainbow 6 vegas 2, halo 3 and call of duty 4, RAinbow 6 vegas 2 would be the one to pick. 
 this game takes a little getting used to but when u get the hang of it it is really good game. 
 the multiplayer is the best, the map villa is my favorite map in the game because i have the best 
 spot add me and i can show u were it is. U can get attachments on your guns like reflex scope (aka 
 Red Dot) recoil controll stock, acog, 6x, etc. I think the best weapon in the game would be the 
 mp5 with extra ammo addon. alot of people use the famas cuz its the fastest gun in the game but 
 i never rly liked it. U cant get skins like in cod4 but its still a good game. u must get this 
 game
  
  Btw my xbox got red ring of death so i may not be on for a few days.
  
  --------------------------
  Gamertag: Bloodykhaos13 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordan_johnson
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 2:43 am PT
Review:  So, Vegas 2, eh? What's new. Sprinting is a new feature that got my attention right away because 
 now I don't have to amble about, instead I can actually run! Who knew? 
  
  Anyway alot has been added. Like an improved leveling up system that is split into 3 catergouries 
 called ACES. These are CQB, Marksman and Assualt. CQB is just all that up close stuff like blind 
 fireing and enemy, killing an enemy while their flashbanged, killing up close and so on. Marksman 
 is your long range one with headshots and long range kills to get points. Finally Assualt which, 
 as you would suspect, is filled with Assualt style things like grenades and firing through cover. 
 All these earn you ACES ponits which either give you a new weapon or more experience. This time 
 round experience only gets you armour and camoflauge styles.
  
  The story doesn't matter unless you played through the first like me, but the realism sorta dies 
 and goes to hell in the last mission. But hey, it's still fun! 
  
  Multiplayer is exactly what you should be here for! It's balls-to-the-wall action and surprisingly 
 awesome!
  This IS the reason you should buy this game. 
  
  Buy it or not: Another buy. Unless you hate realism go for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ray4594
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  This is a great tactical first person shooter. It is also a great addition to the Rainbow six series. 
 It didn't step too far from the first Rainbow six Vegas. They still have that great cover system, 
 and a whole bunch of guns at your disposal. The single player is great, and controlling your squad 
 hasn't changed from the first game. Playing single player is pretty fun by yourself, but with splitscreen, 
 its even better. Online play is pretty decent. They now have a two player online campaign, a four 
 player Terrorist Hunt, deathmatch and many more. The online play was great but in some situations, 
 the cover system was rendered useless by players who ran past your cover and shoot you from the 
 back. Terrorist Hunt was a great online mode. It sets 1-4 players in a map with a certain amount 
 of Terrorists to kill. You can set the difficulty of the AI higher, and the amount of them higher 
 also. Once the map was swarming with AI's with the highest difficulty. Terrorist hunt became a 
 challenge even for the experienced players. But overall the gameplay experience was pretty good. 
 So if you like tactical shooters, this is a game you should buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blacklight2
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  There is some great things about this game like the exp system. You can get exp in singleplayer 
 and
  multiplayer. I like the leveling to get weapons instead of getting all of them at once. I like 
 the combat system how you can get push against walls and play a little in 3rd person mode. It gives 
 the game a little flavor instead of all the time in first person. I love the rappel and quick rope 
 it makes the game faster paced and gives it a little twist to tactical shooters.
  
  There are some insanely difficult missions in this game that make you not want to play singleplayer. 
 This game is too similar to the first one, the graphics are barely improved. Compared to the first 
 person shooters in 2008 this one just doesn't cut it.
  
  I'm going to have to give this game a 9.0/10.0 for it's excellent exp system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_kidisblack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 12:59 am PT
Review:  This is one of my favourite games. Its story line is excellent and complements the first Vegas. 
 You have 3 difficulties meaning you have replay value and of course it suits your gaming level. 
 One key factor of the game is the ability to customize weapons and rank up to elite via earning 
 xp. As you rank up you unlock xp and weapons, clothing and accessories. You can unlock maps and 
 there is some great DLC. The online play is fantastic, many modes and it never gets boring. Not 
 only do you have a great story line but also Terrorist Hunts, where you are in a map and you have 
 to kill all the terrorists. As you unlock new things and rank up, you are able to change how your 
 guy looks, or girl! You can change their hair or armor. The achievements are relatively easy to 
 get but do require a lot of game time. Some include 100 kills with that type of weapon. Others 
 also include online play, like rescuing the hostages 10 times. Overall this is a great buy and 
 with plenty of reply and online value, it's my favourite game by far! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weapon_d00d816
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 18, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  RBSV2 has great campaign, and a not so great multiplayer. The campaign is a little too short, but 
 has great sense of tacticality and intensity. Multiplayer has a fun rank up system and interesting 
 unlocks, but has broken gameplay that is often abused.
  
  Pros:
  
  - Interesting cover system often not seen in most popular shooters
  - Campaign is fun, and co-op 
 is even more fun
  - Has in-depth customization of your character
  - Experience points and rank ups carry over from campaign to online
  - Has Terrorist Hunt mode 
 so you can fight enemies just for the sake of fighting enemies
  
  Cons:
  
  - Multiplayer has broken gameplay and players abuse cheap tactics
  - Customizable camoflauge 
 patterns aren't unlocked untill the very last rank
  - Doesn't have a great sense of realism because of ridiculous customizations
  - Gameplay is repetitive 
 and boring
  - No one uses the taking cover system online
  - Matches are hosted rather than a matchmaking system so there is a host advantage
  - The audio 
 sounds like it's from an old James Bond movie
  - First person character models and weapon models are unrealisic and cheesy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoolig4nn
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Love Tom Clancy games, they are always fun and enjoyable. Too bad though, this could of been a 
 better sequel, trying to hard to act like CoD4... CoD4 blows this game away in almost every aspect. 
 The ranking is still very fun, but too short, maybe have more ranks after elite will keep gamers 
 playing as long as they can. Once you hit elite, you lose interest, well atleast i did! 
  
  Could someone please tell me when there will be another Ghost Recon??? GR is amazing and would 
 love a GRAW 3.
  
  The new game mode, Team Leader, was the best part of this game. Put more hours in that mode then 
 any other game i own. It takes strategy and it usually is over in less then 5 minutes, which is 
 good if you die early on. I'd rather not sit around for 10 - 15 minutes waiting for other people 
 to kill each other off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ItalianBoyPhil
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  So, you put the disc in your console, it starts up, automatically coming to the Custom character 
 screen, I was amazed and suprised, there wasn't much choice well until I got about five ranks in 
 there was an epic choice; I still have a long way to go, I love the ranking system -- Online & 
 Offline for once. Part Prequel, Part Sequel which is odd for a game. Some people may say 'Oh, its 
 just the same as the first' but its not, only one scene with slot machine. I'd advise you to get 
 it. There a bigger weapon choice & Protection attributes, which you can choose before a mission.
 
  
  If theres a room with about three enemies in, you can't just run in and kill them, by the time 
 you get to the first person the other two would have killed you, this is were you can use your 
 teammates, normally there two doors, get the to sneak in and take cover, then this is were it gets 
 fun, throw a smoke or a flashbang, then you can open fire, taking them to the floor with headshots. 
 This makes you feel like god and relieved that you didn't get shot. Its damn realistic and I love 
 it. Infact, i'm still playing it now :)
  so please do buy it, you'll love the online co-op, only two player for Campaign but still, four 
 player for terrorist hunt and there online modes as well. :)
  A Well Deserved - 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: memberthirteen
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 16, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  This game wasn't that hyped, and they were right. The game was a game with okay graphics, and good 
 weapons. The level system was amazing and the maps were creative. It does not live up to its precedor 
 though, as it was basically the same. The Character creating and equipping was well organized and 
 had many features. The cover system was well made, and the NPCs were somewhat realistic. The aiming 
 system and difficulty were well done, and the weaponry was very realistic. I was especially impressed 
 by the accesories and locking of weapons, which gave gamers something to play for, besides fun. 
 The Voicing and acting was done well which is hard to find in today's games. Overall, this game 
 was good, but the same has been done before, and possibly better, and you know what thwey say: 
 the sequel probably won't get better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobkinator
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  The first entry in the Rainbow Six Vegas series brought new life into the series and also created 
 a superb tactical shooter, the same cant be said for its sequel. Dont get me wrong, its still a 
 great game, just not as good as the first one. Vegas 2 has you play the role of Bishop [thats right 
 your not Logan Keller in this one] and the game actually starts about 5 years before the first 
 one in France. Bishop is actually the only new main character, and you can totally customize him 
 from his armor to his camoes, and even his face [if you have an Xbox live vision camera you can 
 upload your face onto him] you still have Mike and Jung as your teamates. Like I said earlier, 
 you begin the game in France and eventually go to good ol' sin city. The story of this game runs 
 parralel to the first one with most of your time in the game taking place as Logan is in Mexico. 
 Dont worry this one does have an ending and. The story definetly takes a back seat for this game, 
 and lets face it, your not playing Vegas for the story. Your playing for the superb tactical combat 
 the series is known for. The only major change to it is in the games point system. if you played 
 the first one online then you know how each kill gets you points which leads to higher ranks, which 
 leads to new armor and camos. This system has now been implemented into the single player campaign 
 as well. The way that you unlock weapons has also been changed, in Vegas 1 you began with all guns 
 unlocked in the campaign and online your ranks granted you access to the new ones. In Vegas 2 though 
 you unlock weapons in a different way. There are three categories of weapons, marksman assault 
 and CQB. For marksman points you have to pull off headshots or kill people using a rappel line, 
 for assault you have to do things like get kills withh C4 or grenades, and for CQB you need to 
 kill people behind cover [another new addition] or get them from behind. Each class will lead to 
 new weapons or XP rewards. If the campaign is at all a dissapointment, the multiplayer is not. 
 The game features a few new maps and some classic ones. The online games range from your normal 
 free for all to team deatmatch and other classics with some new modes to mess around with. the 
 game also features a far mor fleshed out co-op [this one has WORDS!!!!] though it has been scaled 
 back to only allow two players. The popular terrorist hunt missions are also back too still supporting 
 four player co-op. Though not as memorable as some the first, this is still a fun and competent 
 shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garygok
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  It's a decent game I suppose which doesn't falter very much at all from the original game play.
 
  
  However it definitely felt like this was simply a campaign expansion for the first installment.
 
  
  The environments seemed less impressive than the original; not really succeeding in convincing 
 me that I was stalking around the real Las Vegas.
  
  The game was quite short with not alot of replay value for this gamer. It has just sat on my shelf 
 collecting dust since the first time the credits rolled...
  
  As for the multiplayer I cannot say very much as I haven't spent much time with it... too many good 
 titles to move on to rather than sticking around with one game for too long.
  
  Unless you are a die hard RSV fan this title could definitely be skipped. If you finished the first 
 one and won't feel complete until you finish the second (like me) , go ahead and grab a copy and 
 you'll probably enjoy it. I would hold out for a good used copy though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CptJimDangle
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a great game. Even though the gameplay elements are exactly 
 identical. There are still some new features added in that make it worth playing or even picking 
 up a copy though. Like the ability to shoot through thin cover and the addition of the A. C. E. S.. 
 But I think the greatest new thing they have added in to this game is the fact that your multiplayer 
 level is also the same as your campaign mode level. And they both carry over. So instead of playing 
 online multiplayer to level up and unlock new items, you can play the solo mode if you prefer that.
 
  
  Overall, this game is really great, despite the fact that not much new was added to it over the 
 last game. And I would have to say the biggest con to the game is it's really short campaign mode.
 
  
  I think anyone who enjoyed the previous Vegas game should definately check this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pharoah__Link
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is an FPS/tactical shooter. Last game you play as Logan Keller but this time 
 you play as Bishop. You can customize this character by choosing his weapons, clothing, face and 
 more.
  
  Story: This game doesn't really have a storyline. I'm almost finished with the game and all I know 
 is that Las Vegas has a bunch of terrorists in the casinos and you have to take them out. Character 
 development is very poor.
  
  Gameplay: You have singleplayer and multiplayer. In the singleplayer you play with 2 other mentally 
 ill teammates. In co-op you have an extra teammate named Knight which player 2 plays as. Commanding 
 your teammates is a pain in the ass. Say I'm attacking and I'm about to die so I try to get back 
 inside. Chances are those idiots are standing in front of the doorway refusing to move out of the 
 way. The enemy AI is not very good either. The game has also introduced a sprint move. But you 
 can only sprint for 5 seconds max. and there is no meter to tell you either. The multiplayer is 
 terrible. Since you can get killed very easily in the campaign the same happens in multiplayer. 
 But other than that the game is extremely fun to play. I recommend co-op though.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are very unimpressive. The game makes bad use of the Unreal Engine. I know 
 you play a game not look at it. But this is an example of a next gen game looking like a maxed 
 out last gen game. For example the absolute best looking item in the ENTIRE game was a Taco Time 
 sign. It looked very clear and real and the rest of the game looks kind of ugly. The views are 
 nice though. The Rainbow Team character models are good since you can barely see their faces. The 
 graphics overall are extremely disappointing and even launch titles like Resistance and Call of 
 Duty 2 look much much better than this.
  
  Sound: The sound track is pretty good. The guns sound pretty good too. But the voice acting is 
 not very good even no one talks that much. 
  
  Value/tilt: This game for me was barely worth the rent. It had alot of fun moments but too much 
 frustration and a tacked on multiplayer mode keeps RSV2 from becoming the game it should have been. 
 So far Ubisoft has had a rough year. Huge letdowns like Haze and this have come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingVenetian
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Launching off the popularity of the first Vegas title, Ubisoft tosses the player right back into 
 Sin City for Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas 2. While the campaign picks up at the tail end of the 
 events from the first title, the timeline for Vegas 2 follows events that occurred before and after 
 the first title. Rather than continuing the story of the protagonist from Vegas (Logan Keller) , 
 Ubisoft opted for a customized experience instead. Designed by the player, the character goes by 
 the name of Bishop and seems more comfortable in the role of team leader than Logan. 
  
  The presentation quality is top notch and uses the same cinematic cutscene format to allow the 
 story to unwrap. The narrative initially begins in 2005 with the team infiltrating a hostage rescue 
 scenario in the Pyrenees, a slyly designed introduction mission. Five years later, the team is 
 tasked with tracking down the Cabreros brothers, a duo that is threatening use of chemical weapons 
 on the U. S. Bishop and his team are sent across a variety of high adrenaline situations in Las 
 Vegas and eventually Costa Rica toward the finale. The story intertwines extremely well with the 
 pacing of the action and a storyline from the previous title will be wrapped up nicely by the credits. 
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  By changing Bishop into a player designed character, this allowed Ubisoft to use the custom character 
 across the single and multi-player modes. Additionally, experience points (XP) can now be earned 
 in the single player (or co-op) campaign rather than only during multiplayer combat. The developer's 
 also included an interesting bonus if the player has completed the first title. The game checks 
 to see if the player has a Vegas saved game and automatically awards enough experience points to 
 reach the first rank. Similar to the previous title, ranks offer new clothing options and weaponry 
 to be used in the online modes. 
  
  Identical to the previous title, Vegas 2 is all about using your squad effectively. Directives 
 are once again sent from the directional pad and allow the player to choose between play styles. 
 If you prefer to run & gun, feel free to lead the charge into enemy filled rooms. If you prefer 
 a tactical approach, there's nothing more satisfying that issuing a well timed door breach to catch 
 patrolling enemies off guard. 
  
  Ubisoft added a sprinting feature in Vegas 2. Players can sprint from cover to cover in a more 
 fluid, expedited fashion than the previous title. It's advised to learn the advantages (and disadvantages) 
 of this feature quickly as the A. I. has been ramped up a bit in difficulty. In realistic mode, 
 the A. I. is superior at using tactical positions to flank your team. They can also send your team 
 to the morgue if the player doesn't apply proper tactics when breaching windows. Hostage situations 
 seem more difficult as the enemy will react quicker to the team's presence and kill the innocents.
 
  
  The multiplayer section includes several adversarial choices and a much appreciated two player 
 co-op mode. The objective based, team modes are personally the most enjoyable when paired with 
 a proper team. Like any other Xbox Live title, it's very possible to be paired up with a group 
 of strangers that all run in different directions as the match begins. Story Co-op mode is quite 
 entertaining, but often suffers from connection drops. It's also not as fluid to jump in and out 
 of co-op like Gears. On an added note, owners of the 360 camera will be able to scan their face 
 into the game for multiplayer. Just be prepared to take several pictures before it gets it right. 
 
  
  The achievements in Vegas 2 aren't designed to tax the skills of the casual gamer, but rather use 
 up a large chuck of time. About half of the total gamerscore points can be attained by running 
 though the campaign once, but a large amount of the total achievements weighted to spending time 
 with terrorist hunt and multiplayer. Achievements like attaining the rank of Elite or killing 1000 
 players in adversarial matches will take tremendous amounts of time. Overall, it's a balanced set 
 of achievements that offers rewards to both the first timers and veterans. 
  
  Graphics & Audio
  
  Visually, Vegas 2 is nearly identical to the previous title. I'm sure this 
 fact alone shaved many, many months off the short development time. Unfortunately, that means that 
 it pales in comparison to more recent offerings. The game uses the Unreal 3 engine to light up 
 the city of Las Vegas. The team animations are very fluid and seem completely natural when pinned 
 under fire or grappling down a glitzy hotel. Lighting effects come in handy when determining enemy 
 positions via the flashes from gun barrels. The game engine handles a bevy of action and a large 
 amount of on game characters at any given time. The framerate doesn't take any discernable hits 
 and offers a very stable experience. 
  
  Listening to bullets ricochet off nearby cars or the radio chatter of teammates is just as good 
 as the previous title. Using a directional sound system is preferred as sections of the game will 
 use swarming enemies. The voiceovers, while all unknown actors, are absolutely top notch. Accents 
 used are authentic and the voices offer an increased amount of immersion to the player.
  
  Conclusion
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  This title certainly doesn't launch the Rainbow Six series into new territory, but it does use 
 the previous build to create a high action sequel in a little over 18 months. The well thought 
 out narrative, addictive action and variety of choice in multiplayer make this title a worthy successor 
 to carry on the Rainbow Six franchise. It is well worth the full retail price if you enjoy battling 
 over Xbox Live and a must rent if only to run through the 7 to 8 hour single player campaign at 
 least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codezer0
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 7, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  First off, if you already enjoyed the first R6 Vegas title, then you'd probably already owned a 
 copy of this game.
  
  As a person that pretty much spent most of the time playing the Solo campaign (don't really care 
 for Xbox Live) , I can tell you that the appeal of the game gets to be very limited. There is also 
 an issue regarding the rather imbalanced nature of the difficulty in the game. When able to play 
 local co-op, it's doable, so long as the two of you aren't dead at the same time. Basically at 
 that point, the game reduces to where you've one player that goes in first, inevitably dies, and 
 then the other hangs back until the first respawns. When it's just you, it will get to grate on 
 your nerves to have to replay that same section about 30 times before you can finally get through 
 it.
  
  In many ways, this game shares a rather common and aggravating problem with the GRAW series, and 
 that is the rather unbalanced nature of the A. I. In both games, there are spots that you may be 
 able to sneak past enemies without being detected or having to worry about an alarm or getting 
 shot. But all too often, there are unpassable parts where it is simply impossible to be able to 
 sneak, and the enemies are able to light you up the second you step to where you might be able 
 to actually shoot them, they spazz out and start lighting you up like a christmas tree. And far 
 too often, you end up dying by someone that you never got the chance to even see, or because their 
 bullets were able to go around cover and peg you in the head or something.
  
  I understand that there's a bit of realism involved here. that's fine with me. But if there's one 
 game that could have benefitted from a killcam, or an active radar of sorts or some kind of "helper" 
 when the game realizes you're dying way too frequently at a given location, these games really 
 need it. The fact that they don't when modern consoles easily have the kind of power to address 
 this is just negigent on the part of Ubi.
  
  I understand also that many will get this game largely for the online component; that's fine too. 
 I'm sure you would have a blast there. But for someone that is much more interested in a campaign, 
 this game really is a letdown, and the fact that it wants to ride on the fame of the first just 
 hollers out that it thinks itself some kind of self-important title that you either must "get", 
 or be considered some kind of inadequate human being. And that just kills it for me.
  
  I'd since returned this title, because I'd simply felt this game was no longer worth my time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dailyderek
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  As I loved RSV1 when 2 came I out I was ready to buy it. Fortunatley I was lacking in money a bit 
 at the time. My friend got it and we tried it at his. It turned out just like GRAW and GRAW 2. 
 Total clones. Although in GRAW's case GRAW 2 is better. New feature better maps makes it better 
 overall. RSV2 though is a different story. This game had mostly horrible maps, only three that 
 I really enjoyed playing more than once. The story mode was short and dissipointing. The only good 
 things are if you unlock a weapon online. You got it offline. If you unlock it offline you got 
 it online and the fact that there are t-hunt promotions and campaign promotions that go towards 
 an over-all level. Although in campaign and t-hunt there aren't enough level/ maps that are fun 
 to play it over and over to rank up. Personally the most fun I had in campaign of RSV2 was when 
 I was at the Rec Center level... I climbed up the rock climbing wall and shot people then jumped 
 off and died! HEHEHEHE! Really what I'm trying to say is this game is not as good as RSV1. If you 
 want one of them go for RSV1. It's cheaper and better. Then if you REALLY want RSV2 wait till the 
 price drops and play it as a "sometimes alternative." That's my plan at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  I liked the first Rainbow Six Vegas game, and this one is just as good, if not better. The gameplay 
 is based off of a cover system, like in Gears of War. There are a variety of different guns to 
 use as you play through the campaign or online. You go through multiple locales as a solider named 
 Bishop. There are many different places you go through in Las Vegas, like in a casino, some guy's 
 rich apartment, malls and others. The weapons are extremely fun to use during the intense combat. 
 The voice acting is generally quite good, but the storyline takes a beating. If you're new to the 
 series and haven't played the first one, chances are you won't be able to follow the story here. 
 The story isn't that well done and there isn't any character explanation. The sound in the game 
 is amazing, whether you're using a sound suppressor or a hand grenade explodes right in front of 
 your face, it's all pretty great. You can play with another person through the short campaign which 
 will take you around seven or eight hours to beat on the lowest difficulty level, but playing with 
 a friend really adds a whole lot more excitement to the already good campaign. The multiplayer 
 is also very fun and there are a variety of different gaming modes. However, the visual presentation 
 is awful. Character models look alright at best, but some of the environments and car explosions 
 look merely bland. The game's controls and gameplay are both good, but the visual presentation 
 and poor storyline bring it down slightly, but it's still a great game to play if you like shooters 
 or action games.
  
  Story: 5/10 -- really poor and there isn't any character explanation
  
  Gameplay: 9.3/10 -- the covering system is good and the action is intense throughout
  
  Sound: 
 9.1/10 -- great voice acting along with the action during gameplay
  
  Graphics: 6/10 -- the game suffers with just bland graphics, but it's not unplayable
  
  Enjoyment: 
 8.8.10 -- great gameplay mechanics, plus the multiplayer and co-op add a lot to the game
  
  Final Thoughts: This isn't the greatest first person shooter out there, but it's still a great 
 game that's worth a buy if you like shooters.
  
  Final Score: 8.6/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 6, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  R6V2 is the sequel to one of the most played online shooters so your expecting it to be a much 
 better game so let me go through it top to bottom.
  
  Single player
  This is actually my favourite part its far more playable then the first game and using cover make 
 its more fun. The single player has some great missions and most of them are memorable but some 
 just could of used more work but overall it has some great shootout locations and enough to keep 
 you playing.
  
  MP
  weirdly i did not like it but my reason is because the action is too slow paced for my liking and 
 i guess i just expected a better experience for a game praised for its MP.
  
  Pros
  decent enjoyable single player
  MP wil please big RSV fans ( not me sadly)
  fun shootout locations
 
  
  cons
  MP sadly not that fun
  graphics could have been much better
  lazy effort 
  40-$80 is a lot for a small upgrade
  
  Verdict
  rsv2 does well with its enjoyable single 
 player and fan dedicated MP but at the end of the day its really nothing memorable however its 
 a fun shooter that you should try if you love FPS shooter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TurkeyScavenger
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 5, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  Now seriousally I am not going to be nice. But there were barely any changes in this game. I mean 
 of course its another Tom Clancy game but jeez! There has been no update in graphics. The story 
 is too short and it is to easy to become a elite. Now the first one was very unique and it was 
 fun to play. The online was great. In this one the lag can get horrible at times the online isnt 
 as promising as the first one and THE STORY is completed within 4 HOURS. This game is nothing more 
 than a rental. I mean Ok I know what your thinking Tom Clancy always makes great games. Well I 
 am sad to say that this one is not what you were expecting. I give it a 7 because it still has 
 some old techniques from the first game. But 10 - 3= 7. Why the minus 3 because you can do everything 
 in the game within 1 week. 
  
  ~The Scavenger 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZJM9
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  I've played the most popular shooters on the 360 but this is by far the best. It's so addictive 
 and when you're playing it just feels, right. The controls are a bit different from other shooters 
 but it's nothing to drastic that you couldn't get used to in a few minutes or so. This is also 
 a great game if you want to do co-op with your friends. It has two player split screen co-op so 
 if you don't have Xbox Live you aren't totally left out. The story mode supports two-player co-op 
 and the host of the match controls the two computer players as if playing singleplayer. And also 
 the other co-op mode is Terrorist Hunt which drops you with up to three other players in a map 
 with a set number of terrorists that you have to kill. And co-op has never been laggy for me like 
 other games have been before and even if you play singleplayer and need help from a friend, invite 
 them and they'll join up with you exactly where you are. (It's drop-in-drop-out co-op.) And the 
 versus mode features Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and some other game-modes such as Total Conquest, 
 a Capture-the-Flag type mode. There are many different weapons to unlock and there is a lot to 
 keep you playing and give you the feeling that you got your money's worth. Also, you unlock clothes/armor 
 and camoflauge to customize it with. The character custimization is pretty deep for a shooter and 
 can be a lot of fun. If you're looking for a great shooter, this game will definately not dissapoint. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklesrocks
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 3, 2008 4:33 am PT
Review:  Rainbow six vegas was one of the best tactical shooters i've ever played, vegas 2 is one of the 
 worst and with three years since the last you would think they would have done something new but 
 it is just the first one with a few new guns, terrible story and the same multiplayer as last time 
 making the fun die fast.
  
  I admit i had some fun playing vegas 2 but thanks to its very easy difficulty i completed it in 
 under seven hours and took me under a week to unlock all the guns and i lost interest in trying 
 to get to the highest rank due to boredom.
  
  The worst part about vegas 2 is that it has the same people michael and jung and no-one new that 
 is important, a couple of the guns are fun but the stupid thing is that you have to unlock guns, 
 doesn't sound stupid does it? well heres the thing, i unlocked the assault level 5 gun, the AK-74 
 and i spent ages trying to get to rank 10 and i eventually unlocked the AK-47 and i was overjoyed 
 but when i compared the stats they were exactly the same they just looked different how stupid 
 is that.
  
  So thats to these flaws a rate vegas 2 the worst rainbow six game (except for lockdown)
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Engage28
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six has always been a quality series that kept fans in control of their team and their 
 experience. The first Vegas game was fantastic, this new one destroys it in so many ways. First 
 of all, the best asset of this game has to be the ability to sprint (finally!) . The cover mechanics 
 are always faithful, and with the number of spots to chill in the game, you wonder how there isn't 
 more glitching going on. Clearly, the graphics are amazing in a lot of areas. In the campaign mode 
 you're able to view the entire city of Las Vegas, with some great detail that attempts to capture 
 the realism of the game and throw it at you through one large window. The guns are great and this 
 is by far the most realistic shooter on the console to date, even ahead of GRAW2. Now, after finishing 
 the campaign with a buddy, completing a majority of terrorist hunt missions, and having great fun 
 in the process, you're able to take your skills online. The weapons work well and are very precise 
 and accurate, especially the shotguns.. wow. The gameplay is very smooth and the many things you 
 can do and slight interactions within each wonderfully designed map is great when playing alongside 
 some buddies. The ranking system is alright, not the best yet not the worst by any means. It doesn't 
 take long to reach the elite rank, and now with the patch, there are 100 elite ranks to achieve 
 anyway, along with many more aces to complete while online. At this point, the game is already 
 a complete current-gen shooter with some very nice props to the players, then you remember one 
 thing. The customization! Characters become your own in this game, you can change everything from 
 their face (maybe even your own with the vision camera) to their sunglasses. The only downside 
 is physical proportions, you cannot adjust height or weight with your character, no biggie though, 
 it all plays well online. 
  So to sum up RSV2, check it out and rent it if you have to. Halo player no need apply as this game 
 is much slower-paced and tactical to the point where headshots count and one assault rifle clip 
 can dominate up to 3 enemies at once, not three to tackle one enemy. This game is worth the money 
 as it will satisfy not only the veteran RS soldier, but the new Clancy fans as well. Give it a 
 chance and see if C4 doesn't become your new favorite hobby. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gedz16
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  This game is out of this world. THe graphics and the gameplay is outstanding also. it like im actually 
 there its so real. Rainbow six vegas2 brings so many things to the tablelike terrorist hunt, the 
 campain is amazing to because you get to be your guy you created and use the weapons you picked. 
 Now terrorist hunt is something i never seen before its you or with some friends against 45 other 
 terrorist and trust me it is very hard you rarly know were the terrorist are going to be. Now the 
 online play is amazing to because theers a whole bunch of games you can pick from like team death 
 match, team leader, or team conquest. Now the game is more exciting and scary at the same time 
 beacause of the new maps that just came out CQB-dark, Murdertown-dark, and the  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fernandomarques
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2008 2:37 am PT
Review:  Ubisoft didn't leave much room for improvement after the first installment of Rainbow Six Vegas, 
 but they aren't about to stop trying. With Rainbow Six Vegas 2, Ubisoft is proving that nobody 
 can touch them when it comes to squad-based tactical shooters.
  
  Like the original, the control, camera and collision detection on this game are a dream come true. 
 Movement feels completely natural, the camera can be moved to show any preferred view at any time, 
 and the squad follows orders obediently. The gameplay is very similar to that of the first title, 
 but why fix something that isn't even broken? The decision to include a sprint ability was also 
 added this year, and it proves highly useful when advancing from cover to cover.
  
  The amount of customization that has been added gives the game a lot of depth. When booted up for 
 the first time, the game detects any previous ranking progress on the original Rainbow Six Vegas 
 and applies it to Bishop and the new game, along with unlockable bonuses. In addition, the weapons, 
 armor, gender and appearance of Bishop can all be adjusted to the user's preference. But best of 
 all, a new system called A. C. E. S. has been added whereby experience points in different categories 
 may be earned in order increase rank and unlock new rewards including clothing, armor, and weapons. 
 A. C. E. S. are awarded whether playing solo offline, co-op, or online, and in any mode. 
  
  The main storyline may be played alone or co-op with a friend who may drop in or drop out at any 
 time seamlessly. Unfortunately, only the host has control over the A. I. squad members, who are 
 also present during co-op play. Tactics as they relate to planning your team's actions are one 
 of the strongest points of the game, and it's a shame player two does not get the opportunity to 
 partake. Nonetheless, co-op play is great fun as you chat, discuss strategy, and take out the bad 
 guys with your buddy. The story is not particularly long, but quality is more important than quantity 
 and this game has it in spades. Since all that fun is likely to induce a strong desire for more, 
 the variety of "terrorist hunt" extra missions are much appreciated. 
  
  Also available is online competitive multiplayer for up to sixteen players. A good variety of game 
 play modes is featured, including a few new ones, such as Team Leader. In this mode, as long as 
 your leader is alive teammates may continually respawn. However, once the leader is eliminated, 
 the next death will be your last. In Demolition, another new mode, each team attempts to blow up 
 a target defended by the other team. The maps are attractive and provide a lot of options strategy-wise, 
 and technical problems are virtually non-existent.
  
  A great variety of weapons is available, and Bishop can frequently change out equipment to suit 
 each new level, as several different machine guns, light machine guns, assault rifles, sniper rifles, 
 and pistols are always available. Weapons may be exchanged at one of the many equipment crates 
 in the game, and dropped enemy weapons may also be picked up and used.
  
  Over 39.2 million people visit Las Vegas every year because of the alluring and exciting locations 
 to explore there. For the same reason the locations of Las Vegas make for a very engrossing game. 
 Ubisoft has done a great job of capturing the spirit of Las Vegas - from a casino, to a strip club, 
 to a recreational center, to a neon sign graveyard, to the desert, and much more. Suprisingly, 
 the levels here are even better original On top of being interesting, the level designs allow for 
 a variety of options to suit a myriad of different strategies. Especially useful is the ability 
 to send the squad to one door while Bishop flanks at another. The levels come in many shapes and 
 sizes, offering everything from mazes of small rooms to huge wide-open areas. Different types of 
 environments call for different strategy, resulting in a satisfying challenge. 
  
  The sound is faithful to the Las Vegas sense of style as appropriate music is paired with the different 
 areas. The electronica played during attack sequences sufficiently increases the intensity without 
 being too distracting. As for sound effects, weapon shots and explosions are realistic and satisfying. 
 Some of the voice acting can be goofy at times, but it's really funnier and entertaining more than 
 annoying, particularly in the case of moronic enemies telling lame jokes clueless to the fact that 
 their elimination is imminent.
  
  The A. I. in the game is usually very good on both ally and enemy fronts. Enemies have access to 
 the same equipment as Bishop, and they won't hesitate to use it. Expect baddies to utilize advanced 
 equipment such as smoke bombs and heat-sensing goggles. Enemies also flank, take cover and pop 
 their heads out in different places, and cooperate with each other. Also, if Bishop dies and respawns 
 at the last checkpoint, the enemies do not always behave the same way again. They may use different 
 gadgets, be in different places, or show up in different numbers. Forget about memorizing an enemy 
 "pattern". This quality of A. I. really makes Rainbow Six Vegas 2 stand out compared to a lot of 
 shooters. Once in a while a squad member will do something stupid, but far more often than not 
 they are effective, helpful, and take cover on their own as well as covering each other while advancing. 
 Also, while this game is challenging it has plenty of checkpoints, so the difficulty does not come 
 from tedious and frustrating repetition of lengthy sections of the game, like some others. All 
 of the challenge here is meaningful, rewarding, and satisfying.
  
  The graphics look very good, especially in the character animations. There's a lot of detail on 
 the environments which make them feel more convincingly real. There are a couple of games out there 
 with smoother lines and more perfect graphics, but not many. Very rarely, slight lag will occur 
 when there is a lot of action on the screen, but it's not imposing enough to impact the game play.
 
  
  Like the slot machines and poker tables of Las Vegas, this game can easily get a person hooked. 
 But unlike the games of Las Vegas, buying Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is definitely not a gamble. This 
 is the best squad-based tactical shooter out there, and one of the best shooters the genre as a 
 whole has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fubulu
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 3:08 am PT
Review:  R6V2 is a very tactical game. It is neither Halo nor Call of Duty (run 'n' gun games) . You try 
 running around pointlessly you WILL die and fast. 
  
  R6V2 is a very realistic game (in the sense of guns) , and you are offered a VERY wide range of 
 guns to choose from, you can choose SMGs, LMGs, Assault Rifles, Pistols and Sniper Rifles. Remarkable 
 in R6V2 is its customization system. The best in a FPS ... EVER.
  You can make a male or female character and pretty much go nuts with the customization. You could 
 give your character helmets, masks, tank tops, cargo pants and so much more. You can also choose 
 armors, which will affect not only the look for your character but his protection and mobility. 
 Where lots of heavy armor and you will be a tank, but slow. Wear no armor and you will be a weak, 
 but speedy devil. You can then even choose what camouflage they wear. If you own a Xbox Vision 
 Camera you could place your own face on your character!
  
  The game play in R6V2 is slow paced, but thanks to the newly added sprint feature which allows 
 you to get around the map faster and generally makes the whole game faster. The game is based around 
 a cover system similar to Gears of War's cover system. The gun play in this R6V2 is absolutely 
 outstanding. Guns perform realistically and fire fights are incredibly fun and intense.
  
  R6V2 has a single player, which is of average length, but it doesn't seem to be the main focus 
 of the game. One of the two stars of R6V2 is Terrorist Hunt, which can be played by yourself and 
 4 player co-op . All you do is kill them and do it again. As simple as it sounds, it is extremely 
 fun and will greatly add to the replay value of the game.
  
  The best part of R6V2 is multi player! The game has 13 (+2 bonus maps) and 5 modes. The two new 
 modes are Total Conquest and Team Leader. 
  
  Team Leader pits you and another team against each other, the catch is both of your teams has 1 
 team leader who you must help get the extraction point. You get as many respawns as you want as 
 long as your team leader is alive (if you are killed by the other team's leader you don't come 
 back) . Once their team leader is dead the opposing team (or yours) doesn't get respawns. The game 
 then basically turns into a "hunt the other team down 'till the last one!" kind of thing. 
  
  The other mode, Total Conquest, is a game of capture and hold the points. You must capture 
 3 satellites and hold them for 30 seconds. If one of the nodes are captured during the 30 seconds 
 the clock is reset and you must get it back.
  
  A change from the first game though is you now gain EXP in single player AND multi player, which 
 now allows you to get new guns and armour. The game also has an A. C. E. S system which basically 
 rewards you in three different categories: Marksman, Close Quarter Combat and Assault. Every one 
 of your kills will fall under one of these categories. Each category has its own rewards, get Marksman 
 kills and you will get sniper rifles, get Close Quarter Combat kills and you will unlock shotguns 
 and get Assault kills and you will get pistols assault rifles and even at the end of it a shield! 
 The A. C. E. S system doesn't take long to max out, but it is fun to do so.
  
  The sound is fine, nothing wrong at all. Everything sounds as it should, not as sharp as say Call 
 of Duty 4 or ever the superior Battlefield - Bad Company , but as with the graphics they get the 
 job done. The thing that really really annoys me, and shows Ubisoft's laziness, is that they have 
 used sounds from the first game. Not all of them, but they seem to have done little to make them 
 better. 
  
  If you are a fan of the first Rainbow Six Vegas, then you will enjoy this game thoroughly. If you 
 are new to the series, then this game is still going to be enjoyable as the priority of the Rainbow 
 Six Vegas is gameplay. In the end you have a game that is going to be fun to play with friends 
 or by yourself. Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a must buy for anyone who loves First Person Shooters.
 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKim89
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 28, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  this game is fun, but it sort of loses its appeal since its not too different from the first r6v.
 
  
  gameplay:
  you play with the same squad as the first game, and control mechanics are the same. granted, there 
 r some new changes, like sprinting, and telling your squad to throw grenades, but nothing too different 
 here. the singleplayer is like the first game, in which you clear out room by room, and enemies 
 in the next room will rarely find out what the hell your doing. but enemies are a bit smarter now. 
 they can actually see you through glass, unlike in the first r6v. also your squad can get pretty 
 dumb at times. lots of weird glitches with the team. 
  guns and other stuff cannot be simply picked up and put into your inventory. you actually have 
 to earn it, which is actually pretty nice. 
  
  graphics:
  just as good as the first game. not breathtaking like gears of war or halo 3, but its still pretty 
 amazing. and your custom character looks pretty cool.
  
  sound:
  good, but not great. guns and grenades all sound cool, but enemy voices are pretty much monotonous 
 throughtout the entire game. doesn't seem the producers put much effort into voice acting. background 
 music can loop a lot too, which gets pretty annoying.
  
  story:
  its not really a sequel, but a prequel and re-telling of the story in the first r6v, only thru 
 a different perspective. ending is anticlimactic, but who cares, its the gampelya that should appeal 
 to ya.
  
  a fun game to play, but it probably wont last that long in appeal to you, unless you never played 
 r6v before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ballinup
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  What can i say about this game?
  If you just got the game i would not need to explain how incredible it is.
  
  This game has 
 kept me busy for months and months to come. Best shooter out right now. It gives so much oppurtunity 
 and variety. Also has a great choice of weapons that lets you play how you want to with each gun.
 
  Also lets you not have to play oly a story, Terrorist hunt is the new thing, I could do it all 
 day. It allows you to set a level difficulty and an enemy density to make it just the way you want. 
 The guns are awesome to work with, graphics arent amazing but still enough to please the people.
 
  
  The online R6: V2 was not my favorite, I found it a tad bit laggy, and didnt really like the gameplay 
 of it. But if you do not have Live then you have to get this game. 
  
  Its unbelievable 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freakyFRAGGER5
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  This game is great, so I'll keep this short and sweet so you can go buy this game and play it until 
 your eyes bleed. Wait... on second thought, that would be bad, just play it until they kind of 
 hurt.
  
  I'll start with the graphics, and let me just say "wow." Everything from the guns to the guts is 
 absolutely eye candy. O. K., so there aren't any guts in the game, but there is a lot of blood splatter 
 and it looks just like I would imagine it.... not that I imagine that sort of thing. 
  
  This game sounds just as good as it looks. The enemy spits out plenty of profanities, just like 
 you would expect a hired mercenary or terrorist to do, and you just have to chuckle to yourself 
 right before you frag them into oblivion. Also worth mentioning are the sound effects for the guns. 
 They are SA-WEEEET! I'll find my self ignoring my allies advice of going in silent and purposely 
 remove my silencer just to hear my awesome new assault rifle.
  
  The story, however, isn't quite so good. If you don't play close attention to everything that is 
 said in the in-game dialoge, you probably won't understand much. You know how in most shooters, 
 your A. I. allies will say stuff every now and then, most of it in the heat of battle, and you just 
 think, "thats cool, they talk and stuff, just like real life soldiers would to each other." What 
 you don't know is that every ear-strainingly quiet sentence is essential if you want to get anything 
 from the story.
  
  Having said that, let me also add this: if its as fun to play as this game, the story don't mean 
 jack. And thats the case here. If anything, the story is just annoying little points where you 
 can't shoot anyone, bor-ing. 
  
  A few other awesome bonuses to this game are terrorist hunts and experience. Terrorist hunts just 
 put you, and one of your friends if you wish, on a map with a bunch of terrorists (45 if you have 
 it maxed and your with a friend) . You also can respawn a few times if you're with a partner, but 
 if not, you get only one try to take em down. Let me tell you after trying to take out 45 terrorists 
 in the theater with a bud of mine: it is freakin hard! And we only had it on the casual setting, 
 the second hardest out of three. The experience is also a treat, because you can unlock new gus, 
 armor, and clothing and accesories (and I'm not talking belts and watches) . 
  
  Overall, this is a great game. For all you shooter fans out there, and even everyone else, you'll 
 want to pick this one up. However, if you are a little strapped for cash right now and can only 
 afford one from each genre, then there are better shooters out there. Ok, just one in the modern 
 shooter category, and thats CoD 4: Modern Warefare. Just bad luck for Vegas 2 that its one of the 
 best shooters ever. : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diyari
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 2:10 am PT
Review:  This kinda of games are so boring that you waste your time if you finish one like this...
  my advise to you all stay away from this game.
  
  there are some good stuff about this game 
 but there are alot of bad things more than the goods like
  the graphics are good, so is the controling, and the tactical stuff
  but there is no story about 
 this game its just war that you dont know with whom you fight, you just have to kill people and 
 there is nothing special about it, just a typical boring shooting game...
  your team are so dumb even they wont folow your orders sometime cause they are too scared to fight, they 
 wont go ahead, you have to take all the other soldiers down all by yourself...
  
  the missions are too long and boring like all the other things about the game...
  
  I dont 
 even know how did gamespot staff gave this game 8.5, a game without a good story, without a motive 
 to kill the soldiers. it is you are a soldier and you have order to kill well I hate this kinda 
 of games, and I wont go with the orders and quite hhh...
  
  one more important thing: the main charecter can not be seen in the actual shooting mode but you 
 can see him when you stand by a wall or something 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bakerskate21
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2008 12:10 am PT
Review:  Ive played the story sooooo many times and i absolutley love it. I love that feeling of advancing 
 through the ranks... go ahead call me a noob. Im not an elite. I am two ranks under it. can't remember 
 the name off the top of my head but it is the one that is a white bar. L33T. Anyways, I play this 
 game alot and I love the weapons and the armour. I use a M8 with a reflex scope as my standard 
 wep and for my pistol I always use a 92FS with a extra ammo mag. 17 shots of blowback death. For 
 my secondary Wep I use a artic warfare sniper with a 6,12X scope or a standard shotgun, (Don't remeber 
 the name... it is the last one) with a laser attached. For armour I use anything that is protection... 
 I hate mobility. Im a tank not a rogue... I usually wear a barret as a hat, in blue. the rest of 
 my armour is BLACK!!! Anyways, I LOVE THIS GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PyroSniper
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  I was a huge fan of the first R6V, played it a lot, but I never really got into the multi player, 
 I mostly played terrorist hunt, but this game has me playing multiplayer more than anything, I 
 just cant put this game down.
  
  The Good: Best cover system in any game, large selection of weapons, awesome character customization, 
 good variety of game modes and maps, great multiplayer.
  
  The Bad: Dumb teammates, bad spawns for enemies in terrorist hunt.
  
  I consider this the perfect 
 shooter, nothing like Gears or Halo, people actually die when you shoot them in the head, it doesnt 
 take a rediculous amount of ammunition to take someone down. Halo and Gears have many issues that 
 I think bring them down, and I donlt like not having a cover system in COD4. This game has the 
 best cover system that I have seen in any game, and there is none of this getting stuck on a wall 
 crap that Gears has.
  
  I love how realistic this game is, if you run, your character gets fatigued, and the ammount of 
 armor you have on as well as the weapon you are carrying affects how fast and how long you can 
 run. The cover system works well, and its a good way to catch people off guard, but the blind fire 
 is pretty innacurate and hard to kill someone with.
  
  The multiplayer is fun and addictive, R6V2 is my main online game that I play, I still have COD4, 
 Gears and Halo, dunno why I havent traded them in yet. There are a lot of fun game varients, of 
 course the classic Deathmatch, but there is also total conquest and my favorite, Team Leader. There 
 are other game varients, I just dont play em.
  
  Character customization in this game is the best I have seen in any shooter, as with the last game, 
 you can customize your armor, clothing, weapons, facial features and gender. The customization 
 options get better as you progress in rank, and unlike the first vegas, you dont unlock weapons 
 as you progress in rank, only the customization stuff, you unlock the weapons as you progress in 
 the ACES ranks. The customization is the best once you reach the Elite rank and you can customize 
 your cammo down to the colors and pattern. I mentioned the A. C. E. S ranks earlier, the aces ranks 
 unlock the weapons, and they do not go by thr regular xp you get from kills and completing objectives, 
 you get aces by doing various things such as shoothing someone through cover, killing someone with 
 grenades, kiling someone at close range or long range, or getting a headshot (there are a lot of 
 others) . Each of these objectives are worth 1-5 points depending on the difficulty, how you kill 
 them (a headshot is worth the least where such things as killing someone with C4 is worth the most) 
 and you get more points for killing a player online.
  
  The single player is alright, your team mates arent that great, but they are a good diversion and 
 they are great bullet sponges. R6V2 is both a prequel and a sequel to R6V, you get to see what 
 happens after the first game and what events led up to the first game, but you follow the path 
 of a different Rainbow member, Bishop. Which is aonther thing, since they never mentioned or showed 
 him in the other game, you can change his/her appearance which is based on your customization for 
 your multiplayer character.
  
  Recently, Ubisoft released a new patch and 3 new maps for the game which did a few things that 
 really improved the game. There are now 99 elite ranks and 100 ACES ranks. Each ACES rank gives 
 you 5000 extra xp, which makes gainging higher levels a lot easier. They also tweaked a few of 
 the weapons, made some of them faster, slower, or more powerful. They also increased the delay 
 on incendary grenades.
  
  This is a great game, and I dont really care what anyone says, this game is the perfect shooter, 
 it completely blows Halo, COD4, and Gears out of the water. And I love how it is under rated and 
 there arent as many people who play this game as Halo, the online community is so much better than 
 the other three games I mentioned, there are a lot less loud and obnoxious people and there are 
 very few little kids. I highly reccomend this game, I consider it to be in many ways better than 
 freakin Halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dough007
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  This game shows great multiplayer action in this game then the first Rainbow six Vegas. First 
 of all, in the first Rainbow six Vegas, it; s just you and your other friend who's playing with 
 you. You have a better chance of getting killed. In Rainbow six Vegas 2, it's you, your other 
 friend, and two other computer players. It's not easy, but it still gives you a better advantage 
 at winning. I would say the single player mode in both the first vegas and the 2nd one both are 
 equal when it comes to single player mode. Now the storyline wasn't that long but STORY was good. 
 I liked the ending but it was disappointing when I won with my brother after playing 2 to 3 hours 
 for 3 to 4 days. I thought the first Rainbow six Vegas had a better and longer storyline. This 
 game is a must get because of all the exciting features and the backgrounds that you encounter 
 during this game. The first and the 2nd Rainbow six vegas both have a great equal amount of awesome 
 backgrounds. This game is a must get but a game you'll beat in 10 hours or less, but this is an 
 exciting game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fishbrain8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 2:42 am PT
Review:  The game is one of the best shooters i have ever played. This game is easily the best game in the 
 Rainbow Six series so far. 
  
  The customization of your character and the weapons is just one of things I love about this game. 
 It's great how you go up ranks and unlock different weapons, armour and clothing by getting up 
 you CQB, Marksman and Assualt (I think thats what its called) . You don't start with everything, 
 you have to earn it through skillful gameplay. Having two comrades that you can control really 
 help. You can set them up on one door while you are on another and then you can clear the room 
 from two sides.
  
  The biggest let down in Vegas 2 is the story. It's still good but it could've been better. I would've 
 liked a melee weapon as well but a shotgun at close range is just as good, chances are you won't 
 even get that close to an enemy.
  
  I'm not sure about the multiplayer as i don't have Xbox Live, yet.
  
  I recommend this game 
 to any one who loves shooters. Even if you don't, you need to try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ikavnieks
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a solid game. It is a good tactical shooter that is sure to keep you hooked 
 for hours. This game is a simple first person shooter that has minor flaws but nothing considerable. 
 The graphics in the game could have been better. I played this game for the Xbox 360 and compared 
 to other games of a similar genre the graphics could have been improved substantially. In other 
 games there are minor details that you notice such as light switches. In this game it looks as 
 if they put no detail in those light switches. The audio in the game was pretty good. Some of the 
 voice acting was a bit repetitive such as when you are issuing voice commands. Which brings me 
 to my next point, the A. I. Generally, the A. I. was okay. Your team can help you get out of some 
 tight situations but every so often they can become a burden. For example, when they stack up at 
 a door and you order them to enter and clear, they sometimes just run into the room, get shot and 
 killed. If they are killed the mission is over. But this does not happen all the time. Overall 
 the game is a solid first person shooter with hours of gameplay, a great multiplayer mode and offers 
 an excellent Xbox live experience. This game is very similar to its predecessor so if do not want 
 to spend $60 on this get its prequel Rainbow Six Vegas at a much cheaper price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xsfseal
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  When i first rented the game, i thought this could be something to do over the weekend. Just something 
 to hold me over for now. This game is far more then just a rental. At first your just playing along 
 like the average FPS, then you get to use the unique cover system, with great tactical gameplay. 
 Before you know it your using rappels and busting through windows, using flashbangs to break into 
 rooms and eliminate terrorist threats. Its a very good game that combines the average fps, with 
 hardcore tactics and great gameplay mechanics. You can't just run and gun for the most part. You 
 will die trying that cheesy stuff. You have to pick your shots and use stealth to your advantage. 
 Plus the ranking system is hard on you, but its well worth it. The character customization is great, 
 as you can choose different body armors, and even the colors of them. Decent amount of guns to 
 choose from to get the feel your looking for also. I beat it multiple times and i still want more. 
 The co-op is great, along with terrorist hunts that will keep you coming back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trunks35
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a great game. The graphics are nice and the game has amazing visuals. The 
 AI is smart which makes the game challanging. You can custonmize your character to wear whatever 
 equipment you have unlocked. You "level up" you character by getting certain kind of kills which 
 unlocks new weapons and new armors for your character. Terrorist hunts are even better then number 
 1 and playing online with friends rocks. The story is fairly long and interesting. You can play 
 through the campaign with a friend on the same 360 or with someone over xbow live. Same goes for 
 terrorist hunts. This game has a lot of replay value expecially if you take advantege of online 
 play. They already have a few new maps to download on xbow live and more to come out soon,. This 
 is a must have for any first person shooter fan or even someone who wants to try something challanging. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doubalfa
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2
  
  Im not taking into account Rainbow Six Vegas for this review, so any new player to the rainbow 
 six games, will be able to see all the features this game has.
  
  The Zone Reviews: Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas 2
  
  The comment 
  
  A great overall experience, 
 alone or with friends, and even better online, it's a tactical shooter, and is a little slower 
 than your common first person shooters, but it offers great customization on the way you execute 
 your tactics, a thumbs up for this game
  
  Gameplay
  
  The strong part of this game is it's gameplay, it has some tweaks to your common shooter, and even 
 to the rainbow six series, first of all if you dont know anything about this game, it's a tactical 
 first person shooter, wich means you play in first person (obviously) , but more to the side of 
 think before you act, and try to kill in your first shot.
  The major change is the cover system, wich basically lets you put something in he way of bullets, 
 you take cover by just pressing the LT from here you can do some actions like pop out and fire, 
 blindfire, use grenades, or look behind cover to see whats sorrounding you, but beware because not 
 every material is bullet proof so if you are in wood pray that nobody shoots your cover, the next 
 feature is the context button, if you are in the right situation your rainbow is able to rappe, 
 fast rope, use mounted machine guns, use snake cam, and some other actions, the third feature is 
 the use of visors, a thermal visor and a nightvision, this is pretty useful in thight situations 
 or when you need clear objectives, next is the AI actions wich I will tell you more later, also 
 this game feaures auto heal so if ou dont get enough damage, you can survive and heal.
  As a rainbow you have a lot of weapons to choose from like, sniper rifles, light machine guns, 
 submachine guns, pistols, assault rifles, shotgun and a riot shield, each category of weapon has 
 plenty of options in equipment, and every weapon is very unique so try using what best appeals 
 to you, so you want stoping power?, precise shots? go for it. Also you have basic equipment like 
 frag grenades, smoke grenade, flash grenade and others.
  Ubisoft has made a good job to make sure you want to play the game as best as you can with two 
 on the fly awards, first of them is experience points, wich lets tyou rank up, you only get experience 
 from killing, or winning online matches, the best of this is that any experience gained in campaign 
 or plaing offline will count online, so whats the great thing of ranking? the equipment dude you 
 have more options of equipment for your P. E. C. (more on this later) the second is the A. C. E. S. 
 system wich give players awards for killing wih style, there are three A. C. E. S. wich are,
  close range (killing in cloe range, killing from the back, killing using blindfire) 
  sharpshooter 
 (killing from long distance, headshots, killing a guy in a rope)
  assault (killing with explosives, killing shielded guys, killing through cover) 
  so why do you 
 want A. C. E. S.? because the more skill in each category unlocks, the more weapons you unlock. And 
 last but not least Rainbow six vegas 2 has a pretty interesting mode called terrorist hunt wih 
 you can play coop, or solo, where you are pited agains a determined number of terroris in any map 
 you choose so take a look at this mode.
  The Good
  +The ability to customize everything on your character
  +Every move is useful, and makes you 
 feel like an agent
  The Bad
  -it would have been cool if they implemented more cover moves
  -some ranks are really hard to 
 achieve
  
  Campaign
  a silver star for the game, is the campaign, it has really good moments, it is lenghty, but it 
 doesnt take forever to finish it. As you can figure the campaign, takes you to sin city but you 
 are wrong if you think you will be playing in casinos (the first rainbow six vegas takes you there) 
 instead you will be playing in LVU, a refinery, a conventon center, a residencial zone, and some 
 other places in the same fashion, you play as Bishop a P. E. C. (persistent elite creation) wich 
 you create, and equip and even dress haha, either online or offline, and you almost every mission 
 will have two AI characters, wich most of the time are pretty useful, you can send them to ehrever 
 you want, open doors throw granades, be stealth, plenty of options, but they are not perfect sometimes 
 they are stuck and left behind, or they dont know how to search for the enemy, but dont be scared, 
 this never happens often, the story doesnt continue here the firs one left, instead it stars five 
 years ago, then hours before, then after the first one, but trust me it makes sense, its not an 
 award winning story but it's ok, you can also play it co-op offline or online, and a thumbs up 
 for the difficulty as it is rewarding, oh and dont expect great character development, you never 
 get to know the story of your team or character
  The good
  + great Ai very versatile
  + everything is well explained 
  The bad
  -umm the places you go definitively doesnt make you 
 feel like vegas it may have been anywhere you want
  -you only get to see like 2 civilians in the whole game
  
  Multiplayer
  ok if the campaign 
 is a silver star the multiplayer hits gold, is rainbow against rainbow in intense battle, tactics, 
 and cheap kills, so what makes it so great? umm let's start with the game modes, (oh every game 
 mode is for 14 players) you have your classic deathmatch and team deathmatch, here you can tweak 
 the options so it plays as a survival mode wich means... no respawns baby pure hardcore!, then here 
 are the original modes, total conquest, wich puts two teams and 3 satelite dishes, so guess what? 
 you have to capture the three satelite dishes and mantain them for 1 minute (sometimes its harder 
 than it looks) then you have team leader, again two teams, each team has a leadr or VIP and you 
 have to guide it to the extraction point, every player except the leader has unlimited respawns, 
 but if your leader dies, you cannot respawn anymore, so if both leaders die is basically ah team 
 survival, and there is also Attack and defend, wich pits two teams (again) one that attacks with 
 an objective (arming a bomb, recue hostages , or retrieve data, and the other team has to defend 
 it, is a great game mode, another thumbs up for this game is that it pushes you to do some teamwork, 
 as you may get your butt kicked if you are a lone wolve, the maps are from ok, to great, and the 
 online community is is great in my opinion this game is a must have if you have xbox live. oh and 
 I almost forgot, the last update made the game more interesting by adding, one main option for 
 online named high stakes wich makes the game more realistic; you are not as accurate if you are 
 not standing and zooming, more recoil on weapons, you dont heal, less ammunition, you cant see 
 behind cover
  The Good
  +the game modes are great
  +the feeling of killing a sniper from long distance is awesome
  +high stakes is a great addition
 
  The Bad
  -many people plays the same map over and over and over.......
  -you will learn to hate the 500 tatic believe me
  
  Presentation
  
  The Good
  +the weapons 
 look and sound ok
  +good characer modeing
  The Bad
  -the music it just doesnt inspire me to becme a killing machine
  -some textures look awful (im 
 watching you villa)
  
  Closing Comment
  One of the best experiences I have played, great online offline, great campaign, amazing multiplayer, 
 terrorist hunt and high stakes are a good options and gabriel sounds like Tom Cruise
  
  
  SCORE 9.2 out of 10
  Why I gave it a 9.2 because 1) i wanted to, 2) I reviewed as if I had never 
 played the first RSV 3) I love it so if you agree or you dont guess what? post it in my blog and 
 tell me, 
  The Bad 
  -is too long for a review hahaha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irmeleeman5995
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Gameplay is greatly expanded and more fine tuned than ever, graphics have been vamped 
 up and at no cost to multiplayer quality, more guns, addressed more issues from first game than 
 I care to count, continues to be updated by the ever busy Ubi Montreal
  
  The Bad: Still a few VERY tiny gameplay issues, game is still less-than-stable at times, lacks 
 enough casino environments, many voice actors did not resume their previous roles, story mode Co-Op 
 is only two player maximum and you still have to drag your squad around, ACES bonuses don't "stack", 
 achievements can be glitchy
  
  Being a first person shooter fan, Rainbow Six Vegas was, in a lot of ways, a dream come true. The 
 gameplay was fluid as it was riveting, the cover system positively influenced the tide of combat 
 without becoming the focal point or a gimmick, and the amount of realism in graphics and technology 
 was a sight to behold. It wasn't perfect though, as nothing is, and there were some little and 
 big issues that I desperately wanted fixed. 
  
  That's part of, if not the whole reason, why R6V2 is such a God send. It's been called Vegas 1.5, 
 seeing as it's viewed as "one giant update" by skeptics. Opinions asideis that really a bad thing?
 
  
  R6V2 picks up not quite where the first game's story left off. You actually assume the role of 
 a different squad leader, even though you're leading the same other two NPCs as you were in the 
 first game. The game starts a few days before the other game, but by the time it ends the two timelines 
 have synched up and the storylines tie together. The story is well told through in game cutscenes 
 and scripted events, but the story can be hard to follow if you aren't paying attention, and it's 
 hard to pick back up on if you fall behind. The story mode is a good 6-8 hours, and by the end, 
 all loose ends are tied up.
  
  Aside from story mode, there's a large array of other things for you to do. You can simply choose 
 one of the game's maps and kill a predetermined number of terrorists without dying, or you can 
 play online against other people. Both story and terrorist hunts can be played split screen, system 
 link, or online co-op, but disappointingly, story co-op is only up to two players, and unlike the 
 first game, the host must drag the two AI companions along with you and your buddy, which can become 
 an irritation and feels unnecessary. The game can get difficult, especially on the highest difficulty, 
 and sometimes you wish you could be playing with three humans alongside you, instead of one. 
 
  
  Terrorist Hunt co-op works just fine though. Not only can up to four participate, but depending 
 on the difficulty you play on, you get a certain number of respawns as well, which eases a little 
 bit of difficulty that persisted in the previous game's T-Hunts. 
  
  The remaining factor, then, is adversarial online play. As addicting and fun as the adversarial 
 modes are, there are only five this time around, which is a bit of a drag. There's free for all 
 deathmatch, team deathmatch, attack and defend, and two new modes called total conquest and team 
 leader. Total conquest puts you on the map with three satellite dishes waiting to be commandeered 
 for your team. They're taken by walking up to them and holding the action button until the satellite 
 is taken, and the goal is to hold all three satellites for a 30 second timer, or to control the 
 majority when the match is over. Team leader is a complicated VIP style game, in which the team 
 leader enables your team endless respawns, but once killed, he cannot respawn, nor can anyone on 
 your team. Also, being killed by the opposing leader also permanently eliminates you for the game. 
 The goal is to escort your leader to the extraction point on the opposite side of the map, but 
 more often than not, it boils down to the leaders being hunted down and killed, and then a bitter 
 firefight to the death between the two teams when respawns are gone.
  
  All of these game modes are fun, despite the fact that the classic attack and defend is inexplicably 
 limited to, at most, three respawns per player, and that other gametypes found in Vegas 1 are absent. 
 At any rate, with only five gametypes to choose from, the game still ends up being surprisingly 
 varied and you rarely get bored as long as you appropriately mix things up.
  
  It is also important to note that in a recent game update, Ubi Montreal did a number of deeply 
 appreciated things. To name a few, they released three new maps for free, including the classic 
 Calypso Casino. Other than that, it's mainly gameplay oriented updates. They increased accuracy 
 of light machine guns, they increased power of sniper rifles from farther ranges, they added a 
 grenade indicator a la Call of Duty, they modified some gadgets for balance, and they added new 
 ranks for ACES and Elite. They made the zoom for weapons faster. They also gave the host the option 
 to allow dead team members to still communicate, they added options for "random respawns", and 
 they added a new mode called High Stakes. 
  
  High Stakes is an overlap on other game types, it is not its own. It changes numerous things. It 
 makes your gun far less accurate from the hip, encouraging you to zoom in to engage in combat. 
 It makes the cover system such that when placed against cover, you don't have a huge viewing angle 
 of your surroundings, as is unrealistic, and to some, unfair. So, on cover, the camera is fixed 
 on your character's head and chest, forcing you to peek out of cover in order to take in your surroundings. 
 Team damage is also always on. Another feature is that health does not regenerate past a certain 
 point, so you have to play smarter and safer. Last, High Stakes also reduces the amount of ammo 
 you have and removes the grenade indicator. 
  
  As you can see, Ubi does a lot to their games to ensure they're all they can be. Three more of 
 these things are a sprint button, permeable cover, and a new ranking system.
  
  The sprint button was a must. One issue I had always had with the original game was that even when 
 you heard a grenade clink at your feet, there was nothing you could do but trot away at a snail's 
 pace and pray. Not only is that unrealistic, but it's plain irritating. But, no more. Assigned 
 conveniently to the left bumper is a new sprint button, and it does its job marvelously. One thing 
 to note about the sprint button is that you can use it to interrupt a reload animation, making 
 it an invaluable tool in saving your own life when you reload, thinking the scene is clear, and 
 it isn't. Make sure you still have some ammo in the clip though! If you do a "dry reload", nothing 
 happens.
  
  The other thing that begged to be placed in the Vegas games was permeable cover. Much like the 
 sprint button, it's unrealistic to be unloading with a .50 caliber pistol into a box made out of 
 plywood and not kill the target behind it. No more. Various materials throughout the game are permeable 
 on several different levels, and the gun you're using and the range you're using it at also effect 
 how well the bullets penetrate. It's not perfect, and at first it seems very underwhelming, but 
 after a long time with it, you realize that it's far more realistic than Call of Duty 4's, and 
 Ubi didn't just add a last minute, sloppy gimmick.
  
  The new ranking system wasn't something I consciously wanted from this game, but I am eternally 
 grateful for it. The way the previous game ranked you up was determined by a few factors; winning, 
 losing, game duration, balanced teams, and sometimes difficulty level. The reason this system was, 
 well, bad, is because it didn't reflect individual player performance. You could suffer by having 
 a bad team, or by doing extremely good up until something stupid at the end of a match causes you 
 to lose, and it's basically all for nothing. This game uses a system much like Call of Duty 4's 
 in which you earn XP on the fly for performing certain tasks, meeting certain requirements, or 
 winning a match. For example, if you did a T-Hunt on the hardest difficulty in Vegas 1, and your 
 whole team died with only 1 terrorist remaining, you got nothing. In Vegas 2, you still get a hefty 
 sum of points for every enemy killed on the hardest setting, and you share XP with all your teammates 
 as well, which is a cool touch. 
  
  Paired along with this system is ACES. ACES is split up into three categories: Marksman, Assault, 
 and CQB. These categories all have, as of the newest update, 100 levels. You get certain amounts 
 of points in the categories, and these points tally up until you reach preset amounts, unlocking 
 new weapons or triggering XP boosts. Things like headshots, killing at long distances, killing 
 people using ropes or killing while you're using a rope gets points for marksman. CQB, on the other 
 hand, is earned by close range kills, killing with blindfire, killing from behind, etc. Assault 
 is aptly named, being killing through cover, killing with explosives, killing using C4, killing 
 a shield user, or killing a turret gunner. The guns you unlock for each category are ones affiliated 
 with said categories, and it doesn't take too long before you're a weapon collector of the most 
 deadly kind. Once you pass level 20 in each category, the rest each trigger 5,000 XP boosts all 
 the way up, so it makes it easier to rank up to higher levels once you have nothing to go on.
 
  
  The one beef I have with ACES is that your bonuses don't "stack". Say you killed an opponent on 
 a rope from a far range, you'd only get points for the higher point value of the two. Or maybe 
 you killed someone from behind, from a close range, with a headshot; only the highest point value 
 is counted. A minor inconvenience, but it doesn't seem to make sense and is a lost opportunity 
 for ascending faster in the ranks.
  
  The rest of the gameplay in Vegas 2 is a dream. The controls are all mapped easily and intelligently, 
 with several other schemes available if you choose to change it. The cover system works as well 
 as ever. There's a slight moment when whipping around from cover when your crosshairs become uncentered 
 so that you can't simply pop around a corner and nail someone right in the head right away. Instead, 
 you must wait a split second before firing accurately. It makes it more fair and realistic, and 
 it's just one example of fine tuning the gameplay on Ubi's part that makes the game so fantastic. 
 
  
  Aside from the obvious cover mechanic, you have gadgets/explosives to use, guns to customize (lots 
 of guns) , vision modes to use, and stuff to interact with in the environment, be it ropes and 
 ladders or bombs to defuse. The gameplay isn't exactly frantic most of the time, but the pace has 
 upped dramatically with the sprint button, and the tactics and execution that go into the gameplay 
 looks and feels a lot more realistic and, to be honest, thrilling, than it ever has been. 
  
  The graphics have seen a surprisingly large improvement, most notably the fact that multiplayer 
 graphics' quality is up to par with single player. The guns look better than ever, with lighting 
 reflecting of the contours of the weapons in ways that make me drool at times. Dust clouds jet 
 out of cement walls from near misses. Lights reflect off of face plates on combat helmets. Enemies 
 go up in flames from incendiary grenades. Blood looks better than ever with excellent splatter 
 effects and thicker gushes when hitting enemies. Water looks great in certain puddles on the floor, 
 mainly in campaign levels. And, perhaps the best of all, character models in third person just 
 look good. They're not exactly textured immaculately, but they have distinct armor and clothing 
 and are very nice to look at when you're sitting on a wall all game. 
  
  Aside from straight up visuals, the game holds up a lot nicer than the first game did. Rarely a 
 hitch in the framerate. Enemy AI is improved. The game is practically glitchless compared to the 
 first one, and there's barely a moment of "Hey, shouldn't that guy be flaming right now?" or, "Why 
 is that terrorist staring at me for no reason?" Rag doll physics are also a sight to behold. The 
 way you know ragdoll physics work as they should is because you don't notice them. They never screw 
 up. But, to the sharp eye of the sadist who loves watching the bodies after they die, you'll notice 
 it's never over dramatized, and it always looks right. Also let it be known that you can essentially 
 never watch the same death animation twice. Reading that, most of you would mutter, "Yeah, whatever" 
 but it's actually true. The gun, objects in the environment, the angle, and the distance are just 
 some of the factors that effect how the body topples motionless to the ground.
  
  The sound in Vegas 2 only has one flaw. That flaw is that, for all the new guns added to the game, 
 barely any have their own unique sound effects, versus the old game, where nearly every gun had 
 its totally unique array of sounds. However, apart from that, the sound is totally up to par with 
 the rest of what the game throws at you. The guns all sound hearty and the sounds really fit their 
 parts. It's more than common to hear sounds in a movie or a game that might even sound good, but 
 you're thinking, "That shouldn't come out of that" Not so in Vegas 2. 
  
  Aside from guns themselves, the terrorists belt out many similar lines to the other game, as well 
 as new lines and new voices. The bullets make appropriate sounds when coming into contact with 
 different materials, most notably the splintering noise of wood being shot, which can make you 
 want to duck your head to avoid a hail of splinters. Another note is that a lot of voice actors 
 did not reprise their roles in this game. This is disconcerting, but in some cases, the new actors 
 are actually better
  
  One thing about Vegas 2's sound design is that it's near flawless in execution. Sound almost never 
 plays late, fails to play, or lags and plays repeatedly for no reason. All three things happen 
 in other games, including the previous Vegas title, so it's good to see that even something as 
 little as a laggy light machine gun sound effect is a rare occurrence nowadays. Anyway, to close 
 on the sound, I'd say the same thing about the rag doll effects. Sound doesn't stand out because 
 it rarely doesn't work flawlessly.
  
  One of Vegas 2's strong suits is that there's a lot to do. T-Hunts on various difficulties, let 
 alone co-op or even with your AI squad can take a lot of time. There's the story as well, which 
 can be very exciting with a partner. The multiplayer will keep you coming back with addictive gameplay, 
 streamlined and heavily improved options for the host and players, many maps, and five game modes. 
 The ranking system is rewarding and keeps things interesting, with 100 ACES levels and 99 ranks 
 of Elite newly added. The achievements in the game are evenly spread through completing campaign 
 tasks, T-Hunts, and performing different tasks in online adversarial. Ubi has also made sure that 
 achievements are difficult to cheat to get, although on the flipside, it's not uncommon for certain 
 achievements to not unlock, which is a huge bummer, specifically the 75 G achievement for completing 
 the campaign on Realistic difficulty. 
  
  All things considered, R6V2 is a masterpiece of shooting games and should not be missed. CoD fan, 
 Halo fan, Battlefield fan, anyone can find something to like in Vegas's deep, advanced, fine tuned, 
 engrossing gameplay. There's more options, more unlockables, more ranks, more guns, better graphics, 
 and some of the finest crafted core gameplay in any game you'll ever play. Don't miss it.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoneWulf666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  Same enemies, same dialogue from them, same guns and animations but, ladies and gentlemen, I can 
 now run, to a degree. Your character runs like either a crack monkey or that fat kid in gym class. Such 
 an amazing new feature. It's all bad though. The new exp system and A. C. E. S. are more inviting 
 than the dry terrorist hunt player matches we had to do in the previous game on LVU campus or any 
 map that had low density on. The created character involvement in the singleplayer was a nice twist, 
 even if the game was a bit dry. The achievements are fair to say the least. The custom camo is 
 weaken. "Ubislop" could not balance weapons to save their legacy, fortune from Tom Clancy or geet 
 laid. This results in cheap-o weapons being used in death match modes repeatedly. Team elimination 
 has been replaced with Team Leader. Team death match in ranked matches is short, shallow, stripped 
 and raped before your eyes. The update with the new ranks and A. C. E. S. was over-shot and had no 
 achievements. If I hear "He's dead. We're f**ked" one more time as the terrorists just come in the 
 halls one-by-one clueless, I will just quit playing this game.
  
  Overall, I expected more from this sequel. I was irritated with this tired and naked game within 
 days upon completion of the single-player. The multiplayer is still fun, but I still scream in anger 
 of it's lost potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robheisel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  now the first thing first i have to say this one of the best video game out there in the game you 
 play as some guy wich i forgot his name i have to say the video game you play as the guy in the 
 game your the laeader trying to kill terrorist wich no im not kidding you do kill terrorist of 
 course you kill them in the game it starts off were your just going around shooting bad guys and 
 your job here is to kill bad guys and save people from death can like outfit your player and chosse 
 your weapons the only weapon you want is the sniper rifle it plays out like ah first person shooter 
 then ah third-person shooter if you press the left trigger now you may think its easy but its super 
 hard well it is hard cause the a. i. is terrific people like games that have great a. i. if you dont 
 take cover your goanna die but the controls are great the voice-acting is good the charcther models 
 are sharp wiht fantastic gameplay i want to give this game 10 but the only thing that made this 
 bad is that your squad mates just don do ah good job doing your orders much they can follow your 
 orders they can take em out then take cover by pressing the a button of press the down d-pad to 
 regroup with you well this proably one of the best games i have ever played well i give this game.
 
  
  8.5 out of 10.
  
  The Good: great gameplay and soild voice-acting amazing gameplay and models this one has great 
 multiplayer terroist hunt is fun for your friends online you get new weapons and armor terrific 
 music and tom clancy makes some of the best games out there.
  
  The Bad: you will wish there was ah vegas 3.
  
  The Ugly: nothing.......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxNYXZxx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  One of the funest games to date. Singleplayer is fun with the customization. Also the A. C. E. S. 
 system seems a little bit easy to rank up. With the new patch you should be able to get to Elite 
 in no time. You can have endless fun with friends on Xbox Live, or split screen. My friends and 
 I have a great time messing around with the AI.
  
  But, when you start to get used to the feel of the game you will have loads of fun on XBL.
  
 
  But, The Multiplayer aspect of the game is where it truely shines. With all the competitve players 
 online, you can have countless hours of fun. Beware somtimes on XBL the players can be inmature 
 no matter thier age.
  
  Also the PEC that keeps track of your stats/rank is incredible. 
  
  The costomization is absolutely amazing in this game.
  
  
  Forgive any spelling errors 
 since im writing this off the top of my head. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXists
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 12, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  
  [The Good]
  
  - Realistic mode   It can be a pain sometimes 
 but it's the way to do it, also extends the single player significantly, start the game on Realistic 
 the first time around.
  
  - Solo mission   A la Splinter Cell, there's a great mission that should not be missed and should 
 only be played on Realistic, it can be a pain but worth it for Sam fans.
  
  - Leveling   Leveling up in Single player mode is more than welcome. Receiving upgrades as you 
 go as well as details for what kind of shots you accomplished and experience points. Are we slowly 
 getting into RPG territory? I hope so.
  
  - Gameplay   Nothing much changed (a good thing) , still very good controls although I wish the 
 snake cam button would be different than the open door control, it sometimes triggers the open 
 door and ends up with unintended results ;) Sprinting is a pretty good plus, was definitely missing 
 in previous version.
  
  - Online   Best online shooter? Definitely in the top 5. Co-op is always welcome.
  
  - Enemy 
 AI   On hard mode, they're quite agressive
  
  
  [The Bad]
  
 
  - Wow factor   It's just missing something that would take it to the next level, it's becoming 
 a bit repetitive, needs some new gameplay elements, story, better presentation...
  
  - Presentation   Quite average, expected better visuals
  
  - Location   The areas/environments 
 where you're playing some of the missions are not that exciting, back alleys of Vegas not that 
 exciting.
  
  - Story   Really weak in the story department, adding some cut-scenes and more depth wouldn't hurt
 
  
  - Achievements   Not a fan of too many online achievements, single player should have more points 
 in my personal opinion, see what COD4 did.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 11, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  With only eighteen months separating the first Rainbow Six Vegas game to its sequel, a lot is expected 
 to be desired, especially considering the dynamic pedigree that the series has garnered over the 
 years. While the core concept of the game is essentially similar to the previous, a few minor tweaks 
 and additions give fans a reason to head back to Sin City for some terrorist shooting action, despite 
 the fact that Vegas 2 feels all too similar.
  
  The game sees the heralded Rainbow Six group heading back to Las Vegas to stop a terrorist attack. 
 The story itself is quite uninteresting and doesn't remotely pick up until the end, which thankfully 
 delivers a highly rewarding ending this time around. The similarities with the game's name are 
 rarely sound, however, considering most of the game takes place in neighboring regions of Vegas. 
 It's hardly a major gripe since all of the levels are beautifully constructed and original, but 
 fighting amongst the glamour and lights like the first game is all but a memory here. The levels 
 in which you are in Vegas feel similar to the previous game, except that now you are fighting in 
 the sunlight rather than at night, a far cry to delivering new and inspiring locations.
  
  There are still plenty of new levels in the game, just not ones that were as awe-inspiring and 
 amazing as in the first game. Brand new hotels (themes that can only be originated in Vegas) , lush 
 barren landscapes, and foreign lands make up the bulk of the experience. Perhaps the novelty has 
 worn off a little, but Vegas 2 fully makes up for it with relentless action. The game is more intense 
 this time and enemies will get much harder to kill and flank. A new sprint button has been added, 
 similar to Call of Duty 4, which allows your character to run short distances to avoid enemy fire. 
 It's a nice change for a series that is so akin to tactical action with slow-and-steady scenarios. 
 It might take some veterans a while to adjust to the fast paced enhancements, but overall it's 
 a nice fit for the pace of the game.
  
  The basic core gameplay is still around but it will take more thinking and tenacity to remain victorious. 
 Enemies have been completely overhauled; they will flank you, pin you down for what will seem like 
 hours, and even rush you while you are hiding for your life. Your squad mates, on the other hand, 
 remain as drone and worthless as the previous game. There are times when they will do less-than-cavalier 
 things, such as try to heal a fallen soldier in the open within heavy gunfire, or get caught up 
 behind obstacles that will leave you in highly hospitable situations. It's no difference than the 
 problems found in the first game, but it would have been pleasurable had Ubisoft addressed these 
 issues.
  
  While many of you probably won't pick up Vegas 2 for the story mode, it is probably essential to 
 try it out if you plan on jumping online for a long time, as the experience system has been completely 
 revamped to offer endless hours of replay value over the course of both modes. Now, the achievements 
 you perform in both single player and multiplayer carry over to your overall total, meaning you 
 don't have to spend more time in one mode to fully upgrade your character with experience points. 
 What makes this system so unique are the many different types of challenges you can achieve, such 
 as blowing up multiple enemies at once with a grenade or sniping someone at a distance. Depending 
 on what is performed, a separate section of the experience meter is upgraded, allowing you to net 
 armor, weapons, and other upgradeable goodies once the requirements are met.
  
  The majority of players will probably head over to the multiplayer portion of the game to get the 
 full effect of what Vegas 2 has to offer. A wide assortment of various modes awaits anyone who 
 is looking for a good time with friends or anyone over XBL or PSN. The same basic staples of all 
 Rainbow Six games are around, such as deathmatch (both team and single) and capture the flag. Three 
 new modes (demolition, team leader, and total conquest) give players a much needed change in the 
 dynamics on online multiplayer and offer a nice balance of mayhem and originality. Demolition is 
 similar to the standard "bomb the base" modes, team leader sets up an elimination style play where 
 everyone will respawn as long as the leader is still alive, and total conquest, a reconstructed 
 version from the first game in which three transmitters now flank the levels and controlling all 
 three to win is a fast and furious experience.
  
  Co-op mode is back but not for the better. Instead of keeping things the same with four-player 
 co-op, Vegas 2 fittingly only offers two, and the options for the second player are boring and 
 dull. Only player one can control your AI squad mates, leaving player two out to dry and feeling 
 like an add-on to an already glorious event. If player one happens to fall during battle and you 
 are stuck without any means to reach him, your squad mates will simply loaf around and do nothing, 
 lending more uselessness to player two. The dynamics for the mode have changed to offer a more 
 personal experience in allowing only two players, but the lack of options for anyone but player 
 one makes it feel all too boring. Of course you can still do four-player terrorist hunts, which 
 is unchanged and still as fun and engaging to participate in.
  
  The visuals for Vegas 2 are spectacular, and actually do look and feel better than the first game. 
 There are noticeable differences in the shine on buildings, rustle of focal life, and enemies that 
 actually wear different clothing truly, making Vegas 2 one of the best looking games out to date. 
 Plus the framerate has never been smoother, offering nonstop action even in moments of intense 
 fighting. We never once experienced any slowdowns or glitches, which is a more than welcome affair 
 in any shooter. The sound remains almost identical, with music that echoes the first game and enemies 
 that yell the same lines over and over again. It isn't enough to keep you bogged down with the 
 similarities, but a little more diversity, perhaps in how things react during firefights (such 
 as how commands sound and what enemies can yell during battle) would have kept things interesting.
 
  
  The overall status of Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is one of satisfaction, but also disparity. The game 
 relies too heavily on the events and effects of the previous title, and although there are plenty 
 of neat new features to whet your appetite, the game hardly feels like a sequel and more of a downloadable 
 add-on. Fans of the series will no doubt be intrigued by the substantial differences, but casual 
 shooter fans will see the changes as minor and only be impressed by the subtleties. Vegas 2 is 
 still one of the best and most dynamic multiplayer experiences out there; just a little more change 
 would have been welcome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PdPstyle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  First of if you were expecting a full fledged expansions this is not quite that. The graphics are 
 about the same as its predecessor and Im pretty sure ALL the same guns are in this game, if only 
 tweaked some. That being said, there is really nothing wrong with anything in the game. The story 
 is taken in through the eyes of a new character though you will interact with your old team of 
 terrorist hunters. The missions are engadging and fun and made even better when you team up with 
 a friend or group of friends via xbox live or split screen. the controls work the same as before 
 so old players will be able to jump right in. The game kept me occupied for a really long time 
 as when played on realistic the game is downright HARD sometimes. A little preserverance and a 
 tactical mindset will get you through most of the hardest parts though. All in all while this game 
 does not offer anything NEW persay outside of the new missions its still a lot of fun and the multiplayer 
 is deffinatly better than in the old game... though not on the level of Halo 3 or CoD4 its still 
 fun with friends. My personal favorite is to Terrorist hunt with tons of baddies in game with a 
 friend or two. that way you get the tac feel of the game without having to worry about having to 
 run and gun like in MP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricky-Wagner
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas 2 goes far beyond being a great FPS game. I don't even know where to start with 
 this one because there is just so many things worth mentioning. The first thing I'm gonna have 
 to point out is the character customization, which lets you change almost every aspect of your 
 soldier and use him both on and off of xbox live, allowing you to level up even as you go through 
 story mode. New armor and weapons at every level will give you the drive to keep playing for hundreds 
 of hours. The graphics, as well as the ear pounding audio in this game are top notch, which is 
 common with a Rainbow Six game. I would also like to mention the new sprinting feature which allows 
 you to get to cover faster and avoid being out in the open for too long. The single player mode 
 is the best yet in the series, and co-op will keep you and your friends up all night fighting tangos, 
 but like always, the multiplayer is absolutely amazing in this game, opening new doors to the multiplayer 
 gaming experience. Don't expect to go online with this game and already be a top scorer though, 
 as the players in this game are extremely competetive and skilled. You will definitely have to 
 spend many hours trying to work your way to the top. If you are a fan of heart pounding shooter 
 action mixed with strategy and guile, as well as top notch graphics and audio, then I recommend 
 you at least rent this game (which will probobly lead to a purchase.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 was one of my most anticipated games for 2008. I have been a fan of the series 
 since the n64 and even though there have been some bumps in the road (I'm looking at you Lockdown) 
 the series is better than ever, and Vegas 2 is without a doubt the best game in the series, because 
 it takes the main components of R6 Vegas and tweaks them all for the better. The game features 
 amazing online play and a unique character/xp system that is only rivaled by that of CoD4. The 
 game features intense shoot outs that only Tom Clancy and gang at Ubisoft could bring you.
  
  The story in Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is easily the down point of the game, even though it is still 
 very exciting and fun to play through. The story of Rainbow Six Vegas 2 takes place on the exact 
 same day that the events of the first Vegas took place, but you take control of a different team 
 this time around. Your team is the first team to arrive in Vegas as you will hear a reference to 
 the beginning of the first game about another team tracking a lead down in Mexico. It is because 
 of this that the game's story feels more like an expansion pack than a brand new game because the 
 story is almost the same. The game does have a pretty explosive conclusion though that is just 
 as challenging as it is fun.
  
  The game's XP system is quite different than what you see in most shooters. This game takes the 
 XP system from the first game that was multiplayer only and brings it to the single player, so 
 you can build your character no matter which mode you are playing. This is nice and it makes the 
 learning curve of the multiplayer less steep. The system is divided up into Marksman, Close Quarters 
 Combat, and Assault. As you get kills that match one of these areas you're XP in that area goes 
 up, and as you reach a certain level you will either unlock a new weapon or gain some XP to level 
 up your character. The best part is now there is a patch that allows you to go past the XP level 
 of 20 in each area, which is nice and allows for easier leveling up. While this is a huge update 
 from the original game, there is still something that puts the system just behind that of Call 
 of Duty 4. Series vets will enjoy the fact that they can gain XP and build their character in both 
 single and multiplayer game modes.
  
  The graphics in the game are pretty good. They look a lot like the graphics in the first Rainbow 
 Six Vegas with some touch ups. It's not the greatest looking game on the xbox 360 but it is most 
 definitely in the top three. The sound effects in the game are of high quality as well. The explosions 
 and the bullets sound great as they fly. The sound of a suppressed weapon sounds amazing, as do 
 the shotguns.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 has the voice recognition that the series has been known for since Rainbow 
 Six 3 on the original Xbox. I did have some difficulties with it though. I felt that at times it 
 wasn't reading what I said well enough. The teammate AI is getting better and better with each 
 release but it can still be a little bit on the idiotic side at times. While managing your team 
 with the headset is fun and it gives your a sort of immersion into the game, I also felt like the 
 controlling my team with the controller was always a bit easier and that they responded better 
 to it.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is one of the best packages around in the replay value department. You can 
 play the game online with up to 16 people. The game does a great job at throwing you in intense, 
 team based multiplayer matches that will leave you wanting for more. You can also play any of the 
 single player modes (Story and Terrorist Hunt) cooperatively split-screen, online, or LAN.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is the best game in the series. I didn't think that it would be possible 
 for this game to be better than Rainbow Six Vegas, but they always say that the little things count, 
 and the little updates that they made to this game make all the difference. This game even made 
 me forget about Call of Duty 4. If you are a shooter fan than you should do yourself a favor and 
 pick this game up.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Value: 10/10
  Tilt: 10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjinhubgyvftcdr
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  The Rainbow Six story is very good and at sometimes exciting, but most of the game is built around 
 multiplayer, and the games experience points system, which you earn experience points for killing 
 people in different ways and with different weapons. The experience system also carries over to 
 the singleplayer, co-op campaigns and terrorist hunts. This gives the game more re-play value, 
 because you can continue to get experience, as long as you keep killing the enemies in each level.
 
  
  The experience system does add a cool leveling-up system with its three different catagories also, 
 which gives you a certain amount of experience points for the different ways you kill your enemies. 
 You have CQB (Close Quaters Battle) , Assault, and Marksman experience catagories. You earn CQB 
 points for killing someone at close range, or blind fire kills. Assault points will be earned by 
 killing someone behind cover, using explosives for kills etc. And Marksman you would get for a 
 long range kill or a headshot. This system works well and runs parallel with the ranking system 
 because you earn experience from these catagories which allow you to rank-up when enough experience 
 is earned, and you will also unlock weapons once you earn enough expereince.
  
  The singleplayer and cooperative stories are very similar the lead player assumes the role of Bishop, 
 who is the lead of a team of rainbows, you should remember your squad members if you played the 
 first game, Jung and Michael. You order them around and they do what you say, this ordering around 
 has also improved since they made changes to the AI. This has made the game less frusterating, 
 but also more challenging as the enemies have gotten smarter. This story runs parallel to the first 
 Vegas game. It takes place from the first mission of the first game to a little later than the 
 last mission of the first. If you are playing co-op over Xbox Live the second player playing with 
 you with assume the role of Knight, who is Bishop's second in command. And the story is exactly 
 the same just you now have a real teammate and two AI controlled ones. The story is short it takes 
 about 8-10 hours to complete, but the game doesn't finish there because now you have so much time 
 to waste on multiplayer.
  
  This games multiplayer is what kept me playing and they just recently released a free map pack 
 on Xbox Live, which is also a bonus. The rank system in multiplayer is very strong, the character 
 customization has been re-done to customize even more on your character than before, but it feels 
 like the same game with only slight changes and fixes with no real big changes that you would hope 
 for in a sequel, so the game is good with strong multiplayer and good singleplayer, but small changes 
 and a game that adds a 2 to the title promising a very cometitive sequel with better gameplay and 
 new features is not quite enough to be the top of the cheese pile, but the features do add to the 
 gameplay but don't change how you play dramatically, if you played the first game your gonna like 
 this one, if your new to the series you will be very impressed. Im out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09231991
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  R6V 2 definitely improves upon the great things of R6V. Some new additions are the sprint button. 
 You can now run instead of just walking around all the time. The story takes place right after 
 the first one. The story is definitely more open-ended than the first. The graphics though are 
 not much improved since the first. The gameplay is very similar but definitely still fun. The games 
 multiplayer is also still widely the same which could have had some improvements. The story doesn't 
 last that long and could have been better but still fun. The multiplayer also has the leveling 
 up system as well and free new maps coming soon as well. Overall, This game is an improvement over 
 the first but the improvement isn't as big as a sequel should be so I'd say either rent or wait 
 until it goes down in price if your not a huge fan. If you are, this is a definite buy for you 
 then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Basserker
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  This is a great game through and through. When you first start you get to pick gender and make 
 your character how you want them to look (which can be like you or anyone) . If you want to and have 
 it available to you, you can make your character look like you do with the xbox360 vision thing. 
 Then again weapon setup, armor and clothing are customizable. For each level the player gets enough 
 xp for they get new things such as the armor or clothing. Also, CQB (close combat) , Marksman (distances 
 or headshots) , and (I forget the name) penatraiting enemy defenses unlock weapons like the AK-47, 
 Shield, and 500 tactical. Campaign offers an interesting look at these enemies and ends with an 
 exiting twist. Terrorist hunt lets you play with a friend on split-screen, or play with 4 friends 
 in online play. Terrorist count can be adjusted and the maps can be changed for many possible ways 
 to have fun. Online is pretty big. The game modes are: free-for-all, Team Deathmatch, Total Conquest, 
 Attack & Defend, and Team Leader.
  Deathmatch and free-for-all: pretty much just killing people and have your team get the most kills (or 
 just you as the case may be) .
  Total Conquest: Capture satellites and when you capture all 3 hold them for 30 seconds to win.
 
  Team Leader: You have a leader keep the leader alive and try to kill the enemy leader then finish 
 the rest of the guys off.
  
  Fun game altogether I recommend it to anyone who likes FPS and to people that dont.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWesker
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 comes hot off the heels of its predecessor, Rainbow Six Vegas from late 2006. 
 The first Vegas game was highly regarded as one of the better shooters of this generation with 
 plenty of praise from critics and consumers all over. Does the sequel stack up? Yes, very much 
 so.
  
  Rainbow Six, as a series, has never been the benchmark for graphical power, and Vegas 2 is no exception. 
 It doesn't necessarily look bad by any means, it's just nothing to gawk or drool at. As with most 
 Unreal Engine 3 games, it has quite a bit of jarring pop-in textures. The character models look 
 great and the environments are lush and full of life, showing off Sin City in every beautiful detail.
 
  
  Thankfully, Vegas 2 controls wonderfully. Everything feels great, being able to pop off enemies 
 with relative ease. Grenades are thrown with just a simple touch of a button, as is cover. To cover, 
 just walk to a corner, press the L button and you are behind cover. From this angle, you can see 
 enemies coming in order to give you the advantage, and you can also shoot from this angle, either 
 by leaning out from cover, or blind fire.
  
  The story of Vegas 2 can be quite confusing. It begins as a prequel to Rainbow Six 3, with Bishop 
 at the helm heading to a science observatory in France. From then, it advances five years in the 
 future to Las Vegas. There are plenty of twists and turns in the story that will keep you guessing 
 what is going to happen next. Each of the characters has their own unique personality and traits 
 to differentiate. You play as Bishop, the leader of the Rainbow team, along with Knight, Gabe and 
 Logan.
  
  The campaign can be played solo or online with one other player. Unlike Vegas 1, you can play the 
 entire campaign online. The co-op is instantly accessible from the single player campaign. Whenever 
 you need help, just invite a friend straight to your location and you've got instant assistance. 
 The co-op is very much appreciated due to the AI of your squad mates having the mind and attention 
 span of a drunken door knob. 
  
  While the campaign does nearly everything well, the meat of Vegas 2 is the multiplayer. Team Leader 
 headlines the plethora of modes with plenty of variety. It allows for up to 14 players online, 
 along with supporting a robust P. E. C. (Persistent Elite Creation) mode allowing you to customize 
 your character with a lot of different equipment. Each kill awards XP, allowing players to rank 
 their characters up for more equipment and camo. It should also be noted that this time around, 
 XP is earned in every game mode, not just multi player. This allows for easier ranking to ease 
 the grind.
  
  P. E. C. is even more robust than Vegas 1. It has an 'ACES' (Advanced Combat Enhancement and Specialization) 
 system with different rewards based on how you play. It is divided between Marksman, CQB, and Assault. 
 Assault awards for explosive kills, CQB awards for close quarter combat, and Marksman awards for 
 headshots and long range kills. The P. E. C. system, along with ACES makes the game very fun and 
 addictive. I always want to come back for just one more game to get to the next rank. 
  
  The maps for Rainbow Six Vegas 2 are all highly detailed and well designed. Each one has its own 
 unique playing style. In Villa, you're given more options as to how to play as it provides both 
 a close quarter environment, and a long range environment. With a map like CQB Training, you're 
 probably better off with a long range weapon like a Sniper Rifle or Assault Rifle. Having a good 
 variety of excellent maps helps, and I can't single out one map that I don't enjoy. 
  
  In conclusion, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a great shooter. It compiles everything that was great in 
 the first Vegas game, and improves on almost every level. The single player campaign can be completed 
 within 10 hours, while the multiplayer will last quite a bit longer. The multiplayer alone, along 
 with P. E. C., is worth the price of admission, and really pushes the limit of addictiveness. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ben_8790
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  i got this game for easter and i looked at it in awe. IT was one of the best games i have played 
 in a while. ME and my dad played this game for months and some online play. IT is just fun you 
 can go online for some very entertaining fun that never ends. IT combines the run and duck for 
 cover with some just run out and rampage killing. I mainly sniped through the entire game with 
 some very well put places for sniping. The main story isnt that long. But you have 3 modes and 
 also you can terrorist hunt which i did for some extra achievements. and you get achievements for 
 alot of stuff that you would ordinarily do so there are some free points=] . also when you get highest 
 in the game elite, you can make your own camo and make your guy have a unique look. when i got to 
 an elite it was one of the happiest days of my life.=p but all in all it was one of the best titles 
 all year and now they keep coming out with extra maps that r free and a new package comes out in 
 july with all new settings and things to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starface33
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 26, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  So I bought Rainbow Six Vegas 2 the day it came out. I was very pleased to see that I was able 
 to create my character at the start. It had a leveling system which inspires me to play it. My 
 character looks like a Mars Trooper and it makes me laugh whenever I see him. When I started to 
 play this game I knew right away that it was going to be awesome. And some people say that the 
 first Vegas was better but I say they are wrong. I say this for the soul fact that I play co-op 
 on this a lot (Locally mind you.) I like that I can send Jung and Micheal to scout ahead or stay 
 behind so me and my friend can covertly take the enemies out. (We heavily rely on stealth so yeah.) 
 The story drew me in in some parts. I also liked the fact that once you picked up a weapon you 
 didn't keep it. I like the idea the you must work for your armor and weapons. (Which I already 
 mentioned I am sorry.) Some of the problems I have with this game though are minor. For instance. 
 The last level the game ran at like .2 frames per second (Not true but the Frame rate was quite 
 crappy.) You can shoot through thin surfaces but I found some enemies killed me through a steel 
 pillar. Some graphical glitches happen. The one where everything isn't rendered correctly and all 
 crappy looking. Also I wish that you could be the one checking for things and hacking computers (Like 
 Republic Commando. Another great game.) Also there is the never ending gun firing glitch. Some 
 people find it annoying but I find it hilarious So that is what I have to say about this game. 
 Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sensei_hEnRY
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is the sequel of outstanding tactical FPS Tom Clancy's Rainbow 
 Six Vegas. As the first game leave us with lot's of question about how Rainbow gonna take care 
 their own agent that caused apocalypse on Las Vegas, the sequel put a dramatic end to the story.
 
  
  As usual, the story of Rainbow series are always complicated yet amazing. But one thing those Ubisoft 
 Montreal must understand, is it so hard to add subtitle to the game? As long as i play video game, 
 only the Rayman series that have subtitle on it. C'mon men give me a break, i want to understand 
 the detail of the story not just the general topic. Fortunately, the audio of the conversations 
 sounds pretty clear and the cast doing a brilliant job too.
  
  I always love the graphics of Rainbow, because even it use the Unreal Engine, it have a very different 
 graphics from other games using the same engine for example MOH Airborne, Blacksite Area 51, and 
 Turok. Rainbow have a darker and more realistic graphics than other games i said before. The graphics 
 are an improvement from the first game, although at some parts the frame rate decrease at very 
 annoying rate! (is this happening to all of you?) some detail like character's shadow also missing 
 from the game (it's really bad) . But at overall, it still have great graphics.
  
  There are some little improvement of the gameplay, the LB button that at the first game used for 
 set the rule of engagement change into sprint button. While select button now use for setting the 
 rule of engagement and hold select button for map. The feature of costumizing and build our own 
 character 'Bishop' are great too (Although i prefer Keller that have cooler face than those provided 
 by the game) . The exp point is a great idea too, but a hate to collect lot's of exp point just 
 to open glock (my favorite handgun) . Speaking of gun, the collection is still the same with the 
 first game, you still get HK G36C, MP5, mk 23, AKs, SCAR Acog, 522 Commando, XM8 (i still don't 
 get it) , etc. One thing that surprised me, there is easy difficulty on this game! (i play it on 
 normal difficulty)
  
  For conclusion, i'm very much recommend it, it is a great game and it also fun to play it again 
 and again! Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tylerjpines
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  As is my practice these days, let's get down to the bad first. 
  
  As in so many games in the past, I find myself wanting the ability to jump. There's just something 
 about how intrinsically basic the action is that makes me frustrated when I can't do it in-game 
 (even though it would be unnecessary in Vegas 2) . In addition, though your teammates are easy to 
 control, they are often too good; they rob you of too much action! To that end, it would have been 
 nice to see some sort of team development concept, but hey, they definitely come in handy on the 
 harder difficulties. 
  
  The plot leaves much to be desired. It is pretty hard to follow, and if you take the time to understand 
 it, it's sufficiently disappointing. On that note, the voice levels through radios/communicators 
 are incredibly off-balance with those characters speaking in your presence, which is frustrating 
 at times.
  
  Lastly, in Terrorist Hunt mode, the enemy spawn system is annoying. On the plus side, it's different 
 from many games so you are forced to adopt different (though often unrealistic) strategies. On 
 the down side, you will often walk into a room to suddenly face six or seven terrorists who instantaneously 
 spawn right beside you and shoot you in the face.
  
  All minor griping aside, this is an excellent FPS. The control scheme is perhaps my favorite to 
 date, and the cover system brings the gameplay to a new level of entertainment. Enemy AIs are sufficiently 
 intelligent and challenging. Plus, their banter during firefights is nothing short of awesome. 
 The voice-acting is convincing, and level setup is complicated and looks good. Playing through 
 the single-player mission is a bit shallow, but nevertheless it's a blast. The guns are a pleasure 
 to fire, and there is sufficient diversity and equipment unlocking to be had.
  
  It may seem like I had more negative comments than positive, but the negative ones are largely 
 trivial. Overall, the action is packed, the scenarios are realistic yet different from each other, 
 and the gameplay is incredibly addicting. Just take the ride and have a great time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcthpro
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  The Gameplay is big Enchance of First And you see What the where about of Bishop. and is mysterious 
 story that is a little too short
  i think people would like to know more about it
  The Gameplay For Co-op is laggy sometime that the only bug
  when it come to shoot some terrorist 
 : you aim direcly the head but it as latency and it doesn't fall down all the time beside this 
 it much better then rainbow six vegas 1 : more hide spot :more realistic Background
  
  The Cover Tactical Wall : Object Is high : the bullet Swat Shield Should be a little more realistic 
 Great to defend team or ur partner in Co-op when it come to heavy terrorist assault Lot Of maps 
 That good
  
  If a Rainbow six vegas 3 is i hope next time they user a better graphic engine
  and a better 
 Gun Ballistic The Shotgun is kinda overpowered
  you fell that you are jean claude van dam is recent movie The Shepherd: Border Patrol Because you 
 aim at 70feet of a guy with a Spas 12 and it kill the guy (^^) headshot or one shot in the leg 
 wich is kinda unreal according some other game balistics
  
  so the pros are : good multiplayer : lot of map : lot of game mode : the cons are : gun ballistic 
 lack for shotgun it kinda overpowered auto-aim at large distance tough it know that shotgun are 
 close combat ideal weapon
  smg : medium range
  riffle large & medium
  machine gun support Fire & large range. bad at close range
  According how a Ballistic of gun 
 is realy made *
  the Stats of Gun are a bit mispelled (when you see stats)
  some gun that as much less range * shoot far better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrico11
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2008 10:41 pm PT
Review:  This is a great series and this game is definitely worth playing. Vegas 2 wraps up the holes in 
 the story left in the first game nicely. You play with a squad of 3 and control your teammates 
 to a point you can have them clear a room fire at will return fire only or wait. They are quite 
 competent at killing and using cover. They rarely get in your way and perform well. You go through 
 various environments against lots of enemies armed just as well as you are. You choose you weapons 
 from a variety of assortments depending on playing style. As you kill in various ways like from 
 a distance, with explosives or at close range, you earn points that open up more weapons or equipment. 
 If you are looking for a shooter with lots of weapons and nifty realistic equipment you cant go 
 wrong with this game. The story mode offers a good 10 hours of playtime. There are also several 
 short missions you can take on and kills all the enemies in an area as well. Vegas 2 is fun and 
 worth playing. 
  
  
  Good
  Multiple weapon choices 
  Good AI
  Multiple options for entering rooms 
  
  Bad
  Short story mode (10 hours) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 1 was one of the best shooters of 2006. It had everything from co op to really 
 fun multi player. All this is improved in Rainbow Six Vegas 2.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 actually starts out before the first game. There are seven levels, and six 
 of them happen before or during the first mission in the first game. You play as Bishop for the 
 first six levels, and then you jump to where the first game ended, and there is where you play 
 Logan from the first game. The levels are pretty fun, and offer a lot of challenges. You explore 
 a different part of Vegas. Instead of the all casinos in the first game, you are in more of down 
 town Vegas. 
  
  The story of Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is basically the view from another squad, and what their missions 
 where. You have the two guys, that you had for most of the first game as your squad mates, for 
 levels 2-5, and then they go and help Logan, so you are left to do the sixth mission by yourself. 
 Then for the seventh level, you play as Logan, and you have the two squad mates from the first 
 game.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 does have a lot of new things. You now have a point system, like in Call of 
 Duty 4, except that the points count for both single player and multi player. You get points for 
 killing people, but if you kill them in fancy ways, like take some one out with a head shot, or 
 kill some one up close, then you get more points. There are also challenges like a sniper challenge 
 of grenade challenge, like in Call of Duty 4. Challenges are a great way to boost up your points. 
 There are also a bunch of new weapons that have been added to Rainbow Six Vegas 2, and the weapons 
 that have been added, are pretty fun to use. New machine guns, shotguns, sniper rifles, and pistols. 
 There are also a bunch of new character customization options.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas 2's graphics are pretty good looking. Most of the character models look pretty 
 good, though some look pretty ugly. Some of the environments look kind of bad. There are things 
 that looked a little better in the first one then in the second. But there are also a lot of things 
 that look better in the second one then in the first, like smoke effects. Over all, the graphics 
 have not changed a lot, but still look pretty good.
  
  Sound in Rainbow Six Vegas 2, is the same as the sound in Rainbow Six Vegas 1. Music is the some, 
 explosions sound the same, and even the lines that the terrorist say are the same.
  
  Rainbow Six does have some down sides to it. The single player game only lasts about 7 hours. There 
 are 7 missions, and each mission is split into about 4 stages. Some of those stages can take ten 
 minutes to beat, making that each level can take about 45 minutes too an hour to beat. Some of 
 the levels do take a bit longer, because of hard challenges, so it evens out at the end.
  
  When you are done with the single player, Rainbow Six Vegas 2's multi player is really fun. You 
 have a bunch of different modes ranging from death match to like a mode where you have to capture 
 and hold posts, like in Battlefield. There are a lot of modes to keep you busy for a while. The 
 multi player can be hard to get use too if you play other shooters like Call of Duty 4 or Halo 
 3. One button might be sprint for one game, while the same button for the other game could be throwing 
 a grenade. Also sometimes it is hard to find some one on a map where it is dark, because, the enemies 
 do not have little name tags above their head like in most multi player games, which is also another 
 that takes time to get use. But after you get use to all the controls, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is an 
 amazing multi player experience.
  
  Over all, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is one of the best tactical shooters out there, and one of the best 
 games I have played so far, out of all the games that have come out in 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan_scfc
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 20, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a decent game. But thats all.. a decent game. It has 
 no stand-out features. It doesn't make you care what is going on or make you not want it to end. 
 As for the story... I didn't have a clue. If you love tactical shooters, you would give R6V2 a 
 lot higher score than what I'm going to give it. It has a non-confusing way for you to easily choose 
 whether you want to blow the door up with a charge, smoke the room, or just basically run in all 
 guns blazing. The aspect of telling your teammates what to do works really well. If only your AI 
 friends did what you told them every time. The graphics are.. okay. There not as good as Gears and 
 CoD4 easily. Maybe Halo, maybe not. One new addition is to be able to Rank up your character then 
 take that rank to multiplayer. There are 3 categories. Assault, CQB and Marksman. Basically, as 
 you go up in levels in these categories there give you extra XP which will help you go up in your 
 rank. Again this works reasonably well. But the whole unlocking camo doesn't make me want to rank 
 up. Which is weird because getting Red Tiger is my hobby on CoD4. The amount you can customize 
 your character though just... amazing. You can basically change everything. From your helmet to 
 whether you want an ACOG scope or a reflex scope on your MP5.
  Terrorist hunt is really fun but trust me can be incredibly frustrating. The difference between 
 Easy and Realistic. Easy: the enemies will just fast rope down till there all dead. Realistic: 
 they will flank you, or wait till you come for them. Believe me, they can wait longer than you.
 
  For me the multiplayer is an absolute failure. It just fails to get you hooked like other games. 
 People aren't bothered about the ranks. The maps are poorly designed. It's just a failure. About 
 20 mins, thought "Wow this bad" went back to CoD4. To wrap it up, it's a heartless shooter. The 
 stellar graphics and sound cover up the terrible story and multiplayer. An average game. That CoD4 
 will stomp on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jg4xchamp
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 17, 2008 11:24 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six has been one of gaming's biggest franchises. The original was the first 
 of its kind. A true realistic tactical shooter. Rainbow Six became one of PCs biggest franchises 
 and was a blast to play. Then the game eventually made a jump on to consoles with the original 
 xbox and company. The game was far more dumbed down, and lacked evolution. 
  
  Then came Rainbow Six Vegas. It took the series in a new direction. The gameplay added a fantastic 
 cover system, one that was in many ways superior to that of Gears of War. It had some nice squad 
 controls, tons of weapons, and fun campaign. WHat really put it over the top was the absolutely 
 fantastic coop and some of the best tactical online multiplayer gameplay on any console. Rainbow 
 Six Vegas was still a bit dumbed down, as it never had the pre planning system or multiple squads 
 of series past, but all in all it was a fantastic shooter for the 360 and PS3. 
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas came out before the likes of Halo 3, Call of Duty 4, Crysis, Stalker, Bioshock, 
 The ORange Box, Metroid PRime 3, and even lesser known shooters like The Darkness flooded the market 
 of shooters on consoles. So while Rainbow Six Vegas was still fun, it was being surpassed, meaning 
 a sequal had to be worthy of being able to run with the big boys. Before I continue, remember Rainbow 
 Six Vegas 2 is a good game and worthy or purchase. 
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is disappointing. It shows no evolution. The story is typcal Tom Clancy. The 
 game is still dumbed down compared to the PCs raven shield. The only gameplay addition is really 
 the sprint and even that can't be considered a giant step forward, it is more or less take what 
 COD 4 has. While the formula is still fantastic. As this is the only tactical shooter on the 360 
 worthy of running with Halo 3 and COD 4 as the premiere FPS on the console. Also for fans looking 
 for the best tactical experience on the 360 you can only get it with Rainbow Six Vegas 2 or GRAW 
 2 (basically either FPS or TPS) . 
  
  That said, the game doesn't add anything meaningful to the franchise which is a shame. The lenghty 
 dev time for Rainbow Six Vegas 1 helped bring the franchise back to its up there with the best 
 status. However Rainbow Six Vegas 2 feels more like an expansion, than a true sequal. 
  
  Negatives aside the gunplay is still a blast. The game is sitll filled with a ton of weapons, nice 
 customization which adds true depth to the gameplay. Such as making yourself more protected with 
 equipment. However this can also make you heavier, thus making you move slower. The weapons will 
 each be fitted in certain ways as well. The cover system still controls extremely well, and is 
 right up there with Gears of War. If not better because of not being as clunky because of how most 
 actions are mapped across multiple buttons. 
  
  The campaign however is pretty average and never lives up to the quality of these nice gaming mechanics. 
 It is standard FPS affair. Point to Point, big corridor battles. Nothing special in story, or scale, 
 or AI, and generally the pacing could have used more work. 
  
  Visually the game looks good. Nothing great, nothing special. It is essentially a smoother game 
 than Rainbow Six Vegas, but for the most part it is barely more detailed. Games like Bioshock, 
 Call of Duty 4, Gears of War, and even Halo 3 and The Darkness look better than this game. The 
 audio is pretty good, nice sound effects. But boring script never takes advantage of what is essentially 
 pretty good voice acting. 
  
  Like I said before, this game is about 2 major things. The coop and the online multiplayer. The 
 coop is not only fun in campaign, but an absolute blast on Terrorist Hunt. This little mode is 
 addicting and just fun to play. It offers a nice challange, and probably the best splitscreen COO 
 package out there. Even above the likes of a Halo. 
  
  The multiplayer is very well done as well. The maps are each nice and balanced out. The game modes 
 are varied. The level and reward system will have players playing for a long time. The multiplayer 
 aspects of this game are probably the only things that truly take advantage of the great gameplay 
 formula here. 
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 may not be a great sequal, but it is a fun one, all in all this is a very good 
 game that needs to be played by any tactical shooter fan on consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex535
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  RSV2 Is a game with tonnes of great game play, but if you have the first one and are still reading 
 this, don't buy it it's a waste of your money. If you don't have the first Vegas on the other hand, 
 then this is the game for you. The graphics are amazing. the only flaw here is lip movement. Explosions 
 make everything EXPLODE, and the attention to detail on guns and armor pieces are amazing.
  Then there is the sound. This game can really give your surround sound system a real workout. The 
 explosions have a totally "immersive" sound to them and the gun sounds vary between each gun. The 
 voices are deliciously crude. When you shoot an enemy in the leg, "F@#$!", in the head, the guy 
 next to you will yell "SH#$%!", and the minute they see your little face they'll yell "Aim low!" 
 or they'll just scream "SHOOT THE F@#$ERS!" And all the while you hear these they sound amazing.
 
  Then there is the game play, truly amazing. The idea of bringing your story mode character into 
 multiplayer and back (with all the experience points you earn from each) is great. when you unlock 
 a gun, you can use it in both story and multiplayer. Then there is the balance between guns. all 
 guns have their advantages and disadvantages, but they are all equal. When you choose to wield 
 a smaller gun, the mobility and rate of fire is better, but you'll find it wobbles when you shoot. 
 The game has their standard "Submachine guns, assault rifles, shotguns, snipers, sidearms." but 
 this time around they added one more classification to the mix, Shields. shields are probably the 
 heaviest (let alone hardest to unlock,) weapon in the game. It is basically one of those swat shields 
 you'd see when the teams are trying to calm a crowd. The shield uses you sidearm at the same time 
 but replaces a primary weapon slot. annoying at best, but acts as a great mobile cover.
  Although the story has almost no plot to it, it's much better and fast paced than the other mode 
 called "terrorist hunt". If you are playing alone, stick to the story, if your with friends or 
 online, it's terrorist hunt.
  Overall this is the best game I have ever played, but it has little improvement from the last one. 
 Only hardcore fans of the series should buy this if they already have the first one, otherwise 
 stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pork_Lord
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  Originally hosted at http://spacemeat. com. au - Please see for more of my work!
  
  The non-stop party culture portrayed by Las Vegas is one to tempt most, an all-night city of glitz, 
 glamour, and guns. Set against the lush vibrancy of Vegas' party life, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 again 
 strikes chaos upon Vegas, ushering in our Rainbow team once more to assess and eliminate the terrorist 
 threat.
  
  If that sounded clich, that's because it damn well is. Considering the quantity of Rainbow Six 
 games so far it's not surprising to find another realistically convincing, yet technically limited 
 espionage based shooter. While I state this with such whimsical air, I should also point out I 
 never played the first Rainbow Six Vegas, or most the 346907234069 other Rainbow Six games, so 
 I had a little to learn here.
  
  And learn I did. As I rapidly ran guns blazing into the first room of the game to receive a barrage 
 of life ending bullets, memories of the very first Rainbow Six game (the last one I played) came 
 back to me and how often I died back then. RSV 2 takes itself quite seriously, a little too seriously 
 in fact with the stock selection of hardened motto-sprouting American's flaunting their urbane 
 gun use.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a first person shooter that places large emphasis on situational evaluation 
 and team command management. The story this time is played out through the eyes of Bishop, our 
 customizable player character and his ebony & ivory partners. It's these guys job to enact any 
 command uttered by Bishop, yet do absolutely nothing unless.
  
  The AI is a pretty mixed bag in RSV2 mainly due to the fact that it plays such a significant role 
 in the game. Every situation should be assessed in mind of your two comrades who are quite competent 
 in advancing, covering and clearing out entire rooms of terrorists. What they are incapable of 
 though, is any essence of individual thought, most often when not instructed, these team mates 
 will simply do nothing at all, standing beside a door watching you take fire until you specifically 
 tell them to move out and attack. They're quite lucky then that when I do give commands, they perform 
 them well. The enemy AI have obviously quite similar performance patterns, advancing and approaching 
 rooms in a similar manner to that of your team mates.
  
  So while our comrades are quite capable of clearing a room of tangos blind-folded, their distinct 
 lack of any brain leaves it up to us to do the thinking, a surprisingly fun change from pointless 
 gun-toting. 
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 loves to set up scenarios. Often you'll approach a room to find multiple entrances, 
 emphasizing appropriate team positioning when advancing and appropriate choices on whether to flash, 
 clear, or frag grenade your way through. With such an emphasis on evaluating your approach, I wish 
 RSV 2 got a bit more technical in environment interaction. A set variety of commands are available 
 at hand allowing several methods of approaching a room, but this also emphasizes all the other 
 ways you COULD enter the room, but simply can't.
  
  A few obvious approaches will spring to mind as you issue your teammate to frag and clear the 402nd 
 room. Why can I only issue both my team mates to the one door, not one on each? In fact, every 
 command is always for both team mates, you can't give individual orders. Why do I have heat sensing 
 goggles when I can't even flick or shoot out a light? Smoke grenades are supposed to create the 
 appropriately impeding veil for the heat seeking goggles, but this is really the ONLY way they'll 
 ever be used (apart from naturally dark environments) limiting this items use to the one pre-meditated 
 situation, as opposed to manipulating your approach based on the environment. This is just one example 
 of what you'll notice missing from RSV 2. With such a realistic approach, the technical limitations 
 of the game design can show through.
  
  At the same time, RSV 2 incorporates a lot of features to seriously add to the realism of the adventure 
 and it's done well, with the sound and Vegas backdrops creating an authentic experience. Authenticity 
 may pinnacle when Bishop has to shoot his way through the site of the Major League Gaming tournament 
 but so will your tolerance for in-game advertising. Perhaps some slack is in order, as the original 
 RSV was the first XBOX 360 game to enter the Major League Gaming Tournament. Also remember to watch 
 your ammunition clips, each reload uses a clip in it's entirety, as opposed to merely depleting 
 the ammo required to fill your existing clip so don't be too hasty with the reload button.
  
  Realistic damage meters are misplaced against wavering difficulty, with Bishop being brought 
 to a stop by one shot alone far too many times. You'll have enough checkpoints and autosaves to 
 save a lot of backtracking, as many situations in RSV 2 can only realistically be approached with 
 some trial-and-error. Continual objective markers ensure progress is never off track, it's like 
 walking down a clear path on a bright day, until you walk into a bear trap still fully loaded with 
 a live-and-kicking Grizzly Bear.
  
  The experience earning system in RSV2 ties your profile between single player and multi, with progress 
 in either adding equally to the same bar. Leveling up opens new weapons and armor to use in either 
 game mode. Multiplayer is an enjoyable affair, with a focus on stealth and quick-paced shooting 
 as player kills are achieved quickly with minimal bullets. You'll want a natural fondness for the 
 realistic and difficult mechanics of the single player campaign to survive in multiplayer and be 
 a serious contender, but a few matches here and there can be some quick fun. If you're into realism, 
 stopping and thinking for a bit, then wiping out a room of terrorists, then I can't see why Rainbow 
 Six Vegas 2 wouldn't be a blast. Although limited to it's prescribed abilities, what is on offer 
 serves well enough at creating a convincingly realistic squad based experience with tight difficulty 
 keeping you on the edge of your seat. Don't expect much of a story besides the usual bomb-terrorist-bomb 
 situation, but a solid engine with enjoyable multiplayer makes RSV 2 a lengthy and convincing experience.
 
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas 2
  
  77%
  
  The Good -
  
  * Realistic action for a convincing experience.
  * Competent engine sporting some great graphics.
 
  * Multiplayer and Terrorist Hunt add longevity.
  
  The Bad -
  
  * Difficulty can get way out of line.
  * Stock standard characters, story and dialogue.
  * 
 Somewhat limited and repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexmurray
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  The first think you notice when you first play RSV2 is how similar it is to the original. A poor 
 story that really makes no sence, and poor mulitplayer map desgin make this adventure alot less 
 adventurous.
  
  But after all that negativity there must be some strong points??
  If you are new to the franchise, get this game it is a ting bit better to the original but not 
 worth it if you own the first. The character design and weapon customization are top notch, but 
 dont justify the purchase. Still you see hoards of people bosting trying to get that military cap 
 so you cant pay attention to online ranks. A bonus though is that you can get EX points from killing 
 enemys in the single player campaign (its not worth it)
  
  To sum up its a good game for newcomer to the series, but not good for original owners. Its gameplay 
 is the same and the maps just dont cut the $60 price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colostome-Boy
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  I rented this game, because my friend recommended it. The only other tom clancy games I have played 
 before was Splinter cell.
  let me tell you that I have a new favorite, possibly more so than COD4. The story was a little 
 confusing, because i havent played the first one, but it was still enjoyable. I mostly enjoyed 
 online terrorist hunt with my friends, the exp. gaining is nice as well b/c you can earn it in 
 the campaign and online. The only thing that i didnt like about it was that everyone had a very 
 limited vocabulary. Such as in terrorist hunt, they would yell-"Shoot the F***er!" that just got 
 really annoying when they kept saying that over and over.
  overall this is a very good game and i would recommend it to any person who enjoys military shooters. 
 while you might want to try it on one of the lower difficulties when you first try it, but once 
 you get used to using cover, anyone could do excellent on realistic difficulty. It only took me 
 about a day before i started playing it on realistic, and it wasnt super hard. This game will make 
 a perfect addition to any Tom clancy fans game library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyDelorian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  I get the feeling that this game has been underrated for some reason. Personally I am addicted 
 to this game. I have completed all the A. C. E. S. and I am within touching distance to completing 
 the game on Realistic. There is something about this game that has drawn me in.
  
  The A. C. E. S. are a great addition to the game. They make it a lot more fun to play the game with 
 different tactics. The longer ranger players and snipers will find the Marksman A. C. E. S. rather 
 easy to achieve but will probably fall behind on their Assault and CQB A. C. E. S. which require some 
 what more covert tactical thinking.
  
  Working for new weapons compels you to keep playing until you unlock that desired Tactical 500 
 shotgun or that AK-47 which are both great weapons, unlike the original Rainbow Six Vegas, where 
 you could just pick up a new weapon and it is unlocked.
  
  The additional weapons that the game lets you tinker with were a great addition also. There is 
 a larger variety, that allows you to completely equip your character for any scenario, whether 
 be infiltrating an oil refinery or assaulting a compound.
  
  On the subject of customising characters, the new armour and clothing that can be unlocked at different 
 ranks allows for you to customise you character further. The colours of both the armour and the 
 clothing can be changed and constantly unlocking new camo and armour will have you frequently customising 
 you character.
  
  The A. I. in the game has been improved from the previous one. Now the A. I. is smart enough to completely 
 understand your orders and not get in your way (other than occasionally stepping in to your line 
 of fire) .
  
  The terrorist hunt missions have become slightly more extravagant with new maps, from wide-open 
 sniper's paradise to close-quarters shotgun-mania. The enemies have an increased level of awareness 
 and on Realistic difficulty, they will stop at nothing to have you killed.
  
  In all this is a great Tactical FPS that allows for you to be prepared for any situation the game 
 may throw at you and is a real treat to play. I recommend this game to anyone who likes Tactical 
 games and FPS's, or even anyone that just wants a good game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 10, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  This reivew is sorely on the single-player compaign becuase I don't have Xbox Live. I've heard 
 that the online is superior to the single player, so that factors into my review by raising my 
 origanal single player score of 7.5 to an 8. 
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a direct sequal to R6V 1, and you'll see that the gameplay is bascally the 
 same. There is more customization, which is awesome, and the added sprint-feature gives the game 
 a faster pace. You assume the role of a squad leader in an anti-terriost organization as you battle, 
 well, terriosts. The story is okay, but it's nothing special. The game progresses as you make it 
 from point A to point B while out smarting hundreds of terriost that are spread out between the 
 campaign's relatively short adventure. 
  
  The gameplay has been refinded alot over the serie's history ensureing you will have a good time. 
 You can take cover, zoom in your weapon, use a veriety of gadgets to find your enemies, and command 
 the two guys that are always by your side, that is, unless they glitch and run off somewhere else. 
 
  
  The main thing that keeps this game from reaching the bar set by other FPS's such as Call of Duty 
 4, is that there are alot of glitches. You die without knowing what hit you, your teamates don't 
 do what you ask them and the frame rate drops alot, even though the graphics aren't such an improvement 
 over the last R6 game. 
  
  The sound is good, and the save feature works well (even if the check points are a little more 
 spread out than desired) , but over all the presentation is above average. The gameplay, when it 
 is working well (which is most of the time) is great fun, and worth renting or buying depending 
 on how much you like the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkElf2112
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Like most people when I heard that Ubisoft was going back to Las Vegas as the setting for the next 
 installment of the Rainbow Six franchise, I was skeptical. Rainbow Six: Vegas was a very good game 
 but a return did not strike me as necessary. As it turns out, I like the slightly different perspective 
 this edition takes on the City of Sin. The player explores the seedier side of Las Vegas (if that's 
 possible) rather than the glitz and glamour the first game featured.
  
  Story - You play as Bishop this time around not as Logan, from Vegas 1. Though an interesting twist 
 is that Vegas 2 is taking place roughly at the same time as Vegas 1. Your old character Logan is 
 knocking around Mexico around the time you start off in Las Vegas. To be honest, neither this story 
 or the last story was all that solid but if pressed, Vegas 2 is the better story in my opinion.
 
  
  Graphics - Did you like the look of the original Rainbow Six: Vegas? Good, because there is no 
 difference in the second installment. That's not a bad thing but it's just not Call of Duty 4 quality, 
 that's all.
  
  Gameplay - This, to me, is what separates the Rainbow Six series apart from most military shooters. 
 I love the tactical style of gameplay over the button mashing style that is the norm in most shooters. 
 The controls are tight, the cover mechanic is the best in the business, and the AI is quite good.
 
  
  Multiplayer - I absolutely loved the multiplayer in Vegas 2. The games are enjoyable, very little 
 lag, and the community playing online seemed to be a more mature brand of gamer. Again not COD4 
 quality but very, very good.
  
  In summary: This is a high quality game for any shooter fan but a must for someone who enjoys a 
 more cerebral military-style experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ausutorarisu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 12:47 am PT
Review:  FIrst off I hate those fanboys who often rate over 9 for a game. That is pathetic. But they exist 
 everywhere, which annoys me.
  
  What's nice:
  1) Decent Graphics (More of the same from Vegas)
  2) Good voice acting
  3) Outstanding enemy 
 AI (they put up a good challenge in Terrorist Hunt)
  4) Satisfying guns, many of them (TAR21 is one of my favourite)
  5) Immersive story (***Spoiler***: 
 Brothers separated)
  6) Fun Multi-player (until it comes to achievement hunt)
  
  About the bad:
  1) Many foolish players online (you learn it to be true; you're assured I ain't 
 one of them)
  2) Tedious XP upgrades
  3) Uninspiring achievements (Kill 150, 300, 500, 1000; Kill 100 with shotgun, Kill 100 with Pistol, 
 etc) Not fun at all but repetitive.
  4) 6 players presence
  
  Till now Vegas 2 is still the game I play most only because those achievements are quite hard to 
 obtain. 
  
  Overall, I think the game is a fine product. But I just like the first one more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meto_360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  rainbow six vegas 1 was a good tactical shooter but not like vegas 2. We've all wondered if there 
 would be a sequel 2 vegas 1 after tha cliffhanger ending. And there was.
  The Story. The story takes place before vegas 1. Well tha first 6 acts do. The last 1 takes place 
 after vegas 1. The game is about bishop and what happened before vegas 1. And its kinda hard to 
 explain. But you'll lilke tha story and what goes on. But you play as Bishop. And u get to customize 
 him and stuff. You can make Bishop a chick or a guy, and u can decide what race is Bishop. But 
 tha scrpit and vioce acting is very good.
  Now the gameplay has slightly changed. Like the game is still slow-placed but theres a sprint button 
 , thats useful. But u dont sprint 4 long which sucks, but better than not sprinting. And it depends 
 on how much armor u got on. So just balance the mobility and protection on Bishop. Now u had a 
 little map in vegas 1 becuz tha game had its twists and turns. Vegas 2 is more straight forward. 
 But you do have this little thingi thats a mini radar thath helps detects enemies. This can be 
 useful to help find flanks and sneek up on enemies when they least expect it. There's also more 
 guns and more camos. And the scopes have been fixed. Like the acog is better nad you'll wanna use 
 it more.
  Now the multiplayer. There new maps. And some old 1s. But u'll miss some like casino vault nad 
 calypso casino. Now i wouldn't prefer ranked matches becuz u only have limited respwans. So just 
 do player mathces. You still earn the same amount of XP and u still can unlock achievements. Now 
 there's not that many games modes on multiplayer but they're still fun. Like total conquest is 
 good. But the my personal favorite 2 get good XP is team leader. Team Leader is where ur team has 
 a leader and he has 2 reach and extraction piont. And if he dies u cant respawn. So if u kill tha 
 enemy leader tha enemy team wont respawn. But dont extract u get more pts if u kill out the enemy 
 team. So yea...
  The graphics. The Graphics have been updated. like the character models have been improved, tha 
 games not as blurry as vegas 1, and but tha looksl beatiful. And looks better then vegas 1. 
  So overall tha game is a big improvement from vegas 1. And is better. I'd prefer it
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: daman12369
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 5:10 am PT
Review:  RSV2 is an amazing sequel to the first Vegas game. However the story line isn't good, just like 
 the original, and in fact you can guess the ending around half way through the game. Other than 
 that, RSV2 is a great game. The biggest change is being able to level on and off line, which makes 
 for a lot of repeatability. The game as a new mode for leveling up called A. C. E. S, which means 
 when you shoot some one up close or far away, or blow them up you get special points. However unlike 
 the original, leveling up doesn't unlock weapons, leveling up your A. C. E. S does. Now the marksman 
 (long range kills) and close combat A. C. E. S are easy to get and you can level up if you play through 
 the game once on Realistic. However the third A. C. E. S, assault (killing people with explosives) , 
 is really hard, and will take the longest to get. Now Realistic mode this time is much easier, 
 in fact you can beat the game on Realistic in under ten hours, if your a skilled player. The game 
 rewards you for what difficulty you pick, if you pick causal (the new difficulty) , then its one 
 point per kill, same for A. C. E. S. Normal is 5, and the A. C. E. S are around three to two points. 
 And Realistic is 10, and three for A. C. E. S.
  
  Now for the multilayer. The multilayer is the same as last time but with a few differences, which 
 make it a lot better. For one, if you live in place that doesn't have good internet, you will be 
 able to get more connections, that are actually playable. Also it matches you against people that 
 are around your skill range. Another nice touch is that many of the online achievements (which 
 is around 80% of the total achievements) , can be won in player matches and not ranked, except a 
 few. Also the new maps are fun, unfortunately, theres no Calypso Casino level now. 
  
  And lastly the customization. Now you can really pimp out your character. This time your character 
 will look the same on and off line. And the Vision Camera can still be use, in fact the camera 
 does a lot better job this time around. It takes a picture f your entire face, not just one sides. 
 Also as you level up you get more armor and camo. The only bad thing about this is that it takes 
 400,000 points to become elite level, and unlock all the good items, so you will be spending a 
 lot of time killing. The good thing about that is, killing people online counts are 30 exp, instead 
 of 10.
  
  All in all this an amazing equal that builds on the old, however i would have liked to play as 
 the old team instead of the new team, and the story isn't great which holds it back from perfect 
 score. And the new multilayer addition make it a worth while game for any one who like to kill 
 some Noobs online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: major_cain
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is no where near perfect, but it is still a pretty decent game. The action can get pretty 
 intense on the harder difficulties. Its also cool cause the main characters voice kind of sounds 
 like Jack Bauer from 24. It can be kind of annoying to always tell your guys to go ahead of you. 
 I just find it annoying cause i got use to COD4 where you pretty much had to keep up with them 
 to a extent.
  
  The main issue that i had with this game was the online play. Always having to connect to a different 
 game after each round kind of gets to a little old rather fast. The upside i like is the terrorist 
 hunt mode, its an execellent way to earn xp points plus its always a challenge to figure out where 
 the guards are going to pop up at, they always seem to be in different places each different way 
 you go.
  
  Over all this game is decent, and worth a play at least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mage_7
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 26, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  Well first of all I loved Rainbow Six Vegas when it came out mostly because of its awesome online. 
 So I couldn't wait for Vegas 2 to come out. Well I was horribly disappointed. Even though it closed 
 up the story the story was just way too short. The A. I. was simply horrid at times.
  
  Now for the online. I fell as Ubisoft had changed the game's formula ,and what they got wasn't 
 there best online experience they have delivered. It can have very bad lag at times. Though it 
 has wide arrange of weapons for people of all weapon styles. The multiplayer just feels not as 
 fun as Vegas 1 had been.
  
  Summary- Well this game is more of Vegas 1.5. Still it shouldn't stop you from buying it. It has 
 some great qualities ,but seems like it falls right on its face with its new features.
  
  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas 2 gets a 8.5/10.0
  Story- 8.2
  Online-8.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nem1
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 24, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so you were like "what!!" when R6V ended, and now you've finally gotten your hands on the sequel. 
 If you loved the first game then you will definitely still love this one, but if you weren't already 
 a fan then this one definitely wont change your mind. This is a good FPS, don't take that last 
 statement the wrong way, but this game really isn't an improvement over the last, just more guns 
 and some different places to shoot them.
  
  
  Presentation:
  
  The game flows pretty well, but there are some frame rate issues. Graphics are good, as with level 
 design and AI. The menus are much improved over the previous game, as with loading times. Controls 
 are how they should be, but i still think that grenade throwing could have been reworked, but i 
 can still sling a grenade straight into your navel if i really needed to :P
  
  
  Graphics:
  
  This game is rather pretty, and it does look some bit better than the first (if 
 you get really picky that is) . Environments and backgrounds are first class, with quality rivaling 
 that of COD4. Though it does seem to push the system a bit too far when the guns really get to 
 blazing, as you will nearly always experience some slowdown just as a grenade goes off. Altogether 
 i cant really complain though, as few recent FPS have steady frame rates. Collision detection seems 
 pretty good, and i don't recall seeing anyones limb or gun come magically floating through 2" of 
 wood or concrete :P. And i "must" say that blood looks really good in this game. It isn't full 
 of gore or anything, but a couple shots will leave a satisfying trail, answering the all important 
 question of: "i wonder where his brains went?"
  
  
  Sound:
  
  No complaints here, voice acting is pretty solid without getting too corny. Firefights sound awesome 
 and will definitely have you waking the neighbors. Guns and equipment rattle with satisfying clicks 
 and clacks, and grenades explode with a pleasant, though frame rate killing, boom. The people also 
 talk to each other more, before and during firefights; they also seem to have learned more ways 
 to curse at you.
  
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Same as the first, but that was pretty good to begin with. Sprinting is also cool, and it may come 
 in handy when you really need to get away from a grenade. AI is top notch, though you sometimes 
 wonder why they yell so much. The Multi player isn't really as fun in my opinion. It is better, 
 but somehow just less fun.
  
  
  Value/Tilt:
  
  Pretty good in my opinion, but this isn't going to be what you are looking for if you didn't enjoy 
 the first one. Multiplayer is still pretty good, but WHY DID THEY GET RID OF CALYPSO CASINO??!!!!! 
 Flat out, its a good game, definitely at least worth a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soufan123
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 22, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a breath of fresh air! From the stunning visuals to the outstanding gameplay 
 and ranking syastem, it has everything!! The story itself will take you about 10-12 hours to complete, 
 adding in all the fun with co-op and replay vaulue will probably triple that! The multi-player 
 is just as terrific with competitive players and teamwork being essential, your always having fun!! 
 Now the best part about this game is the amazing ranking system. Whether your in campaign mode, 
 co-op or Xbox Live your always constantly gaing EXP points and levelling up your character unlocking 
 new weapons, armour/clothing and bragging rights! With the newly aded A. C. E. S. system you will 
 either be eraning EXP for Assault, Close-Quarters or Marksman.. Some of the problems come with some 
 laggy online matches and sometiems frustrating single player.. All and all this game is a terrific 
 buy and is great for anyone that enjoys Tactical First-Person Shooters!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benoxtoby
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 19, 2008 1:46 am PT
Review:  I bought this game because i liked the first one a lot. The online really didnt work as an online 
 shooter, but the single player was a great amount of fun. so i bought this one to add to that. 
 how wrong i was. 
  
  i completed it within 6-7 hours. on the easiest setting, but i still died a good 15-20 times. There 
 just isnt enough content in the actual levels. About half of each level is spent runnng down corridors 
 to the next room of 3 or maybe 4 people. If there were a lot of larger firefights it would have 
 ben greatly improved. 
  
  The graphics are a lot better than in the first, but only because they look sharper, im not sure 
 if theres a lot more actual detail on anything. 
  
  the guns are possibly the only improvement to the game, and only because theres more of them. however 
 theres about 4 or 5 guns that are head and shoulders above the rest, so most of the time you'll 
 use those guns anyway. A definate drawback is picking up enemy guns. in the first u could see whether 
 the gun had a scope or laser or anything extra attached to it. now you have to pick it up to find 
 out?! 
  
  AI team mates are also much worse. I cant count the number of times my team mates have dissapeared, 
 showing half a mile off the map, and then not returning until i die. Or they wont climb ladders 
 or rappel on walls for no good reason. theyll get there, stop, and say they cant do it. ask them 
 a couple more times and theyll do it! 
  
  the story is also poor as well. as a whole the story is ok. But as a sequel to the first, its dreadful. 
 only the first (barely) and the last levels link to the first game. the other levels a name will 
 be mentioned and someone will mention that logan is fighting them elsewhere. 
  
  Overall i was very dissapointed with this game. a sequel doesnt remove from the original where 
 there were no problems. I have to say it doesnt seem like a sequel, more like an alternative version 
 of the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nahmean187
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  by now uve prbly heard a lot about how rainbow six vegas 2 hasnt changed much. truth is, it hasnt. 
 thats y its a sequel. halo 2 didnt change that much to halo 3 and those were both great games and 
 the same can be said for vegas. the controls are just as smooth as they were in the first, the 
 cover system is brilliant and the spring button works well. the aces system is nice, although i 
 could have been better. the story isnt great but it does provide a fitting end to the first game. 
 some rainbow fans will be dissapointed by the lack of improvements but you cant judge a game on 
 how much its changed, you judge it on how well it plays, looks, and sounds and rainbow six vegas 
 2 plays great, sounds great, looks good, and its overall a satisfying game. if uve never played 
 rainbow six, this is a must buy, if you have played six, rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madcows
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 20, 2008 3:37 pm PT
Review:  This is number 2 for the series and it is good. The story line is you are another team in the same 
 area as the first team in one, pretty cool idea I must say. On to the game the controls are more 
 or less the same as 1 with a sprint option which is nice to have. The single player and the multi 
 have an achievements system in order to get new weapons. You may pick up weapons during the game 
 but they will not lock in your inventory. You now have the option of body armor as well as weapons 
 that you also have to earn. The multi really is no different then before. It is at its base just 
 like one but they did so well you can't screw with the formula too much (but I how they do on the 
 third) . It is a great game once again all thou little has changed. But they do have a 3 rd person 
 code which makes it like an army of 2 tactical shooter type view and that added some replay value 
 for me, solid game. but the lack or a mini map makes the split screen hard to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mafketel
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 15, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  I so much enjoyed the first vegas, so I was actually hoping that they did'nt chance too much. And 
 they did just that. Ok, it might not be innovative, but it still is a absolutely great game. The 
 only thing that is really worse than Vegas 1 is that the achievements are a lot easier in Vegas 
 2. Especially the off-line ones. But that does'nt chance the game-play, which is great. On-line, 
 I'm gonna have so much fun, again. It's a great shooter, just great. Terrorist hunt on-line works 
 pretty good, but the spawning, just like the off-line co-op mode by the way, is not at all perfect. 
 Just popping right in front of you sometimes. In the end, I played more of the best ,for me, best 
 shooters. That's what counts. One thing is for sure, if you liked the first one, you're going to 
 like this one, and if you didn't like the first one, you're not going to like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Obliviongeek9
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 12, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Las Vegas Two is a very good game. They do use the same graphic engine 
 as the first one, but there is more maps
  to play and better maps to play in this one. Also, there is more guns in this one and more stuff 
 to put on your guns. You combine that with a million different combos of clothing, headgear and 
 armour, and you have a 9.5/10.
  This game is amazing online also with very little lag, and like i mentioned, superb maps. I dont 
 understand why some people do not like it, because this game really is quite good. The only thing 
 they could do is nothing, because this game is quite good. I rated this a nine and a half out of 
 ten and the only thing that is wrong is there should be more game types than just the usual Deathmatch, 
 Team Deathmatch, with only 2 unique game types, total conquest and attack and defend, with is much 
 like domination and search and destroy on call of duty 4. One idea that Tom Clancy could steal 
 from COD 4 would be the hardcore idea, which is more damage per bullet, limited HUD, and an altogether 
 more challenging experience. This game is overall great though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordWaspy
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 12, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  I thought that this game was really good, not only because it there was plenty to do but also because 
 the gameplay was excellent. I also found that the range of guns and you being able to change what 
 equipment is used and what your character looks like. My worst part of the game was the difficulty. 
 I played the game on the easiest difficulty "Casual" and it was still very hard and I died most 
 of the times i was out of cover and in the clear, which is realistic but seemingly annoying and 
 irritating. But the amount of levels in this game makes up for it. I also found that the brief 
 sight the MLG (Major League Gaming) posters in the game was a nice and humorous touch and enjoyed 
 the game fully. Fans of shooters should consider buying this game because it is by far one of the 
 best!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visnovsky17
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 11, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  While this game is good, it has far to great a sense of deja vu. The graphics are good, the gameplay 
 is fun, and all that great stuff. However, i found the story to be lacking quite a bit, and tied 
 into the first game in a very strange and unexpected way. The A. C. E. S. system was good in the game, 
 and i liked that you can earn upgrades, armor, etc by playing the main game also. I also had some 
 weird problem where i could never get online on the first Vegas, so it's nice to be able to play 
 online. I really don't feel i can truly review this game, because it's really just Vegas in a new 
 box with a couple new features. Good game, but probably not really worth the full $60 price. If 
 you enjoyed Rainbow Six: Vegas, go pick up a used copy of Vegas 2. Good, but not as good as it 
 probably could have been.
  
  Good: Overall Gameplay, Graphics, Online, A. C. E. S.
  
  Bad: I've done this before... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakko19991
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 10, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  To put what I said into context, a friend of mine had been playing Gears of War over the last three 
 weeks every friday, so lastnight we completed the coop campaign and went into R6V2 since there 
 are not that many games on the 360 with coop. Anyway, once we started the game there was no intro 
 movie, no good story setup, it kind of just started after we picked our gear and appearance settings. 
 The graphics were very lackluster and seems its a step backwards rom the firet version. I mean, 
 the first version demo to me, since I never bought the first version, but did play the demo and 
 the graphis on that impressed me. I won't mark against the graphic though becasue my friend has 
 an old tv that is not HD, so maybe the graphics anomaly is due to the interlaced image. Anyway, 
 back to the gameplay. Hated it. It was jsut boring. Getting in and out of cover was not nearly 
 as fun as Gears or COD4 and the opponent AI was terrible. There were numerous times we were rappelling 
 down through glass into a room with an enemy or two and they did not react to the extremely loud 
 shattering of glass and a 200lb commando dropping onto the floor 2ft away from them. They literally 
 just stood there while we shot them. What's up with that? Also, the animation was annoying. During 
 the games initial load screens the Unreal enginge gets splashed on the screen. Sorry, this game 
 is a bad banner for that engine. I can't stand it when characters glide around and pivot and rotate 
 like they are mannequins on a stick. Or when they walk up the stairs and seem to be walking on 
 the invisible flat board not hitting a single stair. Small thing, but takes away form the experience 
 to me. Makes the game seem cheap and outdated. The animation was not all bad though. I did like 
 the way guys got shot and the blood splatter was left behind, altough after killing someone it 
 was inconsistent how long the body stayed around before being wiped from the screen. I point this 
 out because a few times it was hard to tell if he cleared a room or not. One minute and enemy is 
 shooting at you , you shoot back, it looks like he went down, you walk into the room literaly second 
 later -- no body to be found there, just a blood splatter. At times theguy was eliminated other times 
 he wasn't and had move elsewhere in the room. One one hand it cold be looked at as somewhat realistic, 
 but from a gmaind perspective it was a bit annoying.
  
  Generally though the gamplay was slow and uneventful despite all the gun fights we got into. I 
 don't have anything against slow deliberaate moving games, but this one just didn't feel right 
 and the enemies were a mediocre challenge and I am far from a hardcore FPS guy.
  
  Anyway, the game was/is pretty boring to me. Gameply is not nearly as intense as COD4, Gears of 
 War or even the demo of hte first version. Try it if your bored, skip it if you are deciding between 
 this and another game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bicigo
Rating: 8
Date: May 9, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  I got the game a few weeks ago and I am a huge Call of Duty fan so I am used to aiming with the 
 L trigger not LS.
  I got the game and I sucked because you can go in the person and see around corners. I dislike 
 this very much because a game should be all third person GTA or all third person CoD. In cover 
 you can see around corners and pop out and kill them. They also have this new feature in cover 
 where you can blindfire it is not blindfiring because you can see where you are firing.
  Online I do not like because you select a match and you get a list of all the available matches 
 and you poick the one you want to play on. This means that you could play one map for hours. Also 
 in ranked matches you get kicked out after every match. This makes it hard for you to stay with 
 your party and friends.
  The story is very good and takes a while. They have a co-op story where you can play two people 
 on your xbox or one of your friends online. You can also play with a random person.
  Overall I like the game but they could make things different. And you can rank up in the story 
 or online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgaggiMann
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 8, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  When i first got Vegas 2 i didn't have Xbox live yet. the Story was Really good and long for someone 
 who was playing without live. but if you really want to enjoy Vegas 2 you might want to have Xbox 
 live. the Xbox live is Really enjoyable it has a good ranking system with may addicting game modes. 
 Once you start playing Vegas 2 its hard to stop.
  
  The Story mode was very good, it was a little short but the squad based game play made it fun every 
 time you played it. the Storyline was Very Interesting, but you always have to expect a good storyline 
 from any Tom Clancy Game. it took you on an epic adventure of terrorist Shooting Fun.
  
  The Downsides: Almost Just like an expansion from Vegas 1, i find having to unlock half your weapons 
 and the wait for your next rank once you get into the higher ranks gets a little lengthy.
  
  Overall Vegas two is a great Addition to the Tom Clancy Arsenal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaiNbOw_sIx_veg
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 7, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  well dont get me wrong this is a great game but its just no diffent from the first vegas we have 
 been playing. this just takes a huge bit out of the rating. it would have been nice if they added 
 mele, and other new things. the ranking system have improved vastly but it copy cats the Call Of 
 Duty 4 XP ranking system. the online is desent, but it suffers from alot of techincal issues. the 
 story is confusing because of how it changes characters and doesnt even toch the cliff hanger of 
 the first. there are some major grapichal issues with the game, and the AI's are very cheesy. if 
 you are intrested in this game i recomend that you buy the first one and wait intell the price 
 of the 2nd one goes down over summer 2008. but by all means its still very good and fun for the 
 people who like to play something that takes skill ( unlike call of duty) . so if you have 60 bucks 
 and you dont have anything to spend it on check this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrsksteph
Rating: 7
Date: May 7, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  The good:
  
  Great, challenging gameplay. Good graphics. Intelligent enemies. Nice selection of weapons and 
 gear. Cooperative split-screen play is a lot of fun. You're squad is intelligent and follows orders 
 well, and are very efficient at clearing rooms and drawing enemy fire while you enter a room.
 
  
  The bad:
  
  Why is this game called Vegas 2? With the exception of maybe 1 or 2 levels which were set in Vegas 
 at the beginning, most of the levels were your average industrial/office settings. It didn't feel 
 like being in Vegas like the 1st game. The cutscenes and facial animations were laughable and I'm 
 not sure there was even a story at all. It's also very annoying to have your squad block you when 
 evading enemies.
  
  A good game but overall disappointing because it wasn't near as good as the first game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucifershero
Rating: 1
Date: May 7, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  I want my money back, is what thousands are saying about the 2nd edition to the Tom Clancy Rainbow 
 Six Vegas title. Ubisoft changed the format of the online game play which in turn outraged thousands 
 prompting mass forum hysteria and over hour long waits at the return counter of many big box stores. 
 Ubi reply to this is... well they aren't replying at all. 
  
  I bought a game that was advertised to play a certain way. After a month it completely changed. 
 So much so that I haven't played it since. $60 for a game I can no longer stand to play. A great 
 dissapiontment! I feel cheated by a company I thought I could trust. I highly advice everybody 
 to steer clear from this company and game. If you are a sad victim of this change I recommend you 
 contact ubisoft through there technical support phone number listed on their site. I also advice 
 everybody to speak up on this issue until its fixed! 
  
  Until then I will find every forum and review site I can, doing my best to get the word out on 
 Ubi's shady ways. 
  Very Disappointing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: selek_99
Rating: 8
Date: May 7, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  I bought Rainbow Six Vegas when it came out over a year ago and I played through some of the campaign 
 and just got pretty bored with it. I felt like there were other games I'd rather be playing. 
 
  
  I picked up this one after having a long addiction to Call of Duty 4 and though at first I felt 
 like this was the same ol' Rainbow Six from before, I grew to love it. 
  
  I played through the regular campaign on Normal difficulty and it provided just enough of a challenge 
 that I enjoyed myself. The story is nothing of a blockbuster, but the cutscenes and voice acting 
 do an excellent job of keeping things in the above average excitement level. Gameplay is hard to 
 get used to at first, especially after the ease of Call of Duty, but once you master the controls, 
 you are a lethal killing machine.
  
  After finishing the campaign on normal. I tried out some of the terrorist hunt missions on realistic 
 difficulty. Its cool because you really have the world in your hands during these hunts as far 
 as setting the difficulty. You can choose many of the multiplayer maps, density of enemies, whether 
 your CPU team is available, and more. These were enjoyable to say the least. 
  
  I then played the entire campaign on realistic with a friend on co-op. This was an absolute blast... 
 This portion of the game deserves a 9.0. This made the game so much more fun. I can't wait to play 
 some more games on co-op and have been looking into getting more games that have that option.
 
  
  Multiplayer is pretty good. Your game progression stays with you through the campaign, terrorist 
 hunts, and multiplayer alike. As you perform specific types of kills, you keep experience points 
 and combat promotions that unlock new types of weapons and different camoflauge patterns, which 
 is cool. 
  
  The achievements are mostly fun to chase. There are a lot of multiplayer gamerpoints available 
 to unlock if that is your fancy. I was disappointed in call of duty 4 for not having many achievements 
 that could be unlocked by duking it out on Xbox Live. 
  
  If you like these types of games, this is one of the best. If you haven't played Call of Duty 4, 
 get that first. This is a good game to pass the time with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xSIZEMATTER
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 7, 2008 1:51 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: .8.5
  The gameplay elements aren't too hugely different from last year's game, but still hold up quite 
 nicely, and the new moves are implemented well and important to the gameplay.
  
  Graphics: 9.0
  As an Unreal Engine 3 game, Vegas 2 doesn't look too shabby. The environments 
 are well-rendered and feature some amazing lighting effects, and the character models look very 
 good.
  
  Sound: 98.0
  Good voice acting, sharp effects, and a great score line this one out.
  
  Difficulty: Medium
 
  
  Concept: 9.0
  While the gameplay isn't too terribly different from the original Vegas, the story elements wrap 
 up the saga very well, making it a compelling mission to undertake.
  
  Multiplayer: 9.0
  The multiplayer elements include some new competitive modes, co-op and a leveling system that carries 
 over to the single-player mode.
  
  Overall: 8.5
  Rainbow Six: Vegas 2 doesn't strive to reinvent the franchise, and works mostly as a means of finishing 
 off the story that began in the first game. However, there are plenty of new features and game 
 modes to keep series fans interested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 6, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Vegas 2 may be an expansion, but I wouldn't know. Let's get this out of the way: I have never been 
 a Clancy games fan. Too tactical for me usually. But Vegas 2, is considerably more accomodating, 
 to the rest of us. And if the rumors of it's overwhelming similarity to the first game is to be 
 believed, then I need to go pick up the first edition as well.
  
  The story here isn't overtly complex. Terrorists are in Vegas?! oh no! But who cares? It qualifies 
 as a setting, it's fun, and it's entertaining to watch Ubi try to be creative, with a franchise 
 like this. mwahahaha!
  
  Your character is the typical hero-antihero with a past, but the innovation lies in the incredible 
 depth of the creation modes that let you change everything but eye color and the length of your 
 nose hair! unless of course you used the vision cam to map your own face in... in which case you 
 could always clip your nose hair, put in contacts, and go back to take another photo.
  
  The upgrading system of aces works very well offline and on, which is considerate for those not 
 on xbl, and all the unlockables really add a sense of needing to control your ocd when playing 
 vegas 2. 
  
  The weapon sets are varied and effective, though balanced in the same breath. Very well done Ubi. 
 Of course that would mean nothing without slick, stealthy, edge of your seat... tactically satisfying 
 gameplay to boot. Lucky them! There is!
  
  RSV2 is a delightfully addictive trip to swat team land, and worth every penny. It's worth buying, 
 and in my case worth making me buy it's predecessor.
  
  addendum: although initially glitchy with the online component... apparently this has all been sorted 
 out. kudos! and i increased my score reflecting the cortrection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zyllus_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  - Well even though Vegas 2 is still basically the same as the original Vegas, it still brings in 
 some good fun. But it still isn't enough fun to keep you playing as long as some of us played Call 
 of Duty 4 and Halo 3. 
  
  - There is new features to this Vegas, like the point system, and you can now kill enemy's through 
 cover. You can even rank up without playing a second of the online mode, which is good for the 
 people who don't have internet (which me saying that doesn't matter, because people without internet 
 can never read this) . The new ranking system is that like Call of Duty 4. Doing different things 
 like killing through cover, head shots, kill a blinded enemy etc will give you more boost in ranking 
 points when you kill an enemy. 
  
  - The story mode isn't the greatest in a FPS but it gets the job done. And oddly you are barely 
 in any casinos, when the title is Rainbow Six: Vegas 2. And your AI is one team I would never trust 
 my life with. They cannot aim a grenade for there lives. The game would have been much better if 
 you had the ability to command each individual teammate, instead when you give a command to your 
 mates, they all do it. It would have been nice to place one teammate at each door. The bad in Vegas 
 is still the bad in Vegas 2, with some minor and and barley any major fixes to the game. Some good 
 new things are the improved graphics and sound. The gun sounds are a whole lot better.
  
  - Online play is pretty fun, there are several game modes to keep you playing. But I doubt anyone 
 but the die hard fans will play long enough to reach ELITE rank. The story mode is more fun, and 
 more easy when your playing with a friend, the same with terrorist hunt. The bad problems with 
 terrorist hunt though is that enemy's are always in the same place. I would have liked to have 
 seem some randomness in the placing of the enemy's every new game. But wherever they were before, 
 is were they will be the next time you play that level.
  
  - Well even though Vegas 2 feels more like a cheap expansion pack of the first Vegas, it is still 
 worth getting to keep yourself entertained for a few hours. Though if your a Halo or Call of Duty 
 fan, and your looking for a game to make you drop your addiction, this isn't the game for you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flavort
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  First thing first I have not played too much of the multi player. I played a death match, not good, 
 and a terrorist hunt, pretty good. Thats all. As for the single player it is very good like the 
 last one. It is the same, but they added the sprint feature which is great. It is not that big 
 of a change but I really think it is great to have it, big plus. I do believe the co-op online 
 would be killer as well. I will play it but GTA4 is out so it will have to wait. I played it on 
 realistic and think that is the way everybody should play it. Otherwise you might blow through 
 it too quickly. Anyway I really like the game play and the cover system, the guns are good and 
 the ACES system of upgrades is a cool idea, but it did not really make a impression on me. It really 
 is the same as the last R6V so there really is not too much to tell you. If you like the first 
 Vegas you should play this for sure. If you did not care for the first Vegas pass on this. If you 
 have never played a Vegas, get the first one, it is cheaper and decide what to do next. Sorry there 
 is not to much for me to tell you but it is the same as the other for the most part, and I enjoyed 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeAsakura
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 5, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  In Short: If you liked the first Vegas title, then you won't be disappointed with it's sequel, 
 although it feels more like an expansion pack than a full-fledged sequel. With that aside, it is 
 still a solid (but occasionally clunky) tactical shooter.
  
  Review: Vegas 2 is essentially the same game as Vegas is. You'll go from checkpoint to checkpoint 
 (in the single-player campaign) relying on either heavy AI assistance from your two teammates, 
 or merely letting them tag on behind you and take bullets. Of course you'll still encounter hostage 
 situations and so forth, which'll make you tred more carefully. Once that's over though, you'll 
 be back to either run and gunning like Duke Nukem, or continue slinking around like Sam Fisher. 
 Vegas still includes all the great features from the first game - rapelling down the side of buildings 
 is still a big plus, especially when you find yourself upside-down taking out the opposition before 
 they can even move an inch. Fast roping is still here as well as strangely satisfying door breach 
 manouvers.
  
  Co-op mode has been revamped, this time making it worth playing. Instead of playing with three 
 other friends max through insanely mind-numbing shortened missions, you'll be able to hook up with 
 one of your friends and two AI partners. The host will play the squad leader, meaning he'll be 
 able to control his AI counterparts, while your friend is merely tagging along with the inability 
 to do anything except shoot at the enemy and revive the AI teammates.
  
  Not only is the co-op mode made easier by having a teammate with a hell of a lot more sense (generally) , 
 but it's also made easier by only failing the mission when both of the real players die, as within 
 10 seconds after death, you'll find yourself stood next to your buddy. Like i've just said, AI 
 teammates are still revivable, and like in the first Vegas, if you don't get to them quick enough, 
 it's game over. So unlike the single-player, you can actually run through the entire game in co-op 
 tossing empty magazines around like there's no tomorrow.
  
  The Story mode will be pretty much pointless if you haven't played through it's prequel. It starts 
 off with one mission 5 years earlier than the first game's events, giving you only a little backstory, 
 and the rest of the game plays through the original Vegas events from a different perspective. 
 But all this is made up from the fact you can breach into rooms, and generally kick some ass. If 
 you're into that sort of thing.
  
  The only real change to the controls is the addition of a sprint button (Left Bumper) while everything 
 else remains the same, except for features like the tactical map, which have been moved over to 
 someplace else.
  
  Beyond the story mode, there is the famous Terrorist Hunt mode, and nothing has really changed 
 since the first game. This is a good thing. Choose your map, AI difficulty, player slots, and enemy 
 density, and you're off for quite a bit of fun.
  
  Multiplayer contains a revamped rank and unlock system compared to Vegas'. It includes the new 
 A. C. E. S. system. In short, depending on what type of kill you make (whether it be a headshot, or 
 a kill through cover) you will get points in three different categories. Marksmanship, CQB, and 
 Assault. Long range kills, blind fire kills, and grenade kills, all come into these three categories, 
 and you unlock the many weapons in the game that way. Equipment like armour, clothing, and camouflage 
 patterns are unlocked via rank-up instead of A. C. E. S. This, combined with the variety of gametypes 
 available (Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, along with objective based gametypes) keep the multiplayer 
 alive once you've finished the Story mode.
  
  All in all, if you liked Vegas, you'll like this. The only real addition is the sprint function 
 and A. C. E. S. If you played the first game to death, then you'll be happy with Vegas 2, but you'll 
 find yourself playing it a lot less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLARA
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas 2
  You know the slogan of the Rainbow Six series , strategy .Vegas 2 is a game like Vegas , but five 
 from seven acts are in the night , this game is on day ,the graphics aren't so good like the first 
 Vegas and the AI  I have a lot of problems like fight solo or somebody passing in the front of 
 my gun , you know watt happens , RELOAD LAST CHECKPOINT , Vegas 2 have a lot of problems but a 
 lot of good things two , great customization from Bioshop (YOU) and the Bioshop's guns , the game 
 has got a Terrorist Hunt mode , just kill terrorist = fun , all the modes ( Versus) have a co-op 
 mode , online and offline , Vegas 2 have a new system to get better guns A. C. E. S , there are three 
 types : Marshaman = to who has a good sighting , C. Q. B. =to who shot from behind and blind fire 
 , Assault = to who kill with grenades and shilded opponents 
  The game is a amazing for news Rainbow Six players , a better Vegas for series players
  Rainbow 
 Six Vegas 2 is like the first Vegas but so better and customizable 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmase14
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of co-ops, military shooters, or FPS I strongly recommend playing Rainbow Six 
 Vegas 2. R6V2 contiunes the story from its predecessor but improves on many gameplay elements. 
 Co-op is my favorite aspect of the game (I'm on my 4th run through of the game, all co-op with 
 various friends) . The integration of peers (or strangers) jumping in and out of your game is seamless. 
 No matter how far you are on the current level, others have the ability to join you without having 
 to end your current session causing you to start a scene over. 
  
  Another noteworthy addition is the ability to gain EXP though Co-op and Solo Campaign Story Mode. 
 I enjoy Versus Mode (Multiplayer) , but I'm not the greatest. With the ability to gain EXP through 
 Story Mode and Terrorist Hunt missions, I still have the ability of unlocking new weapons and camouflage 
 where in the original, I had to slave away at various Multiplayer modes (though great) that I was 
 not good at. 
  
  Last improvement to mention would be the A. C. E. S. system. This system basically tracks points gained 
 for Marksmenship, Close Quaters Combat and Assault. The accumulation of these points reward you 
 with weapons and EXP. The A. C. E. S. system was well done. Only request would be that instead of 
 maxing out at Level 20, I wish there were more weapons or EXP to gain pushing the max Level out 
 to 20 or something.
  
  All and all, Great Great game. Worth picking up if even just for the 6-7 hour Story mode, but the 
 multiplayer is good was well. It's not the run and gun of Halo or COD4, but a definitely a tremendous 
 tactical shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jediknight52501
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six is back in Rainbow Six: Vegas 2. the game is a lot better then the first game in a 
 lot of ways though the graphics look about the same. the game play has not changed much sine the 
 first game and that is not a bad thing at all, playing as Bishop is nice. you can customize your 
 character more this time around and can decide what armor he wears, what kind of camo he uses and 
 what weapons to carry, unlocking armor, weapons and camo is done using the A. C. E. S. method, which 
 is different and fun, you also can rank up by killing enemies in story mode and on Live. the harder 
 the difficulty, the more points you earn to rank up all the way to Elite. what is nice about this 
 is that you can use your original Vegas save data to rank up faster and unlock a few things as 
 well. the online modes are also better in Vegas 2 and Co-Op is also better for both story mode 
 and Terrorist Hunt. Terrorist Hunt is back and much better since you can team up with 3 other people 
 on Live and you can rank up and get your A. C. E. S. up with help from your team mates, the same can 
 be done on Story Mode as well and adds a nice touch to the game. all in all Rainbow Six Vegas 2 
 is fun, just don't expect the graphics to amaze you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amozarte
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Despite giving the impression of a "more of the same" sequel prior to launch, RSV2 managed to win 
 my heart in ways the first could never imagine. There are still a few problems, but overall the 
 game is adequately polished and highly addictive.
  
  A tactical shooter, by definition, is geared toward teamwork and strategy. It only seems natural 
 that such a game should offer a truly superb cooperative experience and RSV2 does just that. Be 
 it split-screen, co-op campaign, or even terrorist hunting, there is a heap of great team-oriented 
 play to be had here.
  
  The best part is that in delivering a co-op smorgasbord, RSV2 (unlike certain other co-op focused 
 games) didn't sacrifice the single player campaign. With seven acts consisting of several scenes 
 each, you've got hours and hours of solo play available as well. The scenes and environments, though 
 not particularly unique to Las Vegas, are extremely detailed and offer wide variety. My favourite 
 place involved an indoor rock-climbing facility- an extremely creative idea, in my opinion.
  
  The pice de rsistance for me was the character development through experience. Your character, 
 complete with the myriad of possible unique armour, clothing and weapon combinations, are persistent 
 throughout any game mode- online or off.
  
  For all its glory, though, the game is not entirely without flaws. As cool as most of the unlockables 
 were, some just didn't make sense. Who thought that pink camouflage was a great idea for a high-level 
 reward? The AI is also still more A than I, with terrorists stupidly running into your crosshairs 
 despite how many already felt your wrath. Your teammates can also be complete dolts when it comes 
 to ordering grenade tosses or staying within the cover of their own smoke.
  
  In spite of these minor blemishes, the bigger picture of RSV2 is still quite magnificent. Online 
 or off, there is enough replay value here to last a very long time. If you can only buy one shooter 
 right now, this may be the one you want! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UrNameInBlood
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  The only thing that kept this game from perfect is the fact it is the same as the last. That is 
 not a bad thing, not at all. The first one was terrific and this one is better. Yes it is a bit 
 glitchy but the gameplay makes up for it. New guns, a couple new ranks, and the A. C. E. S system 
 are all pretty cool. Some problems are, the A. C. E. S do not last very long along with the story 
 mode. And finally achievements are not unlockable. (I think update fixed) Oh and one more thing, 
 the weapons are a little strange, for instance the Assualt Rifle 552 Commando (first A. R) has better 
 stats than the Assualt Rifle AK-47 (second to last A. R) I just thought it was strange that you had 
 to unlock a statistically worse weapon than default weapon. But don't let me scare you, like or 
 not this is a great SP, MP, and coop game. Worth the full 60 and very enjoyable even if you played 
 the first I would recommend this game to anyone and everyone. I hope to see out there I am (Lietenant 
 ) BuckeyeCountry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FamilyGuyFan507
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 28, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Developer Ubisoft's first game Rainbow Six Vegas for the xbox 360 was beyond an online hit. It 
 was a complete fanboy trade and was still being played even now with the new release of Rainbow 
 Six Vegas 2. Creating tactics games like Halo can't muster up and ranks and customizations others 
 can't do, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 proves that this game is ready to stand against Call of Duty 4 and 
 Halo 3 but its major point is it's Single Player Campaign, will it hold?
  
  
  The game single player wise starts off almost exactly where the last one lifts off. Struggling 
 with terrorists in Las Vegas never gets any better than this. The Campaign widely throws you and 
 possibly 3 other mates through 6-8 hours of explosive exciting gameplay that brings some of the 
 most enrichening set pieces ever created by a video game shooters. However, being the weakpoint 
 in the franchise, Ubisoft makes it apparent they want you to be sure there is a Single Player presence 
 no matter how weak it is.
  
  
  Squad tactics have never been any easier and the transition from firing to command seems smooth 
 and seemingly realistic. Combining a mixture of arcadiac commands and strategic positioning the 
 game makes you feel like you are this Commando Logan. Your squadmates are not even nearly as smart 
 as Commando's need to be and sometimes it shows greatly in the Campaign when you order them to 
 do certain things, wether or not its to hug on the wall or blow threw they will find usually a 
 way to mess it up. Their presences is almost robotic in the mannor that their words are very animatronic 
 and not organic, which might be a good thing military wise but they don't really emote at all making 
 you feel almost bored. 
  
  
  However, where Ubisoft fails miserably at incorporating you with a fantastic squad they make up 
 for it in a rather spectacular enemy A. I. presence. The AI itself still feels somewhat robotic 
 as well but they do sometimes do different things. One guy will usually hold a shotgun and hide 
 behind like a wall while another man holds a turret down firing on your position, creating a more 
 realistic gaming experience. The most unrealistic thing the game creates is the enemy position, 
 in the fact that enemies will pop up at random around you which is deeply unrealistic in the fact 
 humans don't pop up with guns in their hands. This can simply ruin your enjoyment because one minute 
 you will be clearing a corridor and be killed from behind, ohhh fun.
  
  
  Single Player struggles very much the same with the last game. However, where as one side negates 
 the other runs in pure stride, such as the beautifully done Online mode which is exceedingly better. 
 The game now creates an unlocking system A. C. E. S, this system makes your kills worth certain points 
 under 3 different catergories, Marksman, Close Quarter Combat and Assault, each unlocking different 
 weapons that make combat alot easier. Unlocking guns is far from being a challenge and is alot 
 more creative than just unlocking guns through advancing ranks making your game almost more technical.
 
  
  
  You will find that online runs smooth as ever, with the reoccuring lagging servers that aren't 
 to much of a challenge and all depends on the servers this game is almost as fast paced as others 
 like Halo and Call of Duty 4. Making moments in maps either choke points, running points or holding 
 points. This makes the game incredibly realistic versing each other and the amount of teamwork 
 here is more than most games on any platform you will play. 
  
  
  The often reoccuring problem in many franchises is making guns painfully more powerful or painfully 
 more weaker than they are realistically. This game does almost a perfect job of resurrecting guns 
 to a perfect A. Guns work smooth and you can really feel a difference between an M8 and a M468 
 both almost follow the same statistics but the ruggedness of the M468 might be more your time rather 
 than the sleek blend of the M8. This makes the game seesingly more interesting and entertaining. 
 Taking hours developing gun skills will simply save you in this game from alot of deaths or embarassments 
 online, this element of shooters is needed and I'm glad this game incorporates this wonderfully.
 
  
  
  The online community of Rainbow is far more advanced then those of Call of Duty and Halo, reaching 
 from 18-40 plus years is the most frequent age group, which is a relief considering the community 
 you will play in will be really mature depending on who you play with making this game highly more 
 enjoyable. 
  
  
  Overall, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 Single Player is far from improvement in its predecessor but fortanetly 
 it takes out the stomps and places them in the Online. This game is highly enjoyable and seriously 
 will lack up alot of enjoying hours online and some decent set layouts for single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reign_six6six
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my favorite military games. I loved the first one so I HAD to get this one. They 
 do allot more with the interacting with your team mates you can tell them where to throw grenades 
 and you can tag enemies to tell your team which guys to take out in the order you pick. The game 
 controls smoother than the first and the graphics are still just as good. The story isn't bad but 
 they could have maybe added some more to it. But it's not anything that makes you not get into 
 the game. It has a wonderful multiplayer and you can also do terrorist hunts. Both are really fun. 
 You can even play the main story with two people. That was one of my most favorite things about 
 this game its pretty fun ripping through the game with a friend. You can also use your headset 
 to control you team but I prefer just using the controller. I was impressed with this game from 
 the second I started to play so I'm sure if you're a shooter or military fan you will like R6V2 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diazelmis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 5:21 am PT
Review:  This game is excellent, immersive, customizable, loaded with goals and achievements. Team AI gets 
 me spun up from time to time and i end up just using them for look out and the enemy AI can get 
 predictable. But the A. C. E. S. achievements which provide you with more equipment, xp points (more 
 points menas more rank) , and weaponry keeps me busy. I love the rank structures in these games 
 nowadays. Playing with a friend I think takes the game to a whole new level of fun, using tactical 
 formations and clearing rooms efficiently on realistic. Definitely will be playing this game for 
 awhile.  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wheelman112
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  im a call of duty 4 fan. i went from vegas, to halo 3, to cod4, now rsv2. when it first came out 
 i had played it at my friends, i played for about one hour, it sucked, i hated it, terrible compared 
 to the first. then i rented it because all my friends were playing it and i was the only who didnt 
 have it. so i went to blockbuster and rented it. after a day my thoughts turned completely, still 
 wasnt a PERFECT game, but a really good one. after a while it got boring, and i admit the first 
 one was way better, graphics could be better, the controls for take cover, blindfiring, and prescision 
 aiming all at the same time is WAY to complicated, but the gameplay and tactics-style action is 
 absolutely outstanding. story mode i think is way better then the first. in my opinion, the first 
 one is better online, second is better story mode. story mode is so great because the storyline 
 is always changing, always making you "right there at the end of your seat" and making you want 
 more. another thing about campaign is the difficulty. its almost perfect in a way because you just 
 want to finish that level because you keep dying, which makes you wonna play more. the good thing 
 about the online is you can stillcustamize your character to the max, and i mean to the max, if 
 its custom camo, custom weapons, even custom faces with the xbox love cam, but nothing to new. 
 and with the new sprint ability, the game is even for face paced, it doesnt take forever to get 
 to those camping noobs that keep pwning you every time you try to chuck a grenade inside that building 
 there hiding in. another good thing about this one is that it doesnt take forever to get in a match. 
 you can laugh at me or not, this is a renter, not a buyer, unless you absolutely LOVE this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtremeskiia15
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 27, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Vegas 2 is solid. If you played Vegas 1 then you will be right at home and for the most part enjoy 
 yourself. The gameplay mechanics are almost identical with an addition of sprinting and very few 
 parts of destructable cover. The single-player level design is in my opinion top notch, the only 
 thing is is that it is just the same as Vegas one with an upgrade system. The online is also the 
 same, just with new maps. As far as graphics go, maybe its just that at the time Vegas 1's graphics 
 were relatively good, but Vegas 2's actually seem worse to me. There are some new guns of course, 
 and some old ones have been modified, but roughly its the same thing. The A. C. E. S. system is good, 
 but nothing revolutionary. Because the tactical shooter market is so small and you are probably 
 tired of Casino Vault in RSV 1 I would say pick this one up.
  But I stand by my score because Ubisoft is really ripping their fans off by charging 60 bucks for 
 an expansion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 27, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas was great back in 2006. It really advanced the Rainbow Six series as a whole; 
 it added a good cover system, made ordering your squad simple (if accidentally fun) , and set the 
 game in a cool location with a great vibe.
  
  Well, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is here, and it's sad to say, but it's more of a side-step than a dramatic 
 leap forward. Actually, it may even be a step back.
  
  You play as a new operative, Bishop, whom you can customize to your liking. The story of Vegas 
 2 starts a bit before that of the first Vegas, and then the two plots start to overlap. But, don't 
 go thinking that it's a good story. Compared to the original Vegas's adrenaline-pumping, thrill-ride 
 of a story, Vegas 2's is a snoozefest. Essentially, Bishop is hugely incompetent compared to Logan, 
 so you'll spend your time chasing a terrorist who's been planting bombs around Vegas, and mostly 
 fail while attempting to do so. There's a major problem I had with this, though. The first Vegas 
 brought you to fancy casinos that really captured the Vegas vibe, but Vegas 2 only has a few locations 
 where you can really say to yourself "this is Vegas".
  
  Then, out of nowhere, the last two chapters focus on tying off a certain loose thread from the 
 end of the original Vegas. In the end, the game's plot is shallow, and especially disappointing 
 compared to the story from the first Vegas game.
  
  The gameplay in Vegas 2 is as good as ever, though it remains largely unchanged. Ubisoft has thrown 
 in a few new mechanics like the ability to sprint, and shoot through thin cover like wood, or tin. 
 But ultimately, the best new addition is the ability to have a universal character whom you use 
 throughout the singleplayer campaign, the multiplayer, co-op, and Terrorist Hunt. The character 
 earns experience all across the board that can translate into goodies such as new weaponry.
  From what I said about the game's story, the campaign is a bit dull, but there are definitely certain 
 moments worth experiencing, and of course, if you're dying to find out how the game settles the 
 cliffhanger ending from Vegas one, you're going to want to give it a play-through.
  The co-op has been improved, but ends up just as broken as it was in the first game. Terrorist 
 Hunt, though, is quite awesome.
  The multiplayer is also good, but also largely remains untouched. There are new maps, and new modes 
 of course, but it ends up feeling more like additions that could've been added through downloadable 
 content, than a whole new multiplayer experience.
  
  The graphics are okay. The environments, and models look great, but there's an all-around washed-out 
 look, and the animations are pretty bad. There are little to no new graphical effects, and again, 
 the game doesn't really look like it's a sequel, so it would've been nice to see some sort of graphical 
 overhaul.
  
  The sound is pretty horrible. The sound effects are pretty good, but some sounds (namely the guns) 
 are repeated a lot, and will likely get a little annoying after a while. The voice-overs are fine, 
 but their sound quality itself is just bad. But here's my biggest problem (and perhaps the biggest 
 give-away that this game was a rush-job) : The music is the exact same as the original Vegas. It 
 won't ruin your game experience, but you really get the sense that Ubisoft got lazy with this one.
 
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas 2's campaign should run you about 6 hours. Depending on how you like the multiplayer, 
 you could potentially add dozens of hours to your play time. You could also play Terrorist Hunt 
 and co-op, which further help flesh out the value of the package.
  
  All in all, Vegas 2 just does so little to add to the game's formula, that it ends up taking the 
 series backwards. The game is just too similar to the first R6V. If you haven't played the first 
 Vegas, then definitely pick up Vegas 2, but if you have, then you may want to just rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liquid_ninja
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is an interesting movement in the Rainbow Six franchise. It adds a good storyline 
 to the first one, both interesting and fun, and adds better co-op options. The storyline, although 
 good and interesting, is left with many questions unanswered. It leads to a fleshed out story, 
 but leaves a lot of it in the dust just to continue and get closer to the end. After you play the 
 storyline though, you move on to what I think is the worst multiplayer in a Rainbow Six game.
 
  
  Now going back to the single player. It is fun to play alone and with a friend. The co-op options 
 allow for you to easily play it with a friend and just adds a sense of fun to the game that was 
 missing in the first. The storyline leads you around Vegas with your squad around the same timeline 
 as Vegas one, and does a good job of it. It's very interesting, but it doesn't reveal enough for 
 you to fully understand it.
  
  Now onto the rank system, which I think is TERRIBLE. It's way too easy, most people cheat with 
 a single player glitch which allows you to get to Elite in a matter or hours. The ACES system is 
 also garbage, allowing you to unlock the guns way too easily, most done also with glitches in the 
 single player. In the first Vegas, it was cool when you saw an Elite. There were a lot, but you 
 didn't see them everywhere. In Vegas 2, EVERYONE is an Elite, and there's nothing special about 
 being one except the custom camo.
  
  Then to end this all is the online play which is a step back from Vegas 1. It has no match making, 
 which is good and bad at the same time. The good is easy to get with friends, ability to chose 
 map, and just sit back and have fun. It's back because teams end up stacked, angry hosts kick anyone 
 better than them, and all items end up restricted that the host can't counter. Above that, they 
 took all customability out of the modes, bringing this game to a new low and ruins the experience.
 
  
  My final verdict is rent it or get Vegas 1. Vegas 1 is better on so many levels, except for single 
 player. In online modes, Vegas 2 does not compete and is a waste of money. Rent it for the single 
 player, then buy Rainbow Six Vegas 1 for the multi player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyBobX63
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 25, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  When I got the first game I was very impressed and I had it for a computer that palyed it at 1 
 FPS, now the second one came out and me and my clan were hesitant on it , and when I bought it 
 I was blown away. The game has everything the first had and more, the ACES system is really jsut 
 a minor advancement the real fun is in multiplayer. Because of the sprint function it is so mcuh 
 more fast paced and provides more of a halo or gears of war experience. Also theres a few new weapons, 
 however in this game its quality over quantity. The guns in this game really have kick and when 
 you shoot um at peopel and see blood spray out you feel like your doing bad things. There is also 
 a new PEC armor system that lets you take your kick ass soldier to campaign and there is also more 
 armor and clothing some of which are really cool like a backwards hat. All in all this game is 
 a great sequel with better gameplay better concepts and if you didnt notice better graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrinchsAntLrDog
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Vegas 2 is a pretty fun game and if you really liked the first you will probably like the second. 
 But if you were expecting something special you'll be disappointed as you play through the game 
 you keep waiting for something new to pop out and make the game worthwhile. Well to save you the 
 trouble it never pops it fizzles. It is the exact same Vegas as the first the minor changes they 
 make don't make it worth while as a sequel. Maybe if you never played the first you would enjoy 
 it more than those of us who played and loved the first. All in all the game was fun for about 
 two weeks than I just got sick of it. Not to mention the glitches, when you put a lot of hours 
 in to get the realistic story mode and not get your achievement. I have no doubt it will be corrected 
 but a game of this caliber should have that taken care of before the release. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lendrahcir
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Where to start on this big bag of lies from Ubisoft, well lets break it up by some of "amazing" 
 new features they promised to add in this game:
  
  * More Multiplayer: 
  * Unprecedented Customisable Experience: 
  * Vastly Improved Co-op Mode: 
  * Challenging AI: 
 
  * New Weapons and Armor: 
  * More Vegas: 
  
  More multiplayer: So more multiplayer, yes, yes there is "more" multiplayer, it's a new game thus 
 "more" multiplayer, so no surprises there (WOW AMAZING! note the sarcasm)
  Unprecedented Customisable Experience: hmmm "unprecedented" as opposed to what, the old game? Sure 
 it was nice, added some from the old game, however "unprecedented"... ever here of an RPG, now 
 that's customisation! Get over your little selves Ubisoft. 
  Vastly Improved Co-op Mode: I'll give them that, that was improved, especially in the offline co-op 
 mode. 
  Challenging AI: Yes, well I would have to say the AI was "challenged", yes you heard me right challenged, 
 in cases they seemed to do even more stupid things from the last game, and they sure as hell don't 
 make any smart decisions like taking decent cover (oh wait, isn't this game all based about cover!?) 
 They would gladly slightly kneel taking cover and being shot at, like they still have some bullets 
 stuck in those simple heads of theirs making sure they don't work. I'm pretty sure my dead cat 
 can make better decisions. AI to put it simply was a disgrace! 
  New Weapons and Armor: WOW AMAZING!!! A couple more weapons and armor, most of which you won't 
 use because they are terrible or it just took you so long to unlock you won't care anymore. 
  More Vegas: More Vegas? What the hell, so what? how can this be a feature! That's like saying More 
 Halo for halo 2/3! Well duh! It's called Vegas!
  
  OK, now for the things that make this game in some way justifiable to be released. It's fun, yes 
 just fun, not amazing, just fun. The story is a bit of a let down, including the ending (which 
 gets hampered by bugs, but I won't even start on that topic) . 
  
  Overall, I would say play this game if you enjoyed the first, play with a friend if you can, makes 
 it a good bit more fun. Nit a fan of the first, then stay away, not sure of you''ll like it, same 
 goes. This game had so much potential, but in the end was let down by laziness and uncreativity. 
 The biggest disappoint about this game is all the broken promises, they built it up and it fell... 
 hard! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: briax87
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a pretty decent sequel. It keeps the same formula gameplay wise. It has 
 a really fun story to play over and over again, but one of its problems is that it's too easy, 
 even on the realistic difficulty setting. Add co-op into that and it becomes even easier.
  
  That said it has added some nice new features, mainly the addition of the vip feature, where 
 you can unlock new guns and armour as you play the game by earning experience points.
  
  Now onto the bugs....
  
  Firstly, we have what i call the "slideshow" effect. Basically what 
 happens is the frames per second drops unbelievably low, and in some cases to below one. This also 
 happened to others, but at various points throughout the game. This happened to me in the last 
 level, and personally ruined the experience for me, as the ending of a game has a big factor on 
 whether or not i like it. From a programming aspect it was disgraceful, as it appeasr as though 
 adding a single entity into the map causes the cpu to shoot to 100% so theres no room to do anything 
 else.
  
  Secondly, we have the ai of teammates. They are as useful as having a pistol taped to two watermelons 
 and carrying them around with you. They dont move well, they dont shoot well, sometimes it felt 
 as though i was trying to prevent children from running out onto a road. They are sensationally 
 well dressed for some quite incompetent retards. At one stage they became stuck behind a puddle, 
 yes, i said a puddle, on a certain map set in a car park. 
  
  Also, at times the chinese guy would occasionally let me know that he has climbed a stairs successfully... 
 "i'm at the top"... yes... clap, clap, my simple friend.
  
  Thirdly, you have the issue of texture loading. Again this was an issue that only plagued some, 
 but during online play the textures for the maps would take well over 20 or 30 seconds to load 
 up, so your trying to do a terrorist hunt on a completely black map. It only happened to me 3 or 
 4 times, but still very very noticable.
  
  Overall, it was a very fun game to play the story first time round, but after that the bugs become 
 noticable so so much more. Id say rent it before you buy it, as if you only buy it for the singleplayer, 
 you'll be left wanting more, as the story is simply too short and too easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-SPECTRE
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 24, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy raises the bar with this sequel to Rainbow Six Vegas. I didn't think you could get much 
 better than the original until I played this game. The story is deep, the A. I. can outsmart you 
 at times. The weapon selection, clothing, and armor give you more than enough to personalize your 
 appearance and help you with your mission.
  I would like your partner A. I. to be a bit smarter and actually do what you tell them to do. I 
 did not like all of the spawn triggers I had to hit in Terrorist Hunt, that got a bit annoying; 
 you check out a hallway to make sure it is clear and when you come around the corner a guy standing 
 there and one shot you are dead. 
  With all of the glitches and problems this game has it is still fun and can get really difficult 
 on Realistic. I rated this game a 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuthorLex54
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 10:47 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Decent Amount of Character Customization, Solid Voice Acting, New Interesting Places 
 to go In Vegas 2, More Weapons, Fun Experience.
  
  The Bad: Glitchty Squad A. I., Rare but Possible Freezing, Not Alot of Levels.
  
  Rainbow Six: 
 Vegas 2 is a good follow up to the original while it lasts, but it like most games has it's fair 
 share of problems. The game lets you customize your Character, Bishop, appearance from Face, Facial 
 Features, Camo, Armor, Helmet, Gear, Clothing, and Colors. But this system is flawed in the limited 
 amount of choice between what your character can look like. Another Problem I had with the game 
 was the ocassionally Glitching Squad. They would either get stuck in the area or be unable to follow 
 my orders until I reached the next checkpoint. Other problems I had were the Civilians, which are 
 supposed to be white on the tac map, come up as terrorists and the game will sometimes freeze during 
 gameplay. 
  
  Aside from these problems, Vegas 2 is still a good shooter and definately worth a rental. It's 
 share of levels takes place throughout many areas of Vegas, which finally aren't just Casinos. 
 
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is worth a purchase or rental. Whatever you decide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: julian_jr
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 23, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is the kind of game that after having the first Vegas be so succesful, just 
 seemed to many as a "failed" game. People really expected a lot out of the game, and many seem 
 to overlook all of the improvements from the first game.
  
  The first thing that you notice when you start playing Vegas 2 is that you immediately have to 
 make a character that will be for both online of offline. In Vegas 2, you can earn experience for 
 your character offline, as well as online, by either doing the story or terrorist hunts. This is 
 something that should have been in the first game as well. 
  
  You now need less experience to reach the last level, elite. It now only takes 400,000 experience 
 to reach the last level, which compared to the first game is very little. When ranking up, you 
 do not unlock weapons anymore. In Vegas 2 you only get armors, camos, and clothing when you go 
 up a rank. In order to get weapons, you now have something called A. C. E. skills, which after a 
 certain amount of points, you unlock either a new weapon or you get an experience bonus. There 
 are three different types of A. C. E. s: marksman, CQB, and assault. You raise the three individually, 
 based on how you kill either terrorists or other people online.
  
  The story in the game is just like any other Rainbow Six game: there's some bad guy that you have 
 to kill. The story has some cool parts to it, such as when you hear hostages getting interrogated, 
 but besides that, it seems really similar to the first Vegas, just in different places. 
  
  In Vegas 2, you can do co-op mode in the story however, which in a way is better and worse than 
 the last game. It is better in the sense that the story is exactly the same in this game, unlike 
 in the first Vegas where cutscenes were tooken away. Also, whoever is the first player gets to 
 use the two teammates in the game during co-op, which can help when trying to be tactical. The 
 bad part about the co-op though, is that before in the first Vegas, you could have four players 
 in a team do the story mode. Now it is impossible to play the story in a group, like in the first 
 game.
  
  Besides the story, there is always the classic terrorist hunts in Vegas 2. There are two ways to 
 do terrorist hunts: online with other players or offline by yourself or with the teammates. Before 
 playing, you get the option to choose the difficulty, and in this game, the easier the difficulty 
 the more lives you get when playing the game online. Besides having a few lives when playing online, 
 a neat thing about the terrorist hunts in Vegas 2 is that you get experience for how many terrorists 
 killed, and not for completing the mission (no more getting killed by the last terrorist and getting 
 0 exp) .
  
  Sadly, in this game, the terrorist seem to be godly at times. Often when playing, terrorist will 
 spawn either in front of you or in a previously cleared room and kill you. At times it can get 
 very aggravating.
  
  The thing that saves this game however, is the multiplayer. In Vegas 2 you have two new multiplayer 
 modes: team leader and total conquest. Team leader is kind of similar to assassination, a multiplayer 
 mode in the first Vegas if you downloaded the extra maps, except it has a neat twist: there are 
 two team leaders in both teams that can see where each other is at, and as long as the team leaders 
 are alive, players on the team are allowed to spawn (unless you happen to get killed by the team 
 leader) . Once your team leader gets killed, your team cannot spawn however, which can sometimes 
 make for quick, fun matches which neither team can win. The other mode, total conquest, is like 
 conquest mode in the first Vegas, except this time around you have to hold all the satellites for 
 30 seconds in order to win. Games usually are short however, and more fast-paced with the new sprint 
 button that allows you to run faster for a short amount of time in Vegas 2. Both of these new modes 
 are quite fun, and when playing in even teams, can become quite challenging. 
  
  The online in this game is similar to the last Vegas, in that you can either host a room or join 
 a room. There is no matchmaking, so in a way the games can be very laggy if you get unlucky and 
 join a host with a bad connection, but in another way, it lets you have the freedom of choosing 
 which map you want to play on, and know how full the room you are joining is. Once again, the host 
 can do whatever he/she wants to do, and from time to time you will encounter a host that boots 
 people due to them beating the host or stacks the teams to his/her favor. The lag in Vegas 2 however 
 is quite better than the first Vegas, although when compared to games like Halo 3 or Call of Duty 
 4, it is still laggy. 
  
  Overall, Vegas 2 is a game, that is really good, but had so much hype that people expected too 
 much out of it. The game is still one of the best tactical shooters available today, and any fan 
 of tactical shooters should try the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terdoo
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 23, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  There has been so many RainbowSix games since 1996. Iv played most of them. Starting with the n64 
 Rainbow Six. Its definitly not anything like doom or halo. But the franchise has changed alot since 
 those days. Lets see if its still worth playing.
  
  
  Graphics-The graphics are good. Textures are fine, lighting is fine, details are fine, characters models 
 are fine, ect. But these graphics are actually a big downgrade from Vegas 1. This game actaully looks 
 ugly at times. Ubisoft should of stuck with the casinos instead of this boring back way. Vegas has 
 never look worse.
  
  Gameplay-The game plays very well. The gameplay is definetly better then Vegas 1. In Vegas 2 you 
 can sprint, tell teamates to throw grenades, ect. The game really feel userfriendly. And the new Aces 
 system and ranking up system adds replayability to the game.
  
  Story- The story is nothing special. Sure you got a few surprising plot twist, but its really just 
 boring and we have all seen it before.
  
  
  SIngle Player- This is another point where the game is bad. The single player actaully feels tacked 
 on. the enemies feel very scripted and you feel like your playing a half finished game. I usually 
 see enemies floating around with thier feet not even touching the ground. When they arent being 
 stupid, they are smart. They flank you and take cover the smart way. Anyway, this single player really 
 feels like a rip off compared to Vegas 1`s surpisingly good single player. Just feels taked on...
 
  
  Multiplayer-Ok, this is where the game is worth buying. The multiplayer is very fun at times. When 
 I first got the game, I usually played it 5 hours straight every night, and then some. The customization 
 is something youll love. And there are plenty of game modes to keep you busy. Even the matchmaking 
 is easyier to use. My only complaint is geting kicked from game by lots of immature hosts and lack 
 of fun maps.
  
  overall- This isnt really what I thought it would be. But thats not a terrible thing. The game is 
 really good. Though I kinda miss the way R6 used to play.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuscleCarMan
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  If you've played the first vegas, you've played this one. Its almost exactly the same as the first 
 time around but only a lot less interesting. If you look at my past reviews you'll see that i gave 
 the original vegas a 9.3. Why rate this copy so low and the other so high? Originality.
  The first rainbow six vegas was something completely different. It offered original game play in 
 a unusual environment. Shootouts in casinos, on freemont street, and even in an opera house. This 
 one however shouldnt even be called rainbow six: vegas, it should be called something more accurate 
 like rainbow six: boring industrial section. Half the game takes place in such exciting locals 
 like a gym, a subway, and numerous factories. If i wanted something like that i would have rented 
 something else. 
  Every time you play this game its the been there done that feel. The guns, character models, graphics, 
 sound, everything is recycled from the last game. 
  So you still have some great looking graphics but you still have the incredibly bland environments 
 too. The terrorists even have the same lines from the first outting making what was once funny 
 (even if it was unintentional) into a really dull exchange. I could go on and on but to be short, 
 everything is exactly how you remember it but with different maps. Some of the story mode maps 
 are even rehashes of terrorist hunt maps found in the original, like the library and neon sign 
 graveyard.
  Id complain about the story but there really isnt even one. Just know terrorists are in las vegas 
 and thats about it.
  The AI in this game is even worse than the last one. In the first vegas your team wasnt that bright 
 but they would still be able to handle simple orders, this time however it seems theyve been breathing 
 in too many smoke grenades. At times they will simply stand there on assault mode and watch an 
 enemy walk by and other times your team will be ordered to do something as simple as "throw a grenade" 
 but instead botch that and chuck it in the wrong direction or give you some lame ass excuse as 
 to why they are unable to do it. Another problem plaguing more and more of today's shooters is 
 ever present here. For some reason your team of HIGHLY trained rainbow six operatives cant hit 
 the broad side of a barn but some common thug can shoot with pinpoint accuracy.
  Multiplayer is ok but again its the same as before so dont expect a new experience. Well to be 
 fair there is one and that is that they finally managed to make the MP game as good looking as 
 the single player.
  This game was a huge letdown for me on almost every front. From the non existent story to the completely 
 recycled material, i was extremely disappointed and will definitely think twice before i even rent 
 another rainbow six game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamedude404
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  If you sat down and compared vegas 1 with vegas 2, you experience a bit of deja vu. Well at least 
 with the controllers. The 2nd game takes too few risks and it seemed like ubisoft didn't want to 
 take any chances with the controllers. The positive side is that if you played one, you won't have 
 to go through a little tutorial with yourself with 2. There are of course some new features also. 
 Multiplayer is about 100 times better than the first. Instead of playing a quiet, storyless multiplayer 
 in 1, in 2 the multiplayer is similar to that of Gears of Wars. A second player can join anytime 
 and play along with the protagonist in the "real" story along with 2 computers that the 1st player 
 controls which is pretty awesome becasue that means you would have a total of 4 ppl on the misson! 
 The story takes place around the same time as Vegas 1. If you played Vegas 1, you will know that 
 Vegas 2 is happening at the same time as Vegas 1 which means you wont be playing Logan Kellar. 
 There are a few costumization options also. You can make it a girl or boy. Clothing, weapons, masks 
 and like can be changed also but some will need to be unlocked. Sound is awesome and REAL. Visuals 
 are about the same and maybe a TINY bit better than the first. Online gaming is very competitve 
 too and very addictive. Here are the pros and cons
  
  Pros: Very tactical and lots of choices and paths to go. Sound effects are great! Multiplayer has 
 been improved and better than ever! Online gaming is awesome and addictive. Gunfights are intense 
 and cool. 
  
  Cons: Too much like the first. Some glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mntnbkr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  At first glance you would think you were playing the first RS: V. While that is a good thing since 
 the first game was one of the best games out a year and a half ago, you'd expect a little more 
 spit and polish in such a long time between games. The basic gameplay hasn't changed much at all. 
 You still duck and weave from cover to cover shooting at the bad guys. The controls are basically 
 what you'd remember from the first game as well with the exception of running. They added a button 
 for running which helps out a lot when against an opponent who loves to throw grenades.
  Single player -- The story is basically the same kind of story as the first game. There is a plot 
 that the squad is trying to stop and it happens to be going down in Vegas. again. Like the GRAW 
 games and most Tom Clancy games this game relies mostly on action with the story only there to 
 point the way. If you weren't blown away by the last games storyline you are pretty much getting 
 the same thing from this game.
  Multiplayer -- The multiplayer basics are the same as the first. The Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch 
 are still there and they have added a few. I haven't played any of the new modes but the one I 
 hear about the most is Team Leader. It seems to be a popular mode other than the typical modes. 
 The only problem with the multiplayer is that instead of searching for someone to kill most players 
 that I have come across just find a position, which is usually the same place that everyone camps 
 at on a map, and just sits there waiting for that unsuspecting player to walk across their sights 
 and shoot them dead. That's talent if I've ever seen it.
  Overall -- It's a great game. There's not a great deal of difference between Vegas 1 and 2 but 
 if you are a fan of one you are definitely a fan of the other. I consider it a definite pick up 
 for fans of the Rainbow 6 games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sammytza
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Best game ever. Single player.... perfect. On-line play....... perfect. Terrorist hunt, online AND 
 of line.... perfect
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Probably one of the best games I ever played. Perfect combination between RPG (ex points sys) and 
 strategic shooter. I have been hooked ever since a bought it. Definitely one of the very few games 
 that get re-played along with halo. Online play is perfect. The only game I ever came across that 
 was fully playable online. What I mean is, every part of the single player side is ALSO playable 
 online... that's awesome!
  
  Best game ever. Single player.... perfect. Online play....... perfect. Terrorist hunt, online AND 
 off line.... perfect
  
  Every mission was realistic enough to be completed. No "super powered" boss fight. Had a bad experience 
 with ghost recon and decided to play Vegas 2 on casual. Sorry I did it. I should have played it 
 on (at least) normal. 
  
  I used to be a halo type shooter fanatic. I'm now opening myself to new gaming horizons. Decided 
 to give condemned 2 a second chance as well.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARSENALNO4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  a great game i play constantly. great online but the single player lacks a certain something. the 
 a. i controlled team mates don't respond as you would want them to but the game makes up for this 
 with one of the best online experiences i have ever had. a wide variety of weapons and a unique 
 system to unlock them. ranks work well and the character customization is very good. it allows 
 you to create a player unlike any other and also allows clans to show that they are together by 
 wearing the same colours and items. getting to the last rank (elite) is a challenging but rewarding 
 experience and allows players to show of their skill with icons for each rank. this is a great 
 game and i recommend you buy it.
  definitely a 9.5 and could easily get a 10 if the a. i was tweaked and the single player had a bit 
 more variety
  don't know about the ps3 or pc versions but i f*cking love this game for the 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MILMANO
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe it! this game is somuch fun! it evry little f****** thing! 1. Great multiplayer 
 with great terrerist hunt. 2. Great with friends and alone!
  3. it will never gte boring you can play the campaign over and over again and it's still fun.
 
  4. the graphics are f****** amazing. they are sooo goretastic. 5. it's the best best best best 
 best best best best best best best best best one in the whole tom clancy series right next to ghost 
 recan advanced war fighter. i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i ( sorry need to get 100 word to submit it = (] ) think this 
 is better than gears of war! and thats saying some thing! look fishies         tom clancy loooooves 
 fishy' lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2headedhawaiian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  I won't get into the story here, because what's there isn't anything to write home about. Yet another 
 tale of somebody whose daddy didn't love him enough and decides to kill a bunch of people and backstab 
 his crew in vengeance. *yawn*
  
  I played the original Vegas on the PS3, but from what I've heard from friends and forums, most 
 of the issues were shared between versions: no cutscenes in co-op story, madly inconsistent sound 
 effects, a terrible ranking system, etc.
  
  While the sound issues that plagued the first have notably not been remedied (random muffled/silenced 
 gunfire, enemy dialogue eminating from the wrong location) , everything else has been improved in 
 some way. Co-op play is a drop in/drop out affair, and mirrors the SP experience. Like most co-op 
 titles, R6V2 is more fun with a friend (albeit usually less tactical) . Ranking up is a much faster 
 and more interesting process now, as you earn XP for playing any mode, whether SP or MP. On top 
 of that, there's the A. C. E. S. system, which consists of 3 separate categories: marksman (points 
 earned for headshots, long distance kills, etc.) , CQB (points earned for close quarters kills, 
 blind fire kills, etc.) , and Assault (points earned for kills through cover, kills with explosives, 
 etc.) . Each of these categories has 20 levels, with weapons and XP rewards given for achieving 
 each level.
  
  The only real addition to the two-part series is the much-touted sprint feature, which is fantastic. 
 Much like COD4, while sprinting you cannot fire. This makes the feature an interesting risk v. 
 reward venture in hectic situations.
  
  R6V2 does suffer from significant texture pop-in, frame rate dips, and random glitches that all 
 point to one seemingly irrefutable conclusion: R6V2 should have spent more time in development 
 to work out the kinks. Most of the time weapon/environment textures take several seconds to load 
 after a death (magnified when joining a campaign/terrorist hunt in progress) . I've had an AI teammate 
 disappear when a friend joined my campaign. I've had a wall which was destroyed to make a path 
 after reaching a checkpoint appear undamaged after I respawned... although I could walk through 
 it as if it were not there.
  
  Despite these gripes, there's no denying that R6V2 is just really fun to play. The tactical nature 
 of gameplay, plethora of offline and online modes, well done co-op and competitive multiplayer, 
 character customization, and great weapons and gadgets really go a long way towards making Rainbow 
 Six Vegas 2 easy to recommend.
  
  I know there are going to be two core camps of R6V vets here: those who liked the first and will 
 like the second, and those who liked the first but will hate the second. The funny thing is, the 
 main reason for this love/hate response will largely be the same in both camps. Some will like 
 the fact that the gameplay was improved upon, not overhauled. Others will scoff at the lack of 
 originality. 
  
  If you played and enjoyed the first R6V, you really should put some time in with R6V2 and draw 
 your own conclusions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CSMBULLDOG
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  rainbow six vegas 2 was a great game to me. the gameplay was nice and fast pace but still with 
 tactical feel to it. not the right game to just bum rush your way into a room and think you are 
 going to live. I think one of the best things is the co op and versus modes. everyone gets there 
 character and plays as bishop. gabrial is still the bad guy of course. there are a few problems 
 with the game though. It feels like your not suppost to be there in the story. Bishop's story goes 
 side by side with logan's , from the first vegas. If you don't pay attention to whats happening 
 then you will think the entire game is different or its just a big plot hole. The game is also 
 still quite choppy to say. getting gliched in a wall or a gun not shooting or AI going crazy. Your 
 team is not the brightest soldiers in the bunch thats for sure. they could have worked a little 
 on that but everything is the same as the first one when it comes to the story's flause. (that 
 stupid helicopter and it's bad frame rate at the end of the game  : (
  
  the multiplayer on the other hand is still great. the ranking system is also quite great. it makes 
 you really try on this game because your not just going get every weapon you want by just half 
 assing everything till you like your weapon set. it is a real game for co op online. 
  
  I sudjest getting this game and playing it slowly or renting it and burning yourself out on it 
 in about 3 days. 
  
  its real name should be "Rainbow six vegas 1.5" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gladi8or19
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2, is a great sequal. It has a brand new ranking system, so you can see when 
 your about to rank up right on the screen. as well as it makes you have to make your decisions 
 wisely. 
  I was impressed with the simple Improvement, which i wondered why the first vegas diddnt have. 
 your teammates in story mode, you can now tell them to throw a grenade, smoke, flash, or incendiary 
 at the area of your crosshairs now, as well as when they clear a room like before.
  Customization is one thing i appreciate alot in games, and it was awsome creating your own character 
 for story mode, as well as having your teammates wearing the same camo.
  the story itself is interesting as it takes place at the same time as the first vegas.
  although 
 i preferred many levels of the first vegas over this vegas. it is still a great campaign mode.
 
  Multiplayer is pretty much the same except that durring coop mode you get your AI Teammates along 
 side of you. except i diddnt like how you can only have two people compared to the first vegas 
 you could have up to 4 players.
  
  after all is compared i kind of aggree with what someone else said, its kind of like an expansion 
 map pack. just with a few improvements.
  which sounds good to me, since i loved the first one, why not have a whole other story mode and 
 more multiplayer levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaywoody
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 18, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  The new Rainbow 6 Vegas is a disappointment compared to the old game, the new maps are no match 
 for the old LVU Campus and Calypso Casino. 
  
  The new guns are a strong point in the game with 13 new guns there is a lot to choose from.
  
 
  They have however added a running aspect to the game, this overall makes the gameplay alot lot 
 quicker than Rainbow 6 Vegas.
  
  There has been no changes to the graphical assets they are all similar to the old game in some 
 way in some cases maybe a bit sharper here and there, but no real difference.
  
  I felt like the game got very repetitive and the ranking were advanced way to quickly, i got at 
 least half the ranks done it about 1-2 weeks.
  
  I found the multiplayer slightly better in various ways, the graphics seamed better online, the 
 communication is better, but gameplay is exactly the same.
  
  Overall this game is a complete disappointment for a sequel and i definitely advise you rent this 
 game before purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capcom49
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  I enjoy all Tom Clancy games ever since I played them on PC, And the first Vegas game was fun as 
 well as difficult. But even before this game was released I knew they weren't gonna add anything 
 but new maps. But still I bought it, cant complain. Its as fun as the first and the new maps hold 
 strong and some of the maps are redone. Now if you love playing this online your wondering about 
 glitches. Its got em! Its got its fare of glitches and that lovely thing called Spawn Camping. 
 Rainbow games have allot of things in them I prefer then other FPS. Call of Duty has the kill camera, 
 I love ever so much. Battlefield always has epic sized maps and vehicles to cause havoc (helps 
 prevent Spawn Camping) . But Rainbow has the tools, weapons, gear/camo, and that awesome wall hug 
 with blind fire. Now in this killing enemies in all modes contribute to experience and there are 
 classes like marksmen (Head shots and distance) CQB (close quarter kills) Assault (frag kills) . 
 And my last thing about this game In case you were wondering, don't put on your head set because 
 there still are those people whom always complain and wont shut up, and doing terrorist hunts on 
 realistic can still help you level up fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dan2002sk8er
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 12:59 am PT
Review:  Now to start my review I will say that the Campaign is fun and the game is worth renting. But I 
 wouldn't buy the game because of several major flaws. First of all this game is about as next gen 
 as the original Halo. 
  
  The Graphics are sub par especially when games like Call of Duty 4 and Gears of War are on the 
 market. Speaking of Gears of War I'm not sure If anyone noticed but it Runs on the same graphical 
 engine as R6V2. There is also an other Graphics related problem I had that is the Fact that when 
 ever there is smoke or steam on screen the Frame Rate drops drastically. This is really bad considering 
 using smoke grenades is one of your mane tactics in the game.
  
  The second flaw I found is the Online game play. In the new Rainbow I was expecting something spectacular 
 after the amazing online play i the first game but I was disappointed. when playing a Ranked game 
 you get kicked out of the server after every match, this is not bad in games like Gears of War 
 where you have multiple rounds of play but in Rainbow you have 1 round that usually lasts for 30 
 seconds then you have to connect to a new server and load the map again. How am I supposed to get 
 any achievements on this game in 30 seconds??? the only way to get achievements is to play Ranked 
 matches, this is just stupid. An other thing that bothered me is the all ready bad graphics get 
 even worse when you play online. I felt like I turned on my Nintendo 64 when I went online, this 
 is just Unacceptable. 
  
  I did enjoy the Character customization there are a lot of choices. And is a very fun feature. 
 Also the Weapon list is huge, though you do have to unlock most of the cool weapons. but the cool 
 thing is you can unlock them playing on or offline. the cover fire system is still one of the best, 
 though after just playing Syphon Flter Logan's Shadow on the PSP they could still learn a thing 
 or two. 
  
  Ultimately this game is a joke for a next gen console like the 360 or PS3 but would have been amazing 
 if we were all still playing PS2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeferro17
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  As you probably already know, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is the sequel, and also the prequel, to Rainbow 
 Six Vegas. You control the character, Bishop, who is totally customizable, along with your teammates, 
 Michael and Jung. What is different about this game compared to the first is that the setting takes 
 place in the daytime, not just night. Also, the level scenes are different too. The player is thrown 
 into the back alley of Vegas. Don't expect too many casino battles! The levels go from fighting 
 lone wolf at an oil factory to guns blazing in a Vegas strip club (sorry, no girls) . The visuals 
 have improved greatly and there is not much lag. 
  As you know, in Rainbow Six Vegas, there was a experience system where the player could gain experience 
 to unlock new gear and weapons. It has very much improved in RSV2. The system is called A. C. E. S. 
 It is very easy to understand. There are three categories, Marksman, Assault, and CQB. A player 
 would earn points if he/she completed an action pertaining to a certain category. For example, 
 if a player got a headshot, then he/she would earn one point to his/her marksman category. A new 
 rank could unlock new weapons and armor or give more experience points towards the next rank. My 
 favorite part about this game is that you can gain experience while playing single player mode. 
 This is a very good idea because i sometimes get very bored of the multi-player modes. 
  The terrorist hunt mode is still pretty much the same as the old RSV, except for the new levels. 
 I disliked, however, the size of the maps. They seem extremely small and all of the enemies are 
 just packed into one room. It is very hard to complete a terrorist hunt lone wolf. The Story mode 
 in RSV2 is a little bit more boring than the original. I always seem to find myself becoming restless 
 and wanting the level to be over. They are far to long. It would be better if the scenes were shorter. 
 That way there could be more levels and more places to explore.
  Overall, this is a pretty good game. Its not anything mind-blowing, but I would definitely spend 
 the money if you played the first. Thanks for reading my review. I hope you enjoy the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackDjwh06
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  The game is great and I can not get off of it. I bought rainbow vegas 1 and played it like crazy 
 and have done so with this one as well. But there is a problem that gets on my nerves. When you 
 are reloading your gun there is nothing you can do till you are finished, say if someone pops out 
 and starts shooting at you. If your reloading 8 shotgun shells your going to be dead if anyone 
 decides to pop up on you within a minute. they need to make a patch where if your reloading you 
 can click the switch guns button you can quite reloading and automatically switch to another gun, 
 say like you would do in real life. Or if you are reloading the shot gun and have at least one 
 shell in the gun and you are reloading you can click the triger and pop that shell off if you decide 
 to since it is still in the chamber. Just a huge thought and if anyone knows how to get this to 
 the makers please do because its really agrivating to be on a killing spree and end up dieing because 
 you had to reload and had no other choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunner43
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Alright, I know that I am just a handful of hours into the game, but let me say, blah. It's kind 
 of like when you go to a buffet and you feel like you need to eat a ton, but after eating a lot, 
 you still feel like you need to eat more, making you sick.
  
  This game is supposed to be a great game. So you lay down your $65, after tax, and pop it in. The 
 first Vegas game was pretty darn good, so worst case scenario it is just more of the first, right?
 
  
  Wrong. The game is laggy as crap. Framerate is really poor. And I cannot even play an online match 
 because it is so laggy. My internet is good, trust me, but maybe it was just bad luck.
  
  Either way, the game is not as sharp as it should be. It's okay and playable, but when the framerate 
 drops, it's not playable.
  
  This comes down to personal preference, of course. But this late into the Xbox 360 scene, these 
 games should be at least pretty nice. Not this one.
  
  Sorry Ubisoft, truly, I am. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donkon
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 16, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  I rated the first one 10/10, that game was just amazing. But this one is a total let down. I don't 
 think the same people at ubi soft that worked on the first vegas worked on this one.
  
  The physics are unreal, graphics aren't as good as first one, for example you can shoot out lights 
 and different things around you. The ai is way dumber, sometimes it takes me 10 times to give a 
 command and the team actually does it. Lots of times my team mates get stuck and I have to push 
 them around so they move.
  
  Realistic level of gameplay is very unrealistic. They added a cool feature that you can select 
 what type of armor you want, but overall the armor seems to be useless, doesn't matter if you have 
 full armor or no armor on realistic mode you will die after one hit.
  
  Some of the enemy AI are too good to be true, like at times they will blind fire instant head shots, 
 or I blind fire and from a mile away they will shoot my arm which is instant death.
  
  Also don't understand, why i can heal my team mates, they can heal each other but they can't heal 
 me at least once.
  
  Also I am very disappointed, what happened to the story? Rainbow six Vegas was supposed to be continued, 
 yet we come here and what the hell is this.
  
  Overall rating:
  
  Story: 2/10
  Graphics (compared to R6 Vegas) 2/10
  AI/ 3/10
  
  Is this game worth playing?
  
  This 
 game is only worth playing if you haven't played the first one. If you played the first one and 
 really loved it like i did then DO NOT PLAY THIS!! It will ruin your liking for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Commie-spy
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  The main problem I have with the Live feature is the game search function. Because they don't want 
 the same group of people to play back-to-back ranked games, you're booted from a ranked game at 
 the end. So you can spend ten minutes waiting for a good game to start and by luck/skill from your 
 team and the lack of luck/skill of the other, you can, say, conquest the map within a minute and 
 thirty seconds. Then you're booted.
  However, all you have to do is re-invite your friends from your friends list. So the whole point 
 of stopping grouped up ranked players is rendered useless.
  
  The single-player campaign is a little on the short side. The storyline starts out exciting enough, 
 but how quickly it drops into a simple revenge plot (one that goes to extremes that I just can't 
 buy) is a little weak. The final dialogue too is a little "that's all folks" in wrapping things 
 up too quickly and neatly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armeniankid
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  As far as this game its a total waste of money i will tel you to rent first because it is pretty 
 much boring you cant crawl sure the graphics may have been improved but frankly its the same exact 
 thing as the first one if you have never played the first one then buy the second one you will 
 like it but if you own the first one your pretty much playing for the same exact thing so your 
 basically spending 70$ on the exact same game you have in your room its a wanna be game just ideas 
 tooken from different games put into one its mostly hype and two its a total let down so you must 
 rent fist or you will be sorry and thats a promise my freind returned it the same day he got it 
 cause it was that bad so its not worth it but if you really think youl like it go for it or just 
 buy call of duty 4 im giving this game a 4.5 for just some updates other then total let down 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KLN2002
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 16, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 Really doesn't do much to change the formula that made the first game good, 
 it does add some features that where lacking in the previous game. 
  
  The single-player / Co-op campaign parallels the story of the first game, with the majority of 
 the missions occurring just before, during and after the events of the first game. If you did not 
 play the first game, the story in the second game could stand alone, and is more complete in the 
 beginning and end. Ubi soft upgraded the Co-op game play, by making it a two player mode, with 
 one player controlling the AI squad mates from single-player as if the other human wasn't there. 
 The second player plays as the fourth guy who just happens to be there. This system allows for 
 both players to experience the in game cut scenes from single player, without the lack of dialog, 
 & jump between scene and game play that the co-op in the first game had.
  
  The game play is virtually unchanged. The only significant difference between the games is the 
 addition of sprint ability, and the A. C. E. S. system of weapon unlocks. This new feature is nice, 
 but can be completed fairly quickly. The system rewards you for accomplishing, close quarters, 
 marksmen, and Assault kills. Each type has various parameters for scoring points, and leads to 
 different weapon unlocks. The three skill trees are not particularly hard to complete, and make 
 ranking up almost too easy in the game. 
  
  Since your single-player & multi-player character are the same, your rank gain in single player 
 translates to multiplayer rank. It also means that your customized character look is for both modes, 
 and unlocks achieved in either mode translate between the two modes.
  Graphically the Vegas two looks the same as Vegas 1, although the colors in Vegas 2 appear brighter 
 and more vibrant, especially noticeable on the various camouflage patterns in player customization.
 
  
  Overall I would recommend Rainbow Six Vegas 2 to any one that enjoyed the first game, or that are 
 looking for a slower paced, first person shooter, when compared to Halo or Call of Duty. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdo1536
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 11:28 pm PT
Review:  I tried to review the good and bad, but I think I got stuck on the bad... after all, there is just 
 so much of it. Long review, try and bear through it =
  
  After playing the near perfect shooter "graw2", I had high expectations for this game, afterall 
 its made by the same company. I don't see how they could make such a great game, then make this 
 smoldering pile.
  
  I liked the idea of all the customizing you could do to your gear, but it turned out to be a letdown. 
 Max your armor, and still die in 1 hit! max your mobility and see no difference (well, MAYBE you 
 can sprint for 1 whole second longer) . At times it seems a weapon's stats mean nothing, the weakest 
 guns manage to kill you in 1 hit (not to mention the very first shot fired) , and not even be a 
 headshot. At other times you can put 20 bullets pointblank into someone (and actually see the blood 
 flood out of them, assuring you are hitting them) and still die (and again, in 1 hit of the very 
 first shot fired, and not even be a shotgun) .
  
  Which brings me to the next point... shotguns *caugh* aka AoE snipers *caugh*. These guns are so 
 overpowered its pathetic on the developer's part. You can be sniping out of a window covered by 
 wooden boards, and a shotgunner can shoot at you from about 50-70 feet away and land a FRIKKING 
 HEADSHOT! In games stupid enough to add shotguns (come on noobs, use some skill) , they really should 
 program it so they can't get headshots, thats just obvious. I tried these wonder shotguns out for 
 myself, I shot an afk dude THREE times from 10-12 feet away, no cover or obstacles in the way, 
 and he actually survived... each shot blood splatters onto the wall behind him, and yet he stands 
 (no, he was not in his respawn invincibility timer, he was about mid-map before going afk) . The 
 range of a shotgun in this game is rediculously long, takes away the point of assault rifles, and 
 sometimes even snipers (if you can actually find a spot its logical to use a sniper in this game) . 
 The maps are already so close quarters (oddly enough, "CQB Training" is one of the better ranged 
 warfare maps) , I see no reason why the shotguns need more range than 15 feet. There are places 
 you would think a light machinegun or assault rifle would be best to use the distance for accurate 
 shots, but a shotgun seems to have infinite range, and worse infinite instant killability from 
 anywhere.
  
  Which brings me to my next point, this game has so many bugs to abuse! Of all the matches online 
 I played, about 3 out of 4 of them had people sayingis glitching, kick him next game". Do they 
 need beta testers? They must have some idiots testin these games, not only for bugs but for obvious 
 bad ideas (like shotguns and the maps) .
  
  Ah the maps, a complete and utter disapointment all around. Not one map is great for sniping, its 
 completely impractical to use a sniper rifle nearly the entire campaign, and even moreso online. 
 Do they need map makers? Seriously, its not too hard to at least get the IDEA. A problem with all 
 games that use a rank up system: afk players. People join the game then go afk. If their team wins, 
 yay free rank experience. Their defence is "well I contribute by giving people headshots and grenade 
 kills" Yeah, to the enemy! Not to mention its just a shameful way of ranking up.
  
  I really hope it is high rank that makes players take 5 times the hits as you, and seem to do 5 
 times the damage, because its sad when you get the jump on someone, blast their back with your 
 entire clip (MAYBE its possible for even as much as half the clip to miss, for the sake of argument) , 
 and them have time to turn around and sweep you with bullets, and have maybe 0-2 hit you, and drop 
 you... It gets old, and I get tired of people blaming it on lag. The weapon's stats and player's 
 armor seem to make no difference, it seems completely random as to how much damage your bullets 
 do, if they do any at all. So it really is best to get the weapons that fire the fastest (which 
 of all the weapon stats, REALLY should be listed) just so the randomness is more on your side.
 
  
  The graphics are pathetic for how new this game is, especially the fire. There were times during 
 the campaign I thaught to myself "Did they seriously think players wouldn't notice the crappy graphics 
 on this while hiding behind it? Did they just skimp on the looks just because it is only in the 
 campaign and not online?". Way to let me down Ubisoft, especially after the near perfect shooter 
 graw2... How is that possible? To have so much so right, then **** out this smoldering pile of 
 CoD4 clone crap? Then again, that game was somehow liked by so many people, I guess you gotta please 
 the retarded masses to make the money... Way to whore out!
  
  This game doesn't even reward survivability like CoD4 did, one of the few things they did right 
 (even if it was a little overpowered on maps with little cover) .
  
  One thing I like is the cover mechanics on this. It makes it easier to be the defenders just because 
 you get 3rd person view when holding your ground, even if it forces you to do very revealing moves 
 to fire (if you want to shoot accuratly) . You can only disable 5 things when hosting a game online. 
 Thats enough for the shotguns only... You can't even get a "pistols only" mode. You gotta spend 
 3/5 of your restrictions on disabling frag/icendiary/c4, and that just leaves you with 2 restrictions 
 for the top 2 shottys.
  
  Seems the game needs a lot of work, and I don't think it will get done. I suggest passing it off 
 to different developers for some patches, the fools that made this definatly need to learn how 
 to make games. I dunno what other games these developers made, or if they was just trying a new 
 way of going about it, but its definatly not my kind of game. Tactical shooter? My ass... Spray 
 and pray, its way the hell too common online, and its sad more people don't agree with me.
  
  I guess I just like it when shooters take skill, instead of point your shotgun in their general 
 direction (I have been killed by a shotgunner when he wasn't even facing me) .
  
  Which reminds me, the "Terrorist Hunt" on this game is stupid. The computers INSTANTLY know where 
 you are and INSTANTLY shoot you. Your only chance of surviving is if they don't have a shotgun. 
 Computers that know instantly where you are and instantly react to you SHOULDN'T have shotguns, 
 hell they shouldn't even exist unless doing the hardest difficulty. Since all the maps are so damn 
 close quarters (really, there is not 1 damn sniping level in this whole shotty (its not a misspell, 
 its a reference to a shotgunners game, its called being clever) game!) , you gotta bomb every room 
 you go into just so the close computers dont headshot you in the half second it takes for you to 
 enter the room. If you SMOKE the room, thats a mistake. The AI doesn't take into account smoke 
 grenades, they still know exactly when you come into sight.
  
  If you shoot a player that manages to get away and into cover, he heals in about... 5 seconds, 
 and thats assuming he was on the most critcal status. What the hell? Games really need to stop 
 this "heal instantly" crap. IF (big if) a game is going to have healing, it should only be done 
 at your respawn point, and slow enough you can't stand in the open and fire at the enemy. Adding 
 a medkit as a "gadget" would work for field medics, as long as its a process.
  
  This game COULD be good if they do some hella patching, but it seems the retarded massive public 
 of this game thinks its just perfect, and its sad people review the game for the campaign only, 
 which I really couldn't even get into. I beat the campaign and didn't even care, didn't lure me 
 in at all. You would think a first person game would be good at that, at least thats one of the 
 things CoD4 got right...
  
  So much wrong with this game i'm sure I left some stuff out, but the more I review the game, the 
 more I regret longing to play it while my 360 was in for repairs...
  
  Then again, this is all just my opinion, and the majority usually disagrees with me on things like 
 this. But then again, they are fans of Halo3 and CoD4, that alone takes away any credibility of 
 anyone's opinion on what a good game is.
  
  If you want the game for the storyline, i'd suggesting renting it if you can. I had high hopes 
 for this game, damn what a let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: payne6705
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  i loved the 1st rainbow 6 Vegas and the cliff hanger at the end i wanted more and when this game 
 came out i was so happy and then i played it now i have to say the game plays exactly the same 
 as the 1st one which isn't a bad thing just you know feels like an expansion pack more than a actual 
 sequel but the game is still fun and challenging also you have the same team from the 1st game 
 (Michael and Jung) the only difference now is that you create your character from the start and 
 thats the main character of the game instead of Logan from the 1st game (think mass effect) this 
 game is enjoyable and there is some new things like how the xp you get now involves the single 
 player game and single terrorist hunts and multiplayer, new weapons and the drop in and out CO-OP 
 plus if you play a terrorist hunt you have the option to play with Michael and Jung or by yourself 
 and a run button which trust me is a god send my biggest complaint with the game is the locales 
 you fight in aren't as interesting as the 1st game you fight in more the back streets of Vegas 
 where people actually work and there really isn't much casinos or lights hell one level you fight 
 in a junk yard basically it doesn't feel like your in Vegas the only reason it was called Vegas 
 2 was because it uses the same story line and the same terrorist voices ya they have the same voices 
 from the 1st one (so expect to hear once again MOTHER **** and WHAT THEY KILLED HIM and my favorite 
 HE OWED ME MONEY!!) now time for the multiplayer which is basically the same from the 1st one just 
 a different xp system thats about it the maps once again are boring no casinos, lights, nothing 
 of Vegas instead you fight in junkyards, oil plants, Mexican streets and some old maps like killhouse 
 and streets (they are both free but you need a gamer tag) the only problem i have with the multiplayer 
 is that there is a lot of spawn killing the new maps are nice but its too easy to get to the enemies 
 spawn point and just camp the only blessing it you have like 10 seconds of invincibility but if 
 the enemy is in a good spot then you are screwed in closing the game is a blast i enjoyed the game 
 and it basically ends the Vegas franchise it does end the game with no cliff hanger i enjoyed the 
 game i just wish that maybe they added new voices and maybe new team mates you know the game like 
 i said before feels more like a expansion than a true sequel if your a huge fan of rainbow 6 Vegas 
 then buy this game if you like a challenge and Tom Clancy games then its a good buy BUT if your 
 looking for a full fledged sequel with all the works you will be disappointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 has already garnered inevitable comparisons to Call of Duty 4, so I'm just 
 going to come out and say it: For my money, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 contains much more content, and 
 is overall a better game. I appreciate the fact that Vegas 2 is more tactical and realistic than 
 CoD. 
  
  Now, let's get down to the actual review. R6V2 takes place before, during, and after the original 
 Vegas, but playing the first game isn't neccesary to enjoy V2 because the story honestly falls 
 apart a bit by the end. I played through the first Vegas, and I still didn't have much of an idea 
 of who did what and why. Luckily, the story isn't the main draw in V2; the main draw is the finely 
 tuned gameplay, and that doesn't dissapoint. 
  
  This game controls very similarly to the first, with the one major switchup being the addition 
 of a sprint button mapped to LB, which means that you now use the Back button to change your AI 
 controlled partner's strategy from Assault to Infiltrate. The controls are sensibly mapped and 
 mostly similar to GRAW 1 and 2, only I feel that they work much better in a first person game. 
 
  
  The single player game should take players around 7-9 hours. It's not too long, but because of 
 the tactical nature of the campaign, it can still take a while to beat certain levels. Friendly 
 and enemy AI has supposedly been improved, but I didn't notice any drastic changes. In fact, it 
 seemed to me that enemy AI has actually become dumber. Twice in the campaign mode I noticed an 
 enemy staring directly at me and not moving or shooting. This makes the game seem easier overall 
 on Normal difficulty: veterans of R6 can feel free to turn the difficulty up to Hard. The one exception 
 to this rule is a level in which you must proceed by yourself. It was sort of amusing at first, 
 but quickly became tedious. The final issue that I have with the campaign mode is that, although 
 it clearly says "Vegas" on the front of the box, you won't really recognize many of the environments 
 as anything that would only appear in Las Vegas. After the first few levels, you're basically just 
 fighting in warehouses. This game doesn't have the same awesome setting as the first. Despite these 
 (relatively small) issues, V2 is actually my preferred Vegas game because of the tightened gameplay 
 and a slightly faster pace. 
  
  But don't you dare think that Vegas 2 is over after finishing the campaign. R6V2 is host to a large 
 number of multiplayer options, all of which are finely crafted. If you have Xbox Live and like 
 shooters, consider this a must-play. Co-op is available throughout the entire campaign, but the 
 second player doesn't retain control over any squadmates for some reason. Still, as was the case 
 with Gears of War, the co-op campaign adds new life to the campain mode. My favorite cooperative 
 mode has to be Terrorist Hunt, though. Get three good-natured teammates and a long playlist, and 
 Terrorist Hunt can entertain for hours upon hours (I played TH mode online until around 2 in the 
 morning on the first day I got this game.) There are also a large number of adversarial multiplayer 
 modes available for online play. All of them are fun, and all except Deathmatch are team based. 
 My favorite has to be Total Conquest, but each game mode has its satisfactions. All in all, this 
 is one of the most well rounded (if not the most well rounded) multiplayer experiences on the 360. 
 
  
  Tying all of the different modes together is an experience point system similar to the first game's. 
 You now gain experience in three different categories that determine which weapons you unlock when. 
 Getting new guns is very rewarding, and at later levels you can unlock special items such as riot 
 shields and custom camo. 
  
  All in all, this V2's single player is good, multiplayer great, and co-op excellent. If you are 
 a shooter fan and have Xbox Live, this is one of the best games you could own. If you don't have 
 Xbox Live, consider this a rental.
  
  Graphics: 8.5/10: Not much has changed since the first trip to Vegas. Character models are now 
 fully customizable in single and multiplayer, and they look great. Environments look a bit better 
 than the first game's, but V2's warehouses still don't stand out as much as V1's casinos.
  Gameplay: 9.5/10: Very finely tuned tactical combat is quite rewarding.
  Sound: 8/10: Same as 
 the first, basically.
  Entertainment: 9/10 for Live owners, 8.5/10 for non-Live owners with friends, 8/10 for those who 
 are friendless and lonely: Great MP.
  Overall: 8.5/10. 
  NOTE: I'D GIVE R6V2 8.75/10, BUT GAMESPOT'S RATING SYSTEM ISN'T THAT FLEXIBLE, SO 8.5 IT IS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gruug
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a pretty good FPS. As a sequel to RSV it is very good. While 
 lacking a driving story it plays pretty well. However, RSV2 on the 360 suffers from the same problem 
 that most FPS have on consoles. That problem, controls. While you would think that the controls 
 would be good on a console that is just not the case. There is lag in the rate or turn and the 
 responsiveness just feels sluggish. While not unplayable, it makes attempting to turn around while 
 being shot feels a bit like your legs are in glue. And, just like in many many other FPS games 
 on consoles, the actaul aiming and shoot have been dumb down to make up for the lack of effectiveness 
 of the slow turn and slew rates. The game makes it easier to score a hit even when not aimed directly 
 at a body part. Generally, this would be called "making the hit box bigger" in order to made combat 
 work. 
  
  Again, RSV2 is not a bad game. Graphics are good as are the ingame sounds. MP isn't too bad but 
 again suffers when considering the console control problems. SP is and SP w/coop is a lot of fun 
 as is the coop terrorist hunts.
  
  Overall, I think I would rather pick this game up for the PC. I may just do that and make a comparison 
 review when I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrRoberto
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a very safe sequel to a solid tactical shooter. The RS series has always 
 had fantastic strengths as well as glaring weaknesses. More than any other shooter franchise, it 
 always feels the same not matter the engine. It never fails to amaze me how iteration after iteration, 
 it just feels like an RS game. Over the years, there have been a few missteps (Covert Operations... 
 ahem,) but this entry is rock-solid entertainment for fans of the series. 
  
  Getting the feel of the series right is a definite strength of the game. Everything feels just 
 like it should; intense gameplay that vacillates between hurry-up and wait shootouts, squad-based 
 tactics that reward the non-Rambo types, solid multiplayer that requires more skill than twitch, 
 and 
  realistic presentation of both locales and weapons. That's the good stuff. Unfortunately, with 
 each new RS game, the same old flaws rear their ugly heads. Squad-based combat is a great gameplay 
 mechanic, when it works. Too often you'll assign your squad to stack up at a door, and instead 
 of taking position at either side, one will stand behind the other losing the advantage of cover. 
 As soon as the door pops open, there's and operative down. Of course there are moments where th 
 AI gets totally defeated by a corner, box, or each other. One day, they will get the AI right, 
 but for now 
  it just works most of the time. What does work flawlessly is the ordering system. Once the player 
 grasps how to control the operatives, the flow of clearing rooms is amazing. The only thing to 
 watch out for is the issue with grenades. Ordering the AI to frag an area can result in one of 
 three options. The grenade will sail flawlessly to the highlighted spot, or rebound off of a truck 
 or wall in the way, or most frustrating of all, nothing will happen. It's hard to believe that 
 a trained counter-terrorism operative would fling a grenade into a wall instead of through an open 
 door.
  
  Aside from squad-based issues, there are relatively few complaints to be found with this game. 
 Levels feel well designed. They are just the right size for multiplayer, and seem fair. You get 
 some rehashed maps from prior games (yes, Killhouse is in there,) which makes sense. I would love 
 to see 
  a re-make of Bunkers or Sib-I one of these times out, but I may be alone in that. Anyway you cut 
 it, the levels are well-balanced, leading to terse firefights in close quarters. There are few 
 open areas in the maps, but the series lends itself more to interiors and street-level chokepoints. 
 The weapons are diverse and the diesgners have achieved a varied feel for the lot of them. Even 
 within a sub-category, guns feel different from one another. The shotguns can dominate multiplayer, 
 but that's probably pretty realistic if you think about it.
  
  Multiplayer can be great fun. For some reason, the RS series has always been a great contender 
 for clan-match Nirvana. The ability to set up matches down to the most minute of details has always 
 been present, and RSV2 is no slouch. The option (or lack-thereof) to restrict kits is one of the 
 most 
  overlooked features of any shooter. Lag can be an issue, and I don't trust that there aren't issues 
 like the standby exploit of Halo fame lurking in online matches, but overall it is a great way 
 to kill time on Xbox Live. The addition of XP carrying over from offline to online play is a brilliant 
 idea. The only nitpick I have with the whole online experience is that there is no unifying online 
 framework like in CoD4 or the Halo series. It feels somewhat jarring to finish a match and be dumped 
 back to the menu with a dialog box saying that your conneciton to the host has been lost. It feels 
 like an error message whenever I see it. All I'm asking for is that after a match (with the option 
 to continue playing with the smae group again,) one gets dumped back to a server browser system 
 like most PC games have.
  
  Graphics look sharp, especially character models. The faces look a little strange, but the ability 
 to easily skin your own face onto your avatar is a great consolation. Textures are good, lighting 
 is great, and the smoke effects are useful and good-looking. Sound design is flawless. The mood 
 is perfect, except for when you suddenly receive is Cisco-branded communication or run smack-dab 
 into a Comcast ad. If advertisers are paying game devs to be in there, I want the price of the 
 game to go down as a result of having to play through product placement. One could argue that it 
 adds to the realism, but it took me right out of the zone the first time I saw a Comcast ad on 
 a monitor. Sigh...
  
  Overall, the game is just great. Offline co-op is a great addition to a superb single-player and 
 multiplayer experience. It's a solid entry into a long-running series. Longtime fans will thrill 
 to the way that Ubisoft has once again captured the essence of an RS game and given the players 
 more of what they loved in the first place.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: swat1913
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 7:15 am PT
Review:  It is definitly an improvement from the first although the AI teammates still go crazy and on terrorist 
 hunt the last man alive can often never be found and when you do find him he blasts your freaking 
 head off. Those are my only complaints as the single player is pretty good but i found it very 
 short as i completed it in 3 hours or something, the graphics are a good improvement almost perfect 
 infact and the multiplayer is even better as im sure many of you got really pissed off at ranking 
 up online in the first rainbow six. Thats been taken care of as you now get A. C. E. S that help you 
 rank up by getting headshots or blowing an enemy up with C4, each level you gain you are rewarded 
 either a piece of equipment like a new sniper rifle or more XP that helps you get your rank up 
 really quickly as in the last game it took years to rank up. The game is fairly easy on singleplayer 
 but if you put it up to realistic you might need a friend to help you. The multiplayer is the main 
 thing though i highly recommend this game to anyone who loves tactical shooters or fps's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dniq_gamespot
Rating: 9
Date: May 13, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas, I think, has always been one of the top ranked games in an online multiplayer. 
 Granted, god only knows how many glitches it has.
  
  However, with Rainbow Six Vegas 2 Ubisoft has pushed the limits of bugginess and glitchiness even 
 further: this time around it is not just buggy, it is SUPER buggy. There are so many bugs - you 
 would keep wondering how in the world things like this even get released. It should have been in 
 testing and development for another 5-6 months _at least_.
  
  After Call Of Duty 4 came out, Ubisoft has had a rather large shoes to fill with its second installment 
 of Rainbow Six Vegas game. It failed.
  
  If Ubisoft manages to get its stuff together and fix _at least_ the majority of the most obvious 
 bugs - I will change my rating to a higher number, but for now I rate it as 3, purely because of 
 an incredible amount of bugs and glitches (and low framerates) , making it exceedingly frustrating 
 to play.
  
  UPDATE: It seems that the latest update have fixed most of the most annoying bugs, so I'm changing 
 the rating to 9: R6V is a great multiplayer game, and definitely deserves a great rating, but only 
 if it's playable, naturally :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tpbman121
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a solid game. It is a good tactical shooter that is sure to keep you hooked 
 for hours. This game is a simple first person shooter that has minor flaws but nothing considerable. 
 The graphics in the game could have been better. I played this game for the Xbox 360 and compared 
 to other games of a similar genre the graphics could have been improved substantially. In other 
 games there are minor details that you notice such as light switches. In this game it looks as 
 if they put no detail in those light switches. The audio in the game was pretty good. Some of the 
 voice acting was a bit repetitive such as when you are issuing voice commands. Which brings me 
 to my next point, the A. I. Generally, the A. I. was okay. Your team can help you get out of some 
 tight situations but every so often they can become a burden. For example, when they stack up at 
 a door and you order them to enter and clear, they sometimes just run into the room, get shot and 
 killed. If they are killed the mission is over. But this does not happen all the time. Overall 
 the game is a solid first person shooter with hours of gameplay, a great multiplayer mode and offers 
 an excellent Xbox live experience. This game is very similar to its predecessor so if do not want 
 to spend $60 on this get its prequel Rainbow Six Vegas at a much cheaper price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bperdue
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Expect some pretty good tactical fps gameplay here, this game truly has no peer as far 
 as tactical fps gaming is concerned. RSV2 sees some pretty good upgrades in the gameplay department 
 with the ability to updgrade your character offline as well as online, and a sprint button so that 
 you can actually run now!!! As far as length is concerned, the campaign will take most people less 
 than 10 hours to complete. However, this game offers terrorist hunt and off-line co-op in addition 
 to on-line content, so you are actually getting quite a bit of game for your money. Now for the 
 bad news. The AI in this game ranges from pretty outstanding to downright pathetic. Your teammates 
 (although quite a bit smarter than they were in RSV) will get in your way, get stuck behind doors, 
 and stand in the line of fire while you are trying to blow some terrorist away. The terrorists 
 can sometimes hear you breathing from a mile away and other times will stand 6 inches from your 
 face and NOT fire on you (I actually revived a teammate a couple of times only to find that the 
 terrorist who shot him was watching me heal him) . The only other issue I have with this game is 
 realism. The series has strayed a little from its roots in recent years, but this game has some 
 moments which belong in other faster paced, combat sim type shooters. There are some situations 
 where tactics are taken out of the equation for you and it is more about who can pull the trigger 
 faster or unload more ammo... fun in some games, but distracting in a TACTICAL shooter. However 
 , I realize that this is not the Rainbow Six game of old and do believe that tactics still play 
 a decent part in this game. You will still pay a heavy price for not trying to use tactics to your 
 advantage. 
  
  Graphics/Sound: Graphics are pretty good in RSV2, maybe not as good as COD4, but darn close. The 
 sound is excellent and definitely adds to the gamers experience. 
  
  Storyline: The storyline is bland, pretty standard terrorists taking hostages plot, one twist at 
 the end... you get the picture. The storyline gets no help from the fact that there are no cut scenes 
 in the game to really get you involved in the plot.
  
  Multiplayer/online: The online draw in RSV2 is slightly diminished because of COD4. This game just 
 doesn't match up to COD4 as far as online play is concerned (few games really do) . Still, there 
 is fun to be had here if you choose to play. Also, I realize that some people out there don't have 
 access to, or do not want to pay for, xbox live gold. So, I consider live content icing on the 
 cake. 
  
  Overall: This game gets a pretty decent rating in my opinion for a few reasons. First, RSV2 is 
 the best tactical shooter to date on the 360. Second, the developers behind RSV2 took a hint and 
 made character upgrading available offline as well, adding to the replay value and fun factor of 
 playing this game. On the darker side, this game is not without issues in the AI department. It 
 is not as fun to play online as some other games (this is more personal preference) . Finally, despite 
 being the best tactical shooter to date, I feel that another tactical shooter (like brothers in 
 arms) could trump this game by offering more "realistic" tactical situations. All that being said, 
 if you like killing terrorists, do not pass this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beaglesniffer
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2008 3:49 am PT
Review:  I played the first rainbow six vegas and this is definately an improvement because of my purchase 
 of the first game I automatically unlocked some xp etc which was nice.
  
  I thought the visuals had improved slightly from the first, the were a few minor minor visual glithches 
 and the frame rate was good it obviosuly slowed a bit when you get 4 grenades going off blowing 
 up lots of windows but thats fair enough.
  
  The gameplay seems more fun than the last not sure why, theres plenty of weapons, armor and clothing 
 to keep you happy, the ACES and XP rank ups are also nice.
  
  The story and co-op story are also fun to play, the story kinda made you feel unaware of what was 
 happening in the start and how it was linked to the first game but about half way and till the 
 end the story was becoming clear and more involving at the beginning it was just shooting ppl and 
 you didnt really know why.
  
  Terrorist hunt is also good plenty of maps to choose and difficulties 4 player is also good, the 
 terrorists are as good as ever.
  
  Online multiplayer also has plenty of maps and game modes and is really fun to play although this 
 game tends to be the most unstable in terms of connection, other games like COD4 seem more stable 
 i dont know why if its the game or just the ppl hosting i can never find a game with a green connection 
 most are all red lol!!! still good enough though
  
  Overall its a 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icedfacekilla57
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2008 2:45 am PT
Review:  Now i am a veteran of Rainbow Six Vegas, i bought and played the first one alot before COD4 came 
 along, but honestly to me, it doesnt even feel like the same game, which is a good thing.
  
  First off, the game still takes place in Vegas, but its more of the day life instead of the 
 night operations, and it takes place in totally different areas. You begin to figure out how this 
 story connects to the first, as you dont play the same person you did in Vegas 1.
  
  Guns, equipment, yeah its all the same, but the maps are different, some recognizable from the 
 first, but the new ones make a fine addition to the vegas theme.
  
  Speaking of equipment and such, Online is still great, Co-op in this game is better, and your teammates 
 dress in your character's colors, not that thats a huge deal but i think its pretty cool. Having 
 said that, it truly feels like you have your own squad, because you play the same character both 
 online and off, as well as gain ranks both online and off. 
  
  A. C. E. S also provides a unique way of more rpg goodness, where its broken down into 3 tiers of 
 unlockable weapons that basically categorize with each one.
  
  CQB or Close quarters combat is basically self explanatory, you get points in this area by doing 
 close quarter kills and other close quarter kills.
  
  Assault is the whole explosion demolition thing, you get points in this area by blowing stuff up 
 and using your gernades.
  
  Marksmanship is self explanatory as well, you gain points by log range shoots, killing people from 
 a rope, or headshots.
  
  Yes i bought vegas 1, and yes i bought vegas 2 with no regrets, its the same game in general, but 
 hell, it feels different for me. It kind of takes me back to RBS3 and RBS3 Black Arrow, were they 
 not the same game? Yeah but they both kicked @$$.
  
  All in all the game is great, and if you havent picked up the first one, it isnt a big deal, but 
 atleast rent it before playing the storyline in this one, it will make all the more satisfying.
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlandAnimal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Most people say that it is way too much like the first one. But they arent really appreciating 
 how fun this game is. And yes, they couldve taken more time to improve the game, But just have 
 some fun playing the game and wait for the next one to be revolutionary.
  
  The single player is linked to the first one as it takes place a couple hours before and during 
 the Mexico mission from the first game. In many ways it is similar with a few extra thing that 
 add a dimension to the game like the ability to sprint. The character customization and A. C. E. S. 
 leveling system are fun and add diversity to the multiplayer expierience.
  
  The multiplayer is just as great as the first games but with more (as i said before) diversity 
 and intensity with character customization and the ability to sprint. The new maps are great, with 
 some old school maps from RSV 1 added to the formula.
  
  It is just overall a fun game that will have you amused with its multiplayer and ranking system. 
 You will be fine until there is Rainbow Six Vegas 3.
  
  Score: 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bioshock91
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  this game improved over the first one in many ways. There are now way more assault rifles, and 
 SMGs than in the first one along with one new shotgun, one new pistol, and two new sniper rifles. 
 Also the story has improved greatly. It seems longer, and the difficulty seems a little more distributed. 
 Co-op online and offline is a plus. Although they dumbed it down to only two people online not 
 4. Although the story is good, the multi player is where this title shines. Not only have they 
 added more weapons they added more maps, and game modes. A major plus , you no longer have to wait 
 for the match to end you can jump right in. the only problems i have with this game is that they 
 could have put a little more work into the graphics, its an awsome game but the graphics are ehh?? 
 , compared to graw 2, cod 4, gears of war , other shooters, but in the end thumbs up to you guys 
 at Ubisoft.
  
  A definite pick up, especially if you were a fan of the first one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8bitantichrist
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  I'll come right out and say it, Rainbow Six Vegas spent a HUGE amount of time in my 360 over the 
 past year. It didn't matter if I was playing Retrieval on Xbox LIVE or killing time in Terrorist 
 Hunt, the original Vegas always provided a good time. Like many other fans of the original, I was 
 psyched to get the sequel, and most likely, just as disappointed when I did. Not with the game 
 as a whole, mind you, just confused by the numerous bad decisions that mar what could have been 
 the greatest FPS ever.
  
  First of all, I'm sure at least 99% of people who want this game want it for the multiplayer. The 
 original Vegas offered a ton of ways to have a blast online, and had modes and maps for every taste. 
 Well, it seems the dev team for Vegas 2 wasn't paying much attention to the fans' simple requests 
 for more content, as they were too busy finding ways to destroy what made the original so great. 
 A huge chunk of multiplayer was completely cut, including modes and maps. This is perhaps the biggest 
 flaw in this rush job of a game. No more Retrieval, Survival, Assassination. Calypso Casino, LVU 
 Campus, Casino Vault, Doscala Restaurant, Wartown, Dam, and more were removed to make way for some 
 of the ugliest multiplayer levels I've seen since the days of the Nintendo 64. Call of Duty 4 proved 
 it is possible to have huge, gorgeous multiplayer levels, and the piss-poor graphics in this are 
 absolutely inexcusable. The levels, online and off, are crammed with textureless walls, blurry 
 objects, and poorly rendered enemies. I would have gladly waited a few extra months for a game 
 worthy of the first Vegas, instead of this pile of rushed garbage. 
  
  The Campaign in Vegas 2 is also a horrible step back. "Realistic" difficulty should be simply titled 
 "Bullsh*t". Enemies react with superhuman speed, eagle-eye accuracy, and can take more bullets 
 than you can count. I never thought I would see an enemy take four rounds to the chest, run away 
 to cover, and blind fire kill me with a Raging Bull, but it happened. Realistic is nothing more 
 than a horribly unfair and repetitive experience. Terrorist Hunts with friends are also nothing 
 more than exercises in futility. In the first Vegas, moving carefully, checking corners, and generally 
 intelligent decisions would see you through. In the sequel, you can be as careful as you want, 
 but once you walk past that invisible line and trigger the mass-spawning of enemies, you're dead. 
 That's right, THE ENEMIES SPAWN. Rather than in the first, where enemies were in predetermined 
 positions, here, they simply appear. For example, your friend opens a door and sees no enemies 
 in the next room. He throws a grenade in that room to make sure it's safe. After the grenade goes 
 off, he walks into the room to find that he just triggered the spawn of enemies in there. So, for 
 a brief second, he sees enemies standing in the smoke of the grenade he just threw, unharmed because 
 although they are there now, they weren't when he threw his grenade because he hadn't made them 
 appear. This is only a sample of the examples of Vegas 2's completely arbitrary idea of "challenge". 
 It's a poor substitute for genuine A. I., and makes the co-op more of a frustrating chore than a 
 fun game.
  
  Where this Vegas went wrong, I'll never know. All the developers had to do was improve on its weaknesses 
 and reinforce its strengths. They chose to change it altogether, for the worse, and package what 
 is basically a weak expansion into a $60 game. Don't waste your time or money here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StinkyGrandma
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  This game was very fun. Its the same squad-based shooter you loved when it came out 16 months before. 
 A bit too much of the same though. The gameplay really doesn't have anything new to show the game 
 other than the campaign PEC system. Which allows the same thing as the multiplayer level up systems 
 where you rank up from Private and other ranks to the high levels. It also allows you to create 
 your character's face for the campaign. You can even use the Xbox Live Vision Camera to take a 
 picture of yourself and the game will mold your face to your character. Or to play a game with 
 your friends online you can have it take a picture of a celebrity such as Harrison Ford and see 
 if they can guess who it is. If they can good for them, if they cant, have no mercy on their souls. 
 And have Carry Underwood all over their @$$e$$. So you can see their is a lot of fun to be had 
 with Rainbow Six Vegas 2. Its to bad its not as much a sequel as it is the second half of the first 
 Rainbow Six Vegas. 
  
  The multiplayer is, well, first class. I love it. Its too bad thats not too upgraded either. The 
 tactical command is as good as ever, and your ally AI is the second best I've ever seen. And its 
 right behind Star Wars Republic Commando. It was very impressive overall. The game supports beautiful 
 graphics and amazing environments. But the overall lack of anything new really pulls this game 
 back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AFS-Marc
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  I want to hate Rainbow Six Vegas 2, I really do. It isn't a true sequel, but more like an update 
 to the original; taking out certain issues and fixing some problems (though they don't fix everything) . 
 With that said I still find the game enjoyable and it is sure to please fans of the original.
 
  
  The single-player campaign has gone through a few changes. Now your created character is used in 
 every single mode including the Story mode, which now has drop-in co-op. The co-op does seem to 
 play better this time around, but you are now limited to 2 players instead of 4 and also I found 
 the AI teammates to be a complete nuisance. Your AI partners will only listen to whoever is hosting 
 the game and they also like to stand in front of you while you're shooting, that is so much fun! 
 I love randomly shooting my mates in the head because they don't seem to understand that the bullets 
 come out of that little barrel attached to the gun. I found myself leaving them in some corner 
 and just calling them back when I needed a bomb defused or something similar. They make good dogs 
 and this may possibly be the early workings of the Fable 2 dog AI! Other than that the game runs 
 smooth online in co-op and it's definitely more fun with a friend. Also if you're curious if the 
 game has a good story, or follows the previous game. I wouldn't know because the story (really?) 
 was crap in the original and I didn't even try to pay attention to what was going on here. I bet 
 I can sum it up pretty easily though; you are some badass special op who's job is killing terrorists 
 and defusing bombs/saving hostages! Did I get it, did I win? Yay for more mindless shooters, I 
 guess we can't seem to get enough.
  
  The game looks good, though I can't say whether it looks better or worse than the original, but 
 it's still a solid looking game. It doesn't seem to run as smooth, but it isn't too big an issue 
 for concern; it runs fine for the most part. I did find the architecture and design to be a lot 
 better this time around. It seems that every situation really does have so many different ways 
 of accomplishing a specific task, which can lead to a bit more strategy. The sound is better and 
 the chatter you overhear from enemies is definitely a step up, but I still can't see this game 
 as anything but a rehash of the original. My favorite improvement is how they changed the set-up 
 for Terrorist Hunt. Now you can go through all the levels with your two AI partners, or you can 
 decide to go solo (Lone Wolf) . I also like that the menu shows you whether you've already beaten 
 that map as well as the difficulty level beaten. With all that said I still find TH to be slightly 
 broken. I do enjoy the mode more than the story mode, but it's still heavily reliant on trigger 
 points and once you learn them it becomes way too easy to exploit them. It takes away from the 
 fun and the tactical nature that the game does well in certain areas. When you can play a map and 
 just hide in a room with a shotty and kill 30 idiots one by one; I don't see how anyone could find 
 that as fun. It doesn't stick out on every map, but on a few maps it is just pathetic how stupid 
 the AI plays.
  
  The biggest change (and most obvious) is the new experience system. Now XP can be gained in both 
 MP and SP as well as the inclusion of sub-levels. Basically you have your main level which is you 
 rank (ie. SGT) and then you have 3 "skill" based levels which are: Assault, CQB, and Marksman. 
 By raising your rank in the sub-levels you can get new weapons of XP-boosts. The system in nice 
 and definitely a huge step above the original, but it's still not quite as good as COD4's system. 
 The online is very similar to the last game and they even rehash some of the old maps as well. 
 There aren't any surprises on the multi-player side which may be a good thing or bad thing based 
 on your preference. R6V2 is basically a game made specifically for the hardcore players of R6V1 
 and it's a pretty good game.
  
  Those who never played the original may love the game and fans of the original will find enough 
 changes to keep them happy as well. I do enjoy the game and it is an above-average shooter, but 
 if the next Rainbow Six ends up anything like this I won't be anything except mad. The series after 
 this needs something new, give me a new setting (I'm sick of Vegas) and refine the tactical nature 
 because the game may be more tactical than COD4, but it's not that tactical. The game is good, 
 but it's just another shooter in this constantly growing market of shooters and I have to say I 
 am really starting to get sick of it. I don't want anymore mindless FPS games! I'm wearing pretty 
 thin on all these shooters now and soon I'll be finished if they keep coming out at this rate. 
 I hate something to ask of developers everywhere...
  
  Give me more Bioshock/Fallout 3 and less Unreal Engine 3 Shooter #16/17/18... I've had enough already!
 
  
  http://pixelatedsausage. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: time2game
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 12, 2008 3:30 am PT
Review:  Couldn, t help thinking that after a couple of hours play i, ve been here before. While i like playing 
 squad shooters surely its time for something a bit special. Nothing seems to have changed since 
 the days of conflict desert storm except the uniforms. When GRAW2 was released i thought that this 
 was a new dawning for the squad shooter, a fair size game with some cracking new technology enabling 
 multiple ways of playing the game.
  What happened? Run out of ideas lads?
  Whilst i, m sure vegas 2 will keep fans of the Tom Clancy shooters happy i cant help feeling that 
 this particular genre is starting to get a bit bogged down.
  Perhaps it is time for a return to epic squad shooters, not something that is over in a couple 
 of nights gaming, designed nots let forget to push you into the online side of the game.
  Value for money , is that to much for us to ask?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonjonsilver
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  I had high expectations on this game when I bought it. For the most part it lived up to be what 
 I wanted, but that was the problem; it didn't go over than what I had atleast hoped. But one area 
 certainly did go over what I hoped for - the multiplayer. We all know that custimizing your charactor 
 is always fun and this game offers that and the the fact that you can show it off in versus. The 
 campagn unlocks these new color patterns or weapons. But the campagn wasn't that incredible. Yes, 
 it did offer quite a bit of fun, but the "awe" moments weren't really there at all. But for most 
 people, the fun is going to come from, of course, versus multiplayer! I'd reccomend the sequel 
 of Rainbow Six Vegas to those people who have played the first or people that are looking for some 
 great multiplayer that is customizable 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmed_009
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  In Rainbow six vegas there was a factor that make the game grows on you but in Vegas 2 i think 
 this factor has gone, the events happens rapidly and the game play is not superb as it was in the 
 first game. but in other hand this game contains great developments to the first game just the split 
 screen and CO-OP online playing during the story. and the second great thing is you can make your 
 own solider by selecting his Armor kit ,his weapons and his face too. and there is intersting thing 
 too in this game that you can develope your rank through the offline gameplaying form recuit to 
 elite and when you reaches next level every time the game will unlock new features to you just 
 like armors and camoflague colors and during killing enmies you will improve your ranks just like 
 marksman and too many skills too. so in conclusion its is a great game but not like Rainbow Six 
 Vegas 1. but in it's multiplayer options i think it better than Rainbow six Vegas 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spydersvenom7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of Rainbow Six: Vegas, especially to the point that you're either elite or you 
 beat the single player campaign on realistic, then you'll probably get this game on general principle. 
 You'll be happy you did.
  
  This tactical team shooter has everything that the offline and online community hopes for in a 
 game. The single player campaign is redesigned to support drop in drop out co-op, a feature terribly 
 lacking in the previous game, that is identical to the single player campaign (save the fact that 
 the game is much easier with 2 people) . The AI has been made tough, with intelligent AI that can 
 often trick you in many of the common ways that humans do in online play. Ultimately, they still 
 are AI, but a lot of the foolish moves made in the first game are absent in the second. I, personally, 
 found the storyline to be brought together quite nicely in parallel to the first game, but those 
 who haven't played the first game may find themselves lost as characters they don't know are referenced. 
 If you dare play this on single player realistic, make sure you're good and relaxed for the second 
 to the last level, desert, because it'll take it out of you. 
  
  The terrorist hunts have been tweaked and made better as well. No more camping in LVU Campus, you'll 
 be going to every board, making the most of the new designs and tougher, smarter, opponents. Murdertown 
 and Theatre will definitely give you a run for your money.
  
  Multiplayer has definitely learned its lesson from COD4, which integrated most of the best parts 
 of that game into the R6V experience. You can now sprint for a short period of time, you get XP 
 for each kill (or team kill) and you can drop in/drop out. There's no melee attack or jumping, 
 unfortunately, but it's forgivable for the type of game you're playing. They've even added new 
 game modes, like Team Leader and Conquest, which are the same as VIP and Capture the Flag, so you'll 
 have no problem getting your COD fix. They also made it much easier to rank up to elite, but don't 
 kid yourself, without glitching you've got a long road ahead of you. Couple that with the new system 
 that has you getting large amounts of XP or new guns with certain types of kills, and you'll be 
 an officer in no time. That's when it takes you forever to go from officer to elite, however displaying 
 your overall point totals is a thankfully new attribute. 
  
  When it all comes together you have a complete package that overshadows COD4 for all the right 
 reasons. The graphics are a little cartoony, but you should expect that in light of the last game. 
 This is not a game you rent, as it will consume hours of play time, just drop the $60, you'll be 
 happy you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cptkrunch13
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  I thought this was a great game it was a good change of pace from the run and gun although u die 
 to quikly no matter what rmor you have and everyone online uses noobish shotguns its still a great 
 game with the charachter custumizing PEC made it feel almost like an rpg a really fun game overall 
 online does get a little frustrating but then again compared to other people i am not that good 
 but the story although short was good great storyline and good ending I would have never expected 
 what happend the coop is also great and terroist hunt will keep you occupied for hours so although 
 some frustrartions it is a deffinate 9.0 since they are making me do 800 characters to submit this 
 excuse me eeeeee eeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeee eeeeeeee eeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeee eeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeee 
 eeeeeeee eeeeeee eeee and thats my review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fendium
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 10, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  The 6th act in the game is very hard. It was a good move by developers however because it helps 
 weed out the players that just hide behind their team. It could have been a little longer. Normal 
 campaign is under 10 hours. I feel maybe another act would have made it nice. The story, although 
 not important as far as the fun goes, is actually not too bad. I did find myself unable to put 
 it down in the last act for the mere fact i wanted to see how it ended. And, after the conclusion, 
 did feel for the decision i had to make. With great graphics and interesting and fun teamwork inspired 
 gameplay, its definately a fantastic game. 
  
  The multi-player on the other hand is a little lacking. game play is annoyingly slow. The characters 
 really lack the mobility of a cod 4 in the multiplayer online arena. however i am new to the multiplayer, 
 so i might get used to it. at the moment though, the only reason im playing it is for the unlocks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 16, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  the first game was solid and introduced tons of new gameplay styles and mechanics. The sequel has 
 improved some of the minor issues from the first game, but not enough in some cases. The single 
 player is short but very fun and fluid. You wont play through the same locations as the first game, 
 which is nice as your environments are more based on sites outside of the Vegas strip district. 
 The XP system has been improved drastically, probably the best improvement to the series. The first 
 game, once you reached a specific rank... it felt like it took forever to continue ranking. This 
 new system has corrected the issue by adding bonus unlockables, which now also include XP points. 
 The game online is a blast.... much hasn't changed online vs battles, but the games i've encountered 
 are extremely laggy.... so hopefully thats fixed soon. Terrorist Hunt has been improved, with a 
 better presentation menu layout and now you can go solo with CPU AI teammates. Overall its an awesome 
 game... if you loved the first, get this one.... but dont be expecting a generation advancement. 
 
  
  UPDATE
  Online is still congested with horrible LAG... im pretty disappointed, especially when the game 
 is almost identical to the first and the online should be perfected by now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuskaShortysinc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Being a fan of the first Vegas outing and watching the all new A. C. E. S marlarky, 
  I was really looking forward to this title, so after some night shopping with a friend we shoved 
 this in the Xbox and away we were.
  
  "Awesome, we create ourselves!" shrieks my mate (Who unfortunatly doesn't have Live yet) 
  "Yeah, 
 uh, cool, umm, this is seriously Vegas 1 online" I reply, because it is. All the items and camos 
 are near enough the same, its just now we can do this offline in V2.
  
  Anyway, we go to Co-op Story, and yeah, cool, I'm Bishop, Knight, Bish-Bash-Bosh, let's have it. 
 This is a quality piece of Co-op action, solid enemy AI and nice reworked team commands. The weapons 
 are still pretty unbalanced (Sniper Rifles = Pointless) but hey, we love our assaults anyway, and 
 the new weapons are a nice input. After 4 hours of insomniac shooting we find ourselves talking 
 to some guy, with a helicopter flying over him, then boom, he's killed, game completed. We were 
 pretty astonished we had completed the game in Normal diffulculty first time round in such a short 
 time, but still pretty happy I guess.
  
  
  So next morning I pop the game in my Live ready Box, and I am thrilled with the easier excessibilty 
 of online matches and new content. The game modes are a gem and a welcoming change of pace of COD4 
 (Which I love) 
  
  I'll end this kinda wierd review with this words ; Vegas 1 fans, don't expect alot of changes, 
 just a few nice ones. Newcomers, this is a game I recommend for Co-op and online play, its not 
 enough for Single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  let's get down to buiseness
  
  gameplay and controls
  
  the controls are really weird to be honest. they aren't like a normal shooter except of the fact 
 that you press R for shooting. the gameplay is also kinda slow and dull.
  
  AI and graphics
  
  the AI cracks me up. u send your "squad" to go to a door to secure it and 
 they freaking stand there and do nothing. then u open the door expecting cover from ur teamates 
 and they continue to do nothing. i excpected so much more from a 8.5 rainbow six game that came 
 out a few weeks ago.
  
  i see no imporvments from the nintendo 64 version. the graphics on cars, walls, and floors are 
 aweful. there is no detail what so ever. the people don't even look right. they move unrealisticly 
 around like a 2D leaf in super mario 64. u can even see through your teamate by adjusting ur view 
 a bit.
  
  OVERALL
  
  ide say overall the game can be fun when ur just killing terrorists but ide never by this game 
 or recommened it to anyway becuz i think it is a rushed project with terible graphics, AI, and 
 gameplay.
  
  i used to be a rainbowsix fan. not anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 9, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Pros
  -Addictive multiplayer, at least until you get Elite.
  -Able to earn XP in SP.
  
  Cons
  -Buggy and unpolished.
  -The same exact game.
  -Ridiculously bad in-game advertising.
 
  
  So let's start at the beginning. You are Bishop, in a generic Clancy storyline, set hand-in-hand 
 with the first one. So if you've played the first one, you'll understand where key figures were 
 at different times. But that's no real big deal, it's always about killing the big mastermind at 
 the end of the game and saving thousands or millions of innocent lives because terrorists are bad 
 people. Of course.
  
  So that's the story premise, you can expect the same gameplay, graphics, and fast-paced tactical 
 action. You get a squad to control and order around, while you can select from a variety of weapons 
 and explosives to decimate your enemies with. Of course there's co-op for you and one other friend, 
 and the hardest difficulty in this sequel is much more simpler since you retain your squad. Simply 
 put your squad is overpowered, they can destroy a room you tell them to clear in seconds, they 
 have the versatility that your character won't ever have. The storyline is around 5 hours in length, 
 maybe 7 hours on Realistic difficulty, so it's not too much.
  
  Multiplayer brings nothing new to the table, either. With the same types of game types, the same 
 ranks, and the same character customization, you can expect this to just fulfill that need to get 
 more guns and armor all over again. Which isn't to say that's bad, the multiplayer is very stable, 
 and has a lot of variety, if you haven't played the first one. If you have, you actually get bonus 
 XP when you load up the game, and also bug an achievement. Great. You have the classic Attack & 
 Defend, a fun Team Leader type (where each team has a leader, and they can either reach the extraction 
 point or destroy the other team to win) , generic Deathmatch and Team DM, and a control type where 
 you grab 3 satellites and once 3 are controlled you must hold them for 30 seconds to win.
  
  The achievements have a nice variety, and not to sound like a broken record, but they're also 
 similar to the first ones. The few bugs and glitches that are present in the game are, for the 
 most part, avoidable but if you previously played the first one, look online to figure out how 
 to get your Private First Class achievement so that it doesn't bug on you. In all honesty, this 
 is a great game for what it's worth, and fans of the first one will love playing this one, but 
 others will realize that the makers of RSV could have easily pushed this back a couple months. 
 They definitely could have used the time to polish the game, the bugs, and add more features; there 
 was no reason to rush a sequel.
  
  Difficulty: Just Right; the only hard part is getting 1K gamerscore, it takes about 2 weeks and 
 takes a good chunk of hours.
  
  Time Spent Playing: Approx. 40 hours if not a little bit less, most of that time was spent on multiplayer.
 
  
  Classification: Been there, done that. This game is a clone of the first one.
  
  My Score: 8, try it out, see if you like it, then buy it. If you played the first one, expect a 
 similar experience, just don't get dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRooskie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Rainbow Six since it very first conception on the PC, and I've been around long 
 enough to see the franchise take some difficult turns. At least I didn't have to worry about that 
 this time when I played Rainbow Six Vegas 2. 
  
  Vegas 2's storyline takes place right after the origional; Nowak has escaped team Rainbow has been 
 compromised and a major disaster in Sin City has just be averted. When you return to Las Vegas 
 this time expect to see some familiar faces and also a new main protagonist. When you start off 
 your first mission in Rainbow Six, you'll notice that Logan Keller is standing in front of you 
 instead of "inside" of you. (If that made much sense) You play as team leader Bishop in this game 
 and you will have quite a few more options as to how he appears on screen. 
  
  Probably one of the more larger additions to Vegas 2 is the new stat tracking system, called A. C. E. S. 
 This system tracks virtually every kind of kill you get in the game, weather it be online or offline. 
 All the experience you get from the ACES system will contribute to your in-game rank, and will 
 also help you unlock new weapons and equipment. You can take any of this armor, camouflage and 
 equipment into the single player game so, you will actually have more options as to how Bishop 
 will look instead of the default appearance. 
  
  As I said earlier, the ACES system is much more dynamic than how many kills you get. For each kill 
 there will most likely be a "kill type" associated with it. There are three categories for each 
 kill: Assault, Marksman and CQB (Close Quarters Battle) Here are a few examples from each category. 
 If you kill an enemy with explosives or through thin materials, you will receive Assault Points. 
 When you kill an enemy from long range or with headshots you will then be rewarded with Marksman 
 points. Last but not least CQB points can be acquired by killing enemies at short ranges or killing 
 enemies that are dazed by a flashbang. All-in-all this new stat system benefits the game and makes 
 it more enjoyable all around. 
  
  The core gameplay is still in tact aside from the sprint button. The ability to sprint is something 
 alot of developers seem to be adding to shooters now a-days. In any case you will find that this 
 small addition can completely change how the game is played from Vegas 1 to now. If you are in 
 a bind and pinned down by oncoming fire you can now attempt to sprint from cover to cover, instead 
 of sluggishly moving there. Excellent addition.
  
  Your graphics are largely the same as the previous Rainbow. Not alot of noticable changes here, 
 although some areas might seem "slightly" more detailed. Loading times however seem to be fairly 
 longer. The game will also occasionally "hiccup" in intense firefights. This even isn't always 
 common but it can make or break you, depending on what kind of gameplay situation you are in. It 
 is awfully frustrating when it does happen, though. A few bugs have also returned, such as the 
 never ending gunfire you hear when rounds end in multiplayer modes. I almost feel as if Ubisoft 
 patched this issue in the original game, but it has definately returned for whatever reason. When 
 playing the singleplayer modes, your squad mates also have a few issues themselves. They move more 
 effectively from cover to cover now, but I've sometimes witnessed them getting stuck on small objects 
 such as traffic cones or a "spork." It takes alot of effort to get them moving again, but sometimes 
 it is just easier to reload a previous checkpoint. 
  
  The multiplayer is still, just as fun as Vegas 1, there are a few new game modes and a handful 
 of maps from previous rainbow six titles. They feel well-balanced and are alot of fun to play in. 
 I like pretty much all of the maps Vegas 2 has to offer. Roughly a dozen new weapons have been 
 added here as well, most of which are unlocked through aces. 
  
  Aside from the annoying little quirks in the game's engine and the largley similar gameplay, Rainbow 
 Six Vegas 2 manages to be worth playing. If you are unsure if it's for you or not, I strongly recommend 
 this as a rental. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danoz304
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 4:59 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to say this game doesn't get boring... because it does! At first the game is absolutely 
 astounding! However if you take a step back you'll see that it is remarkably similar to the original! 
 The single-player/co-op campaign is adventurous but extremely repetitive: enter room, clear room 
 and then move on. Many would argue that the campaign is never the same as there is multiple entry 
 points to most large rooms however this doesn't affect the structure at all. It is still enter 
 and clear tactics. The final mission is astoundingly like a completely different game (provides 
 entertainment like a boss on a Legend of Zelda game) with its hide and attack strategy.
  
  The multiplayer of the game can provide a brief distraction with its multiple game modes and variety 
 of maps. However this can also become overly repetitive and boring. The ranking system is enjoyable 
 at first until you discover that you need an awful lot of experience to rank up.
  
  This game is enjoyable but is too much like the original Rainbow Six Vegas.
  The story line progresses 
 to what may be quit a disappointing ending.
  I would recommend this game to anyone who enjoys remotely tactical shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 9:59 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Rainbow 6 since the first version of it way back in 1998 when Red Storm Entertainment 
 was the developer. I've always loved the weapons and tactics in this game. Though the game hasn't 
 changed a ton, the technology in the game and the weapons now used have really improved over the 
 years.
  You and your special opts Rainbow team is still in Vegas trying to clean up the mess there, but 
 now you are off the Stripe and now fighting in the back allies and the seedier side of town. There 
 isn't a lot of improvement in the game, but you can now sprint and you better learn how soon, because 
 you will need it. There are some new weapons and a few more options in the game, you can now gain 
 experience points by doing your job well, and by being efficient killing machine.
  The graphics, sound, animation are all the same, the missions, though better designed then the 
 first one, pretty much hasn't change much, though again you are now fighting in a more seedier 
 part of town. You computerized team seem to still be as dumb as knobs, but are very good at seeing 
 things you can't so send them on their way ahead of you and you will be find in this game. Remember, 
 you can heal them but they can't heal you. 
  Which bring me to three points that have always bothered me about this game. 
  First; why on 
 earth world the government send a 3 man team, albeit very good team, into the world largest convention 
 center, to take on 50 or 60 bad guys alone? I mean that's insane. Among other things, you should 
 have 5 or 6 teams running around taking the building from different sides. 
  Second; this game is very linear, it makes you take paths you know is full of bad guys, and there 
 is no way around them, so like a weak mission planner that it is, you are forced to go through 
 the middle of dozens of bad guys, and in one set of missions, alone! The game just isn't free roaming 
 enough for me. Rainbow 6 maybe was able to get away with that year ago but now it's just plan tired.
 
  Third; Rainbow 6 always find a way for you to take on a mission alone, the game comes up with 
 some lame reason for you to go out alone on a mission, again, very weak and very unrealistic, there 
 isn't a person on Earth that would take on a mission alone, against dozens and dozens of bad guys, 
 again knowing full well that you will be forced to go right through the middle of them, because 
 there isn't but one path through this game.
  Don't get me wrong I love the game, but this is getting pretty silly after all these years. With 
 games like Call of Duty 4, and Gears of War, with all the excitement those games bring, this game 
 just seem a bit dated some how.
  This game just isn't as exciting as it once was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProHexen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  I totally disagree with people saying this is more like Rainbow Six: Vegas 1.5 This is truly a 
 sequel to Vegas 1. Single player is awesome, I love how you can get XP in Single player, Terrorist 
 Hunt, and Multiplayer. It's a little bit easier to rank up because of the XP bonuses you get from 
 the A. C. E. S. But once you get all of those bonuses, it takes a long while to rank up. I really 
 liked the new character you got to be in Vegas 2, he was very awesome. I may of not liked how the 
 Vegas series ended because it didn't really focus on the traitor operative member Gabe till like 
 the end of the 2nd to the last mission. But it was still a very good single player experience and 
 doing single player on co-op is amazing, just wish it wasn't just 2 players. Online plays much 
 better, less lag and glitches, weapons are great, and the aiming is good. Achievements are a little 
 bit easier to accomplish except for a few of the multiplayer ones *like extract as the team leader 
 20 times in a match with at least 6 people*. I love the new maps, esp. Villa, that's my favorite 
 map. I hope they could make a map pack of some of the maps from Vegas 1 like Casino Vault and Calypso 
 Casino and at least 1 more map from that game, I would so love to play those again. All in all, 
 it's a fantastic game. I love Rainbow Six very much and can't wait for new Rainbow Six games in 
 the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: motownboy
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  I was talking with a friend about how a levelling up system and a decent amount of customization 
 can add so many hours to the life of a game, and this game proves it.
  
  I must confess that I played little of the first game, but I understand that this one is remarkably 
 similar to the first, save for the features I mentioned above, and a bit more streamlining of the 
 controls (the spring really does help a lot) . This game is very good whether played alone or with 
 a friend, although as always, playing with friends is not only easier (communication, timing, saving 
 each other) , but just a richer experience.
  
  It feels very tactical. Your choices in how much armor or mobility you want do actually make a 
 difference, and the multitude of guns mean that you will rarely have two guns for every situation. 
 It's even better when you have a friend that can compliment you. Many of my friends prefer to snipe, 
 so I like loading up on armor and using light machine guns, shotguns or the shield to create chaos 
 and flanking opportunities while also being a target allowing my allies to pick enemies off.
  
  Overall, this game is very fun, and it requires being very tactical. That makes it all the 
 more rewarding when you outmaneuver your opponents and it feels very realistic as well, both in 
 sound effects and visually. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrYates808
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  Why the criticism this game received from so many, I yet to understand. The Vegas series is easily 
 one of the best made, with its Terrorist Hunt agenda and awesome shooting mechanics not to mention 
 sweet frame rate, there is simply nothing not to like about RSV2 or the first one. This game throws 
 you right back in the midst of the action where the Terrorist are looking to take over Vegas, and 
 your job as Bishop, is to lead the assault or the Hunt against them. There are some great locales 
 and wide open maps that are the most exhaustive I have yet to play in a shooter. Your objectives 
 vary from, disarming bombs, saving civilians, and taking out the enemies... And much more....
  
  With the addition of the sprinting ability the action does pick up pace in this second installment, 
 and its something that works really well... Especially considering the enemies AI has been revamped 
 and they are pretty sharp as well as accurate. You can now run from one point of cover to the next, 
 you also can sprint from side to side, something new in this genre and its useful to say the least..... 
 The sound of the game and the weapons are top of the line, very much comparable to the sounds of 
 COD.... The visuals and graphics are absolutely stunning and watching enemies blood decorate the 
 adjacent wall after shooting him just never gets old.... The storyline is simple but good and you 
 will be hooked as soon as you turn this game on. Did I mention the frame rate is running at 60 
 frames a second and never misses a beat. The A. C. E. S system is also a great addition allowing you 
 to hone the many skills you have in combat, from a marksman, to all out assault.... These also unlock 
 weapon and camo upgrades that you constantly get to outfit throughout the game.
  
  If anything keeps this game from a perfect score it would be the lackluster partners AI and the 
 weak MP, that just did nothing different and the matchmaking system is nothing to brag about leaving 
 you searching for games for longer periods of time then you might want. The lobby is just one I 
 personally care to avoid. The other thing that can get you frustrated is the DIFFICULTY... This 
 game is one of the hardest I have yet to play, you will be reloading checkpoints way more then 
 you care to, but that being said the gunplay never gets old and you can earn xp all over again 
 even reloading so in its own way it is not too bad..... 
  
  Bottom Line is, there are not many games that can even wave a stick at this one, it is by far the 
 top FPS on the shelf, right beside COD 4 and if you care to do yourself some justice then pick 
 this game up. Its worth every penny..... If you are a Hardcore FPS fan then this is a perfect fit, 
 where as the casual shooter might not be up for the war that wages in Rainbow Six Vegas 2........ 
 A hard and long fought battle, but rewarding in every way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nymets819
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  This game is a big step-up from the 1st Rainbow Six Vegas. But this game is a sequel/prequel to 
 the first game. You assume the role of Bishop, who is an excellent commander. His team is made 
 up of Michael and Jung. (They were your part of your team in the 1st game) . You play with Jung 
 and Michael until Logan Keller (your character in the 1st game) gets ambushed in Mexico (all of 
 this happens in the 1st time when he gets ambushed) . So... Bishop is left by himself. Your main 
 objective is to stop Miguel and Alvarez Cabrera who are two coyotes making a lot of money off people 
 coming in from Mexico. But working with them is Gabriel Nowak.... (the traitor who we found out 
 in the first game) . Gabriel is working with them, but for a reason that no one knows. 
  
  In this game you go from the Pyreenes mountains.... to Vegas, Nevada desert, and Costa Rica to stop 
 the coyotes and Gabe. But this is just the single player campaign. I never tried the co-op because 
 i wanted to do the story myself so i'll get back to you guys when i do that ;) 
  
  During the game... if you remember from the first game P. E. C. well thats back.... but this time not 
 only in online play.... also in single player campaign as well as doing solo terrorist hunts. This 
 is awesome.... except for the fact that you dont get XP for completing maps anymore..... to get points.... you 
 have to earn those through your kills and A. C. E. S. (more on that later) . All together this makes 
 the game more fun, and they made the way to elite much shorter because i have been playing it for 
 a day and i am already a sergeant 1st class. 
  
  A. C. E. S. is pretty sick. Through this is how you unlock more weapons and get extra XP. You fill 
 up A. C. E. S. meter by how you kill your opponents. Thats really all i can say about that.
  
  All together this game is amazing and everyone that owns the 1st Vegas and has a 360 should definately 
 pick this game up, or atleast rent it... it is definately worth it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drumbreak1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty amazing, not quite that tactical in my opinion especially not in the multiplayer. 
 The Terrorist Hunt mode is quite tactical though.
  Let's start off with the story mode, it's actually pretty tough even on the lowest difficulty, 
 it's got an okay story it's pretty good. A little bit longer than today's standard shooting game.
 
  The Graphics are however bad considering other games, it looks as if they've pretty much recycled 
 the engine from the last game, so it probably has the worst graphics out of any game that's been 
 released in the past few months, which i was quite unimpressed with. 
  There is a cool experience point system called A. C. E. S. (can you get a cooler acronym for that 
 with a game with vegas in it's title :D) in which you can get point in both offline and online play 
 ( you get more points online though) . It consists of not only a normal ranking private, sergeant, 
 elite etc system, but also has these 3 sub categories: Marksman, Close Quartes Combat, and assault. 
 You get points in marksman for headshot and long range kills etc. Points in assault for assault 
 by killing shielded enemies or using explosives. and points for close quarters which you will get 
 this the fastest out of all of them by getting short range kills and shooting people in the back. 
 It's very cool because you unlock the new weapon's for that class (sniper rifles for marksman, 
 assault rifles for assault etc.) 
  The Terrorist Hunt Mode is also very interesting and more tactical then the other modes, you set 
 what map (these maps double as the multiplayer maps too) what difficuly, if you want team members 
 or not, and how many enemies. It's like serving a warrant on an area kind of feeling. You start 
 off and clear the usually urban area, room by room (enemies move around though so if you die don't 
 expect to go back and say "oh ok this guy will come out that door right at this moment". So this 
 can provide repetitive game play. It's also very hard. even with all assists on and low enemy density 
 it isn't anywhere near a walk in the park.
  The Grenade physics are absolutely apauling, grenades do not bounce or roll at all when you throw 
 a grenade you better make sure you want it exactly where you throw it. For example I was at the 
 top of villa (a suburban household map) in multiplayer and there were enemies beneath me and i 
 was on the roof so i through a grenaded at a 45 degree angle angle to the ground so it would bounce 
 then fall through the skylight, like a game with good physics would have. but instead it stuck 
 to the ground like a sticky bomb in team fortress 2. 
  Now the Multiplayer is pretty amazing, with the standard modes nothing really special, but it just 
 doesn't get old. There however an annoyance that after EVERY SINGLE ranked match it will kick you 
 out after the end of it saying it needs to keep everything balanced. The whole wall cover system 
 is kind of unfair however in multiplayer since it reverts to the third person, so a regular first 
 person could be walking through a doorway and he couldn't see anyone but yet the person behind 
 wall cover has a perfect view of them and can blind fire while being hardly exposed and just completely 
 unload on the person while the victim is left trying to sprint to the person position or cover 
 absolutely helpless.
  All and all though it's an amazing game that just doesn't seem to get old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fracot
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 7, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  When I first played the game I thought that it was fun and a good solid sequel to its groundbreaking 
 predecessor. The thing was, was that as time went on, most aspects of the game became very monotonous 
 and boring.
  
  Lets start off with the story; I started playing it with my friend and it was very fun. The tactical 
 gameplay worked really well with a friend, like breaching rooms and flanking the enemy. I really 
 did enjoy the first few levels as they were long and exciting. The thing that bothered me though, 
 was that the gameplay consisted entirely of just fighting your way to a marker, then when you get 
 to that marker, you are provided with another marker that you have to get to and so on. Although 
 this was the case, I put it to the back of my mind as I thought that as the game went on it would 
 become more involved and exciting, and the dull story would develop... but I was wrong, VERY wrong. 
 I came back to the game to finish the last 2 levels, expecting an 'epic' finish like alot of the 
 recent FPS I have played, but I didn't get it. The last levels were very short and had seemed to 
 be rushed. The game finishes very abbruptly and leaves you thinking 'why the hell did I bother 
 with this?'.
  
  Next, lets talk about terroist hunts. This, in my oppinion is where the game shines. The great 
 thing about them is that you can do them with 3 other players. I had a blast playing through the 
 terroist hunts with 3 friends, and I was glad to have 3 friends when we were playing on Realistic 
 difficulty! I think the reason why the terroist hunts are so great is because being spawned at 
 the start of a map and having to fight your way through it taking down numerous enemies on your 
 way can't really get old.
  
  Finally, theres the multiplayer. For the first few hours I really enjoyed the multiplayer. It was 
 a nice change from CoD4 and it was nice to be able to take cover on a wall. There are some good 
 game modes like 'Total Conquest' where you have to capture transmitters and 'Team Leader' where 
 you have to protect your team leader and eliminate the enemy team leader. You might think that 
 since R6V2 is a 'tactical' shooter, the multiplayer might be tactical, but in most cases it isn't. 
 In all the games I have been in, I have never seen anybody play tactically, you might say 'well 
 thats the players fault' but, to be honest with you, the game doesn't really encourage it. The 
 other problem with the multiplayer is that, since matches are hosted by players, people host matches, 
 get all there friends in and put the skilled players on their team and put other, unsuspecting 
 'not so skilled' players on the other team, and just play matches constantly winning, gaining lots 
 of xp. This can get frustrating and in my eyes it is 'boosting'. Overall, the multiplayer isn't 
 'bad' but after a while it gets very boring and certainly does not have the addictiveness or fun 
 of CoD4's multiplayer.
  
  Another thing I need to mention is the bugs. The leaderboards don't work, some acheivements are 
 glitched and there are alot of connection problems.
  
  Overall the game 'Isn't that bad' but its far from good. The main problem is that it gets old, 
 fast. If you are looking for a bit of fun with not much replayability go for R6V2, but if you are 
 looking for a very good multiplayer game that will keep you playing for hours and hours, buy CoD4 
 and, if you already have it, stick with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maagi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  In short :
  
  The Good :
  
  - Same game as previous Vegas, as in retaining the good stuff
  - Point system. Adds interest 
 towards the campaign, mainly for playing it through again, solo or along with a friend
  - Gun sounds are still excellent, pretty much the best I recall hearing in games
  - A. I of your 
 own guys is somewhat solid. At least they're proper killing machines
  - Co-op campaign. The best fun in the whole game, more of this, please.
  
  The Bad (and The 
 Ugly) :
  
  - Same as previous Vegas, as in retaining the bad stuff
  - Solo missions. It sucked in Vegas 1, now it sucks even more. There's a few good moments, but 
 90% of it is pure pish
  - Terrorist hunt, or should I call it Terrorist Hunting Memory Game. It's just not as fun as you'd 
 think it should be
  - Checkpoint locations are sometimes waaaaaaay too far away compared to how hard the action can 
 be (especially in solo's)
  - Some corners and spots where you can't shoot the opponents, but the opponents can easily shoot 
 you
  
  
  The longer version :
  
  Let's make it clear right away from the beginning : Vegas 2 is 95% the same game as Vegas (1) , 
 if you don't count the levels and few new stuff into it. Graphics are pretty much the same, weapons 
 are pretty much the same, and gameplay works 99% the same. This is not saying it's bad, because 
 the original Vegas was excellent.
  
  So here's a short recap to what's new :
  
  Point system. While it previously worked only in online games, now it works in campaign and online 
 games. Additionally, you gain ranks and new (or if you played Vegas 1, old weapons as well) stuff 
 by doing certain types of kills, ie. get a headshot, kill through cover, kill with an explosive, 
 kill opponent who's rappelling, and so on. Only flaw I see in the system is that you seem to get 
 far more points into marksmanship than into others. It's not a bad thing, but re-balancing it a 
 bit may not hurt.
  Another new stuff is co-op playable campaign. System works fine, and playing the campaign is always 
 much more enjoyable than playing terrorist hunts with your mate. In general, I wish gamemakers 
 would finally start pushing out more good co-op playable games, since it's always much more fun 
 to play with a friend than solo.
  Now you can also dress your guy however you like him into the campaign as well, which adds some 
 sort of interest to gaining new camo patterns (that usually help nothing) and new gear in general. 
 
  Then there's few new weapons and gear, some new stuff the bad guys say and so on, and that's about 
 it really. The original was a solid game, so why go change it.
  
  However, also the bad stuff has remained. Sometimes your teammates (the A. I one's) are complete 
 idiots, standing in the line of fire and getting killed, which usually ends up to re-loading from 
 previous checkpoints, since you get killed when you try to go heal them. Also you can never be 
 absolutely sure if the room is empty when they say ''Clear''. But generally they work pretty well.
 
  Previously bad stuff as "corners where you can't shoot them but they can shoot you" and some spots 
 where leaning doesn't work at all are still there too. Not everywhere, but still there. Same thing 
 with moments when you're crouching under a window and you're going to get up and shoot : you never 
 properly know where you're going to end up aiming, because the guy twists his body when he's getting 
 up. This basically means that while you are exactly in a position where you should be able to get 
 a good shot if you get up straight, you usually end up having a window-bar in front of your face 
 or something. Or even a wall. Would be good to have a button to switch your rolling side.
  Also, having cameras on teammates would be good, and you should be able to command'em through the 
 camera. Now you need to take your guys to the other door, command'em to it, go to other door yourself, 
 and then do the break-in command. Also, it would help determinating how much they're being fired 
 upon.
  
  While the campaign is 80% great, the rest 20% is solo missions, which plain suck. They have some 
 good moments, but those are few and far between in the agony of doing the same thing over and over 
 again, because you couldn't possibly see that guy behind that corner. Why did the makers ditch 
 the thermal scan in solo missions is beyond me, that would have helped a bit. On those solo missions 
 your NVG's are usable, but it's still a workout flicking between normal view and NVG's because 
 it's not dark enough to have a good use of NVG's, and it's dark enough to not see properly. It's 
 funny how you can actually see better with NVG's when you're hurt a little.
  The final part, which is solo, sucks as well. I damn well salute the guy who did that part in first 
 three tries. It's not unbelievably hard per se, but it's relying too much on luck and knowning 
 exactly what to do and when to do it.
  
  While the campaign is mostly great fun and good, the terrorist hunt's suck. I was hoping it would 
 be random, just certain amount of people scattered around the level, but no; the terrorist are 
 always in the exact same positions, and after you've killed a certain number of'em at one spot, 
 you know there's not gonna be more before you move forward. As an example, Lone Wolf in CQB Training 
 Grounds or whatever it's name was. Low opponent density on realistic. Every time the same guy stands 
 if you peek behind the wall, every time same amount of men come (albeit somewhat in random patterns) , 
 and every time it's clear after there's 17 of 25 left, and I can move on.
  I've only got to try like five different terrorist hunts, alone and with friends, and every time 
 we've got to see maybe 20% of the level before we've killed all the few dozen terrorists. I kind 
 of long the normal kind of stuff, where we didn't need to stay still the whole time, blasting away 
 dozen's of terrorist spewing out of every hole in the building and hoping no one comes to shoot 
 when you're changing the clip. It really looses all the tactics when you get to kill 50+ men in 
 less than five minutes, and all you have moved is out of the place you started in.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is as good as the first Vegas, but instead of a complete sequel, it seems more 
 like an add-on to the original. New missions and new levels, few new guns and gear, better and 
 more entertaining way to obtain points without spending your whole life in the game, but it's still 
 essentially the same game. But still a very good one at that. Only gripe I have is that it seems 
 they only added stuff without taking out old bugs and glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syliss
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2008 2:45 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a solid game. Fun most of the time, but with stupid nuances that always 
 seem to peek their heads around.
  
  Gameplay: Almost everything seems to react appropriately, guns shoot through walls, characters 
 speak when you speak, and the maps feel realistic and open. However, your AI teammates are dumb, 
 and sometimes won't even shoot an enemy when they're standing in right next to one (it goes to 
 the extent that an enemy might even reload in front of them) . Then there is the issue of terrorist 
 hunt. Enemies spawn in designated areas when you pass a certain point. Unfortunately, this means 
 that a team could be sent to an open area with nobody there, but once you cross that imaginary 
 line... "poof" they appear and shoot you to bits. Multiplayer is quite a bit of fun, but there 
 is a sizable issue with spawn camping and can interfere with what is often a fun time. 8/10
  
  Graphics: As expected, the UT engine is used well under Ubisoft's direction. The walls, the 
 characters, and the overall scenery is with the upper echelon of current games. Yet, there are 
 constant problems that get in the way. During coop and terrorist hunt people disappear entirely 
 from your screen, they often still shoot, but all you will see are the bullets. 8/10
  
  Depth: The depth in RB6 Vegas is quite varied. Your characters are reasonably customizable and 
 earning your costume seems much more rewarding. There are a fair number of maps and they all play 
 a little differently. There are a ton of multiplayer modes to choose from and they are all well-balanced 
 and enjoyable. The only flaw comes from the somewhat short single player and its lack of strategy. 
 
  
  soapbox...
  If you are familiar with RB6 Raven Shield then you will know what I mean. Vegas is pretty much 
 a point and send, point and shoot game. Raven Shield (on the hardest mode) required tons of planning 
 and featured some pretty unbelievably deep elements never to be seen again in an FPS. To many RB6 
 Raven Shield is one of the best FPS games ever. I put it in my top 5 of games of all time and in 
 the top 2 FPS games with Duke Nukem 3D. Raven Shield made you really feel as if you were part of 
 the rainbow team and the upgradeable elements for your team really created a sense of loss when 
 you lost your agent for the rest of the campaign. Vegas 2 is about 10% of the game that Raven Shield 
 was, but for many of the gamers today that is enough. If it was not for the return of some of the 
 depth through the multiplayer this game would have hit the crapper for me.
  
  Overall: 8/10
  Not nearly Raven Shield, but Vegas 2 has a some great character and multiplayer 
 options. Add some annoying bugs and gameplay flaws and you get an above average gaming experience. 
 The game still packs a good adrenaline punch at times and for most FPS gamers that is all that 
 is needed. If you are a fan of Raven Shield, rent this. If not, this can at least give new gamers 
 a taste of what a serious FPS plays like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnfrusciantex
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Yes, this game is the same setting and graphic engine as the first one, but thats what makes it 
 so great.
  
  Pro: New weapons and equipment are always a plus, AI enemy is pretty smart, and have dialogues, 
 the AI enemy also have some cool intimidating masks, storyline was great once again, turrets are 
 an awesome addition both single player and multiplayer, your mouth moves when you talk both in 
 single and multiplayer modes, and the several different ways to enter a room or go about doing 
 your buisness is uncountable.
  
  Cons: Friendly AI is still dumb as dirt and they die way too much, and the glitch to get unlimated 
 XP in the first mission is really really really.... well (lets be sensitive) cheat oriented.
  
  Overall: Buy it. If your a fan of the serious, or first timer, I recommend it. You will have 
 plenty to do, a solid pretty long single player campaign, and a never ending fun, uprgrading multiplayer 
 are at your disposal. So go spend your money on Rainbow SIx Vegas 2, not crack kids! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taj7575
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  FIRST: you cannot compare this game to COD4, they play differently. COD4 is run and gun, RSV2 is 
 tactical.
  
  ok, i got this game with very low expectations because everyone is saying it sucks. immediately 
 after i bought this game i was thinking of returning it after reading so many bad reviews...
  
  so i put the game in, create my character, and already the game sucks me in.
  
  First this 
 you will notice, this in not like COD4. This is not a run and gun game. this game takes SKILL, 
 not going around raining bullets. You will hide, you will shoot then. You will infiltrate rooms. 
 the fun on infiltrating is the snake cam. you will look inside the room, pick out who ure gonna 
 kill 1st, 2nd, so on. Then you pick how you will breach in. That never gets boring. every time 
 you play, you will think that will get repetitive, but it doesnt.
  
  The gameplay overall is just amazing. its also fun giving orders to your group. they have great 
 AI, and so do the enimies.
  
  The customization in this game is just AMAZING. i don't think any other game comes close to RSV2 
 on customization. the great thing is they didn't forget about those non Xbox livers, and gave them 
 the chance to customize offline too. the only problem is the add-ons. its very bad
  
  The one thing that annoyed me about the reviews is people saying bad things about this games graphics. 
 YOU GUYS ARE IDIOTS! the graphics on this game are great! some guy said this game's graphics look 
 like a ps2's games graphics. you sir are an idiot! the graphics on this game are perfect
  
  i love the sounds of the guns too, they are SO authentic, its great.
  
  
  the problem with 
 single player mode is that the career, like COD4'S is pretty short, but i felt this games career 
 mode was longer than COD4's.
  
  But sadly, nowadays single player mode is RIPING = (.
  
  i did not play this online yet, so i'm awaiting my 360 wireless adapter which is coming in the 
 mail
  
  
  
  
  OVERALL, this game is great. its just so fun with the tactical shooting.
  
  if you have 60 
 dollars to use, get this game. besides theres nothing else to get and COD4 i getting pretty old. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iTz_MuRk3m
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit I wasn't too exicited when I first heard about the release of RSV2, but after I 
 saw all my friends were playing it I decided to rent it and give a shot. Well, the 8 bucks I spent 
 to rent the game PAID OFF, after an hour I was pretty much convinced that I was going to buy it. 
 If your like me and you are really into online first-person shooters, then I recommend that you 
 at least give this game a shot. I wasn't too impressed with the first RSV, (you know with the constant 
 camping and the primary game mode being Attack & Defend @ Calypso Casino) but the developers really 
 worked out the kinks from the 1st one to make the sequel a pretty good FPS. One thing they changed 
 was the reward system, on the 1st one people would play terrorist hunt all day just to unlock guns, 
 colors, equipment, etc... But now the A. C. E. S. system allows you to unlock your guns by earning 
 points toward certain "classes" of combat. So you can unlock the AK-47 (the last unlockable assault 
 rifle) at the rank of Staff Sergeant. The mechanics and the maps of the game flow much better now 
 than in the first. It's not so much about how good are you at hiding behind a wall and shooting 
 down a long corridor, as it is now about how well can control your gun bursts in close combat. ( 
 This is my favorite improvement because it really improves on the feel of a true FPS) But that 
 is just my opinion, and if you were sceptical about RSV2 (like I was) , I hope that this review 
 at least convinces you to try it out. P. S. my 360 gamertag is SC I MuRk3m (the middle letter is 
 aninot anL ".) incase you feel like giving me a holla. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hierark123
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  R6V2...... where do i start..... lets start with Single player. If you are a person that does not 
 have xbox live... or friends single player is still entertaining. You gain ranks from story wich 
 are also carried on in multiplayer. You get to customize your armor, clothes, weapons, and equipment. 
 The story is good and fun but not really a strong story. Most level you are running around defusing 
 bombs and stuff wich are fun and challenging with good AI. Then there is Terrorist Hunt. You have 
 the same rank as story and multiplayer and the equipment from story. Your goal (if you haven't 
 played the first) is to kill an amount of terrorists with friends or is you don't have any.... by 
 your self ALLLLLLLOOOOONNNNNEEEEEE or with 2 computers. It is fun and challenging to keep you entertained. 
 Last is multiplayer... let me say i am so sick of people sayingCALL OF DUTY 4 IS BETTER AND HALO 
 3 IS SOO MUCH BETTER!" Sure you're right but dont forget those are friggen are games that earned 
 millions and millions of dollars and pretty much are Games of the Year! This is no GOTY but is 
 sure is fun as hell! You get to run around with cool ass armor and guns and kill people. It is 
 more action packed than Halo or Call of Duty because you hide behind a wall and people jump out 
 at you and it becomes an awes0me firefight! There are 3 skills or known as A. C. E. S marksman, cqb, 
 and assault wich go up as you do certain kills giving XP and weapons. In my opinion it wins my 
 vote. The game is diffcult wich makes it fun. All in all 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Russ32233
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Yes i have given this 5 out of ten but it would have been higher if it wasn't for the fact that 
 on 2 player co- op if you press pause the game carries on anyway. Also i have had the game crash 
 on me quite a few times already even if i've just switched it on which obviously is annoying. Also 
 when i first start in 2 player co- op the graphics are terrible and basic as in the characters 
 are just a load of shapes moving around but soon sort them selves out. That said i have enjoyed 
 the new weapons like the P99 and the SR25SD and the fact that these can be used to maintain stealth 
 in some operations which makes a nice change from all out shooting. Also i found that first few 
 times playing it when trying to equip the silencer or change fire rate etc my team would throw 
 a grenade which again is very annoying. Apart from these few problems i still found it enjoyable. 
 Also has anyone else noticed that alot of the levels are recycled from the first game? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmyobo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  Rainbow six vegas 2 is definitely worth your 60 dollar investment. The controls are for the most 
 part smooth. The graphics are pretty top notch. The campaign is very fun, espically in co-op. You 
 can jump into a game and jump out at any time, which is very convenient, especially when trying 
 to score achievements in the campaign. The 2 person campaign is fun and the online 4 person terrorist 
 hunt is a blast. The multiplayer hasn't changed much from the old game, but why fix whats not broken? 
 There are plenty of new weapons and character costumes to unlock using A. C. E. S. which awards you 
 points for different kills you get both online, and offline in the campaign. Its fun to see what 
 you unlock as you pwn noobs online. You should really buy this game, dont let my poor writing skills 
 pull away from buying this exciting 1st-3rd person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lovets
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 5, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  well basicly this game is good at most things up to where the game is most important, online mutiplayer!, 
 the campagin is a decent length, and is not bad, the terrist hunt is fun, and the sound presenttaion 
 are great, the graphics are nothing speical but there ok . 
  
  the mutiplayer, it could be good not great but good, but no it sucks! well for starters if your 
 looking for the next big online shooter than this isnt for you, thats what i was looking for a 
 game thats as big as cod4 halo3 gears of war and rainbow six vegas1, this however isnt. for many 
 reasons, well for starts the game is ruined!!!! by unfair guns, you have to unlock them by completing 
 aces and all the guns you start with suck! let me tell you evrey assalt riffle sucks!!!! you can 
 put them to single shot which are very acurate but not quick enough and powerfull enough and put 
 it on auto and it will go all over the place, they suck, smgs are ok to be fair, lightmachine guns 
 are ok, and snipers are aturly brilliant BUT theres no point in them, and this is why, you can 
 have a unfair shotgun called the 500 tactical that can kill from stupid distancises and is allways 
 one shot kill no matter how far out you are. and you need to have the best aces rank for CQB its 
 just not fair. which makes it poor, but you can disable them as host, which to be fair the online 
 mutiplayer is good, but not great, just good its a good game for alittle while but it gets very 
 boring, and its defently not a bigmutiplayer game anymore
  
  the gameplay, the cover systym is very good and handy but can be slow and takes long to repsode 
 to get of the wall, and the grenade throws are perfectic and take ages and ull end up dying, the 
 controlls can be a big acward as well, but its still a solid shooter, infact a good shooter
  
  overall- well to be fair its an ok game but its very let down with its unfair mutiplayer and 
 it defently dosnt push the series foward, so its not going to last you long and its not worth the 
 money its more of a rent or buy cheap game 6.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MOTOBIKE22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  ok first off it just starts out looking AMAZING right when u start the game and Especially when 
 u are in the helicopter flyin over Vegas BABY!
  it has OUTSTANDING gameplay and is just a HUGE approvement from the first Vegas.... MY opinion........ MUST 
 BUY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!.. oh also it has great mp and is one of my favs for the 360... if u dont 
 own it at LEAST rent it cuz it is a masterpiece what are u waiting for rush to your store 
 
  oh and something else if u have played the 1st and liked it u dont have to play them both to know 
 the story of the game but over all ithink that in all the way the 2nd beats the first one.... (it 
 is really good-i compare it with Cod4 and halo 3........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogsoblivion21
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 4, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  With a sequel that hasn't been improved much, it still lives up to most of the expectations you 
 might have. The story is still difficult to follow and comes with a handful of bugs. While that 
 may be disappointing, Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas 2 still delivers a fairly solid package.
 
  
  The game kicks off with a flashback from five years ago, recapping what happened in the first Rainbow 
 Six Vegas. After that's said and done, the game picks up right where it left off. While the story 
 is basically the same as the first one but with closure, it fails to deliver a satisfying ending, 
 which after you'll still be confused as to what exactly is going on. While this keeps the game 
 from being something truely special, it can be easily overlooked.
  
  The gameplay is what really shines in Vegas 2. You'll go from point to point taking cover, shooting 
 guys, controlling your AI teammates, disarming bombs and taking care of hostages. Since this is 
 a tactical shooter, you can't play this like a normal FPS or else you'll get killed fairly quickly. 
 You'll still need to use tactics which will slow down the pace of the game. Since you can't dash 
 around every corner, you'll need to use cover and peek around corners to see what's up ahead.
 
  
  The slow pace is removed if you decide you go through the game co-op with a friend. If you or your 
 friend dies there will be a ten second respawn, eliminating some of the tactical strategy. The 
 host will also have the two AI teammates by his side. Those can be used as great distractions while 
 you and your friend go flank the enemy. While in co-op, both players can experience all of the 
 cutscenes this time around. With the AI squadmates and respawns it makes the game a whole lot easier, 
 even on realistic.
  
  Since the story isn't the main attraction here, what is? Hands down, it's the shooting. It feels 
 really nice to have you and your teammates clear a room in a matter of seconds before any terrorists 
 know what hit them. Using the cover to protect yourself works really well too. It's really easy 
 to pop up and down to take shots. Some of the cover will not be able stop all of the bullets though, 
 so if you're hiding behind a thin piece of wood you may need to move to something thicker to stay 
 alive.
  
  It's still easy as ever to control your teammates. You'll press the A button to get them to move 
 to a certain location, have them use the rappel, or stack up on a door. It works well and it adds 
 a layer or tactics to the gameplay but you wont have to sit and think about what you'll need to 
 do to clear a room. The controls itself are the same for the most part. The left shoulder button 
 now allows you to sprint, which makes moving from cover to cover more intense. If you're just picking 
 up the game for the first time the controls may be a bit confusing since some of the buttons have 
 different functions depending on if you press or hold it. It all works well and wont take long 
 to get the hang of.
  
  Aside from the main story, there's the multiplayer. The terrorist hunt returns which seems to be 
 a fan favorite, since no other game really has that. Terrorist hunt has you or three other friends 
 running through levels eliminating the terrorists. You can also play the typical deathmatch and 
 objective based scenarios with up to 16 players. There's usually no lag, if you have a good host. 
 The games that have bad hosts and lag never tend to last, so chances are you wont encounter too 
 much of it. When you get into a game, you're matched up with similarly ranked players making for 
 mostly even matches. You'll be able to choose from ranked or player matches. Ranked wont allow 
 any rule changes while the player matches can go all out with setting changes.
  
  Killing people will still nab you experience points, but in better ways this time. Vegas 2 puts 
 a wide experience bar across the bottom of your screen so it's easy to keep track of experience 
 earned. It's worth noting that you'll now be able to earn experience offline in the terrorist hunts 
 and story modes. Along side of earning experience, you'll also earn points in the new A. C. E. S. 
 system. Depending on how you kill your enemy, you'll earn points in one of the three categories: 
 Assault, CQB, and Marksman. Leveling up in A. C. E. S. will unlock different weapons and armor to 
 further customize your character. This new system is an addicting and fun way to unlock items and 
 will have you coming back for more.
  
  Vegas 2 doesn't come without it's flaws. There have been many reported bugs where achievements 
 wont unlock and a lot of online lag. I've had some problem sticking to cover online since the character 
 will jump around sometimes. There also always seems to be some bullet lag. I also experienced instances 
 where gun shot sounds would get stuck and keep playing until I pause the game. Also some gun shots 
 would sound muffled where they shouldn't be or just not make any noise at all. For the most part 
 your teammates AI is pretty smart, but in some cases they got stuck or took ridiculous paths to 
 get to their destination. It would seem Vegas 2 didn't receive any graphical updates, but Vegas 
 still looks pretty in HD.
  
  All these minor setbacks are disappointing but they wont kill the overall experience. While it 
 feels a bit clunky, Vegas 2 is a solid package. It's easy to recommend if you're a fan of these 
 types of games, but hard at the same time since this sort of feels more like an expansion pack 
 than a full on game. Rainbow Six Vegas 2 will keep you entertained for a while with the new A. C. E. S. 
 system, but if you were looking for a more developed story you're out of luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dave809
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  First off lemme just say that this is my first R6 game so bear with me. Multiplayer i found it 
 to be a little half baked in my opinion its ok but its terribly short and repetitive. the cover 
 system is no GoW in which while in cover your still getting shot at left and right. is it just 
 me , but is the point of cover to COVER you. story is good . anything with graphics is good. and 
 coop is fun. it seems like ubisoft went for mutiplayer instead of single player, which is disappointing 
 because if this is my first r6 game it seems like they gave me an egg and a skillet but no stove 
 or heat source.
  all in all its fun but to an extent to which you will say "God im bored with this............ AlLREADY" 
 im mean everything for me is now COD 4 standard with story and r6 doesn't seem to satisfy my thirst 
 for action and yet still be fun and a game where you can jump in and get how to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rudywilkjr
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  I'm really surprised that this game has had as many positive reviews from the user community as 
 it has. The graphics are great and the single player + coop elements are a lot of fun. However, 
 the Terrorist Hunt and multiplayer experience just doesn't feel right. Now, granted, I am an avid 
 CoD4 player (currently Prestige 4) and perhaps I am just not capable of learning how to effectively 
 play RSV2 multiplayer. Regardless, I have not had much fun playing the multiplayer in RSV2. I'd 
 give the single player a 8.5, but the multiplayer a 4.5.
  
  Part of me really wishes I could figure out how some of you play this game so well, but the other 
 part just says to put CoD4 back in the tray! If you're a CoD4 fan then I strongly recommend you 
 rent before buy. This may be $60 that ends up costing you $60 an hour in anger management sessions. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fast2ghl
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  If you like Rainbow Six, like SWAT 4, and just like playing first person shooter games in general, 
 then you are gonna freakin love Rainbow Six Vegas 2!
  
  Before I start into the review I will say that I have played and enjoyed all of the Rainbow Six 
 games up from Rouge Spear. If you have a special place in your heart like I do for Rainbow Six, 
 then enjoying this game will be so much easier. Even if you don't though, it'll still be pretty 
 easy to pick up and enjoy.
  
  So whats the deal? What is this game all about? Well basically you can refer to it (and many people 
 have) as simply an "expansion pack" to the original Rainbow Six Vegas that was released in 2006 
 for both the 360 and soon to be released PS3. But really what it is in actuality is another story 
 entirely that actually takes place a little ahead as well as at the same time as the first game 
 R6Vegas. This isn't a bad thing though as it gives you an idea of what the rest of the Rainbow 
 team was off doing while Logan (You in the last game) and your team (who are the same two guys 
 with you this time) were fighting that evil biotch of a women in the last game.
  
  In short if you've played R6Vegas then there is much in this game to like, and pretty much everything 
 that was good about the last game was carried over into this one, and built upon as well.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  The gameplay of R6Vegas 2 is incredible, and probably one of the games strengths. 
 I absolutely enjoy every moment of killing all the terrorist enemy's in so many different ways, 
 with a load of different guns. The game plays very solid, and handles very well. The sensitivity 
 of the joysticks at 10 could be increased a little though, and that was a primarily complaint amongst 
 friends I have who play COD4. The other thing about this game, the Vegas series in particular is 
 that the weapon modeling is second to none. I was blown away with the first Vegas at how well represented 
 the guns are. They all fire completely accurately and sound accurate, and just feel extremely powerful, 
 that is if they are supposed to be powerful. For instance a MAC11 is not going to feel or sound 
 as powerful as an M249 SAW. And of course it shouldn't, one is a machine pistol (a damn fun one 
 to fire) and the other is a light machine gun. All and all, weapons are TOP NOTCH! 
  
  There is also something new in this addition of the game called A. C. E. S. And what that is, is a 
 level system, similar to what COD4 has when playing online, or even some RPG's in a sense. The 
 more enemies you kill, the more points you get. These points can be attained by doing "headshots," 
 or killing from behind, killing an unaware enemy, killing through cover, killing on ropes, etc. 
 All sorts of different ways to rack up points. Before you know it you've killed well over 10,000 
 enemy's and your sitting at Elite level with about 400,000 points with everything unlocked. The 
 points are used to unlock items in the game, such as camo, and weapons and gear etc. You can use 
 these things to customize your character to your exact specifications. This is something new to 
 the the series that I really welcome, and it really helps ad depth to the game. Very cool! On a 
 side note, there is well over 50 camo patterns in the game to choose from and most of them are 
 real world patterns. There are even some uniquely coloured (YES ITS CORRECT SPELLING! I am Canadian.... 
 lol) ones such as pink and yellow for fun! 
  
  A. I. is smart and well designed, they definitely try to flank you hardcore on normal mode alone, 
 casual, they are a bit worse, and realistic, they are super real, and very challenging. Good job 
 here. Feels just right.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Excellent, not much more to say here. They are just as good as the original R6Vegas, if not a little 
 more polished and smoother. The games framerate is decent, although it does dip sometimes when 
 there are a few nades exploding near glass etc... Weapons are accurately modeled and this is def 
 a strength to the game.
  
  SOUND:
  
  Excellent in this department. As mentioned above the weapons are all accurately depicted sound 
 wise, very well done here UBI MONTREAL as always!
  
  CONTROL:
  
  The game controls tightly, every button on the 360 controller has a purpose, and nothing is left 
 out. Some buttons even have multi purposes. Although the only complaint I have in this department 
 is that you cannot map your own controls. THERE IS SIMPLY NO EXCUSE FOR THIS ANYMORE!!!! That being 
 said, the control map default is pretty good.
  
  RE-PLAY VALUE:
  
  HUGE! The main campaign, or "STORY" mode will probably take you a few sittings to beat, I would 
 hazard a guess and say around 8 hours. Once that is doe though, you can replay the campaign again 
 for more fun (obviously) or work on the Terrorist Hunt and multiplayer missions) Terrorist Hunt 
 is by far my favorite part of the Rainbow Six series, it always has been. It's just plain fun! 
 Essentially for those who haven't played the game yet, or know what this mode is, choose a level 
 and then select your gear, select how many terrorists are in the level, and the difficulty and 
 weather you will be going solo or with the team. "Lone Wolf" is the best, and that means you go 
 by yourself and take on all the terrorists. Depending on level size this can be quite the task, 
 sometimes there are well upwards of 50+ on one map.
  
  MULTIPLAYER:
  
  Apparently is really good, I wouldn't know though as I never seem to play multiplayer on Live, 
 just split screen. I can say the split screen action is fun, and I have tried it with a few friends. 
 Both the split screen co=op campaign, and terrorist hunt are extremely fun!
  
  THE BOTTOM LINE:
  
  The Bottom Line, the Verdict, whatever you wanna call it is...... AWESOME! 
 This game is excellent and well worth the purchase on a few conditions. You must enjoy stealthy 
 type action in which you must work with a team and direct them to do things your way, and you must 
 also have patience for planning and observing the situation ahead. THIS IS NOT SIMPLY A RUN A GUN 
 SHOOTER LIKE COD4, so don't play it like that, simply put you will DIE!.
  
  If you like SWAT type games, or just shooters in general with plenty of action and a great selection 
 of guns, then you will simply love R6Vegas 2 and I would recommend anyone that likes the aforementioned 
 to pick this game up!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shane-O-O
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Warbuff
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  So I am half way through RB6V2. I will keep this review short, as I don't want it to sound like 
 a repeat of my review from RB6 :)
  
  
  Controls:
  
  Overall, if you played the first game, there will be no surprises in store for you here. With the 
 exception of a sprint feature, this game plays just like it did before, from shooting, to using 
 the cover feature, nothing has changed. 
  
  Graphics: 
  
  Even though some may say there is an improvement, I find it hard to tell. I guess, the online graphics 
 are better, but over all this game LOOKS just like the first one except you are in different areas 
 of Vegas. However, with what seems like bigger, more open areas (Convention Center) it seems like 
 there are new frame rate issues that we did not see before, they are VERY noticeable when you use 
 smoke grenades. 
  
  Story:
  
  Ummm, yeah, I think there is one.
  
  Online:
  
  This is where this game still shines, I have not played a lot online, but it seems stable, and 
 everything you loved about the first game is still there in this one. One cool thing, you now not 
 only earn EXP while playing multi-player games, you also earn EXP while playing in the single player 
 campaign. Also, you gain EXP when your team members (human or AI) get kills. Also, the maps seem 
 bigger, or more open so there are many ways to get from on point to another, this leads to some 
 great sneaking around. 
  
  Difficulty:
  
  Not sure if it's just me, but this game (on realistic) is very hard, almost harder then the first 
 game. There have been checkpoints that have taken me 10-15 times to get past. 
  
  At The End Of The Day
  
  This does feel like Rainbow Six Vegas version 1.5. That is not necessarily 
 a bad thing, it does every thing it did well before, with no real drawbacks to think of, it just 
 does not really do anything NEW or ground breaking. If you enjoyed the first game, then you will 
 enjoy MOTS (more of the same) . If you did not play the first one, then jump right in, it will keep 
 you entertained for a while.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aidan_101
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 3:05 am PT
Review:  I thought Rainbow Six : Vegas 2 was a good game until i played the online and thought it was awful, 
 slow paced and not worth your time. Stick to terrorist hunt and story though and you will go far 
 with the game. Until you have finished the story is good and will last you a good couple of days. 
 Definate trade in when its done tbh. the achievments are a good mix of interesting ones and of 
 course there are always theyay you completed level 1" i seriously suggest that you should try 
 army of two or call of duty 4. the storys are both short but incredibally fun the online on COD 
 4 is immense weeks of fun. so in all if you are looking for an fps go for call of duty if you are 
 looking for a shooter get cod or army of 2. if you are on a budget wait for grand theft auto 4. 
 last comment i seriously belive the sequeul is worse than the original 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsoftmanic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 1:12 am PT
Review:  right, firstly... the all important review.
  Story - its a parallel to the original vegas and does revolve around gabriel (the bad guy)
  nothing 
 bad here but the story can become hazy at points (you know, when its trying to explain story in 
 the middle of a gunfight) so sometimes you have to replay points to get the full story.
  
  Graphics - the graphics are like the old vegas but with a bit more garnish. ive always liked the 
 vegas graphics more than most as it seems to give more realism. just my opinion though.
  
  Gameplay - pretty much what vegas was but with stuff to fill in the gaps they left in the old game. 
 like sprint. probably something they should have put in the old game but didnt. also the ability 
 to rank up while playing on and offline helps dramatically as in the last vegas it took literally 
 forever to rank up once whereas i ranked up twice in one night with vegas 2 but there's still enough 
 ranks to keep you playing for a while. the weapons are pretty much the same as in vegas, apart 
 from the new ones which just give variation but the single gun that annoys me the most is the AUG 
 para. the rate of fire means that the terrorists holding it can kill you in a split second but 
 its damage means you cant do the same. to be honest that needs fixing.
  having the weapons related to ACES rather than ranks is a good idea so people can be low ranks 
 but still have all the weapons.
  health is as good as it was in vegas 1 (as in four-five hits and your out) as we all know bullets 
 in RL arnt something you can just walk away from.
  
  T-hunt - T-hunt for me was a central gameplay element so ill review the differences between vegas 
 1+2 in T-hunt. in vegas 1 the T-hunts were something you just HAD to do with a freind. it could 
 not be done on your own. but T-hunt in vegas 2 is different for its abilty to stay exactly the 
 same.
  terrorists spawn out of nowhere and ive seen too many times on too many maps terrorists spawning 
 out of THIN AIR. i wouldnt have minded if all the terrorists were spawned at the start liek you 
 are but id say 1-3 terrorists are spawned at the same time as you and the rest are left sort of 
 on the side line until you turn your back and 5 are just plonked onto the map. this usually means 
 a one way trip to bullet bum rape. 
  
  Online - now, i havent even got to the multiplayer yet so i cant comment on it but i can comment 
 on the players. most (if not 90% of them) on T-hunt seem like well mannered, decent blokes, ive 
 only so far met 7-8 complete morons which is inevitable with any game but since i think about the 
 actual game itself rather than jumping straight onto multiplayer, ill get round to online at some 
 point in the next week or so.
  
  achievements - as always, i only put this section in when i have something to complain about so 
 cover your ears if you dislike copious amounts of bile.
  this has the stupidest achievements list to date. not because they're stuipdly easy *cough*avatar*cough* 
 but because more than 50% are online achievements. when a game puts more than half of its allotted 
 1000GS onto totally online achievements, i start to feel a little sorry for the offline community 
 who dont want online. that means they cant do what i would call "a reasonable amount of the game" 
 as i class achievements (actual achievements not GS) as a sort of indicator as to how much of the 
 whole game they've completed.
  
  overall - a really good solid improvement on the game but now i move onto what i said before hand. 
 the way to buy this game.
  you have to trade in vegas 1. having them both is like having dawn of war and dark crusade. you 
 dont need DoW once youve got DC. the same goes for Vegas 2. its the same game but better so Vegas2 
 should be sitting on your shelf, but should replace the space where vegas 1 took.
  
  PS- i put "solid" as classification as there was no "great sequel" on the list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plakskull
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a worthwhile game for FPS fans, however, for better or worse it doesn't 
 do much to truly distinguish itself from the original Rainbow Six Vegas or other recent FPS games. 
 R6V2 provides strong coop over Xbox Live in all game modes, and if you liked the original, then 
 chances are you're going to enjoy this latest iteration. However, if you're looking for another 
 Halo 3, or Call of Duty 4, you're going to be disappointed, as the focus and gameplay mechanics 
 are just not the same.
  
  The gameplay mechanics and level design on Rainbow Six Vegas 2 are engineered to focus the players 
 on cooperative and strategic play. In this vein, R6V2 probably has more in common with the Brothers 
 in Arms series than it does with Half-Life or Call of Duty 4. Levels are designed to give the user 
 multiple angles of attack so that they can effectively use their computer-controlled squad and/or 
 human coop partner. As such, as you move through the Story and Terrorist Hunt modes, you'll find 
 yourself using the old "suppress and flank" tactic quite a bit. Attacking from multiple angles 
 will yield you the most success, while going maverick or piling all your attackers together (i. e. 
 going back-to-back) will put you at a strong disadvantage, as the AI-controlled opponents will 
 actively (and satisfyingly) use the environment to suppress and flank you.
  
  Movement is definitely slower and more methodical than most other current FPS releases. While a 
 new sprint feature enables short bursts of speed, it's a tool to be used to get you short distances 
 from cover to cover, and not something you always leave on, like in Half-Life, or something you 
 can use infinitely, like in Gears of War. Slower is not a bad thing, mind you. The slower movement 
 forces the player to use the solid cover system to exploit angles on the enemy. Players can post 
 up against most of the environment, similar to Gears of War.
  
  The Rainbow Six Vegas 2 game engine does allow for bullet penetration through materials, so there 
 is a difference between cover and concealment, however, bullet penetration is toned down substantially 
 from Call of Duty 4. Since players are encouraged to use the edges of doorways to post up and make 
 attacks, it is typically difficult or impossible to shoot and kill players through walls. Players 
 will find that shooting through concealment is most effective when the enemy is hiding behind wooden 
 surfaces.
  
  One nice feature, however, is that wooden doors can be shot through, most can be blown off hinges 
 and many can be destroyed with gunfire. This is a very useful tactic for attacking into a room 
 without entering, as well as ensuring opponents cannot use doors to conceal activity occurring 
 within.
  
  A great innovation in the game's reward system is the ACES system, where you will receive rewards 
 based on your style of play. Marksmanship will reward the player with long range weapons (e. g. 
 sniper rifles, etc.) , close quarters effectiveness will reward the player with short range weapons 
 (e. g. shotguns, etc.) and brute-force tactics will reward players with high-powered assault weapons 
 (i. e. light machine guns, etc.) . This is a great concept, but users will most likely exhaust this 
 system very quickly. The weapons don't seem to be modeled in a fashion that distinguishes themselves 
 from others in the same class much, nor is the user rewarded for using each individual weapon effectively 
 as in Call of Duty 4. In short, tying weapon unlockables to the players gameplay style is very 
 neat, but ultimately not terribly impactful. As evidence of this, you'll rarely hear anyone complaining 
 online that "you're only good because you have and I don't." A hybrid of the R6V2 ACES system and 
 the Call of Duty 4's challenges system would be absolutely heavenly...
  
  The story mode is less cinematic, compelling and enthralling than COD4 and Half-Life, but R6V2 
 makes up for that with seamless cooperative multiplayer over XBox Live in all game modes, which 
 is just as important. The cooperative terrorist hunt is a favorite, as this allows for 4-player 
 coop, and is still somewhat challenging (though sometimes cheaply so) at the Realistic difficulty 
 level.
  
  Terrorist hunt is indeed fun, but often extremely frustrating, as enemies will frequently magically 
 spawn right next to you out of thin air. As such, you will often have to send some unlucky guinea 
 pig to run into a room to force enemies to spawn and be the bait to draw the magic spawning enemies 
 out into your ambush. This makes terrorist hunt on realistic difficulty absolutely punishing on 
 your own.
  
  Multiplayer game setup is not seamless as it was in COD4, as a good host seems to be rather important 
 in having the most fun. While the role of the host for ranked matches is diminished in terms of 
 game setup, ranked matches will annoyingly eject players back to the matchmaking screen to try 
 to find a new game after every match. Personally, after quickly obtaining my achievements for getting 
 a few wins in a row, I never played this mode again. If you can find a good host for player matches, 
 you will have found all you need to gain XP, unlock rewards and have a great time. A good host 
 will keep the game moving, take requests for game modes and maps, entertain weapon restriction 
 requests, turn respawns on / off, etc. While a great host will result in great fun, likewise, if 
 the host is a prick it can be highly obnoxious.
  
  All in all, R6V2 is a fun time that provides very strong cooperative gameplay that is more methodical 
 and team-oriented than most of its competitors. It's a solid game that changes up the formula a 
 little bit and is certainly worth owning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SurE_Sh0T
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 9:01 pm PT
Review:  When I first asked to borrow Rainbow Six Vegas 2 from my friend, i really excited. I popped it 
 into my 360 as soon as I got home and played the campaign. I was surprised to see that it was almost 
 the same game, but just with a different story. The mechanics of the game are almost pretty much 
 the same, except for the fact that you can sprint. One thing that I liked, is that the gameplay 
 is very smooth, which makes it fun to play. The tactical gameplay is very nice and interesting 
 just like in the first game, which makes it so that there are multiple ways to complete your mission 
 (tactical, guns blazing, etc.) . Different people with different personalities will play the game 
 differently. Although a lot of people like this game, it is not for everyone. People who play a 
 lot of halo ( like me) will probably go in guns blazing. But after about an hour or two into the 
 game, they will realize that you have to play more tactically, but you can also mix. For example: 
 guns blazing but using cover and grenades. In all, the gameplay is great, the multiplayer is great 
 as always, and this game is definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaneandlynch93
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  The perfect shooter i really liked the graphics and the gameplay you are Bishop the leader of the 
 team you get to creat your owe character you can even make him a female. Tis game is reaqlly fun 
 and fast paced the perfect shooter the perfect game bettet than vegas 1. The story is great this 
 is really fun and cool and great and really fun. so if you like rainbowsix games and first person 
 shooter game is for you. I also really liked the weapons im a fan of Tom Clancey games i liked 
 ghost recon and splinter cell and endwar looks really good. If you are doing co op only player 
 one can control the team the game looks amazing so if your a fan of first person shooter games 
 or Tom Clansey games or rainbowsix games this game is for you. This game a masterpiece the perfect 
 game.  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djsundowner
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I paid $60 for the same game twice. Not that that's neccesarily a bad thing, but though the 
 additions of a sprint button and a more lenient experience system were certainly welcome and integrated 
 well, the revamped mulitplayer is a bit disappointing.
  
  Starting with the good: It's still a game that plays very fluidly, and the sprint button gives 
 the sequel a more action-packed feel than it's predecessor. Level design is fabulous; I especially 
 like the convention center as it is very wide-open and cluttered at the same time, making firefights 
 intense forcing you to cover every angle. Allowing you to level up in all modes instead of just 
 multiplayer modes is a nice change as well. I didn't want to have to play hour upon hour of multiplayer 
 just to unlock the SPAS shotgun.
  
  The worst thing about this sequel is the breaking of attack & defend. Every FPS with multiplayer 
 has a mode where you take bombs to designated locations: I want package retrieval back! Most of 
 my time spent in the original Vegas was spent in the Calypso Casino doing just that.
  
  Overall, it's still a really good game, but I almost wish they'd just charged $20 for a patch that 
 integrated sprinting into the original. If you just like deathmatch and team deathmatch, the multiplayer 
 is about as good as you can get (excepting COD4, of course) , so there's that, but if you were into 
 A&D like I was, you may find the game a bit lacking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XFoogyX
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2008 11:31 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is very much like the original RSV that came out a few years ago, but with 
 a few new twists added to the formula.
  
  Some of these new twists include:
  -The ability to run
  -A. C. E. S.
  -offline character customization
  -new maps and weapons
 
  
  The most welcome of these additions would probably be the offline character customization. For 
 those of us who didn't play the first RSV online much, this is something we've been waiting for.
 
  
  It can be a lot of fun leveling up your A. C. E. S too. These are simply three categories of combat 
 the you can advance in to earn more experience and weapons. There is Marksman, CQB (Close Quarters) , 
 and Assault (mostly grenades) . A. C. E. S. help speed up the leveling up process so you can reach 
 new ranks and earn more armors, camouflage, hats, etc.
  
  The maps available are a lot of fun. Some of the maps you find in the story are available for the 
 other game types too. All of them seem to be geared best towards terrorist hunt, and do a good 
 job of varying the difficulty by creating spots for enemies to hide and take cover. The ability 
 to run can change your tactics in a big way.
  
  The most disappointing aspect of RSV2 is the story. From what i've read, many of us expected the 
 game to pick up right where it left off with the first game. Instead, we get a half prequel, half 
 sequel sort of story, which doesn't do a great job of explaining anything that happened in the 
 first game, and doesn't do a great job of wrapping up the cliffhanger either. The up side to all 
 of this is that the story mode maps are a lot of fun, and do a good job of distracting your from 
 the bland plot.
  
  Overall:
  If you come into the game for the story, you might be disappointed. However, if you give some of 
 the revamped gameplay modes a try, you might just find that this 2nd title is even more addictive 
 than the 1st.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 has a few good things to offer over it's predecessor, and the title as a whole 
 is well worth the price of admission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: efoxneo
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  Not much is necessary to describe Rainbow Six Vegas 2; the minor changes with the AI, especially 
 your own team, the added equipment, and the ability to sprint add to an already almost perfect 
 game. The difficulty is definatley felt on realistic, and can make the game more challenging then 
 you would want. I'm glad they got rid of the Joanna character screaming in my ears whenever an 
 update comes down, and the story of how Vegas 2 ties into the first game is well done. I'm not 
 a huge fan of how the game ends, as I'm not a fan of the ending of the first Vegas, but they tie 
 up all the loose ends and finish the Vegas series strong. This Vegas relies on stealth even more 
 then the first and it pays well with the new ACES system to do so. I hope the Rainbow Six franchise 
 continues on this path and does not attempt to become too arcade to be considered a Tactical Shooter. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6love6metal6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  As i said just before this is what i really wanted out of CoD4. The gameplay in both games is really 
 quite simillar, especially with the new sprint button, but Vegas2 just has the bit extra ... the 
 cover system !! the same sort of cover system that is in Gears of War which gives Vegas 2 that 
 edge over CoD4. 
  
  The main single player campign hasnt changed that much from the first game but that really isnt 
 a bad thing as the first game is still one i play to this day, if it aint broke dont fix it !!!! 
 but saying that there is one major new addition to the single player is the ability to gain exp 
 offline... this goes to getting new weapons, armour and clothing for your charater which makes every 
 player unique.
  
  Multi-player hasnt changed much either although it is easier to get in to a Terroist Hunt mode 
 which is perfect as that is my favourite online mode
  
  Overall Rainbow Six Vegas 2 has the character customation of Halo 3 and the weapon customation 
 of Call of Duty 4 and overall does what both games do but its all in one package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nahorner9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 4:03 am PT
Review:  For those that have played the first Rainbow Six: Vegas, then this game is a definitely for you. 
 The game plays almost the same as the original... almost too much the same. Some of the sound effects 
 and music is exactly the same. The things the terrorists say to each is about the same as well 
 so it seems like the game was just remade into Vegas 2. The game is a little more choppy than the 
 original one but it's not too noticeable. The new leveling up system is pretty cool. It's nice 
 to be able to customize the characters now. Sometimes it's hard to hear what the characters are 
 saying so it would have been nice to have some subtitles. Anyway, I recommend this game to any 
 first person fan out there. Although it may not be as solid as Rainbow Six Vegas 1, it is still 
 a great game to add to the collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpimppapa
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  If a game bites the big one I would love to rip it a new one. I read few reviews about this game 
 and the dumb AI. Well the AI is not as dumb as you think. When you are controlling your teammates, 
 and they will not go to a certain location. That is for your benefit since there is an enemy close 
 by. So if the AI left to go where you instructed, then he would die! I play the story mode on Realistic 
 and I love it, on line accept for Co-Op is a cry baby Boost show. I prefer to play Co-Op all day 
 then the insane True Skill Match Making Skills that never works. I like to sneak around from cover 
 to cover. This is why I enjoy this rather then run n gun and die every 1.5 seconds, cause you went 
 in Guns Blazing 
  
  Now Terrorist Hunt is broke just like the last RB6V I hate when I cleared a room plus there is 
 no other entry point a Bingo there he is A Terrorist appearing out of now where. But then again 
 that means I am so good I pick these fools off so fast that I should of still been in the front 
 of the map. But I was in the middle owning. But still it is crap 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColateralGamble
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 1, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Definatly a game just to rent dont waste your money like i did. If you are hoping for a game that 
 will challenge CODs dominance this isnt even close to it. rainbow's servers are laggy the guns 
 are overpowerd and the guns that should be more powerful are weak. when at 100 yards a sub machine 
 gun beats a sniper rifle their is a real problem. I had so much hope for this game and its knew 
 additions. The knew experience system is so easy it might as well not even be in the game. Also 
 the knew experience glitch makes anyone that gets elite legitamently a cheater instead of a good 
 player. Me and my friend got elite legitamently, but playing now isnt even fun because everyone 
 is like "look at those cheaters they glitched their elites i bet they suck", and then if they do 
 happen to kill one of us they just say i told you they glitched. I would rather be a recriut than 
 elite at this point. Also the new multiplayer game types and the ridiculusly short rounds make 
 the game online more about sitting in the lobby waiting than actually plaing the game. terrorist 
 hunt also went down hill if you like playing and haveing terrorists spawn right behind you with 
 a shotgun, by all means play T-hunt. Finally the story mode lacks story it is so boring that i 
 couldnt even tell you why i was chasing this guy. And the hopes of your team getting smarter yeah 
 right dumber is more like it. RAINBOW 1   RAINBOW 2 (SAD) (VERY SAD) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KoGfullmetal980
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Most people have play Rainbow Six: Vegas, the original. In Vegas 2, it is pretty much the same 
 thing as the first, except more customization and gameplay options. The customized guy is the one 
 you play as in the game. Story mode starts out with you and your team [who wear the same camo as 
 you] tracking a wanted man. As you go through, a twist happens [but I'm not telling] . Online is 
 fun, especially Terrorist Hunt with friends. We all grab our 500 Tactical and XM 26 LSS and barge 
 in a take them all out. All in all, this is a pretty good game, but there are some glitches and 
 tweaks that could have been fixed. Such as the reflexes of terrorist are pretty much super human, 
 and they kill you with shotguns from 20 ft. away in a shot, yet you cant kill them when they're 
 10 ft. from you. Still, Rainbow Six: Vegas 2 is worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silentlord833
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  So, Six is back, and Vegas has gotta keep on payin! 
  
  Pros: Tried and true control system, much better upgrading system with the "A. C. E. S." add on, Great 
 multiplayer, and deeper character customization than it's predecessor, decent A. I. , Good story. 
 Oh and RUN!
  
  Cons: Short Campaign, seemingly designed more for multiplayer than single, only two player co-op, 
 while there are two A. I. partners throughout 90% of the game, should have been able to have four 
 player co-op, still no melee attack, terrorist seem to materialize from no where in the Terrorist 
 Hunt game mode, not alot new for a "sequel" game.
  
  Alright, the nitty gritty, let me start off with I like this game, I am not attempting to trash 
 a game that is actually a great play, there are just some flaws, and overall bugs that can really 
 take away from the overall experience. First off, the campaign seems to get to a great boiling 
 point, and then someone turns off the burner, I was honestly surprised when I saw "Game Over" come 
 across the screen. Another issue is the Terrorist Hunt spawning, look over there.... no one, okay 
 look over here...... oh now theres someone in the corner that you just looked in, and yes he killed 
 you. 
  
  As I stated earlier, while having the co-op is great, it is a little odd that there are two game 
 controlled characters running around with you, which cannot be controlled by a third or fourth 
 player, I just don't get that.
  
  No Melee, we got run, but seems that melee won't be ready till the next firmware upgrade, speaking 
 of my referring to this "sequel" as a upgrade is simply because after you play for a day or two, 
 it really starts feeling like more of the same, this is not because the game takes place in Vegas, 
 or that is coincides with the first games timeline, its just the same game with a few tweaks and 
 upgrades, of course the control scheme (minus the no melee) is a great system, with no need for 
 change (with the exception of melee) . The game simply looks and feels EXACTLY like the first one, 
 heck they even put maps from the first one into this. I like Rainbow Six Vegas, kinda like how 
 I liked Halo, Then when Halo 2 came out, well that was alot better than Halo, simply better looking 
 and played. Vegas 2..... IS VEGAS, different locals, better upgrading system, slightly improved 
 A. I. and thats about it, oh and run (yet no MELEE!)
  
  Now onto a bit of a touchy subject with some people, and that is the online multiplayer of the 
 Rainbow games, heres the thing, Rainbow controls are kinda designed for camping, and multiplayer 
 death matches generally frown on camping, so there is an inherant problem with this. If you camp, 
 you are frowned upon, but this game teaches you to camp, so are you suppose to either camp, in 
 which case everyone simply sits around for a large portion of the match, until someone gets sick 
 of it, and goes out after his/her enemies, only to surely be gunned down (and yes I have actually 
 been a part in matches like this, on more than one occassion.) . Or you have to simply forget everything 
 that you know about Six, and play it like it's Call of Duty, which it is not. Just problematic 
 to me.
  
  At the end of the day, I like this game, much like I liked the original, cause really it is the 
 original. Just a bit newer, there is a mentality of if it ain't broke don't fix it with this game, 
 but you know if you got an old car, and it still runs, but you want a new car, well are you just 
 gonna buy the same car with a different color paint job, and better stereo? Me niether, but I did 
 buy Rainbow Six Vegas 2. 
  
  Recommendation: If you like: Rainbow SIx Vegas. 
  
  is this game worth buying? If you like the gamer points, or are still playing the original.... alot. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Normandypro
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 1, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  First off, this game has the worst multiplayer experiance ever. Just like most online games for 
 the x-box, the fear of people ranking up has totally ruined the online experiance for the honest 
 people. The time it takes to find a room and pray you don't get booted or lag out overtakes the 
 fun of playing online. Finally, the hit detection is non-existant even for head or upper body shots 
 which just adds to the overwhelming frustration of playing online.
  
  As for terrorist hunt and story modes, not much has changed since Vegas 1. The story is somewhat 
 intresting at best. My major dislike about Vegas 1 & 2 are the fact that the develpores have decided 
 not to reward your play for steath. All the old Rainbow Six games when I played them on PC were 
 based on stealth. These two games are all trigger released, which wouldn't be a problem if they 
 used triggers every once and awhile. Every level, every checkpoint there's a fine line that if 
 your cross it, enemies spawn on or very close to you. It's really annoying and shows how lazy these 
 developers are! 
  
  Bottom line, I'm not happy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas is without a doubt one of the best tactical shooters you'll ever play. The sequel 
 doesn't really do anything new and still features a good campaign mode. However, when a game is 
 completed in 18 months, somethings going to be missing. In this case, it's the bugs that annoyed 
 me the most.
  Several times, the frame rate dropped to unplayable levels with the occasional game freeze. A. I. 
 of your squad this time around is worse. In the garage mission, it appeared my mates got a sudden 
 case of hydrophobia and wouldn't simply walk around a puddle on the ground. I actually had to leave 
 them behind but couldn't complete the mission. 
  
  Another glitch is when downloading content or if the game crashes you can lose all the exp. points 
 you've spent so much time getting.
  
  MP is as good as always. However, terrorist hunt is diappointing this time as the enemy literally 
 spawns right on top of you adding to the frustration levels.
  
  If the game was held back to address the bugs and glitches, this game would easily get a 9/10, but 
 as it stands, i can't recommend it. The original still trumps it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ace-of-spades93
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2008 2:54 am PT
Review:  There is only one word to describe this game AWESOME.
  the surrounding areas are a refreshingly different to those of rsv1 but they still have a twinkle 
 of glitz that shall keep you entranced. The story line is immense so cleverly done i forgot to 
 kill people when listening to the talking, it runs parrelel to the other story and does so immaculately, 
 i couldnt find a single flaw in that department. 
  granted the combat is much the same as in the old one so i wont talk bout that but the new sprint 
 mechanism really helps things along. Online play is still pushing the best in the world. I prefer 
 it to call of duty 4. Split screen is much improved also now you have checkpoints and a team as 
 well as another player.
  Finally the points mechanism at first on casual i thought it was broken as i'd shoot a turret gunner 
 and it would give me marksman points but as i played through onto normal and realistic i found 
 that it works very well and increases the longivity of the game. My only problem with the points 
 is that if you shoot long range to kill a shielded opponent surely you should get marksman and 
 assault points.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cristialex317
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  If you like the first one you will defintely love this one. This is a more and better single player 
 story. The ACE and The self improvement character will have you playinng this game for weeks. The 
 Multiplayer is awasome they made changes and now you can do matchmaking easyer. Theres 2 new modes 
 is search and destroy and Team Leader there both pretty fun. im just saying if you like the first 
 one and you dont know whetere to beilve all that Bull*hit people say that is bad then go ahead 
 and dont buy it but im telling you if you like the first one you will love this one. I also like 
 the new add features like sprint it really changes the perseption of things it also dont you hate 
 it when they throw a graned and you cant run away well now you can thanx to the sprint feature. 
 For many people that think you rank up to fast in COD4 you wont have that problem here you will 
 have to dedicate some time to level up i really love this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BikerPunk
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Vegas 2 has arrived and we have all had a chance to play a bit now. I personally will only be commenting 
 on the ONLINE MULTIPLAYER as i have not touched the single player campaign at this point in time. 
 
  
  Vegas 2 is very similar to the first Vegas except we can run! with the new sprint ability (not 
 new to games in general) it gives us the opportunity to make a run for it instead of jus taking 
 that shot to the face. 
  
  The Vegas series has been offering one of the best cover systems offered and you are able to QUICKLY 
 look around and take a shot rather then a slow-mo peek-a-round, allowing rapid cover shots. If 
 you dont feel like risking your head, then just pull the trigger for blind fire. Blind fire can 
 be useful in close quarters battles!!! do not under estimate it!
  
  The graphics are mediocre, however most are willing to take that small sacrafice for the smooth 
 gameplay. Even in the thick of things there is little to no lag unless the host is running some 
 whacked out dialup style buisness. 
  
  The ranking system is great allowing you to work through different styles of killing, and the system 
 will rank you, unlocking XP prizes or new weapons. Altough i have not played the offline, i have 
 been told that the charater you make works for both online and offline missions. No starting as 
 a noob in either gaming session. IT CARRIES OVER!! THANK THE GODS!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonicmole
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Though Rainbow Six Vegas 2 adds only a handful of changes from the original Vegas, those changes 
 create an entirely new and improved experience both online and off.
  
  The main new addition to the gameplay is the ability to sprint. This may sound like a minor upgrade 
 ,but this feature completely alters not only the pace of gameplay but the options you have in online 
 and offline combat. No longer are you forced into hiding every time you hear gunfire. You now can 
 also run like hell! The sprint can only be used in short bursts but help dramatically when running 
 from building to building online. Rarely can a sniper pull of the shot while you dash, which bring 
 down the number of matches dominated by losers who just post up. Like the last game it has one 
 of the most advanced cover systems allowing to to quickly peak around corners and even blind fire 
 in 3rd person. You can also shoot through cover, and customize not only what you carry but what 
 you wear. Which brings us to the biggest little change. This time around you create one character 
 that you play and level up through online and offline play. The customization is not like Tony 
 Hawk underground 2 or anything but gives you a descent amount of options for a next gen game. You 
 can choose from male or female, and then you'll have a handful of ugly faces to choose from, or 
 if you have a vision camera on your 360 you can scan your own face onto your character. This feature 
 though leaves a little to be desired. You basically end up looking like a mutated burn victim, 
 at best, and the whole process takes around 15 minutes to and hour due to constant retakes. You 
 then move on to arming and clothing your character. As you level up more options will open spurring 
 you on to open up the more powerful machine gun or a tank top for the ladies. Online and off the 
 game runs smooth as butter.
  
  The graphics are good. I don't have a lot to say here. They won't blow your mind but they seem 
 to be geared for smooth gameplay rather a lagg-er-ific visual master piece. On the other hand the 
 animations are extremely fluid and realistic and this is the most important aspect in visuals. 
 Basically they dropped the specs on the graphics slightly to insure a smooth ride and I say thank 
 you!
  
  The audio is also fairly impressive. You often use it to track enemies and online it works great 
 when trying to locate where everyone is throwing down. The music......... I don't remember but I 
 guess it filled in the proper blanks with out irritating me.
  
  Online Vegas 2 stands with the best. Gears of War, COD 4, Halo 3, and Rainbow six Vegas 2. The 
 game runs smooth online and the combat is varied. Even in a room of snipers you can still bend 
 he match to your favor. HINT: Run around the top level with a shot gun. For some reason they never 
 look behind them! I have one a match doing nothing but capping dumb snipers. Maybe they'll learn 
 to stop being cowards. HAHAHAHAH.
  
  In all it is one of the best online shooters out there. Once your sick of COD 4, this should easily 
 be you next game of choice.
  
  dollar value: $80
  Actual Price: $60
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sixgears2
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  I have been going over the reviews for this game and I have to say I am a little shocked at what 
 I have been reading. It seems like nearly everyone is complaining about the fact that this game 
 is too similar to the first one. I guess I don't see why this is a problem since the first one 
 was definitely one of the best shooters on the 360. Sure, the gameplay is the same. Sure, the cover 
 system and weapons are the same. So? It is a sequel right?
  
  The graphics are dated? Ok, it isn't CoD4 in the graphics department, but it certainly doesn't 
 look bad by any standard and to say that the graphics look no better than the first RB6V is just 
 straight up wrong. Look at the difference in the environmental detail and texturing in Kill House 
 between the two or the shiny finish on some of the armor in MP. The graphics have certainly gotten 
 a major boost and anyone who doesn't recognize that is either still playing on a crappy standard 
 TV or didn't actually play the first one's MP. 
  
  But SixGears the sound is the same too boo hoo. Of course it is. Guns don't generally change the 
 way they sound and I think the gunfire (especially when you can hear muffled fire through walls 
 or echoes from cracking shots in an aller) is some of the best out there. Sure, the slot machines 
 and copiers sound the same. Do you really care? If so, why? And how about the music in Villa or 
 Theater (possibly one of the coolest maps on any MP shooter) ? Come on guys, there is absolutely 
 nothing to be criticized here.
  
  After those two things are picked apart people usually go on to say how the game is bugged because 
 sometimes people don't die when they get shot. Well, kids, that's called lag. It has happened in 
 every MP shooter ever made (including the beloved CoD and Halo) . The only reason that it is more 
 frequent in Rainbow is because we have a lot of dumb kids with horrible connections hosting 14 
 person rooms when their host can't handle more than 6. While I do agree future Rainbows should 
 have dedicated Ubi servers to play on instead of individual hosts, this is not a fault with the 
 game itself but with the people who have crappy connections and still host. When you look for rooms 
 it shows you the ping, so join the green rooms and stop crying. Oh, and the other reason some people 
 don't die right away is because of armor, you know, the hard stuff you wear that stops bullets? 
 A guy wearing tank armor ig going to take longer to kill than a punk in a tank top. We call that 
 depth and you should adjust your strategy instead of just criticizing the game. 
  
  So obviously the game has been improved (once again, if you don't believe me play the old one again 
 and/or buy a new TV) . Add to that the new ACES system (which is highly satisfying) and the new 
 equipment and weapons and maps and you have a solid sequel. Isn't that what a sequel is? A highly 
 similar games with many improvements and corrections? So let's stop whining that Ubi didn't make 
 a brand spanking new RB6V that is nothing like the first and appreciate RB6V2 for the fantastic 
 tac shooter that it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: julianwelton
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2008 5:40 am PT
Review:  Rainbows Six Vegas 2 Has added A lot of necessary and not so necessary improvements, but does that 
 make it a good game? Well the only way I can think of to describe this game is its what Rainbow 
 Six Vegas should have been, but seeing as how Rainbow Six Vegas 1 was already released a year or 
 so ago its too little too late. Although the new additions are nice they aren't enough to warrant 
 a sixty dollar price tag when most would be buyers already have a game exactly like this.
  
  RSV2 adds the Rewards and ACES systems which are fun and give you something to aim for with 
 the ACES system you get points for everything you do in the game whether it be story mode, Co-Op, 
 or Multiplayer and they are split into kill type categories. Once you get up to a certain amount 
 of points in each different category you unlock something new which makes it easier for people 
 that want to play Online, but don't want to rack up death after death because everyone who's been 
 playing online has better guns unlocked.
  
  The ACES system is something that would've been nice to have in the original game or in a full 
 sequel, but since that is pretty much the only change in RSV2 it makes it seem more like an expansion 
 pack and is not enough to distinguish it from its predecessor. I'm not saying RSV2 is a bad game 
 its not its just that the original has been out for a while now and hearing about this new sequel 
 got everybody excited for a new Rainbow Six game and they didn't get one they got a slightly updated 
 version of Rainbow Six Vegas.
  
  The games graphics are sub-par because again they are basically the same as the previous game, 
 and its even more of a disappointment because the game is made with the unreal engine which is 
 one of the best game engines to date, but you wouldn't it know by the look of RSV2. I was surprised 
 that I actually had some fun playing the story mode this time as I did not with the last game I 
 think this is attributed to the new rewards system or maybe just a change of characters. 
  
  Playing on the lower difficulties made the game too easy which made Realistic pretty much the 
 only difficulty choice for a serious tactical shooter fan. Your AI teammates weren't too bad, but 
 I did notice if they were set to infiltrate they refused to shoot one guy they could be getting 
 drilled with holes and they would just watch as all of you died together. The AI for the enemies 
 is a whole different story they were descent, but I noticed several flaws and random activities. 
 Some of the AI enemies would just stand there and make sure you could shoot them and others would 
 just crouch down and not move a muscle until finally you would have to go run up to them and either 
 kill them or be surprised with a Spas12, and others would randomly run at you firing like Rambo. 
 
  
  I didn't like that even if you were incredibly sneaky and used a silencer and nobody knew you were 
 there some AI would know your exact position to the inch some examples that stood out are the guys 
 on the turrets no matter how sneaky you were they would know exactly where you were and lite you 
 up in milliseconds. There were a few parts that were really frustrating at times namely The Oil 
 Refinery its your only solo mission and playing it on Realistic is annoying. at least it was for 
 me. after finishing the game I kind of resented it because of that level.
  
  Well to sum up Its not a bad game, but it isn't exactly a new one. I wouldn't recommend it to owners 
 of the previous game, but I would recommend it to those who have not played the first one or any 
 other Rainbow Six Game, its at least a good rental in its own right, and on a side note sorry if 
 this review was a little long, but I had a few things to say, and this was my first review.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: insanewolfninja
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 31, 2008 12:07 am PT
Review:  Rainbow six vegas 2 is the sequel to 2006's popular shooter rainbow six vegas witch was a huge 
 hit that introduced, thirdperson cover shooting, design your character to your needs, and a revamped 
 singleplayer. rainbow six vegas 2 is mutch more the same.
  
  Rainbow six vegas 2 is in fact too mutch similiar to it"s predacessor rainbow six vegas. The singleplayer 
 starts off where the last one didint. You start the single player caimpaign by creating a chracter 
 from well the same combinations from the last game. such as clothing, armor, what weapons you want 
 to use etc. Rainbow six sticks with its ambitious stop and pop look around the corner gameplay. 
 If you played the last rainbow you'll have no trouble picking up and playing. Newcomers wont have 
 no trouble eithier since there is a tutorial at the begining of the game.
  
  Rainbow six vegas's 2 biggest flaw in gameplay is obvisouly the fear to change and feels too mutch 
 similiar to the last. The new A. C. E, s system is introduced, you'll start by comepleting certian 
 tasks such as, kill a enemy at long distance. Kill from climbing a rope. Kill a enemy by shooting 
 thier head. and there are three distinctive areas of a. c. e. s marksman witch unlocks snipers etc. 
 Assualt witch unlocks Assualt rifles light machinge guns etc. and CQB (close quarters combat) witch 
 is argubally the most usefull) witch unlocks, smgs shotguns etc.
  
  But with very little new guns, it seems like a lazy excuse to just say hey look whats new about 
 this game, the dynamic of how the game is played is up to you still. if you wanna be stealthy dont 
 worry you can, you go in guns blazing you can, you wanna stay back and camp go ahead. rainbow still 
 keeps the tactical gameplay in the singleplayer but the core of it seems changed in online. Hosts 
 can now restrict certian weapons and gun's witch leads to HUGE aggravation for certian style gamers. 
 but you can always host your own game. 
  
  
  the graphics are not upgraded whatsoever, Witch if you were expacting a majer facelift sorry you 
 aint gonna get it here. The buggy glitches the watery look is all still here Though none the less 
 still a pretty game. but todays standards this just doesent cut it. things like AI npcs arms clipping 
 through the walls just wont make anyone happy, You can tell by looking at the game the devs really 
 didint spend mutch time trying to improve anything as mutch as they wanted to make new lvls witch 
 look its past predeccaser. level desings are the same as last except with different areas such 
 as, backalleys, clubs, rooftops witch were all seen in the last game. Gamers dont expect to explore 
 too many different looking areas of vegas cause you wont.
  
  Its hard to say anything about the sound since its really all the same and the voiceovers are pathetic, 
 When you hear a terroist cuss you out, you cant help but to laugh your ass off cause they all sound 
 like thier trying to swallow something while they talk. The gun sounds all sound though right on 
 with the loud without a silencer and silent withone on the way it should be. It's hard not to wonder 
 why every gun sounds the same as eachother though, Witch is the biggest problem in the sound.
 
  
  Overall: RSV62 is bascially a expansion pack with not mutch new but still a redeeming game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KennyYoung
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 21, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  Lets start by saying that Rainbow Six Vegas 2 was a very good game and was definetley worth playing, 
 but it could've been much better. 
  
  R6V: 2 does have a lot of cool gameplay features like how you can customize your character. You 
 can change his face, armor, clothing, weapons, and camo and along the way as you rank up you unlock 
 more weapons and armor. 
  
  RSV2 does have a lot of good tactical options. Whenever you approach a closed door you first order 
 your men to "stack" or line up near the door. Then you can use a snake cam (a little camera that 
 fits under the door) to see if there are any enemies behind it. Upon opening the door you can tell 
 your me to either smoke, bang, breach or open and clear the area. But, these seem to be the only 
 real tactical options that make it different from any other shooter. 
  
  The games story is ok and I didn't follow it well but it probably could've been better and altogether 
 the game seemed really short (somewhere around 6-8 hrs) . The controls were fine but it took me 
 three missions to find out how to throw a grenade. Yet the game does look good graphically and 
 does have some really good sound effects. I thought that it was good but not great. I give it a 
 8.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TFREY35
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 30, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  This game has to many bugs, and is not consistent! One round you hit someone with two bullets, 
 they go down like a ton of bricks, and the next time you put two clips into them, and they turn 
 around and kill you with one shot! This game will be great when they finally fix all of the bugs, 
 I am a big fan of this game, but very disappointed with ubisoft for putting it out before they 
 were done!!!!
  Ubisoft is not the only ones to practice this! Now that developers can patch via the web, they 
 seem to rush things, and patch later!!!
  The new maps are great, along with the new game modes!! The graphics are an upgrade form the last 
 game, but not on par with other next gen games! Again, when the game gets fixed it will be alot 
 more fun to play!
  The single player game is good, but a breeze to get to the end! It is nice to plat with your friends 
 in the co-op mode! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpstill85
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what Ubisoft was so blown away by when they were giving the developer diaries for 
 this game. The graphics are dated. The controls are dated. The cover system was broken somewhere 
 between the first installment and this "sequel." The campaign mode is mediocre at best. The online 
 play in Vegas 1 was far more memorable and fun than Vegas 2. The Artificial Intelligence is so 
 dumb and broken you'll feel like you're playing... yes I'm saying it... Turning Point in some sections. 
 I'm not sure if Ubisoft Montreal just sucks and really felt they put together a good game, or if 
 they just rushed a bad game with the intentions of reaping the income acquired by manipulating 
 a fanbase that was blown away by the first installment. Either way, I've lost a bit of trust in 
 Ubisoft and I will make sure to investigate any future games with a much more discriminate eye. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theww
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  All of my comments pertain to the multiplayer online experience. I do not play the single player 
 campaigns unless my internet connection is down. I would be very unhappy with this game if I owned 
 Vegas, but since i never owned it, I think its worth the $60. The maps are fun, but I grew tired 
 of T Hunt after I completed it one round of the maps on realistic. The game is not that great, 
 especially having played COD4 for the last 3 months. Ive already grown tired of the pace of play, 
 which yes, is technically "tactical" but leaves much to be desired in the realm of MP playing. 
 I really like the ability to hide and see over/around corners, barriers and walls. Im glad it has 
 a sprint move now, I heard that Vegas did not. As for the gameplay types, they are unique and require 
 a bit more team work, which can be difficult to find on a public server. Regardless, I dont feel 
 that the game is well balanced, but hope that it grows on me and that I play it more then I do 
 COD4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SLICKViP
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Vegas 2 follows in the footsteps of the critically acclaimed Rainbow six vegas which included great 
 tactical shooting to go along with an excellent multiplayer. The ending left us hanging and sure 
 enough R6V2 goes about answering the questions. However R6V2 does not go about this as they could 
 have done.
  This game includes a new combat system called A. C. E. S. This upgrading system means you can get 
 more weapons and more xp points. You can upgrade in assault, COG andmarksman. Each time you move 
 up a level in each of these, you are either awarded more xp points or a new weapon. This is an 
 interesting concept but this seems to be the only thing which has changed from the previous game, 
 along with a new sprint mechanic. 
  R6V2 still provides the old cover system and combat is still fun and exciting. However, if you 
 have already played the first game, you won't find much different; it is seriously similar.
  Multiplayer is worthwhile and you should take a look at it.
  
  In conclusion, there is virtually 
 nothing different from the previous installement and the storyline is weak. However, the gameplay 
 is still fun and interesting so it is worth a look for those who have not played the first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanJakey
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  My friend talked me into buying Rainbow Six Vegas 2. I wasn't sure what to expect because I never 
 really played the first. I decided to rent the first Rainbow game to make sure it was worth the 
 60$. I loved the first, so I returned it same day and went to Gamestop and bought R6V2. I threw 
 it in and me and my friend beat Co-Op in about 10 hours. Pretty short campaign but very fun while 
 it lasted and I got some nice achievements.
  The multiplayer is where this game shines. You can customize your character with armor, some favor 
 mobility and others favor protection armor, you can go either way. There is around 20 camos to 
 put on your character, I go full black cause it makes me look like a ninja! You gain ranks as you 
 get experience, and each level gives you armor, camo, and/or clothes. But to gain new guns, your 
 have to do A. C. E. S. A. C. E. S are a rank system, with three categories. Assault, which you gain points 
 with grenade kills, CQB, which you gain with close quarters kills, and marksman, which you gain 
 xp in by getting headshots. This systems awards new guns, and experience. Overall, R6V2 is a great 
 game, with a few flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meconate
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 5:34 am PT
Review:  Fans of the previous Vegas game are in for a treat, Vegas 2 has so much more content and action 
 to keep you busy for hours and hours. The only downfall is... well there is none.
  
  The story might not be the longest you'll ever play, it's around 6-7 hours, but it really fills 
 and clears the gaps in the previous which you really got mixed up in. Rainbow Six Vegas 2 also 
 gives you more content to keep you playing for a reason. You can now customise your character offline 
 for those who dont have Xbox Live and you can also get rank xp by playing the Story mode or terrorist 
 hunt on either single player or split-screen. 
  
  One of the other great features is that you can now sprint, shoot through cover like wood and thin 
 concrete. Yes, it sounds similar to Call Of Duty 4, but in my opinion, id rather play Vegas 2 any 
 day. It keeps you playing for days and gives you so many rewards for doing so.
  
  Also, for those who didnt enjoy the Co-op on Vegas 1 on Split-Screen, Vegas 2 acts just like the 
 single player as player 1 can command his 2 AI friends, while player 2 follows along.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Fade
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  So lets get started, first things first. Rainbow Six: Vegas 2 is a sequel to Rainbow Six: Vegas. 
 It is not something anyone should expect to be revolutionary or best game ever created. How ever 
 it does not fail to deliver as a sequel. To those who played the first one and played the single 
 player campaign know that the single player campaign ended with a big fat "To Be Continued". In 
 RS: V2 we finally get to now what happened after that. 
  
  In Rainbow Six: Vegas 2 the main character Logan Keller has been replaced with a new character 
 named Bishop. Which is a character you create as you please. Customize armor, clothes and such. 
 You can use the Live camera and make a character with your own face or you can choose from a set 
 of faces already added to the game. Now this is something you could do in the multi player for 
 the first one. But in this sequel you now can do it in the single player campaign as well. This 
 character you create you will use through the entire game if it is in multi player or single player. 
 RS: V2 also have a new ranking system named A. C. E. S where you rank up in three different categories 
 depending on your way of playing. Either it is marksmanship, CQB or Assault. You can also rank 
 you regular rank in both online matches and during single player thus making it far easier to gain 
 ranks in the beginning. 
  
  The single player campaign is rather entertaining in this sequel and if your a fan of the first 
 you most likely will be pleased with the ending. To me this campaign had better maps than the first 
 one. Although some will complain that there was less variety in this campaign. With the maps being 
 more everyday such as offices etc. A thing I would like to see more of however would be a little 
 more use of NPC's. Would be rather entertaining to really get the feel of storming into an escalating 
 battle between police forces and terrorists on the streets as rappel down from your helicopter 
 to rescue the day. But then again I can't complain on that. Just a little something I would like 
 to see in future Rainbow Six games. Overall the single player campaign is satisfying. The length 
 of it is a little short. On casual difficulty you can probably play through the campaign in 5-6 
 hours. On normal I think I used about 8-10 hours on my first play through but that is not counting 
 pauses and such. Playing on realistic depending on how good you are I don't really know how fast 
 you could play through but I'm guessing 12-14 hours.
  
  The A. I in Rainbow Six: Vegas 2 is actually pretty good. Your enemy will but up a good fight before 
 going down. Tactics is key, such as flanking which I used during the campaign ALOT. But sometimes 
 they looks like they just freeze, they won't always notice you. Something I experience in certain 
 areas playing terrorist hunt. But your team on the other hand just plain suck at times. They will 
 get in your way, get themselves killed, running into YOUR grenades and such.
  
  The sound in the game will its rather good. Guns sound are fantastic, just makes you wanna storm 
 guns blazing. Well that would get you killed pretty fast with this being a tactical shooter and 
 all but its still awesome. Yeah and sometimes before you breach a door, terrorist will stand on 
 the other side usually having a rather entertaining chat. Sorta makes you feel sorry for shooting 
 them in the head after words doesn't it? well not really. But thats a nice touch in the game. 
 
  
  Graphics in the game are rather good. They're not crappier than the first game although some people 
 will claim exactly that. However this does not mean they are perfect in any way. Grenade explosions 
 is still pretty mediocre. However nice effects have been added when breaching doors. Weapons and 
 character models look amazing. Another thing that has been improved from the first game is the 
 city overlook helicopter trips. There is more details to the city than the first game. And its 
 not all orangey. The night looks like the night not like an orange fog. The graphics have most 
 defiantly improved from the first game. But the frame rate will drop at times. Which is live able 
 but rather annoying. Also when starting up a map all the textures will take about 10 seconds to 
 load. Making the first 10 seconds an other irritation moment like the frame rate drops.
  
  Gameplay wise the game plays as the original with little improvement. Not a bad thing however. 
 As they say "If it ain't broke don't fix it". Which would be very much true in this case. The only 
 really noticeable thing added in gameplay would be the sprint button, availability to call in satellite 
 scan, new weapons, A. C. E. S system and availability to rank and customize character in the single 
 player. 
  
  My personal experience of the game is that Rainbow Six: Vegas 2 qualifies as a proper sequel. Its 
 fun, entertaining and gives the game a proper ending to the Vegas series. However its rather similar 
 to the first game. Players who expect it to be a revolutionary game in the series should realize 
 its not. Its just a sequel and it tries to be nothing more or nothing less. I would give it an 
 8,7 out 10 but since I don't have the option to do this with the Gamespot rating system it gets 
 an 8,5 from me.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: random58
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 2:23 am PT
Review:  if you liked the first one then you will like this because its exactly the same but a different 
 storyline more guns and different characters. the storyline is ok as its quite fun to play and 
 some of the locations are really good levels but its fragmented and doesn't really tell you whats 
 going on and its hard to follow. the graphics are slightly better but the developers have used 
 the same engine so they could make the gameplay better, which isn't really that much better. the 
 addition of A. C. E. S and ranking in all modes is a nice addition. but the ranking and unlocking 
 through A. C. E. S isn't particulary great weapons you unlock last aren't as good as previous one 
 and camo and gear you can wear is quite limited. as with the previous online it took forever to 
 get into games that were just what you wanted, needless to say its is flawed. i hope we start seeing 
 more of COD4 type online style play as its easy and you dont have to worry about setting up and 
 waiting excessive amounts of time. the addition of customising your character is nice but limited 
 too and i cant check the vision cam cause i dont have one, but the previous games one was not too 
 great. but get this game anyway because you get to shoot lots of terrorist and its fun and stuff 
 (so forget the flaws) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xRmRxfreakBOMB
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas: 2 is an exelent game. It keeps the thrills and multiplayer that was in the first 
 Rainbow Six Vegas and still does it very well. But there is one major flaw in it. First I'll start 
 out with the good. The story is WAY better than the first game, the exp sytem is well improved, 
 multiplayer is back and better than ever thanks to the really good maps, and the graphics look 
 nice too. Now for the one bad thing. THIS IS THE SAME GAME AS THE FIRST ONE! Same controls, same 
 gameplay, generaly the same everything. Not to say that any of that is bad. Its really good, just 
 a bit of change would be nice. But if you have never played the first Rainbow Six Vegas, than none 
 of that matters. So the bottom line is that even though that there are no changes to the gameplay 
 at all, you should still pick up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irishfan1994
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  while rainbow six leads the market in tactical shooters, it dosen't run it in sequels. The changes 
 from RSV1 to RSV2, is new a new story, new weapons, new camo, new armor, some new maps, and "A. C. E. S". 
 The camo , armor, and maps could have been added as DLC for RSV1. However the weapons, story, and 
 "A. C. E. S" could not (mainly because of graphics) . The "A. C. E. S" are a very, very, very, short "clone" 
 of CoD4 challenges, they are the way you obtain new weapons. Most of these challenges can be completed 
 by playing t-hunt or story, basically by killing with explosives, headshots, or just killing someone 
 at close range. The weapons are some of the old and a little of the new, they just looked more 
 "polished". The story is mostly boring, it dosen't provide the emotion that most Clancy games present. 
 The online is pretty much the same, very easy to spawn pick in. In all if you like RSV1 you will 
 enjoy this. I would say its a must rent, or a risky buy.
  
  -Irishfan1994 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drgr33nthumb818
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  The single player is good, but with a friend on co-op it's excellent. But there is so much more 
 in this disk than just a story. In fact the terrorist hunt is an incredible mode (especially if 
 you invite 3 of your friends on realistic difficulty) . This is the only game that all the maps 
 are beyond enjoyable. Everyone nows that excellent maps equals excellent online multi player. The 
 online modes are all (except team leader, i just don't that mode) amazing. See with all the good 
 things I've said I've probably made this game sound incredible, but the thing is the game feels 
 the same as it's predecessor, they just made everything a bit better. If you haven't played the 
 first then this game will be just amazing in every way (especially the online it's, better then 
 Halo or COD4) . If you did love the last game then do your self a favor and pick this terrific game 
 up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_man782
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow six Vegas 2 i a really good game. i don't understand why some people despise it. the online 
 is great, addictive, challenging and sometimes a little crazy. and the single player campaign is 
 immersive. O. K the AI can kinda suck they sometimes make silly decisions like to climb up stairs 
 while you wait for them at the top, but those are minor. another ting you might not like is when 
 you lean against walls you go into 3rd person mode which some might think is unrealistic. The online 
 is possibly the best feature. i play all night and all morning. i like that you can customize your 
 character. and get xp bye play9ing single player too. cause sometimes you just want to play bye 
 your self. I also love the terrorist hunt. you play one before you leave for school.
  
  I would recommend this game to any one who has been a longtime Rainbow six fan of a new comer. 
 it can be a lot of fun, just be prepared to give up a lot of time, because you'll be addicted.
 
  
  P. S my Gamer Tag is OutboundOrange if you have more questions. or just want to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b-radreg07
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  I figured that the 2nd installment of Vegas was going to be much like the first (which ain't a 
 bad thing) and I wasn't far off. It has the same type of squad action that the first game had.
 
  
  There are a few additions like the A. C. E. S (I think) that allow you to get points for each type 
 of kill you get. There are 3 categories and each time you hit a reward level, you either unlock 
 a weapon or gain experience which also lets you level up. This adds a nice touch to the game as 
 it makes it more than just a beat the game and your done type thing.
  
  The annoying bugs that were present in the first game are still present. Your AI squad is a bunch 
 of morons. A bad guy will open a door and instead of shooting him, they stand there like idiots 
 while the enemy mowes you down. The biggest annoyance by far (for me) is the high pitched squealing 
 sound that flashbangs make. Why is this necessary? To blow my speakers? When you get into a firefight 
 and there are lots going off, it's the only thing you will hear. Annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steven_Beynon
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Pros
  
  + Sticks close to familiar, yet great action formula
  + Well constructed multiplayer 
  + Customizable Protagonist, that carries through campaign and 
 mutliplayer
  + Sprint is finally added, and speeds up the action
  + Fixes most complaints about the mutliplayer 
  
  Cons
  
  - Environments are static and 
 lifeless
  - Audio is sometimes muffled or broken
  - Takes no risk, and adds little to the franchise
  - While AI partners are competent, they could 
 be better. 
  - Only two player co-op
  
  With a struggling campaign and scarce upgrades, Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas 2 feels more like 
 an expansion pack than a full-fledged sequel. Vegas 2 takes the familiar formula of the previous 
 game, and implements minor corrections, installs some news maps, and delivers Vegas fans a sequel 
 that will leave them unsatisfied, and possibly calling this "Vegas 1.5". Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is 
 a totally rad shooter, but bares the old saying, "what happens in Vegas, says in Vegas... and continues 
 in the sequel".
  
  The gameplay centers around the typical first person tactical action format. You'll roll around 
 with your three-man posse, moving from check point, to check point, through the game's six hour 
 campaign. 
  You'll have the option to tell your AI partners to bust open doors, blow up doors, or just open 
 the damn door and flash bang the room. You'll mostly utilize the AI's ability to open doors in 
 various ways to safe enter rooms, because thats what your limited to in terms of AI control beyond 
 telling them to hold, or regroup. The game doesn't rely to heavily on tactics, but that doesn't 
 mean you should completely ignore the tactical possibilities your given. If you keep your head 
 down and use cover wisely, you should be primarily ok. This lack of a tactical focus may disappoint 
 Rainbow veterans, but with the success of the Vegas series, this seems to be the --direction the 
 franchise will continue to pursue.
  
  The singleplayer campaign is where the game doesn't hit its high point. The campaign should take 
 about six to eight hours, depending on your difficulty setting, but this is still a very unsatisfying 
 experience. Vegas 2 does allow the option for two-player co-op which livens things up. Weird enough, 
 is two AI squad mates remain in the co-op game only controlled by the game's host. The secondary 
 player has no real connection to the world, and feels more like an extra gun, which makes the game 
 unquestionably easier. Unlike the singleplayer which forces you to try again from a check point 
 once you die, co-op offers respawns. When one of the players dies, they come back in ten seconds, 
 for as long as the opposite player doesn't die. Also if you haven't herd you can sprint now, which 
 may sound a little more than foreign to Clancy fans, but the sped up action is a welcomed addition. 
 
  
  Regardless on how much you pay attention, the plot of Vegas 2 is tough to follow. The plot centers 
 a four-man squad in their fight against terror. That part is simple to comprehend, but the narrative 
 is hard to pick up on beyond that. I was dumbfounded by the game's conclusion, which was some dude 
 I didn't recognize giving me some speech about him becoming evil and blaming the protagonist. This 
 is both the fault of the game's shoddy writing, and narration. However, its not uncommon for an 
 action game to fall apart at its climax. But even beyond the goofy ending, the whole story is just 
 slapped together to connect the levels together. 
  
  The most imposing quality of Rainbow Six Vegas 2, is the static and lifeless environments. The 
 physics are basic, and very little of the environments are destructible. The graphics in the game 
 show their age, and the lights of Vegas struggle to keep your attention. 
  
  With a shoddy campaign, and a less-than impressive story, its good the gunplay is superb. Cover 
 mechanics are a breeze, and very useful in firefights. While you are limited with your squad, it 
 is satisfying to see them working with you without many AI issues. With a fat Call of Duty 4-like 
 experience bar at the bottom of the screen, you'll rise through the ranks and unlock weapons, camo, 
 ect. 
  Unlike Call of Duty, this system is less featured, however its good side is that it carries through 
 the campaign, terrorist hunts, and multiplayer. So you'll be earning XP no matter what your doing 
 in Vegas 2. The guns sound believable, but at times I encountered that they sound more muffled 
 than they should. Sometimes the audio doesn't act at all, but the game's audio hiccups are hard 
 to notice, and shouldn't interrupt your gameplay. 
  
  I found myself really enjoying Rainbow Six Vegas 2, the only thing holding it back for me was its 
 close relations to its predecessor. Obviously no one should buy this for its campaign, though it 
 does offer some entertainment. Vegas 2 is built for multiplayer, and thats where it shines. If 
 you can get over the similarities to the originally, their's plenty of fun to be had with Vegas 
 2, however if you are a veteran of the first game, the value of this iteration may ware quickly. 
 
  
  Steven_Beynon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXHackettXx
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  Vegas 2 is a sequel to one of 2005's biggest games, and in many ways this game doesn't disappoint. 
 With improved multiplayer, a good experience system, and with even more polished controls. Well 
 still keeping all the things that made Vegas 1 so great. This is by a far superior game then the 
 last Vegas, but in many ways they played it too safe and it feels too much like the last Vegas. 
 Now this isn't a bad thing, but it kept Vegas 2 from going to that next level. 
  
  This time you're going through the more gridy part of Vegas, and tying up the loose ends from the 
 first game well finishing the job. The single player is fun, but not as flashy as the first game, 
 that makes you wonder why they took you away from all the flashy lights and slot machines, too 
 through you into some dark grey alley. There are a few frame rate issues in single player but for 
 the most part it's pretty good. You'll have the most fun bringing a friend along with you in coop, 
 who will follow you through the story and add an extra man to your squad. Although the game no 
 longer features four player coop, it does have mission briefings and cut scenes for the two player 
 coop, which is a welcomed addition. But four player terrorist hunt is back and more intense than 
 ever, were you'll be attacked from all sides. The AI is in need of some work though, but they always 
 get the job done. 
  
  One of the only risks Ubisoft took was adding a sprint button, which is a welcomed addition to 
 the Rainbow Six series. It speeds up the gameplay, and lets you sprint from cover to cover so you're 
 always protected. The greatest addition to the game has to be the experience system and the A. C. E. S. 
 This keeps you playing and getting experience in all the modes and for different kind of kills, 
 this keeps you from feeling like you're wasting your time. This is something that needs to be added 
 to all shooters, and leads me to the best part of Vegas 2, its multiplayer. 
  
  The multiplayer is amazing and the number one reason to buy this game. The maps are well balanced, 
 and the game modes are fun. The ranking system works well and you never feel like an Elite has 
 any unfair weapon advantage over a new player. The only complaint I found about multiplayer is 
 there's no melee. When you come face to face with someone, the shooting can be pretty occward, 
 and it's too bad you can't hit them with a gun, or use a knife. Overall this is a great game and 
 the best tactical shooter i`ve ever played, its just not the leap fans in the series were hoping 
 for. If you enjoyed COD4 or the last Vegas you have to pick this game up. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronannie68
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is not very much different from the original Vegas release. The 2 main differences 
 are the xp points and rank advancement feature, as well as the pretty interesting outfitting and 
 character customization features. The AI still acts very similar to the Vegas original, but they 
 are somewhat craftier this time around. I thought it was funny how Ubisoft has recycled some of 
 the maps from the Raven Shield PC version.
  The Import/Export level, the Oil Refinery are just improved and redesigned versions of the same 
 maps from RS 3 Raven Shield. In my opinion it kinda cheapens the value of the game. Why not just 
 make all new maps? Aside from that aspect, the game is still a great thrill ride. Your team is 
 the same from the original Vegas, Jung and Michael. To me they have better AI this time. My only 
 wish is that Ubisoft would have incorporated the variety of team members from the early Rainbow 
 Six games. This would give you a choice of who you would want on your team, rather than Jung and 
 Michael the whole game. At times the game does get a little sluggish on the frame-rates, but is 
 not a huge deal. 
  
  The xp points and rank advancement are a great addition to this new release. As you gather points 
 from kills, headshots and assault tactics you get closer to being promoted to the next rank. Along 
 with this feature you have the skill points feature. I really like this add-on because it really 
 gives you a sense of what your best combat skills are and which ones you're not as good at. For 
 me, Marksmanship is my best skill. 
  
  Lastly, its pretty fun picking and choosing your characters looks, combat gear (helmet, shirts, 
 pants, eyewear.. etc.) As you progress in rank you unlock more outfitting items, camoflage variations, 
 body armor upgrades, as well as head gear and helmet upgrades. Overall, Vegas 2 is just as much 
 fun as the original, and I would recommend it to anyone considering it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crypt_mx
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  So at a first look this is just Vegas 1 with a couple extra guns and a new leveling up feature 
 called ACES.
  
  But if you look deeper, here you will find a solid first person tactical shooter, with great sound 
 effects, great customization, and battles that will keep you on the edge of your seat.
  
  Story: The story is basic. You are fighting terrorists who are using toxic bombs to kill innocents 
 for what they believe in. But in this game you wont be here much for the story. Instead youll be 
 here for co-ordinated fire fights, and insane co-op. The story is good at best, and really isnt 
 anything too EPIC. But it is satisfying for however long it lasts. Which by the way isnt that long. 
 
  
  7/10
  
  Gameplay-This gameplay is some of the best i have seen in a long time. with smooth controls, and 
 being able to peek in and out of cover effectivly, the game is fantastic. The character customization 
 not only lets you create a unique character, but what you wear effects how you play. If your slow 
 and armored or quick and weak, youll be playing differently then everyone else. There is a mass 
 variety of guns and upgrades to use, so playing around with weapon customization never gets old. The 
 biggest feature to me is ACES. ACES allows you to level up in Assault, Close Quarters Combat, or 
 Marksmanship. As you level these up, you get experience towards your next rank, and new guns that 
 fit in to each category. Another sweet addition is being able to play co-op, and the co-op partner 
 levels up, and is able to customize his character just like you do. This gives you and a friend 
 a reason to play. The gameplay is solid with realistic shooting that will keep you coming back. 
 Although frame rate problems can get in the way when there is too many people and too many granades.
 
  
  10/10
  
  Sound-The sound is high quality, with all of the casino music, and the loud ear popping gunshots 
 to go along with it. Although at times characters lines will sound corny and un-inspired, the story 
 conversations are great and the sound quality really shines on 5.1 surround sound.
  
  9.5/10
  
  Graphics- The graphics are a smoothed and shined Vegas 1. They are good enough to 
 play smoothly, and look good. They are not up to todays top games but they are good and get the 
 job done well enough. Guns look nice, and glass breaks nicely too. Physics on dead bodies and random 
 boxes also look quite nice in the heat of battle.
  
  7/10
  
  Multiplayer-
  This is purely fantastic, and it really seems like this game was made just for online. The action 
 is fun, and keeps you guessing whats around corners. With many maps and gametypes this could keep 
 you entertained for a very long time. With counter strikes attack and defend, or protecting your 
 V. I. P on Team Leader, the online is really where the best of the game is. 
  10/10
  
  Pro's-Great Sound, Fantastic multiplayer, Great gameplay, amazing customization.
  
  Con's-Some 
 frame rate issues bring down performance, Graphics arn't quite at todays standards.
  
  Out of 3 !
  
  Buy-!!!
  
  Rent-!!
  
  skip this one-
  
  This game is fantastic and 
 will satisfy any needs for a tactical shooter. If you value gameplay more then graphics , and prefer 
 tactics over run 'n' gun..... GO OUT AND BUY THIS GAME.................... NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t3hp00nr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  I received this game as a gift for Easter. I put it in my Xbox, thinking it would be an amazing 
 new experience that I would be highly addicted to. To my surprise, it was only just some new features 
 and maps that could've been easily added on to the first Vegas with a few downloads from the Xbox 
 Live system. The reason I'm giving it a 7.5 is because Vegas 1 was a very good game, and Vegas 
 2 is mostly good things, but doesn't quite deliver the satisfaction that I was expecting from the 
 developers at Ubisoft, especially with a Tom Clancy game, which have been traditionally great.
 
  Pros:
  -Nice new weapons
  -Ranking up in story mode
  -New features such as sprinting (makes running from grenades and death a lot easier)
  Cons:
 
  -No graphical upgrade, some visual glitches
  -They didn't fix the sidearm/SMG origins, they still look mediocre
  -Not a sequel as much as 
 an add-on pack.
  Overall:
  Good game, story is kind of repetitive. But, if you liked Vegas 1, you might like it enough to 
 buy. However, just to be safe, as always, rent it before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -JKO-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  personally, i'm a lover of great sports games, NBA street, fifa, NHL, any and all EA sports related 
 games, and maybe a few beat em ups..
  
  this is the first tactical shooter i ever played, and i regret not getting into early rather that 
 later.. the game is great, the AI is amazing, the game gets progressively more difficult, which 
 really forces you to get better and overall the soudntrack really gets you into it. 
  
  i stay up for hours on end yelling and screaming... HEAD SHOT!!!!! lol.
  
  get this game.. 
 it's worth it... the main problem.. that i cannot find an answer for , anywhere..
  
  is the online play, i can't even get online.. and to add to it.. when i start the game, it disconnects 
 my entire wireless network at home.. if you dont mind you wireless internet going down for a couple 
 minutes this game will keep you entertained.
  
  a bonus in the game which is something im sure was there even before i played it, was the "terrorists 
 hunt" where you can play multiple stages, and clear out terrorists. sounds easy... i have yet to 
 complete any level 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360nly
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 29, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  I really expected more. Not more of the same. It was almost like an expansion (some extra maps, 
 delete some games, add some game, take away 4 player coop campaign, add limited spawn points for 
 instant deaths from a spawnkilling fragfest, add an XP system that you can carry from SP to MP) . 
 I bought it to play with some friends on my friend list, but they, the die hard RS guys, said "wow, 
 I expected more". I guess it's okay if you want to slow your pace down a bit. I will say Terrorist 
 Hunt is a little better because at Realistic difficulty and high density, it's slighter more interesting 
 (the terrorists come looking for you) . The campaign, even on a difficult level on co-op is still 
 fun, although a little short so far. I started campaign SP, but it got kinda boring having to wait 
 for your teammates (which get stuck against walls and cars alot) , so I started doing coop instead 
 (at least two of us don't get stuck) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huskerman34
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  This is my first time playing rainbow six vegas game. I did play the online demo last year. The 
 shooter genre isnt my favorite but i do like playing online. The game plays smooth . Everything 
 from the weapons to the team command. No Ai isssues and you squad doesnt bonzai themselves to oblivion. 
 it doesnt run at 60 fps llke call of duty 4 but the game holds its own. I like the level sysem 
 it provides and you can carrry that over to online. KInda like a rpg feel to it. I really like 
 these fps that offer these ranking . It offers replay and makes the game more enjoyable. I would 
 reccomend this game to anybody wantin to buy this game. I wish that the next halo come out will 
 have the same type of merit system. Maybe they could redo the dirge of cerbus with the unreal engine 
 and fix the camera angels and add a multiplayer . The future seems bright for first person shoooters 
 like rainbow six vegas 2. I think the next rainbow should be in los angeles , newyork, chicago, 
 or miami that would something to think about ubisoft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JFannn
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Vegas 2, from Ubisoft Montreal, ought to have anyone who played the first 
 game very excited. The original's silky-smooth tactical gameplay returns in the sequel, bolstered 
 by new customization options, online modes, a new story and more user-friendly co-op support. That 
 said, Vegas 2 does sport a couple of rough patches in the technical realm with buggy AI and semi-frequent 
 slowdowns. Overall, however, the return trip to Vegas is every bit as enjoyable as the first go-round 
 and then some.
  
  The first Vegas game closed with a big, fat "To Be Continued" cliffhanger. Those who were disappointed 
 by that should know that closure awaits at the end of Vegas 2. The tutorial mission, set five years 
 before the events of the "Vegas incident," even illuminates some of the backstory and motivations 
 for both games' primary antagonist. Those who haven't played the original won't be lost as they 
 try to follow the story, though a few subtleties might get innocently and uneventfully passed over.
 
  
  One of the biggest changes this time around is to the new team leader, Bishop. While Logan was 
 running through the fanciest casinos on The Strip, Bishop and his team were eliminating an army 
 of terrorists in less touristy locations: warehouses, recreation centers, a library... even a Major 
 League Gaming convention site. The key difference between Logan and Bishop is that Bishop can be 
 whoever you want him... or her... to be. (And to avoid confusion, Bishop will hereafter be referred 
 to as a man)
  
  Bishop is completely customizable, even allowing Xbox 360 users to map their own faces via an Xbox 
 Live Vision camera (which does not look good, just like the first RSV) . Players can outfit him 
 with primary and secondary weapons, sidearms and gadgets, just like the previous game. His appearance 
 can also now be customized for both the single-player and multiplayer portions of the game, with 
 additional articles of clothing and armor being unlocked as Bishop gains experience.
  
  The game looks as good as ever. You can think of this as a good thing, as the first Rainbow Six 
 looked great, and was unprecedented in the graphic field in 2006, or you can look at it as a bad 
 thing, as they've made few graphical changes. You'll hear people say "Zomg tey shuld call it Rainbow 
 Six Vegas 1.5." They don't know what they're talking about. It may look more or less the same as 
 the first, but it's a totally different experience that shouldn't be missed by fans of the first, 
 fans of shooters, or fans of games in general.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 has got a great array of guns, also. It's got your Assault Rifles, Sub-Machine 
 guns, Light Machine Guns, Sniper Rifles and Shotguns. New to the series, you can also get riot 
 shields. You hold a riot shield in one hand, and a pistol in the other. It's even got multiple 
 pistols, from Glocks to Desert Eagles. It's got damn near every Call of Duty 4 gun and some. You 
 can then customize your gun to have a red dot sight, an ACOG scope, a straight laser sight so you 
 can see where you're going to shoot, or you can just get a higher amount of bullets per magazine.
 
  
  Experience is now earned online and off in any of Vegas 2's modes. Each enemy death - whether it's 
 at your hands or an AI teammate's - adds to the XP total. Earned XP counts towards improving Bishop's 
 rank, which is one way to unlock the game's sealed content. Players with a save from the previous 
 game on their hard drive also get an immediate set of unlocks to enjoy. You can gain experience 
 in Single Player, Terrorist Hunt, or Multiplayer. In each you gain a different amount of experience 
 per kill. It's more for the higher difficulties. You also get the same points for each kill that 
 your teammates get.
  
  Vegas 2 also features three different specializations, each of which levels up independently based 
 on your style of play. Advanced Combat Enhancement Specialization - or A. C. E. S. - is defined by 
 Marksman, CQB and Assault classes. The manner in which terrorists are taken out determines how 
 A. C. E. S. points are applied. Short range kills, for example, put some points into CQB. Long-range 
 kills or headshots add to Marksman. Each earned A. C. E. S. level switches back and forth between 
 a general XP bonus and a weapon unlock.
  
  Ubi's Montreal studio worked hard to improve the team AI performance for Vegas 2. While the game 
 is not without its share of AI glitches - enemies and friendlies both have a tendency to occasionally 
 get stuck - the overall improvement is noticeable. New features allow grenade orders to be issued 
 for designated locations and teammates to automatically cover one another as they comply with move-to 
 orders. Your squad-mates are usually great, but sometimes, like rappelling, you have to tell each 
 one of them to go down or up, then when they get to the top or bottom, to climb up or get off, 
 and sometimes you'll forget, and you'll be all alone until you realize they're still hanging there.
 
  
  Enemy AI is also improved, but not to the degree we would have liked. Even on the game's most difficult 
 Realistic setting, the terrorists tend to move in predictable patterns and seize too few flanking 
 opportunities. They are grenade-happy however, especially with those momentum-killing flashbangs. 
 And more distant opponents, such as snipers, are very good at getting the first shot off if they 
 know where you're crouched as you prepare your own head shot. All in all, the AI is great. It doesn't 
 come without flaws, though. They know how to do everything, take cover, throw grenades, and really 
 give you a challenge. But they can't seem to flank, and sometimes they'll just come out in a big 
 heap, and you'll lay them all out.
  
  Vegas 2 now offers full co-op support through the entire story (online and off) rather than the 
 previous game's menu-based playlist setup for co-op engagements. What's more, adding a second human 
 player still allows you to keep your AI teammates in the game; your squad simply expands to four. 
 Only the first player can issue orders, but those two extra bodies come in especially handy when 
 you're preparing to assault a room with three entry points. It's a little disappointing that you 
 can't have 4 player co-op, as it gets pretty difficult at times, but your AI squad-mates get the 
 job done.
  
  Terrorist Hunt, a "kill all the terrorists" mode in which you choose the map, time limits, enemy 
 density and overall difficulty, also supports co-op play. Unlike the campaign, up to four human 
 players can participate in a Hunt. While this offers a good way to improve your stealth tactics, 
 it also diminishes some of the replay value for this mode. You'll also notice that each time, different 
 terrorists are in different places, and they'll all take different routes each time to change things 
 up. You'll never feel like you've seen all the ways a Terrorist Hunt can go down.
  
  Online multiplayer is as good as it ever was. In addition to deathmatch and team deathmatch, Vegas 
 2 offers three additional modes: Attack and Defend, Team Leader and Total Conquest. Attack and 
 Defend is an objective-based scenario which comes in three different varieties; one team either 
 looks for intel, tries to rescue and free hostages or plant a bomb while the other team attempts 
 to stop them. Team Leader designates one player on each team as the Leader. The goal is to either 
 escort your Leader to the extraction point or to wipe out the other team in its entirety. Respawns 
 are unlimited while the Leader still lives, but the flow halts if s/he goes down. Finally, Total 
 Conquest requires either team to capture three different strategic points - satellite transmitters 
 in the game - and hold them for 30 seconds. The catch is that all three must be held simultaneously 
 for that period of time.
  
  For any minor flaws, Rainbow Six: Vegas 2 stands as a considerable improvement over its already 
 fantastic predecessor. The addition of customization options to the single player game - and allowing 
 that progress to transfer over to all of the other gameplay modes - is by far the best change. 
 The beefed up AI is as impressive as we'd hoped, and the refined co-op play offers a great range 
 of options. At base, both Vegas games are first-rate efforts. The sequel does exactly what it's 
 supposed to, delivering the same entertaining gameplay while correcting the majority of the wrongs 
 of its predecessor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -047-
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 28, 2008 11:34 pm PT
Review:  I spent countless hours playing the original Vegas a couple of years ago, so my expectations for 
 the sequel were high. I'm not disappointed.
  
  The gameplay is, as usual, very good. The tried and tested "go here, clear room, move on" aspect 
 of the game has been shaken up a little by the new sprint feature, which speeds up the game a lot, 
 and some more open areas. The new areas force you to think differently about how you engage your 
 enemies, and the sprint feature ensures you don't get stuck in the middle of a big room in the 
 middle of a firefight. The addition of a few new weapons is welcome, but unfortunately they do 
 little to add to the gameplay.
  
  The glitches and bugs are really what made me rate this down, as they pop up frequently and are 
 very, very annoying. The enemy AI seems to be telepathic, and has X-Ray vision. You cannot flank 
 an enemy in a firefight as the seem to magically know where you are at all times. If you open a 
 door with an enemy behind it, 9 times out of 10 the guy kills you before the door stops moving. 
 When you have stealthily approached the door, and taken time to set up and entry, this is really 
 frustrating. The ranking system now extends to single player, and a handy XP glitch early on prevents 
 the level ups from being to tedious.
  
  The new A. C. E. S system adds another level of thought to your gameplay, making you work for your 
 guns. This is a good feature, however you cannot unlock weapons simply by picking them up which 
 again, adds to the frustration of the game.
  
  The sound design, something crucial in a tactical shooter, is not very good. Mostly you have to 
 be looking at an enemy for his sounds to register, which means enemies often sneak up behind you 
 and kill you without you ever knowing. The enemy chatter is much the same as the first game, with 
 the enemies talking about random stuff before they see you and yelling taunts at you when the shooting 
 starts.
  
  The addition of a shield enemy type is somewhat annoying, as they are completely impervious to 
 bullets that hit the shield, even when they are fired through the glass in the middle. By making 
 the glass a weak point, the frustration of getting wiped out by a pistol wielding shield guy would 
 have been made much less obvious.
  
  The graphics are pretty much the same as they were from Vegas 1, with of course new weapon textures 
 etc thrown in.
  
  Overall, the game is on the level with Rainbow Six Vegas, but due to it not adding many new features 
 and suffering from some nasty glitches, it simply doesn't have the same replayability that Vegas 
 1 did, and thus I'd reccommend renting it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: houdeany
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Now i see myself as an experienced gamer, and after playing the first rainbow six vegas, i was 
 hooked.. It had great graphics, great gameplay and the multiplayer.. well that is in its own category. 
 
  
  RainbowSix Vegas 2 came out and i put the disk in and started the game and was immediately impressed 
 on the gameplay, being the new and in my opinion improved rank and leveling system in place. The 
 graphics had been adjusted slightly but look better in my opinion. 
  The player models, weapons, clothing and armor have been made to look a lot better than the predecessor, 
 and are more defined on an HDTV.
  Tactics is what this game is about which makes it a stand alone in its field type of game.
  
 
  The single player campaigns are good in this version simply because of the co-op whenever, whereever 
 kind of nature incorporated into it, where one of your mates can just jump onto your story mode 
 game and help you out. The best thing is the AI in this.. Yes, they are actually rather clever, 
 and will flank and actually nail you with headshots if you try to be a hero and fight head on and 
 rush them.. In this it is not as successful. You may get lucky, but this time around the AI are 
 good shooters, and snipers won't exactly miss you everytime, they can headshot you from a rooftop 
 while you are sprinting for cover, but not all the time of course.. (This is in Realistic Difficulty) .
 
  Story campaign is good, rather intense fire-fights at times, but fun.
  The thing is would you want to play through the story more than once?
  
  Thats why multiplayer 
 is the saving grace..
  Now the multiplayer experience is the part that hooks the player. And this time around it is good, 
 bar from the respawn restrictions in some of the game modes which make the games a lot shorter.
 
  The thing that confuses me is WHy on EArTh did the developers have to change the name of the old 
 SHARPSHOOTER?? the now renamed DEATHMATCH and TEAM DEATHMATCH... I'm not sure if they are trying 
 to imitate COD4 or what but they should've left the original names on vegas2.
  Some of the old game modes are gone but have been replaced by Team Leader and Total Conquest which 
 are good gamemodes respectively.
  Multiplayer is the best part of this game and is still a hell of a lot of fun i reccommend to people 
 who played the first to definitely buy this one.. It is good. 
  In my opinion it is better than COD4.
  
  And to close,
  i know alot of people are bashing 
 this title for not giving more.
  BUT, there is only so much you can do with sequels, if you change too much you may as well just 
 make a whole new game, the stories had to link for the story campaigns. 
  This was made to be a sequel and in my opinion again it is one of the best sequels i have played.
 
  
  Happy Shooting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abczby
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying this game does not deserve any of the hype it had. It was rushed and 
 is probably one of the worst games I have ever played. When I first put Rainbow Six Vegas 2 in 
 my Xbox 360, I expected something great but not something that would make me go "Wow." When I first 
 put started customizing my character, I thought it was pretty neat so far. I made my character, 
 and at the main menu it shows him standing in a very detailed room. I thought the graphics looked 
 great. But that wasn't the case when I started playing the game. Right when I started playing the 
 game, I noticed the load times. It took 30 seconds to load the first mission, and then another 
 30 seconds for the textures to load. Even after the textures were fully loaded, I noticed when 
 I went into cover that the graphics on my character where no better than Halo 2's graphics for 
 the original Xbox. As I started playing through, I also noticed that you would walk into a room, 
 and right in the middle of the room, the AI would spawn. They literally just had spawns in the 
 center of the room, and when you walked in, they would just appear and instantly start shooting 
 at you. Not only that, but at times I would find the AI running straight into a wall or a door, 
 not turning around or doing anything even after I killed the rest of the enemies in the room. So, 
 after being extremely disappointed with the 3 and a half hour long single player, I had high hopes 
 for the multi-player. I went online and started playing and noticed how rigid the characters movements 
 were in third person. Then, after playing a few games, any games with 10 or more players in it 
 always lagged horribly, making it impossible to snipe and have any type of fighting at long range. 
 I also noticed the lack of game-types. There are only 5 different game-types to choose from, and 
 they are all very similar. In Team Conquest, it is the same thing as Team Deathmatch, expect you 
 have to capture satellites. Team Leader is also identical to Team Deathmatch except your team stops 
 receiving respawns once the leader dies, or if you get killed by the leader. Deathmatch is the 
 same as Team Deathmatch expect for there are no teams. Attack and Defend is the worst game-type 
 of them all. On multiple maps in the game, the attacks would spawn on the same side as the bomb 
 and the place where you plant the bomb, making it impossible for the defends to even defend the 
 spot, considering you couldn't get there in time to stop them. The A. C. E. S. system is a terrible. 
 Since the XP carries over from campaign to online, there are certain points int he campaign were 
 you can just sit in one place, and continuously shoot the enemies that spawn in the center of the 
 room, making you level up and unlock everything unfairly. Not to mention that as you level up, 
 you unlock worse and worse guns, which to me makes absolutely no sense. Another problem I had when 
 playing online is I noticed that each team only has ONE spawn point where everyone on their team 
 spawns, and to make it even better, the enemies can sit in the back of your spawns right behind 
 you. Yep, that means that you can spawn, and them die instantly. No, wait! They made you have EXTRA 
 ARMOR for 5 seconds when you spawn! But I really don't think that matters when you have the barrel 
 of a SPAS 12 shotgun in your back now does it? Back on the subject of graphics, in this game, textures 
 all around, not only on the characters are terrible. The level design is also horrible. This game 
 was rushed and the developers did not even try to make a good game. At times the graphics of Rainbow 
 Six Vegas (1) are better than the graphics in this game. Save yourself $60, and don't buy this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gonuts2410
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is a good tactical shooter which breaks up the line of run and gun shooters of the market 
 at this time. The new ranking system is a nice addittion which will make you want to continue playing 
 it for hours on end. The choices of weapon customisation and charachter customisation is feature 
 which will surely appeal to anyone who likes a unique game expericence. The combat system is pretty 
 much the same to Vegas1 which hinders it if you were expecting a big change. The multiplayer is 
 very good in both versus, terrorist hunts and co-op story mode. 
  
  The difficulty is perfect as it challenges you with out asking too much from you. There will be 
 some points when a lapse in concentration will lead to a rather frustrating death. 
  
  All in all this game is a must buy for all shooter fans. Unfortunatly its pretty much the same 
 as the last RB6V so if you where disapointed in the last game dont expect anything different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onething77
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 28, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2, I must admit, was a "huge" deception. Just as the franchise was starting to 
 get better, it had to come down to this. With an inaccurate difficulty level and a stupid A. I, 
 RBSV2 doesn't quite live up to it's predessecor and delivers a much rather dissapointing experience. 
 But enough with the negativity. Rainbow Six Vegas 2 still is a game that possesses a certain amount 
 of charm, and it can nevertheless be entertaining. It certainly is worth renting, but I wouldn't 
 spend 60 of my very precious dollars just to own the game. It comes down to rent it and beat it. 
 That's how you want to play Rainbow Six Vegas 2. To summarize , RBSV2 has no guts and is more of 
 a barely modified version of the first Rainbow Six Vegas. I honestly hope that you will enjoy this 
 game, but I didn't. It haunts me, because this game could and should have been so much better. 
 It still deserves a solid 7 out of 10. And that Is my final word ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donezy
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 28, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  I was and still am a huge fan of Rainbow Six Vegas, But after all of the wait, hype, and anticipation, Rainbow 
 Six Vegas 2 Has to be the biggest letdown since the NFL signed with EA Sports, it is horrid. Its 
 Clear that Ubisoft had no intention of tryin to make this game better or at least as good as CAll 
 Of Duty 4. The Multiplayer Maps on Rainbow Six Vegas 2 are the worst by far, they took out everybodys 
 fav Casino Vault and Calypso Casino, The Game is still slow, the framerate isnt that great, The amount 
 of gameplay modes arent near as fun as Call of Duty 4, it seems like cod 4 has millions of modes 
 compared to Rsv2 5. There are no perks to add to you character, dont get me wrong the create a character 
 is sweet, but they did nothing to improve it from last year. There are more guns, but most of them 
 seem to have the same or similar ratings, the only difference is the name and the model of the gun. The 
 Respawns in the game are once again the camping zone's, where a team can lock you in your spawn 
 till you throw a fit and jump out of a window, and the single player is short and just as bad. I 
 cant wait for GTA 4 and Call Of Duty 5 long enuff or else ima sell my rainbow on ebay and hopefully 
 some moron will spend a lot of money on it bcuz he thinks the game is gods gift to the earth, I 
 much rather play the old rainbow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HaloHitman-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's: Rainbow Six Vegas 2, isn't as good as the first one but is close to matching it. 
 Gameplay is just as good as the first one, except in this game you have a new sprint ability that 
 makes moving around alot faster than the first. The graphics are really good on single campaign, 
 but when you play it in co-op splitscreen, they get a little fuzzy.
  The game brings a bright display of sound, and the value of the game, there are fifteen or so new 
 weapons the game brings, also the game lets you rank up as you play, that is determined by A. C. E.'s, 
 that rank you up as you play.
  The story of the game is not as you want it to be, its decent yet its not a type of vegas theme, 
 you are not always in vegas, you are either in a different location or in vegas. All in all its 
 a good game, go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oneonta3777
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  What a game! Loved it. Great game play, and tons of stuff to do. I never played the 1st game in 
 the series, so I can' t say weather or not this is an improvement. But if you just want to play 
 a great shooter, this is it. Tons of weapons , from sub-machine guns to high powered sniper rifles, 
 they never leave you wanting for a better gun.
  The explosives are well designed, too. Instead of a boring old frag grenades, reach for a white 
 phosphorus, and light up your enemy. Or toss some C4, and detonate it to eliminate 3 or 4 opponents 
 at a time.
  Your teamates are good at what they do, for the most part, and at somepoint, you'll end up owing 
 your life to them. They can throw grenades, but they never land where you intend. This may mean 
 a flash-bang landing at you're feet and blinding you. 
  Highly recommended to anybody who likes to kill enemies in many different and creative ways. A++++ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D_IMMORTAL
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 28, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  Look, I thought the original Rainbow on the first XBOX was the best game on that platform. Even 
 over HALO cuz you could play it online and you couldnt the original HALO. But after Black Arrow, 
 they have (UbiSoft) have released three horrible unfinished glitches in a row. I can't even believe 
 GameSpot rated it an 8.5 Worst game I have played since Rainbow Vegas 1. What is really going on 
 at UbiSoft? This franchise has the POTENTIAL to set the bar for all shooters yet they appear to 
 be operating on an 8 year old kids budget. The game is unplayable online. I mean spray and pray, 
 no school and the game play is sooooo slow; and I don't mean tactics, the movement of your character 
 is so slow online and glitch and I have a fiber optic connection. If you like this game, then honestly 
 you need to evaluate if you are a true gamer..... I really hope they get it together cuz I met 
 alot of good friends on the original rainbow and we play for hours and hours..... Call of Duty has 
 set the standard; it is time for everyone else to get on board. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Border_Jumper
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 28, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  Shooting through cover, new guns, new maps, new modes, it sounded so amazing at the time. There's 
 no doubt that Rainbow Six Vegas 1 was an amazing game in it's rights. It opened up a new type of 
 gameplay and drew in tons of gamers. But i can't help but notice how much Vegas 2 feels more like 
 an expansion pack than an actual sequel. New guns (that's sweet) , new maps (ya cool) , a new mode 
 or two (ya ok) , and shooting through cover (sounded good at the time) . So much was expected of the 
 game and i hate to say it but the game didn't really live up to all the hype. It's sad to see that 
 though the graphics have improved, it almost feels like an upgraded patch 
  with graphic tweaks to it. The story was..... interesting.... fun and fast if you play with a friend, 
 almost too fast. I'm hapy though that we were able to see what happened to the rouge Rainbow agent. 
 A good game, yes, but it has not had nearly as large an impact as the first game. Entertaining 
 and disappointing at the same time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F4t4lity
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  Some people say that this R6V 1.5 and from the point of view from someone who didn't play the first 
 this feels like 1 and 2 rolled into one. This game is good and i think it received an adequate 
 score from GS seeings it was from the int of view of someone who had played the first to death. 
 The thing i like about it the most was the MP it was excellent with a dozen maps all with different 
 tactical advantages and you really had to take slow and think about what you were doing now i'm 
 not saying that the fire fights are not intense it just that you will want a headset so you can 
 talk to your teammates and discuss the situation. If you don't have access to online you might 
 be felt wanting and this might not be worth the purchase in that situation although there is terrorist 
 hunt to think about. This is a great and unfortunately the last of the series about none the less 
 a game that is definitely worth your hard earned cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 11:51 pm PT
Review:  The Good: The best tactical shooter too date, decent length, excellent multiplayer, lots of cussing, 
 lots of customization options
  
  The Bad: Poor graphics, feels more like an expansion pack than a sequel
  
  For some reason 
 "expansion pack" type "sequels" is what Ubisoft keeps pumping out for it's Tom Clancy games. I 
 recently did a review of GRAW 2 and complained about this exact same issue. Nonetheless R6V2 is 
 a great tactical shooter and there is more good going for it than bad. Everyone's played the first 
 game so I'll leave out what you already know. Some great new features is the new sprint. While 
 I didn't use this much it's great for running down long hallways to get to where you need too. 
 There are some new guns (I don't know what's new but I know there's new guns) and the multiplayer 
 is as awesome as ever. Another new feature is the "Terrorist Hunt" mode in which you pick your 
 level and hunt down all the terrorist either by yourself or cooperatively. The story is pretty 
 good as well. You have to fight the Mexican terrorists from destroying and terrorizing Vegas while 
 also hunting down a traitor among the Rainbows. The graphics are very disappointing. For using 
 the Unreal 3 engine you think the graphics would blow you away but they are very weak. The game 
 isn't much to look at, but you just play for the easy pick up and play tactical greatness. The 
 game has a decent length (coming in at about 8 hours) and has a highly unbalanced difficulty which 
 sucks since you'll try doing the same areas until your fingers bleed. If you liked Vegas 1 you'll 
 love Vegas 2 but this game is only for R6 fans. If you have never played the first game (you can 
 pick it up for $20 or so on eBay) then go ahead and pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skeeter1255
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Well well the highly expected rainbow 6 Vegas 2 is here, and there are some good points yet some 
 points that just make you say why did they put that?
  I will start with the single player.. It leads off the 1st game and ends it with a pretty fun 
 ending. Yet the AI again is not all that smart. And your team AI is really bumped down to stupid 
 this time. They do not know what they are doing. You will tell them "go repel" and they'll just 
 look at you. But over all the single player is modestly ok. On thing that many like is the ability 
 to rank in single player. Yet there are many glitches found in the game that make it unfair, and 
 should be fixed. 
  The multiplayer was the part that I had the highest expectations for! I was a bit depressed. If 
 you were a fan of attack and defend well news for you now threes only 1 respawn so yah" what's 
 the point of the package then?" it might as well be team survival. This may be fixed with a patch. 
 The bullet penetration is top notch only being able to shoot through soft objects. They added now 
 the ability to run which was a good idea yet people now just wear packs of armor since it doesn't 
 make a difference when they run, so it may take to clips to kill a guy but not this takes off the 
 realism of the game. The maps are made pretty well with lots of places to flank. The graphics are 
 not bad either bit no upgrade from the first.
  Overall the game is a must try. I have to say not a must buy but must try and I am very sad to 
 say that
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_webster_87
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Lockdown almost drove me away from Rainbow Six games but the first installment of Vegas brought 
 me back with a smile despite a few flaws. However the sequel to Vegas 1, leaves me a little on 
 the fence for the future of Rainbow Six.
  
  The graphics are the best yet for any Rainbow game but on the 360, that should not be hard to achieve. 
 The guns looks nice, the levels looks fantastic and your characters look very real though the faces 
 to choose from when you create your character are a little bland and generic at times.
  
  The sound is still very good for the most part, with good gun fire and hearing your bullets connect 
 with the environment just makes it that little bit better everytime. However I still feel some 
 of the gun's, sound a little generic at time and could be better though you won't really notice 
 most of the time.
  
  The Gameplay has been improved in certain areas like you have more choice on how to handle your 
 team-mates by having the ability to control where you want them to chuck a grenade. Also the new 
 sprint feature is a big plus for the game and is a very handy tool at times. The shooting system 
 still feels good but the game feels a little unbalanced in this area, with some guns like the MP5N 
 and the majority of pistols feeling underpowered at times. Also at times I've noticed the long 
 distant shots, sometimes seem not to register properly and that area of the game could do with 
 a patch fix. The corner wall feature which makes Vegas really unique has a few problems still as 
 your guy comes out of cover too much to chuck a grenade or leaves his hand in the open.
  
  The AI presents some of the major flaws and thats despite improvements in how both your own team 
 AI and the enemy AI move and act. Your own AI will move from cover to cover better and also take 
 down rooms much better. Also the enemy AI will be a little smarter at trying to flank and kill 
 you but there are some big problems. The enemy aim at times is pretty far fetched as they seem 
 to know your behind them at times and can pull off perfect shots far too often. The AI also seems 
 able to absorb far too many bullets at times and while being hit still retain its good aiming skills. 
 Also the main gun for the enemy, the shotgun is too overpowered and you can be sniped by it at 
 times despite it being only a close combat weapon. The biggest flaw is how the enemy will still 
 spawn in during Terrorist Hunt mode, which takes out all the skill, especially when the AI can 
 spawn in behind you at any time.
  
  There is still good value in the game, despite a short single player, which storywise is lacking 
 more than Vegas 1. The new co-op mode is better but still far from perfect, however you will enjoy 
 tackling the single player mode with a friend much more than playing it on your own. The aces system 
 is much better and lets players have more choice on how to shape there character. Playing online 
 with your friends will keep you busy for many hours and despite the problems with the game, you 
 still will enjoy it for the most part.
  
  Overall Rainbow Six Vegas 2, is a little behind Vegas 1 in certain areas but in others it feels 
 fresher and will still be enjoyed by fans of the Tom Clancy franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btwillett2003
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Okay so this game is pretty much the same as the first one. Now I do like the game and was pleased 
 with what they did with the game but there are only some new additions. One of the major addons 
 was the Sprint button. A much needed addition to the some what slow gameplay. Other then than sprint 
 and a few added guns, still just the same as the first. They just slapped in a new story mode and 
 bam that is it, let's re-release it. The game has numerous bugs with sound. Sometimes i'll see 
 a gun battle yet after everybody is dead or left the area I still heard repeated gunfire for about 
 5-20 seconds afterwards. The menus still take FOREVER TO LOAD!!!!!!! That for me is dreadful. They 
 updated the textures a little bit but no major improvements. I see they used the way outdated Unreal 
 engine. I just don't get it, why only change a few aspects of the game and then shove it out again?? 
 Now I am not here to promote COD4, but I played Vegas 2 and got bored so I popped in COD4. I was 
 just blown away by COD4's graphics and game speed. COD4 is SOO much more fluid and flawless with 
 movement and just game dynamics. I just don't understand why Vegas 2 is not up to par with other 
 games on the market. You would think that a game in 2008 would bring more to the table then just 
 a few added tweaks. Other then that, the game is just as outdated as the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrman43807
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed R6V. It was the first game in the Rainbow Six series that I played, and I believe that 
 it is one of the best tactical shooters I have ever played. R6V2 has exactly the same gameplay 
 as the first. Having said that, one would believe I would enjoy this game just as much. However, 
 R6V2 feels like it should have been just a cheaper downloadable add-on for the first game. It is 
 short, with only 6 main missions, taking about 6 hours to beat. The game itself is not without 
 its share of bugs, which seemed almost non-existent in the first game, making is even more disappointing 
 that the developers didn't take the time to polish the sequel. The online play is fun, but again 
 it is just rehashed gameplay on new maps that should have been a much cheaper download. I recommend 
 either waiting for the price to drop or just rent the game to experience the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirag3
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  the online is a little boring and i didn't really like it. ill most likely keep it but when the 
 call of duty maps come out i am so done with this game. but thats my opinion and if u want to know 
 for sure rent it first. the online game play is a little slow and less intense as other online 
 shooters and the sniping still isn't that good. the single player was good i had fun but when i 
 got to the end i was a little upset on how it just ended. so i guess it was a decent game but the 
 online needs some work. i did like the weapons and the ranking up was a lot better in this game 
 and unlike the last rainbow u get your weapons threw the new A. C. E. S so u get the weapons faster. so 
 this game is a definite rent and if u like it like most of the people that play it you should go 
 out and buy it because it is a lot better than the last rainbow six Vegas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  Lets get this straight. This game is basically Rainbow Six version 2.0, a giant patch, upgrade.... expansion 
 if you will. And at that a wonderful one! There are not many games I like almost 100%, more so 
 online. Halo 3, F. E. A. R, Crackdown and then this.
  
  This isn't a full review, if you want one read my review of Rainbow Six Vegas since thats basically 
 this game. This is more a review of whats new. And then some negatives.
  
  Well for starters the storyline isn't anything amazing. I cared less about the people in the game 
 more so because I cared more about my A. C. E. S. and rank. Not to mention the story is just bland. 
 But it does make good use of getting you to some pretty unique locations! The graphics didn't seem 
 to improve much more then they already did. Which any improvement is great because the graphics 
 are amazing as it is! Anything added is more eye candy! The controls, sound and music are all perfect 
 as always. 
  
  Now for whats new.
  
  -For one what may seem so little means so much. They added a running feature! May sound trivial 
 but when you got guys with guns hunting you down running from spot to spot means everything! 
 
  
  -Another thing they added is new weapons, new gear, practically a bunch of new everything! So much 
 you have to unlock it through a system.
  
  -They added various systems like A. C. E. S. and Xp... etc. Basically you earn XP through various methods 
 like headshots, flashing then killing, nade kills, shooting people on ropes. All sorts of ways. 
 Now you get two types of rewards. The first kind is you general XP reward which seems to be just 
 leveling up in general, this is your rank. You had this in the old game online. The other system 
 (which also adds to your rank/xp) lets you level up and unlock new weapons, gear and camo depending 
 on what you do. 
  
  So if you use nothing but machine guns you'll most likely unlock more machine gun type stuff. Its 
 a little confusing to describe since I didn't design it. 
  
  -Further more on this system is the fact that no matter what you do in game you earn it. You play 
 online and you earn XP and A. C. E. S. stuff. You play offline single player and you earn it. You 
 play terrorist hunt and you earn it. No matter what you earn it! Even if a teammate kills someone 
 you earn it! 
  
  It gets better. If you have someone over and you want to play split screen COOP or Terrorist Hunt 
 you each earn your own SEPARATE XP/A. C. E. S., so it would be a good thing if he made a name on your 
 360! 
  
  -Multiplayer has only gotten better too. Theres now 3 more new gamemodes like VIP, Demolition (think 
 Counter Strike) and Total Conquest. Theres also a huge mix of maps including some downloadable 
 ones of the start and some old ones you may recognize!
  
  -XP modifiers! This works in two ways. If your online you CANNOT cheat the system. If you play 
 in a online game with one other person, lets say to cheat and gain huge amounts of Xp the game 
 will give you -95% XP. The set up the system to encourage more players in matches! More players 
 means full XP in battle! This way no one can cheat their way through the ranks.
  
  This also works with Terrorist hunt and Single Player in a way. If you play on easy expect about 
 1 point a kill... etc. Play on the hardest difficulty and expect tons of points per kill (I got 
 10 per kill) . I imagine playing with two players gets you more.
  
  Now for the negatives of RSV 2. 
  
  While I still love this game to death there are still 3 
 major things that get on my nerves at times.
  
  -The fact that AI "spawns" and isn't actually randomly placed in the level from the beginning. 
 Its very aggravating to go through a level with a friend in Terrorist hunt carefully making sure 
 your backs been cleared then turn around to have a enemy's spawn behind you (literally) . When your 
 playing on hard difficulties and facing 60 some guys that have as we jokingly call them "1337" 
 guns with "1337" ninja movement skills. It makes very unfun after awhile.
  
  -What I mentioned above. The AI in Terrorist Hunt on the hardest difficulty IS NOT HUMAN. They 
 are some kind of ninjas. I don't know what is wrong with the coding of them but it needs to be 
 fixed. Maybe if they didn't spawn behind you for one it would be easier. But regardless they are 
 impossible to begin with.
  
  -Lastly online people still ban weapons in their games and other things they don't like. To me 
 this is something players that lack skills do. If I was lets say good with the shotgun and banned 
 everything else that would mean I am making it easier for myself since ten to one I am really the 
 only one good with it and everyone else is forced using what I like. Alot of people ban stuff they 
 don't like then your stuck playing and end up losing which defeats the purpose of the game. Not 
 to mention it changes your inventory for good until you change it after the game.\
  
  -Ok... I added this last "con" after I posted the review. Its not a biggie but more of a let down. 
 One of the great things about the first Rainbow Six Vegas was the fact you could scan your face 
 and put it onto a guy (or girl) . But as a result you couldn't use alot of head gear items. Sadly 
 while its easier to scan your face now you STILL can't use much head gear! So much for being the 
 ONLY real you online.
  
  Overall this game is a MUST BUY! One of the best online games ever! Offline? Yeah thats awesome 
 too!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CH355Y
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Well what have we here, a sequel to the finest game based in Sin City and to be honest this game 
 is 10 times better than the first. Thus explaining the 12% increase in Tom Clancy and Ubisoft shares.
 
  
  The "cover and shoot" system has been drastically improved, it has never been easier to eliminate 
 the enemy whithout exposing yourself to a barrage of bullets.
  
  In every mission on the single player campaign (and for the host of a co-op game) you have a 2-man 
 strong team at your disposible which you can control with a variety of voice commands through an 
 Xbox Live headset (not availble in co-op.
  
  Now let me explain about the two different rules of engagament (ROE) . ROE's let your team what 
 to do if they come into contact with an enemy. While the ROE is set to Infiltrate (change by pressing 
 the back button) your team while only shoot if they are taking fire. However, if the ROE is set 
 to assault then your team will open fire on an enemy without hesitiation.
  
  Now I will analyse the multiplayer aspect of the game. Exellent ideas for game modes (Team Leader 
 and Attack & Defend are my two personal favourites) The ideas for the maps are exellent (Villa 
 and CGB Training my two personal favourites)
  
  Overall this game is so far the best in the Rainbow series and a real contender for the best of 
 Tom Clancy so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xninjapenguinx
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 27, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Well, I couldnt wait to get RSV2, I even pre- ordered it!! I have been a fan of the rainbow six 
 series and played number one for as long as it was out and loved it. Now Rainbow six vegas 2 was 
 a major dissapointment to me. The campaign is decent, but everyone knows its an online game , so 
 they took out all the good maps put some %$^ maps in , and also all you attk and defend fans, they 
 took out unlimited respawns for it so there is only 3 lives and RSV2 is a bunch a camping as a 
 result and could have been a expansion pack! The only good is new guns and armor, graphics are 
 better but not as good at COD4 The game is simply dissapointing, frustrting at times online and 
 hard to see because a lot of maps are really dark, they should have stuck to casino's to make big 
 battles but nah lets make a bunch of campin sounds good eh. (NOT WORTH 60 BUCKS) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HooahDOc
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 27, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  What the hell happened to the Rainbow Six series? Raven Shield was (and still is) one of the best 
 tactical FPS single and multiplayer experiences I have ever had. Did people complain of its difficulty? 
 Oh, that's right, they made it for consoles.
  
  The graphics have not changed since Vegas 1. The setting hasn't changed, aside from being in the 
 more boring locales of "Old Vegas". The new upgrade system is pretty stupid; raven shield started 
 the player out with access to a much larger assortment of weapons and a much more detailed customization 
 option. I guess unlocking the guns and custom options gives players a sense of accomplishment. 
 Since when did the MMO mentality sneak into single-player FPS games? 
  
  The story is, well, not important. Something about hunting down a Mexican. Why wasn't this game 
 called, "Rainbow Six: INS"? 
  
  The gunplay is the same old garbage as well; "Tangos" stand around, waiting to be shot. Occasionally 
 they will have some irrelevant conversation to appear as if they're not cemented to the ground. 
 
  
  The AI isn't bad, but becomes reasonably predictable. The weapon sounds are also not as good as 
 they were in Raven Shield.
  
  In essence, this review is less of a bash of Vegas 2 as an attempt to extol how great Raven Shield 
 really was. Why can't gaming be like it was 10 years ago? 
  
  6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eduardoflores5
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  Yes, it is similar to the first one, which luckily means it is just AWESOME!!!!
  
  Controls have changed a bit, but are basically the same, which is also great. Similar to the ones 
 of GRAW, but I definitely prefer these. 
  Sound is so good it has even scared my family when I pump it up. 
  
  The story finally has 
 a real ending. Ubisoft is not the best with storytelling (for example Assassins Creed and GRAW) , 
 but they compensate it with impressive gameplay (this is the best example) . 
  
  Just buy it; you are not going to regret it. Every person Ive introduced it to, has fallen in 
 love with, even my girlfriend who had never touched a controller, she ended up addicted to it and 
 was even able to finish it. Also, it was the main reason for my cousin to buy the Xbox 360, which 
 also convinced another three friends just by showing them this game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: midnitereaper
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  First off I am a big fan of the Clancy games and it gives me no joy in what I am about to write. 
 With all the advancements made in COD4 and frontlines, then coming in to play a new Rainbow 6 game 
 felt like I was taking a step back to the launch of the 360. I personally put up with the glitches 
 and spawn campers in the old Rainbow 6 because I was under the impression that this was as good 
 as it gets. New games comes out and shows us the light. R6V2 stuck with the old school permanent 
 spawn points and after playing only 2 days I ran into a match with spawn campers. Longest 6 minutes 
 ever played! 14 people max! Why? Most of these maps are so big that they should definitely house 
 at least 20 players. Acog on assault rifles. What's the point? So far I have used my scope 5 times 
 in matches and have been successful once. On the positive side the graphics are great. Music is 
 pretty cool and sounds are great. I have also enjoyed the enemy speeches. Not bad @!@$% not bad. 
 hilarious!
  
  I am currently playing the story mode on realistic and so far it has been a big challenge and a 
 lot of fun. The AI has improved greatly with enemy units flanking you, using shields and explosives. 
 The MP terrorist hunt is a lot of fun and again the AI on the enemy is very good. One new advancement 
 R6V2 brought in was the experience counting on everything you do. Now you can play story mode and 
 have those stats stack on to your online play.
  
  If not for COD4 I probably would have loved the new R6V2 and played it for months. Instead I plan 
 to finish the story and work on achievements for a bit then head back to COD4. Hopefully The Clancy 
 team will find this review and take it into consideration when developing new games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bdmoore356
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  Sure the gameplay is great... if you can get by the mess load of glitches and bugs in the game. 
 Enemy AI and Teamate AI alike are rather stupid. You can walk up on enimies and they will just 
 stand there while you take them out. That's right a series that prides itself on strategy completely 
 dropped the ball on this game. Teamate AI, don't make me laugh your better off telling them to 
 park it since you can't use them as fodder and trying to rescue thier moronic selves usually leads 
 to you being killed yourself. Sure the character models look great but look at the objects laying 
 around... for the most part they didn't even bother to finish texturing or polishing the graphics... and 
 the game still lags like a SOB. This game is a waste, if you buy this game then you only support 
 companies who release games before they are finished. They should be ashamed of calling this POS 
 the sequel of Rainbow Six Vegas.
  
  
  If you MUST play this game i suggest renting it because if you have any taste in quality... you 
 will be down right pissed and will be happy you didn't blow $60 bucks on a game worth $10.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BurninNitrous
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  When I put this game into my 360, my nerves were slightly on edge in anticipation. And believe 
 me this game delivered. Intense action, high replay value, extreme graphics, and a great realism 
 give shooting-gamers everywhere a run for their money. The multiplayer and Xbox Live features give 
 the player added flexibility to choice of gameplay. The new Experience, Rank, and A. C. E. S. systems 
 provide the player with added motivation to keep playing.
  
  But as with any game, there are flaws. My belief: this game was released too early. In order to 
 meet the deadline for Vegas 2, I think the Ubisoft cut a few corners during development. There 
 are more than enough glitches to drive a gamer mad. Finding the glitches the hard way is usually 
 the worst part. The new sprint feature, while useful and time-saving, encourage online players 
 that tend to camp around the other team's spawns.
  
  Overall: A great game despite several imperfection. Still worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legally_Drugged
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 26, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a retro game in a sense, meaning the game play feels like a 5 year old game. 
 The controls are not crisp and responsive compared to today's standards. The story is boring and 
 the pace is extremely slow. Since the campaign action moves so slowly, it becomes even more of 
 a nuisance that the checkpoints are far from each other. I understand it's a tactical game and 
 you should take your time. But, when you carefully navigate the levels (using extreme patience) , 
 don't make a mistake because you will usually respawn a ways back. "A ways back" is relative though 
 because really it's not that far back, but that distance takes a lot of time to replay.
  
  Multiplayer is a pure bore and a headache at the same time. Sluggish controls, crappy guns, and 
 anything but smooth gameplay, make this game unplayable in my book. The fire fights are not intense. 
 Maps are boring. Graphics are mediocre. When giving my opinions of a game to a friend, I usually 
 explain the good and bad in good detail. But, this is one of those games that giving a detailed 
 opinion is a waste of breath. I told my friend, "I just can't play this. It gives me a headache." 
 The headache is caused by gameplay that makes you feel like you've had 12 beers that cause the 
 room to spin. Maybe this is what it feels like to have minor vertigo. If COD4 gameplay is cable 
 internet, then RSV2 is dial-up.
  
  Bottom line is that because of the hype, perahaps you should give it a try just to see how bad 
 a game this is. If you have doubts that what I'm saying is false, they will soon dissapear within 
 10 minutes. Leveling up is a bore. The guns are a bore. Most of COD4 guns had their weakness and 
 their strength. Most of RSV2 guns just have weakness. It feels like the characters have the muscles 
 of a 12 years old when it comes to holding a steady fire. Talk about spray and pray.
  
  I don't think Clancy will ever make a comeback. To many other innovative franchises out there while 
 Clancy prays that he can get away with games that feel like they are out of the year 2000. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadruler08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  First off I wanted to say that I have Halo 3, COD 4, and both Rainbow sixes. They were all great 
 games except there was always something about Rainbow Six vegas that made me come back for more. 
 I loved the cover system and the P. E. C system which really separated this game from other FPSs. 
 Vegas 2 has great graphics though they aren't as perfect as COD 4. The multiplayer's a blast (terrorist 
 hung and VS. matches) . Single player kinda sucks, but it's a good way to build up your character. 
 There is some slow down in the Rec. Center which is pissing me off, but I can get use to that seeing 
 that I've gotten use to MLB 2k8's lag. Overall this is a great game; think vegas 1 but with a sprint 
 button, more weapons, and a better character building system. Plus you have new maps and multiplayer 
 modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjoplin35
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas was one of the best multiplayer games on the 360. I was really happy when I 
 heard that a new one was coming. The single player does hardly anything new for the series. The 
 same strategies apply, but now any of your friends can join in and help while you are still playing. 
 The story closes up the ending from the last one. 
  
  The terrorist hunts have gotten harder but you can now respawn in them. They are still as fun as 
 they were in the first one.
  
  The multiplayer is where it's at. For old rainbow six fans, they have removed the classic game 
 modes like survival, Team Survival, and Retrival. The new experience system will keep you coming 
 back for more.
  
  If you didn't like the first Rainbow Six: Vegas, this one wont change your mind, but keep the old 
 fans with Rainbow Six.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LudaToke
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  First thing is first. Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a great sequal. Ok so it is more of an expansion than 
 it is a sequal but that is really the only knock I have against it. Everything that you loved about 
 the original R6V is back in R6V2 along with some great improvements. The most notable improvement 
 is addition of the sprint function. The ability to sprint in R6V2 allows you to actually get away 
 from grenades if someone throws one at you. It also allows to move between areas of cover quickly 
 and efficiently without exposing yourself to a wave of bullets.
  
  The other notable improvement is the ranking and XP system. This is a nice improvement from the 
 original in that you are able to rank up in all game types (SP, MP and Terrorist Hunt) . You are 
 also able to track your progress as you rank up and know exactly how long until you reach that 
 new level and unlock that new weapon.
  
  There are piles of new maps available along with a few new game types that are sure to keep people 
 happy for a long time. If you enjoyed the original R6V then the sequal (or expansion if you want 
 to be a stickler about it) is sure to keep you busy for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gleb2006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  This game is great all around! The graphics are great, the sound is very good, and the gameplay 
 is fun. Ill break it down to all the parts to make it better to understand why i gave this game 
 a 9.5 when saying its great all around instead of a 10.
  
  Graphics 9.8/10
  
  The graphics in this game are just beautiful, when bridges fall, when explosions go off it just 
 looks amazing. Also when i first saw my chracters mouth move when i was talking into my mic my 
 jaw dropped. I did not believe that they had that feature in there! Only bad part about that feature 
 is that the mouth moves the same way every time.
  
  The reason i dropped .2 points is because there are points in the single player and co-op that 
 the game where it gets very, VERY laggy and fps drops down to an uplayable level, to hte point 
 where you have to make your AI do all the work.
  
  
  
  Sound 10/10
  
  This category is simple. The sound is very realistic, and the voice acting is much improved from 
 the first Vegas (From what i heard) . Even the terrorrists curse you out! (I reccomend not playing 
 this around children due to cursing, and not with sound on full blast due to the realism of flashbangs.)
 
  
  Gameplay 9.5/10
  
  The gameplay is great, just like all the other Rainbow 6's. You have to hide behind walls, can't 
 just run and gun, have to be very tactical. The terrorrist hunt is awesome (My favorite part of 
 the game) , for some reason it never gets repetative to me, as the AI learns your patterns and tries 
 to outdo them. 
  
  Only con is the versus. It's fun to play but they really need to tweak it. When you play ranked 
 you can only play one round with each group making it so you have to keep leaving and joining games 
 after every ONE round. And it's still lobby's not matchmaking so it becomes a pain to get into 
 some games sometimes.
  
  
  Truescore 9.75/10
  
  -Never quit, Never have to
  Gleb Margolin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yatesy917
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 4:22 am PT
Review:  I know that many people will disagree with me, but i really disliked Rainbow Six Vegas One. There 
 was just too much lag and the respawns on the camaign were horrible. Anyway my friend bought Vegas 
 2, so i thought, what the heck! Ill give it a go ...
  
  It is such a great update from Vegas 1, I love customising my charecter, I do belive they hace 
 took ideas from games such as Halo 3 and Call of Duty 4, with the experience and the Challenges 
 that you can complete, the campaign is highly updated i love the way me and my friend can play 
 together on the campaign,
  
  I really found the multiplayer on Rainbow 1 boring but on vegas two its really addicted    NO LAG 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrb45
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  I loved Rainbow Six Vegas. but this game is just more of the same with some bugs thrown in to boot. 
 Some fire fights lag so bad The game almost freezes. Like all unreal engine 3 games the textures 
 load in real slow. Enemies appear out of now where because the game has weird ways it triggers 
 spawning. the game is less about tactics and more about trial and error. You go to a new area. 
 Figure out where the enemies are going to pop out at and when you die. You can restart the check 
 point and finally use some tactics to get through the area. Dead bodies lay in a heap and have 
 convulsions because the physics suck. and Your AI team gets stuck on objects all the time. 
  Now the multi player. In the first game the character models where dummied down to reduce lag and 
 keep the game running smooth. They did not go with this approach in part 2. the game looks better 
 but at a huge price. It lags pretty bad 80% of the time and the aiming feels sluggish compared 
 to the original. The weapons feel like they have to much recoil. Even when I'm just firing bursts 
 sometimes my cross hair goes crazy. the maps don't really feel as if they where laid out as well 
 either. Team Death matches usually end up with people running to the other teams spawn and killing 
 players when they reappear. all in all this is not up to the standard of the original or Call of 
 Duty 4 and Halo 3. Some will like it. I thought I would be one of those people because i love the 
 first game. but this is a Laggy buggy mess.
  I feel this game is worth a rental. And it does have its fun moments when it works but it feels 
 to rushed and doesnt do justice to the first game in the series. And I hope the next one brings 
 the series back to its original form 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chEEsey120
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  well they did a great job at screwing this game up. the first game was great , realistic, t-hunt 
 was fun and the campaign was fun but not this time. the terrorists have the most amazing aim ive 
 ever seen mostly because they cheat. you can shoot them with half a clip and they'll literally 
 turn around and shoot you once or twice and kill you. they rush and come around the corner shooting 
 and your done for. not to mention they spawn all around you, you could walk around the map and 
 not see a enemy anywhere and all of a sudden you here a million screams and your surrounded on 
 all sides and you can actually see them spawning. even blindfiring doesnt help much because they 
 have such amazing aim they shoot your hand and you die in about two hits. the first vegas was one 
 of my favorite games and when i bought this i thought it would be even better but i was wrong and 
 felt sick to my stomach when i started paying it , i couldnt believe i just spent 60 bucks on this 
 game ,it was a total disaster even with the new equipment ,camo and rank system. please rent it 
 first so you dont regret wasting your money and TRUST my review- how can a guy that loved the first 
 one hate the second one so much? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrMatta
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I like Tom Clancy games for a reason.
  And it's not what this "sequel" is shoving in my face.
  I expect realism, shock and awe (some) .
 
  
  Realism in games is fun. 
  Having death all around you is exhilarating.
  I loved the first Vegas game, i even got 1000 gamerpoints for it.
  I was devoted. (whatever you 
 call it)
  
  Then there's this heap of trash.
  It's like Rainbow Six Lockdown reincarnated.
  It feels like a full-priced map pack with a 4-hour 
 rehashed campaign.
  No it actually IS. Even 4 out of 12 "new" maps are from the old Vegas.
  
  Everything looks cheap and outdated.
  There's no storyline whatsoever, there are so much 
 terrorists
  EVERYWHERE it completely takes the immersion away.
  It's got the exact same soundtrack as the first game,
  and what's with the RIDICULOUS terrorist 
 AIM?
  They don't even have to aim at you to splatter your face all over the sidewalk.
  It's this kind of "cheating" AI that makes this "realistic tactical" stuff laughable.
  The controls 
 are still pretty sharp i guess.
  
  The game is set up in 7 chapters, each with 2-4 scenes.
  Some of them are pretty good, but most 
 is just same old stuff you've seen in Vegas 1 (literally)
  
  The "story" is as followed:
  
  Man we got a situation here.
  There's a bomb in that truck over there.
  Oh wait, no it's 
 in that building.
  *wave of 400 terrorists*
  Oh wait, no it's in the next building.
  *another wave of 400 terrorists*
  Sh*t, you've disarmed this bomb, but there's another one.
 
  Oh, and they've held hostages.
  On the roof.
  But you need to get all around the block to get there.
  Oh, something else happened, get to extraction.
 
  
  It gets pretty tedious since that's about it the whole game.
  The only thing you hear out of terrorist's mouth is bad language.
  "Mother-F", "you F-ing blahblah"
 
  Why oh why are they so badass!
  
  The game has an Experience bar on the bottom of your screen.
  Which counts for all game modes 
 (Single- Multiplayer, doesn't matter) .
  You get points for killing terrorists, either shooting or blowing them up.
  When you've accumulated 
 the appropriate amount of points, you rank.
  I guess it's more fun this way, cause you have a sense of progress, but
  seeing +3 ENEMY SHOT 
 FROM BEHIND! every time is not the realism
  i'm yearning for. (Call me a whiner, but the more HUD, the less immersion)
  Ghost Recon got it 
 right, actually Vegas 1 aswel.
  Showing me that i'm in ACT 2 - SCENE 3 - CASINO doesn't really add much to the campaign experience.
 
  
  I read on the internet that Ubisoft bought the rights for the Tom Clancy franchise. Let's hope 
 this is not the beginning of the end.
  Cause i'm sorely disappointed with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toronto_Dorsa
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  The campaign for RB6V2 is ok. Yeah, there's new maps, but the glamour of vegas was left behind 
 in part 1. Part 2 takes you off the strip and into, what could be anytown USA. I've nearly completed 
 the campaign, and on realistic setting, perpare for some pretty stupid deaths. You'll find snipers 
 have a better eye then that of a hawk hunting for mice from 2 miles in the sky, and regardless 
 of your speed, the enemy will always shot you first in a one on one gun draw. I could drown on 
 about campaign, but as the title says, your here for the multiplayer.
  
  Ubisoft knew that the multiplayer would need to be on par or better then the orginal game and surprisingly, 
 they pulled it off. The maps for multiplayer are large, and can easily have your tem wiped if your 
 not covering each others back. Unlike Halo, where bunnyhoppers rule, you need to work as a team 
 to complete. 
  
  I like to keep the settings on realistic/high density, and with one shot, the onslaught begins. 
 The enemies appear to work together and they use their devices as if a normal player would. Instead 
 of throwing a flashbang and waiting like the enemies did in part 1, they now throw and move into 
 a well covered position.
  
  They back each other up with supressive fire, and in general, never travel alone.
  
  Along 
 with the A. C. E. S component, playing the online portion is entertaining even if your team gets slaughtered. 
 
  
  I just wish they were able to fix some of the glitches that the AI showed in the campaign portion. 
 It's always fun to watch your AI teammates run through half of the campaign because their trapped 
 behind a chair and you want them to open an clear the door originally 2 feet in front of them. 
 
  
  Next time Ubisoft... next time.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redhairboy491
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  A pretty solid game all around, but not as good as Gamespot gives it credit for. There are several 
 pros and several cons, but in the end the pros out-weigh the cons, and if your bordering on buying 
 this one, id say go for it. Time to break it down!
  
  Gameplay: Very like RSV but, if you played the first, then you'll know this isn't a bad thing. 
 Controls are smooth and, more importantly, realistic, and it really drags you into the game. As 
 usual with the Rainbow series, if your not careful, your dead. Great game for teams. 8/10
  
  Graphics: Not Vegas's strong point, unfortunately. It reminds me of H3 in this way, where the 
 graphics just weren't that great. The guns look somewhat between toy and real, and the blood looks 
 like somone just vomited fruit punch all over the place. The best point in the visual department 
 were the characters, both AI and friendly, which were designed extremely well. 7.5/10
  
  AI: I had to do a segment for this because i was really hoping that Vegas's AI system would actually 
 seem realistic like the rest of it. Sadly, i was let down again. (Depressive Sigh) . The Enemy AI 
 is not half bad, performing flanks and pincers, and not always charging directly at you, though 
 this does happen sometimes, and is pretty annoying when it does happen. Your ally AI however.... let's 
 just say that if it weren't for the whole "lose if your partners die wah wah wah" thing i would 
 be really really tempted to find a chair, get some SWAT self heating popcorn (with butter of course) 
 and watch them squirm for awhile. Michael and Jung constantly cross your line of fire unless you 
 specifically tell them to stay in one place, which they will do... for eternity. There have been 
 times where ill have forgot to click a button and, as a result, Michael and Jung are about ooo 
 two or three miles back. Also, rappelling should be a pretty standard freaking procedure since 
 if you start at the bottom you can only go up and vice versa. This is really annoying when your 
 planning to ambush a group of tangos and your sniping and all of sudden you realize that all the 
 god damn fire is pointed directly at you! Then you look over and see Jung give you the finger and 
 laugh! Ok, i made the last part up, point is, if their on the rappel, they should know what to 
 do from there. Finally there are the grenades. WTF!?!? When you tell them to throw a grenade they 
 seem to get the idea that the grenade will go through whatever's in front of them short of a house. 
 I even had one bounce off the back of my friggin head. The only postive for them is that they do 
 know how to shoot pretty well (end rant) . EAI 8/10 AAI 2.5/10
  
  Multiplayer: Great as usual. Plenty of differant game types to keep you going with several maps 
 as well, some old and some new, that shoot quench your killing desire. Probably the most fun I've 
 had to date wasn't playing with online though, it was terroist hunt. In this mode you pick a map, 
 your equipment, how smart the terroists are, and how many of them there are. You can do this mode 
 on your own, but i highly suggest you bring a friend, because, as mentioned earlier, Michael and 
 Jung are almost less then helpful, and with a friend you get 3 respawns, so long as your friend 
 doesn't die as well, same as campaign. You start off without the terroists knowing your there, 
 which allows you, and your partner (s) , to set up a little ambush, or to go in slaughtering things, 
 like if your friend has an annoying little brother who then mysteriously has many bruises, my guess 
 would be from a flight of stairs. 9/10
  
  Campaign: Not a whole lot to say, pretty good, though not the greatest element of RV2. As said 
 before, try to play with a friend, that way you have a teamate with some intelligence, and you 
 won't fail if you alone die. 8/10
  
  Customization: (Wipes tear from eye) stunning! Easily the best customization options I've seen for 
 any, and i do mean any, shooter. Armor, guns, gadgets, and clothing are all interchangeable. Perhaps 
 the feature i like the most is that the clothing does not affect your mobile or protection status's, 
 which the armor dictates. Instead it's just a feature that allows you to individualize yourself. 
 I tried to make mine look like The Dog. I AM THE DOGGGG THE BIG BAD DDOGGGG! Only drawback is that 
 face options are limited, but you can go buy a 360 camera if it truly bugs you that much. 9.5/10
 
  
  Final: Good game, AI and Graphics are sort of a let down, but all in all, its a fun, team game 
 that should keep you entertained until your next game comes out. As i said earlier, this game is 
 more fun with more people. Side effects may include loss of sleep, lack of appetite, anger, depression, 
 loss of girlfriend, costant rape/ownage, insanity, and erectial dis-function. Have a good day! 
 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathan1274
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  I was wondering to myself when oh when will we get a game where you can actually go up rank in 
 the single player campaign. Well, if for nothing else RSV 2 is it!
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Same smooth gamplay from the previous title. AI is pretty noteworthy especially on Realistic. I 
 actually feel like I need to make tactical decisions before predceeding. I especially like the 
 fact that a shot to the head is just that.. a game ending shot.
  
  Gameplay : 10
  
  Graphics: 
  
  Okay so the faces look a little screwy but overall it looks great. The textures 
 are crispy and the weapons authentic.. RS style no less
  
  Graphics : 9 (cuz of the screwy faces)
  
  Sound:
  
  Maybe its just me but sometimes without 
 flashbangs I cant hear shots! Of course that is the only problem i have with the sound as you can 
 hear the hum of the googles on other playes as well, that is pretty neat!
  
  Sound: 9
  
  Replay: 
  
  Why would you not want to replay this game, just to get to Elite ranking. There 
 is variety in maps and the terrorist hunts are INSANE.. This one gets the full tilt!
  
  Replay: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrIMm23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot why would you give this game a worst rating than the first one. If you think the first 
 one deserves a 9.1 this should be a 9.5. Although the gameplay is still the same the new guns, 
 improved graphics and an easier way to rank up is a negative aspect on RSV2? I think not! I dont 
 think there is anything wrong with this game except for the minor problem of a short campaign mode. 
 Another improvement on this game is that it is more organized then the last one. The last RSV was 
 all over the place and it was hard to find what mission you were up to, or if you even completed 
 it and ranking up was horrible compared to this one. In this game the first thing they ask you 
 before anything else is how you would like to customize your character with a wide variety of armor, 
 clothing, and weapons. They dont even start you off as a guy they created like Logan in the first 
 one, the person you play as in campaign (Bishop) is your created character and if your doing split 
 screen coop with a friend or brother/sister they get to create their character quickly and play 
 as Knight, Bishops teamate. Bottom line Bishop and Knight are yours and your friend or brother/sisters 
 custom character. Now last is the rankings and why it is much easier to level up in this one than 
 it is in the first one. In the first one you can only rank up during online play and I believe 
 coop terrorist hunt and it took forever to get promoted. In this game you can get promoted anytime, 
 whether its during coop campaign or coop terrorist hunt or even a player match. Oh yeah one more 
 thing another good aspect of this game is A. C. E. S. A. S. E. S keeps track of headshots, assaults, 
 and close encounter kills. This also allows you to unlock new guns and stuff. Now Im not saying 
 that the 1st one was bad so RSV owners that havent had the chance to pick up this game yet dont 
 think Im saying its bad, I actually agree with gamespots opinion of a 9.1. So if you liked the 
 1st one you'll love this one. Buy it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spcphilpot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  I have been playing Rainbow Six Vegas 2 for some time now and find it to be better than the first 
 Vegas and just behind Call of Duty 4 in gameplay. The graphics are simply amazing and being able 
 to see blood trails and debris from bulets is great. I have never had an issue with the AI being 
 unresponsive or getting stuck. The single player campaign is just right in length and beating it 
 will give you some good access to weapons and uniforms for online play. I haven't played co-op 
 or terrorist hunt but online play is truly a blast. I had just picked up Frontlines Fuel of War 
 and found it to be a complete let down. This game completely erases the experience of that purchase. 
 It's really easy to connect to a server for online play, and match making seems pretty equal on 
 ranked play. If you have the money I would definitely encourage you to pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmoney128
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas 2 should be more accurately called Rainbow Six: Vegas v.2.0. Ubisoft and the 
 Tom Clancy franchise really listenend to what fans had to say about the first game and made just 
 about every improvement possible to an already great tactical shooter. Let me explain:
  
  When you first put in the Vegas 2 disk it feels like a version upgrade already. If you have played 
 the first Vegas before and done anything online it will look up your stats and rank you in Vegas 
 2 accordingly. I kind of sucked in Vegas online and didn't have a very high rank so the rank it 
 started me out as was "Specialist".
  
  Even to further this, the ranking system is integrated into everything from local play and Xbox 
 Live play which makes it very easy and fun to rank up. Also you can customize your character's 
 appearance from the main menu and little did I realize that is how you look in the single player 
 campaign as well. Hot dog! I can finally wear my Top Gun aviators with built in thermal and night 
 vision capabilites in the single player campaign!
  
  When you start the "story" mode from the main menu you have several options to choose from. You 
 can go it alone with your AI (boring - and insanely difficult - frustrating most of the time) , 
 go at it with an Xbox Live buddy and AI (exciting - less difficult - and only frustrating some 
 of the itme) or have a case of beer and a friend over and go at it locally (Very fun because you 
 hanging with a dudebro having a beer) . For most of the game I played by myself. This was a mistake 
 for me because when playing even on the easiest difficulty it is very complicated and hard. You 
 will die a lot. Speaking of single player I should tell you what they have changed and made better 
 during your gameplay experience:
  
  1. You no longer black out! I hated that about the first Vegas. When you took damage you blacked 
 out and everything was damn near impossible to see... Not the case anymore. Now when you take damage 
 it just gets grainy and very high contrast.
  
  2. Your ranking status is in a little bar on the bottom telling you how much xp you need to gain 
 to rank up again. Even better you aren't an ugly character like Logan Keller. You are a bad ass 
 of your own making named Bishop which makes you slightly better than a pawn. And you can upgrade 
 yourself with rank. They also added an A. C. E. S ranking system which shows you how awesome you are 
 at Marksmanship, Assualting, and CQB. You are awarded points for each type of kill you perform 
 and are able to unlock more xp points or weapons, or xp and weapons. Good deal.
  
  3. The graphics are pretty. No more random green orb like structures. You know the deal... Pretty 
 walls, and characters and stuff. BTW the civillians have kind of crappy animations which is par 
 with every other Rainbow Six game put on earth... Hostages are clumsy and helpless so they try 
 to animate that as much as possible... Basically ending up with zombies with bad posture. No biggie.
 
  
  4. Sounds. Well... Some of the sounds are different. They have added some dialogue to the enemies 
 which is entertaining and they didn't remove the "Why are you shooting the wall B*tch" which is 
 always a humorous addition. They also made some sound depth fixes, but don't be surprised if your 
 sporting a stereo speaker setup and just randomly fall over dead from shattered glass when you 
 had no idea there was an enemy on the other side actually shooting at you, but you couldn't hear 
 it.
  
  5. The enemy AI is slightly better. 90 percent of the time they are accuate and deadly every time. 
 Don't catch yourself next to a terrorist with a shotgun. The only complaint I have about enemy 
 AI is that they can take several rounds to legs and arms and they are just as beastly as they were 
 before wihtout the additions of hot lead to their extremities. I hate that there is no reactions 
 to being shot other than they shoot back very accurately and deadly.
  
  Those are the most obvious additions. One complaint however is the friendly AI. When it comes to 
 room clearing they are aggressive gods. When It comes to an open battle, eh? Not so much. I use 
 them as guinnea pigs in big rooms and everything seems to work out fine.
  
  The multiplayer is pretty sweet. The match finding is a little better and they have some added 
 game modes. I am not gonna lie though, I am a team deathmatch and terrorist hunt kind of guy. I 
 am playing this game to whoop ass, not do something technical.
  
  If you like the Rainbow Six franchise and even more so the Vegas addition and are all about tactical 
 shooters I recommend this a full 100%. If you are a Call of Duty fanboy with no patience and high 
 pitched obnoxious voice than stick with your "Team Deathmatch" MP mode in CoD4 and leave the "Hardcore" 
 modes and Rainbow Six Vegas 2 to the real men. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakesp
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 4:59 am PT
Review:  The first R6 vegas introduced the face mapping which lets face it made your online character look 
 like he had some sort of deformity but the updated version is much better and really advances the 
 idea. The PEC is updated so you can get experience offline as well as online but as the single 
 player campaign is very short you will get the majority from online play and if you don't have 
 XBL then there's very little point in buying this game as you will complete it within 10 hours 
 on normal. Terrorist Hunt gives you some more offline gaming but this is just another game that 
 was made for Live a bit like COD4 - short single player and multiplayer that will last forever. 
 The story is good and i think is much better than the first Vegas game but it is essentially the 
 same. From what I can see there are some more weapons and the ACES system of unlocking weapons 
 makes it a challenge unless its sniping which is easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: netsurfer_basic
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2008 4:55 am PT
Review:  The overall game play is very tight and a lot of fun. I've only played online a few times, but 
 that's because Ubi was having trouble this weekend keeping up with the demand. So far the single 
 player is very fun and being that you can meet up and play the single player mode with friends 
 it's really cool. The terrorist hunt is also a lot of fun but can be a bit challenging at times. 
 The character movement felt a lot like TCRSV, until I hit the sprint button and I was off, this 
 is what really makes Vegas2 a lot better than 1. Call of Duty 4 is the new bench mark for first 
 person shooters, but hopefully the designers of COD5 will play this game and add the ability to 
 peak, and shoot around corners, it makes the game feel more real. The tactical side of this game 
 is also a lot of fun, it's fun to see how many different ways you can take a room full of terrorist 
 down, this will really add to the re-playability of this game. Do you have an xbox live vision 
 camera? If not get one or barrow one from a friend, because in TCRSV2 you can snap a pic of yourself 
 and use it in the game, and despite my character not having a lot of hair, it looks just like me. 
 The last thing I really love about this game is the ability to change your equipment mid level. 
 Let's say you are going to be outside for half a mission, you can dress in light, or desert camo, 
 then when you move inside to a dark area you can change into a dark camo, trust me this is fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g2g
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 1:48 am PT
Review:  There are some good things and a lot of bad things about this game. 
  
  The good things are 1) Sprinting, 2) Point System, 3) Adversarial Modes, 4) Weapons, 5) Able to 
 change outfit after every round.
  
  The bad things, 1) No 4-player co-op, 2) No map displayed while you do terrorist hunt, 3) Switching 
 grenades is a hassle (you have to push the digital pad to the correct grenade, 4) Phantom Spawning 
 Terrorists (when you walk into an empty room with all the doors closed, a second later there are 
 2-3 terrorists shooting your head off., 5) Terrorists are harder to kill (shooting terrorists point 
 blank in there faces and they won't die, 6) can't change equipment while game is in session (have 
 to wait till the round is over) .
  
  I thought buying this game that Vegas 2 would be a HUGE upgrade from the first. I was wrong. They 
 didn't fix some things in the first that i wanted to see fixed. Such as having smarter AI's. They 
 are a little better but not greatly. The terrorists are harder to kill but not by being smarter 
 but being near invincible. I got pretty irritated with that amongst other things. This game would 
 be great if I didn't already play the first version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strife88
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  The soldiers are back to save Vegas once again and this time their guns are blazing. At the end 
 of the first game we find out that someone on the inside has leaked information to the outside 
 leading SIX to impossible situations where the odds are never in their favor.
  
  This has been one of my most anticipated games of the year because the first game offered so much 
 and after six months of playing it I needed a refreshing Vegas experience yet again, this is it! 
 This game has it's up and downs, but in the end it's exactly what was expected. The only way to 
 explain it is it's everything you remembered: all the tactics, all the weapons, all the situations 
 and more.
  
  The Story: All the events of RSV2 take place before the first game as well as side-by-side to the 
 original to add more realism because the crisis situation in the first game wasn't going to wait 
 at all. You start off in a training level in France where you meet your team and plan out your 
 attack to finish the fight to save Vegas.
  
  The level design takes you to a lot of different locations, but unfortunately nothing as incredible 
 as the previous installment. They focused on more controlled areas rather then expansive casinos. 
 The one thing that they do with them is still add a lot of a variety to make each one feel different 
 and unique. Everything from the Vegas Convention Center to the Nevada Desert and even an Estate 
 which brings back memories from previous Rainbow Six titles. The action is non-stop and in a way 
 it ups the ante by adding a more intelligent A. I system and a variety of enemies with different 
 skills. You'll find yourself in difficult odds because now there is a sprint option, even though 
 you can use it to your advantage so can the enemy. There are only seven levels and they can be 
 done on your own or with a friend and either way you'll get a good 8-10 hours of game play with 
 a lot of intense firefights.
  
  A new feature is the A. C. E. S system which makes you think more of tactical and of more efficient 
 ways to take out the tangos. There are three main features: Marksman, Close-Quarter Combat and 
 Assault. Each has 20 levels with each either unlocking a new weapon or giving you an EXP boost. 
 They vary in points by how difficult or how effective your kill was. For example, take out an enemy 
 at a long distance (+3) , kill an enemy while on a rope (+2) . If you don't complete one you won't 
 receive any ACES only EXP for the kill. This adds a lot of replay abilty to the story because you 
 can go back to it whenever you want to rank up your ''Soldier'' if you don't feel like playing 
 any of the adversarial games modes at the moment. With everything taken into consideration the 
 SP was done considerably well and you won't find almost any problems with it, but it would've been 
 better if they added a higher difficulty or a longer story for those of us that are very familiar 
 with the game already.
  
  Online: The incredibly popular online of Rainbow Six Vegas is here once again and the changes for 
 this are definitely noticed. For those who have already played the first game will get a few rewards 
 if they reached the rank of an Elite. Basically it's 2500 EXP, Ballistic Face Mask and a new item, 
 the Flight Helmet. It seems that they have stripped down the game modes in this, but that doesn't 
 stop this game from being so great.
  
  The only remaining games from the first are the essentials; Attack and Defend, Sharpshooter and 
 Team Sharpshooter. There are a few new ones to make up for this and they are a great addition. 
 Team Leader is the one that I've enjoy a lot, the game can last as long or as short as possible. 
 One player on your team is the leader and the rest have to protect him while at the same time eliminate 
 the other team's leader. The point of doing this is once the Team Leader is killed there will be 
 no more reinforcements (re-spawns) . It allows you to take every tactic that you've learned over 
 the years and work with your team to attempt to get your Leader to the extraction point which is 
 usually on their side. It's almost the collaboration of a few games from the past (Attack and Defend, 
 Assassination and Team Sharpshooter) into one great game type. As usual every game you play you 
 rank up your unique character to eventually an Elite if you are extremely dedicated to it.
  
  Terrorist Hunts are back and they've been shaken up a bit, in a good way. There are all new 
 maps with the comeback of three classic maps (Kill House, Streets) . The one major thing is they 
 allow re-spawns now, but only a limited amount depending on the difficulty. It's basically the 
 same essential thing, you and three friends fight your way to eliminate every terrorist. The levels 
 are knocked down to just over ten and at times they feel a little random, but they're still a challenge 
 and fun to play. Everyone here is a gamer and probably watches Major League Gaming, the Convention 
 Center level is modeled after that so that's cool to actually play though. Everything from TV's 
 to the leader board signs and M. L. G logos everywhere. There is a lot of replay ability in the Terrorist 
 Hunts as well as the online Adversarial modes so this will definitely keep you up into the middle 
 of the night trying to get back that Elite Status.
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 offers up everything that made the original so great and at the same time makes 
 it feel slightly new. This is an impressive game for just about anyone, but to the Veterans not 
 quite as good as the first.
  
  RSV2: 9.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunslinger_boy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  R6: Vegas was easily one of the best shooters of 2006, and had every high production value a game 
 needed to make an impact. Vegas had everything a FPS fan could want, with intuitive controls, great 
 graphics and sound, awesome multiplayer and a cover system that made Gears of War blush. Then the 
 tactics you could use, like scaling down the side of a building and hanging upside down while shooting 
 or using a snake-cam to coordinate attack plans, Vegas had you covered... (no pun intended) Now 
 two years later, Vegas 2 has landed, but does it live up to the unprecedented original?
  
  First and foremost, the controls are the same except for two things. 1st) the left bumper is for 
 sprinting 2nd) the select button now sets the R. O. E. (Rules of Engagement for all those not familiar 
 with the terms) The gameplay is still tight as ever and controlling your character is a piece of 
 cake. However your teammates are still dumb, and have problems reading certain situations. The 
 story is your usual Clancy fare, including W. M. D. s (Weapons of Mass Destruction) , corrupt government 
 officials, and so on. But the way they are presented keeps you hooked. The graphics, while not 
 a big step up, have been given a sharper look, and doesn't have that faded, washed out look. 
 
  
  Now, onto the multiplayer. Here's the deciding line: if you liked the online of the 1st Vegas, 
 you will be right at home here. However, if you didn't..... you are pretty much S. O. L. (figure that 
 one out for yourself) To be fare, Ubisoft did clean up some of the aches of Vegas by giving you 
 more understandable menus and a window to see if someone is joining your game before you hit the 
 "start match" button. But the nagging problems that I have with the online play is that 1) YOU 
 ALWAYS RESPAWN IN THE SAME EXCACT SPOT!!!!!!! 2) It still takes around nine (9) seconds to respawn! 
 After playing CoD4, I expect to respawn immediately after dying and I expect to spawn in at least 
 one other point along with my team preferably .
  
  Overall, Vegas 2 is more of an expansion pack than a sequel, but fans of the first will get a kick 
 out of it. Those wanting something different and new might want to wait for something like Battlefield: 
 Bad Company to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osumane2012
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  OK first of all, if you like FPS Tactical Shooters then this is for you. That is what RSV2 is, 
 a tactical FPS. You start off making your character. You can be a female, or male. You can go and 
 customize it your person right-away if you feel. I started out the campiangne and ohhhhhhhhhhh 
 baby! The graphics were unbeleivable! Well whatever, I went into the building and listened to these 
 guys talk and finally got some action. This game is amazing. You can actually use your headset 
 to issue commands to your squad, that was really cool. I could flank enemys, new weapons, and the 
 moment you been waiting for...... new multiplayer. They upadeted their multiplayer soooooooo good. 
 It has a good matchmaking service witch finds people that are somewhat your rank and have you skill. 
 Oh, did minetion that you can bring over your singleplayer character and play him on the multiplayer. 
 They even added a feature called A. C. E. S. I thought this was the best part of the game. You have 
 3 skills, marksman, CQB (close-quaters combat) , and assault. You can raise all these skills by doing 
 certain things for that skill. Ex./ Say I got a headshot, I would get 1 XP in marksman or Say I 
 got a kill in close range, I would get 3 XP in CQB. Each thing you do, gives a XP in a certain 
 skill. Plus with each skill you can unlock weapons and get XP to level up quicker. Overall RSV2 
 is a perfect game. They always say you need online for this game, you dont, unless you want to 
 play onlne. You get good experience wehter you play offline or online, and you still get that Vegas 
 feeling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smackman82
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Not too often do you see sequels to spin-off stories (with the big exception of Final Fantasy VII) , 
 especially ones that actually do the job of keeping what was good and throwing out some of the 
 bad things. This game got half of that right.
  
  R6V2 added all the right things to the gameplay, while apparently turning a blind eye or even worsening 
 the problems in the first game. Multiplayer was a huge leap, in my opinion, and was a major improvement. 
 I feel a lot of game makers could learn so much from just the multiplayer modes and level designs. 
 Another great improvement is the P. E. C. system. The P. E. C. is a system that originally started 
 as a multiplayer "RPG" element which awarded you more weapons and armor for kills, scoring, etc. 
 Now they've implemented that into the entire game, both SP and MP. The addition of "sprinting" 
 is a great help which is governed by your armor/mobility ratio.
  
  On the flip side, the AI for your teammates is absolutely terrible. I came to a spot in the Garage 
 level where my squad members kept getting stuck over a puddle of water, so I had to hold their 
 hands and direct them away then continue to follow. Mind you, that took about 20 min. Also, the 
 AI really doesn't do much good at all on your team, they get lost very often and rarely open fire 
 when terrorists are clearly present (and firing at them) and they have weapons free.
  
  The storyline is very blah and basic. At some points I felt they really didn't tell you what was 
 going on, your here, your there, that's it. The graphics are slightly improved, the level designs 
 are great, just call Tom Clancy and have him write the stories from now on.
  
  In closing, it's a great game and the multiplayer is incredible, take it from me, I tend to hate 
 MP. Despite its short comings and what I thought would be fixed in the sequel, I can honestly say, 
 if you enjoy the Rainbow Six universe, add this to your collection ASAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Punkytrd
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Ah, the beauty of a Rainbow six game. Running and Gunning doesn't work here my friend! This is 
 a game of tactics and, dare I say, camping. You find yourself being a squad leader named Bishop. 
 The game starts five years ago as the game introduces you to your squad family. The single player 
 is medium in length but will keep you playing for a while with it's difficulties, Casual, Normal, 
 and Realistic. As you work your way through the story you'll find yourself being sneakier than 
 ever. You will use your squad for almost everything and you'll find yourself acting like Solid 
 Snake. You can work your way through with a partner in co-op. Sadly, only 2 player co-op.
  
  You can fully customize your character almost any way your heart desires. You can make yourself 
 slow and powerful, weak and fast, or a combination of both! You can carry 3 guns at a time that 
 include snipers, assault riffles, shotguns, light machine guns, and a sub machine gun. You may 
 carry 2 non-pistol guns and one pistol. You can customize your face with limited options witch 
 is disappointing, but you can take a picture of yourself with your XBOX Live Vision Camera! Even 
 though this is very, I repeat, very hard to do. Putting your face in the game surely feels amazing 
 as your working your way through online and campaign.
  
  Terrorist Hunt is also a feature in this game that allows you to team up with 4 players. This is 
 what co-op should have been! You can work through multiple levels and gain experience points to 
 level your character further. But be warned, these terrorist can be sneaky! This AI is surely up 
 to date!
  
  Leveling in this game is very difficult and will keep you playing for days! You can gain experience 
 points in Campaign, Terrorist Hunts, and Online! But besides XP, you can get special kills that 
 can further unlock new weapons. These kills include things like head shots, blind firing, and long 
 range kills. There are many others on the list that will keep you going for those "cool" kills.
 
  
  Alas! The controls! These controls are a unique design for controls. Everything feels fine except 
 for the sprinting. This just feels weird and lags at some points. Causing you to die some times 
 and have to go back to a point that you just finished. Otherwise, the controls are fine. 
  
  Like I said earlier, the AI is up to date. With the exception of your own team in co-op. They 
 just seem really stupid. This is unfair because the AI for the enemies is really good! They are 
 very, very smart.
  
  Even though Rainbow Six Vegas 2 can be laggy at times and feel rusty, the graphics and unique game 
 play will keep you playing for days on end!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nephallim
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 24, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  For starters, I didn't play Rainbow Six Vegas. I looked at it, picked up a controller for a few 
 minutes, and shrugged. I didn't have a 360 at the time and wasn't really in the mood for it regardless.
 
  
  So I'm not someone who is approaching Vegas 2 looking at it as a sequel to something I have already 
 played but as a game all on its own. Honestly, that's how EVERY game should be looked at, but I 
 seem to have higher standards than a lot of other people.
  
  I like the game. I wouldn't have slid $60 across a counter for it if I didn't. But thinking a game 
 is good enough to buy and giving it an 8+ rating are miles apart. It has flaws and annoyances such 
 as the AI, enemy and ally, acting rather ridiculous often enough that it cannot be referred to 
 just as a glitch. It could have been a much prettier game in both the visual and audio arenas, 
 which is not to say that it sucks... just that it could have been better.
  
  I see other reviewers making ignorant comments about Vegas 2 has worse graphics, sound, or gameplay 
 than Vegas and, while I admit to not playing Vegas, it is completely stupid to assume that Ubisoft 
 went in to tweak the engine DOWN. Seriously... think before you write moronic opinions like that. 
 It just doesn't make any sense at all. What may be worse, the comments that Vegas 2 deserves a 
 lower score because it either isn't CoD4 or isn't a dramatic improvement over Vegas are just as 
 retarded. Don't blame the game because you got your hopes and expectations up too high. Feeling 
 let down isn't entirely the game's fault.
  
  All-in-all, R6V2 is a very fun tactical shooter. I think it is important to recognize the difference 
 in its "special ops" style approach and gameplay compared to CoD4's "military action". They are 
 two very distinct things and the games are not interchangeable. I feel that it is also a disservice 
 to Vegas 2 to expect it to be SO much more than its predecessor or to even penalize it for doing 
 the same successful things. Just because the improvements are not vast and awe-inspiring doesn't 
 mean that they aren't significant. Just because it could have been better doesn't mean that it 
 is any less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slimybyte
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  The ranking system is much improved, and now players can rank up in single-player, terrorist hunt, 
 or coop combat. This could be seen as a step in the wrong direction, as ranking up in the original 
 Rainbow Six Vegas required hours and hours of online play versus other skilled players, and your 
 rank determined your skill versus those other players. This is true, but this also allows the ability 
 for players who do not enjoy online play, or who simply do not have an Internet connection to rank 
 up on their own.
  
  Also another improvement in Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is the character customization. Not so much that 
 the character customization has improved, but your customized character's armor, weapons, and other 
 gear actually show up throughout the single-player story cinemas.
  
  The only change I would request in Rainbow Six Vegas 3 is that the armor you equip actually effects 
 your character's performance. So far, as far as I can tell, the armor has been primarily aesthetic. 
 What if instead, through unlocking a certain level of Marksmanship or Assault, you unlock a piece 
 of armor that "Increases stability with a machine gun" or "Increases accuracy with assault rifle" 
 or what have you. That's my only request for Rainbow Six Vegas 3.
  
  I've been playing the coop-campaign with a friend Live (which we finished on realistic last night) , 
 and I tend to take the machine gunner role and find a good position where I've got a whole area 
 covered and lay down cover fire while my friend sneaks around cleans up any stragglers. What if 
 there was armor geared for machine gunners, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamisjamas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  I played and own both the first and second Vegas games, which both by the way rock. I tend to think 
 of the concepts and advancements that R6V made in 2006 were overlooked when games like COD4 came 
 out or even gears. 
  
  Many people often overlooked the cover and and upgrade system in R6V because of Gears of War; which 
 I own and love. People often say well the cover system in Gears is the best, well I agree it is 
 great , but I always thoguht R6V had better. What I didn't like was the online play. I could never 
 get into a game and when I did it had always started, maybe just bad luck, so I stopped playing. 
 In the end I still enjoyed the first game but it had some drawbacks.
  
  Well onto Rainbow 6 Vegas 2. This game imporved on the multiplayer function by allowing players 
 to jump in during games that have already started. You can silence your weapons, upgrade your charcter 
 during all modes of play ( online or offline) and you have multiple options when it comes to armor, 
 weapons and camo. Although it seems more like an expansion at time, due to the game being located 
 still in Vegas, it still is very fun to play. I think people should be playing this game instead 
 of COD4 because it is a great sequel and tactical shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjayamanna
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  A great game in it's own right, but the question on everyone's mind is, "is it better than Call 
 of Duty 4?". The answer is a very obvious, "no". The AI is very poor, the team AI is even poorer, 
 and the graphics are so yester-year that it makes you wonder if the development team completed 
 this game immediately after it's predecessor and strategically held on to it for a few years. Whatever 
 the strategy was, it failed. 
  
  The guns are not as satisfactory to use as they are in Call of Duty 4 and the feel of the weapons 
 don't differ significantly from one to the next. The levels are so badly designed that when you 
 die (not "if") you start the level so far back to where it gets too boring and frustrating to keep 
 picking up the controller and pushing through. 
  
  The sprint function is a welcome addition to the series but doesn't really come off as a major 
 innovation: because too many games before it have already employed it successfully you come to 
 expect a Rainbow Six release this late in the game, no punn intended, to contain that feature. 
 
  
  Multiplayer matches have a very prominent "been-there-done-that" feel to it. It does little to 
 make folks come back for more, time after time, like other successful shooters before it. 
  
  The first Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas was very innovative, with cutting edge graphics, jam-packed 
 with innovation such as team based play, multiplayer co-op, use of cover, and a plethora of customizeable 
 weapons. TCRSV2 adds little to the mix in the way of innovation, and falls flatly short of the 
 competition and gameplay that folks have gotten used to since the first virtual action-packed trip 
 to Vegas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klugenbeel
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  Well as some people may have guessed, I have spent the past few months waiting like a crack head 
 for his next fix for this game to come out. Many nay sayers out there think this will not be as 
 good as the original if not possible tank. Well what do I have to say to them, better than the 
 first. Yes the boys of R5: Vegas are back and better than ever. With not much in game mechanics 
 and graphics being changed they still had the foundation of the game in place and built upon. The 
 biggest and most noticable change is yes, now your boys can run (where was this int he first game) . 
 R6: vegas 2 adds a much needed run feature so that you can better inplement your tactics, such 
 as flanking. The leveling up feature is back, but better. Now tracking both multiplayer and single 
 player is a nice upgrade upon the original system. The big thing is multiplayer, which is essecially 
 the same game, few upgrades, but the key thing more maps and battles to take online with you and 
 your buddies. Rainbow 6: Vegas 2 will not dissappoint old fans and bring in some new ones too. 
 This is a must buy game of the year, with some terrific replay value. Ubisoft does it again, making 
 another great Tom Clancy game and even making a new game better than the first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: th3warr1or
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  Because the First game was semi-perfect, ubisoft cannot make a perfect game, thus they 'barely' 
 improved, but then and again this is a awesome game and theres only so much one can do to improve 
 an already great game! Don't believe what you 'friends' or 'buddies' may be telling you, this is 
 ONE buy that you will NOT regret. I have been playing this game for 4days IN A ROW now, without 
 touching ANY other game from my 'library'. The achievements are NOT too easy but achievable and 
 doesn't make you feel like smashing everything within a two meter radius. In 3days I unlocked 305 
 GS and I will be unlocking more!! This may not measure up to Halo 3 or Gears of War 2 (anticipated) , 
 however it is DEFINETLY better than Call Of Duty 4! 
  
  Imagine this, MORE and BETTER customisation options that Halo 3, and unlike halo, the armour you 
 chose has DIFFERENT Stats and can actually help you withstand bullets (though not for long) . 
  
  It is powered by the SAME engine as gears of war hence the graphics are more or less the same (with 
 Gears being the Gory type, and this more of a tactical shooter) .
  
  No doubt it is a better experience than Call of Duty 4! 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xscrapzx
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  When I first played Rainbow Six Vegas 1, I liked the story line to an extent and the game play 
 was something I really haven't experienced before in a first person shooter. Then when I got into 
 the multi-player is was all over after that, I was absolutely hooked. When I found out that Number 
 2 was coming out I was very excited, reason was because a lot of people went away from the first 
 one for a bit, so it was exciting that the clan was going to come back together and play some matches.
 
  Well to get into the niddy griddy of things. I would have to say I'm happy with how the game came 
 out. I feel the graphics have improved substantially in certain areas, and I love how the ranking 
 system has improved. Though do to other commitments it has been tough to get online and play a 
 lot of the multi-player, but I've had a chance to play some of it. Its great to see that they did 
 not change a great deal in that area or really try to go overboard and try to improve it any, because 
 that is what made the first game so fun. 
  I have completed some of the single player campaign, and I find it to be challenging in some areas, 
 but very fun at the same time. Even though I have not put a lot of time into the game as much as 
 I've wanted to, from what I have experienced so far it is a great game and still has the excitement 
 the first one had. 
  If you were a fan of the first one you will not be disappointed, but if you were expecting a drastic 
 change in game play, and or multi-player you will be asking yourself why did you even bother. This 
 game in my opinion was put out for the fans that wanted a little more than what they got from the 
 first one. To me the game is one of my favorites, and looking to playing some late night team death 
 matches.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXRockAweaRXx
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is basically a newer more polished and improved version of Rainbow Six Vegas. 
 Vegas 2 offers new levels, a better campaign followed by great co-op (strongly recommend you play 
 the co-op) , new guns, new system of experience, new sprint button, better graphics (not by much 
 but still noticeable) and added an option in mulitplayer that allow you to change your armor.
 
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay in Vegas 2 revolves around the one shot one kill shooter concept. One bullet 
 may be more effective rather than a barrage of 30. The shooting is actually more realistic in Vegas 
 2 because you can shoot through floors and objects. Nevertheless the combat is realistic and fun. 
 A new button has been added, the "sprint" button. Now you can run away from grenades, your enemy 
 or if you have to get somewhere quick now you can get there faster. This changes the gameplay a 
 lot if you come to think about it. Vegas 1 revolved around speed, how fast you could get around 
 corners without getting shot or running away from grenades. Now with the sprint option most players 
 tend to rush more and it feels different than Vegas 1. Good or bad? I think a little bit of both.
 
  
  Graphics - The graphics are nicer (more crisp and high def, nicer shadows and smoke grenades looks 
 better, along with reflections) , saying that they are pretty much the same as Vegas 1. Comparing 
 the graphcis to other games such as Gears of War or Mass Effect, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 falls in a 
 8.7 out of 10.
  
  Sound - The gunshots in Vegas 2 are nice and loud. You can recognize a gun just by its gunfire. 
 It may sound somewhat awkward reading that here but tactically knowing you're up against a sub 
 machine gun or an assault rifle may make all the difference. Bottom line, guns sound great. The 
 music is forgetable, some levels do have nice ambient music such as the Chinese level which has 
 beautiful Chinese music playing or the Villa which has a classical piano tune flowing. These small 
 things add up while playing.
  
  Online - Online is the best part about this game. The online in Vegas 2 is more fast paced, but 
 also in the sense you're having soo much fun you thought that 2 hours felt like 20 minutes. The 
 new experience system which revolves around getting kills or doing completing certain objectives 
 in online games gives you experience rather than the old broken system of just getting nothing 
 for killing over 12 people. This will push you to get more and do more. Standard game modes such 
 as Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch show up in Vegas 2, but new game modes such as Team Leader and Total 
 Conquest may prove to be better (assassination was taken out but team leader is basically the same 
 thing) .
  
  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a great game and is worth the money to buy. For any girlfriend reading this, 
 buy this for your boyfriend if he doesn't have it. He will greatly appreciate it, trust me ;) ... 
 anyways only thing I have against this game is no assassination and loss of my favorite maps I 
 played on Vegas 1 
  
  *BUT they are allowing the download of the map "Streets" so they may eventually add in the old 
 maps* 
  
  -replay value - Very High 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  With R6: Vegas being such a well made game, with pretty much all the bases covered, there is only 
 so much more you can do to improve upon that without completely rewritting the formula. Given that 
 this game was released only about a year & half after the first Vegas, I give much props to Ubisoft 
 for improving the R6 formula that was completely revolutionized with the first Vegas. You must 
 take into consideration that the first Vegas was a HUGE step for the franchise, and there is no 
 reason to mess with a formula that is brand new and already works so well. This is the same thing 
 that happened with G. R. A. W.. The first GRAW made huge step for the series as well, so why screw 
 with a new, well loved formula? So to all those who are taking this as a R6: Vegas 1.5 crap like 
 they did with GRAW, then I do hope you understand what I mean by what I just said. Rainbow Six 
 Vegas 2 is such a well made game that its hard to complain. 
  
  THE GRAPHICS are powered by non other than Unreal, as with the first. The graphics got minor adjustments 
 to them so they do indeed look a little cleaner, as well as some better lighting effects as well. 
 A shame the Unreal engine got updated after this game was already finished because the new features 
 it offers such as real time destruction environments that display the strains in wall structure 
 would've made a beautiful addition to any otherwise gorgeous game. 
  
  THE STORY drives completely on the same track as the first. Some more terrorists come into action 
 to take over Vegas once more and completes the story where the first left off. Its a fine story 
 that will not pull in many, but for fans of Tom Clancy then this is sure to please.
  
  THE GAMEPLAY here is the true strength of this game. Fans of the first Vegas will feel right at 
 home and automatically notice the additions. Theres several new additions here such as new maps 
 (of course) , completely seamless integrated co-op that lets you join anybodys single player campaign, 
 and allows you to complete the whole story cooperatively, a new sprint feature that is much more 
 handy then it sounds, and the addition of a new feature that borrows from COD4 called "Aces". This 
 Aces mode allows you to obtain new weapons by performing such things as a blind fire kill that 
 will benefit your close quarter combat strength. Its works very well. There is also the addition 
 of a completely re-mastered leveling up system. It has been re-done to the best, which it now gives 
 you points towards your XP for every kill that you and your team obtain. It makes leveling up much 
 more addicting, as well as more reachable. As far as the gameplay goes, there is no better tactical 
 shooter out on the market at all. And for all you Gears of War fans out there; this is the best 
 game to get to hold you out till Gears 2 releases. 
  
  OVERALL there is NO better tactical shooter on the market. This is top grade, and it made the improvements 
 necessary to make it an EVEN better game than it already was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanm354
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  this game is not a great sequel to the highly anticipated first one. That is considering that the 
 sequel only had six levels all amounting to 20 minutes or less per mission, so the campaign doesn't 
 have much going for it. The multiplayer is as good as the first game, thats the problem no huge 
 improvements. They aren't willing to take enough chances. The only difference at all made to multiplayer 
 is the easy ability to join coop games and the ranking system. the only difference to the ranking 
 system is the exp, you earn exp for kills. Thats about it, nothing else stands out, it is worth 
 buying because of the mutliplayer but dont expect anything outstanding or innovative. I think that 
 this game is worth buying just because its rainbow six vegas, this includes the fun multiplayer 
 and different guns. There are new guns and they are fun to play with but the most effect guns are 
 still from the first game. There are new maps some are bland or you could tell they didnt take 
 any effort some others were well done and are very fun to play, its an interesting balance but 
 you usually end up sticking to the select few good maps which like the first game which was typically 
 casino vault or LVU campus. Hopefully the maps will hold out and stay good. but if you liked the 
 first game you should buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenixrebirth
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Ok. Have to agree with another reviewer when they indicated this game should of been an expansion 
 pack and not a full game. It really should of been. Not that long of a game but not too short. 
 U can bang it out in a weekend. I recommend playing it on realist and not the default difficulty. 
 
  
  Gameplay is still hot. They didnt take away anything from the first installment just added to it. 
 Very nice actually. The rank up system they have is pretty good. Its still takes alotta xp to go 
 from say gunnery sergeant to an officer. The fact they made it so u can rank up in SP and Co-Op 
 and carry that over to MP is a nice touch. Although some people would say earn your stripes in 
 the MP. To each his own. Either way doesnt bother me. The weapons are still really nice and u feel 
 the diff recoil of each gun distinctively. U will definately feel the difference between firing 
 a 21E vs. a Scar. A Dez vs. Raging Bull. etc. The intensity of the SP seems a bit lower then the 
 first installment but it still will have u on yur toes. Memoriable lvls are the oil refinery and 
 the villa. I say no more. 
  
  The enemy and team mate AI are better then the first game's rendition. Team AI actually runs for 
 cover when u tell them to go to a certain point. Enemy AI tries to flank, and are a bit more aware 
 of what u are trying to do. Occassionally yur team mate gets stuck and wont move, and I have noticed 
 some rendering issue when some levels first load up like in Mass Effects. Also there were some 
 FPS issues in the SP. Not in the MP surprisingly which moves much smoother then the first game 
 but its not perfect. These are minor issues but u will notice them. The MP is still real good, 
 and the bullet penetration and sprint function just adds to the fun. Its not a COD4 killer though. 
 
  
  Graphics are meh. Its like the original installment which reinforces the idea this game should 
 of been an expansion pack. The story is a bit dry. I dont even know if they got Mr. Clancy to write 
 the story for this one. Sure doesnt scream Tom Clancy. 
  
  In closing the game is pretty good. Just had some issue with the graphics, being almost the same 
 as the first game., ad some mentionable glitches. After seeing games like Assassins, Bioshock, 
 COD4, etc u'd think Ubi would of stepped up graphically on this one. Still a good game. If u like 
 tact shooters and u want a break from COD4 i'd recommend this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rippfang
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  So the sequel to one of the most tactical and clan based game ever to be released on to the 360. 
 This game is even better that the last one in all aspects of gamplay. Graphics, sound, character 
 customisation and all around game play. The gameplay is now alot more smooth and polished. It's 
 still just as good for clans as the first one. The new added features our, More choise of weapons, 
 Camo (for amour or clothing) , even more brands of amour, cloths and guns.
  
  The story is a fun and fairly long mode to play and can be played on three different difficulty 
 modes, Easy normal and realistic satisfying shooter "n00bs" and Hardcore players.
  
  The Multi-player. The best and funnest part of the game the Maps are all brand new apart from one 
 wich was featured on the old Vegas game, but has been redone. this game almost guaranties a map 
 pack to be released.
  the multi-player hardy ever lags, only laggy if you get into a game with a rubish connection. but 
 Ubisoft have thort about rubish connections and have mad a "ping" system wich notifies players 
 if the game's connection prior to joining it. the actual online gameplay is amazing with many different 
 game modes. this is an ideal game for Clan and team gaming.
  
  the only bad part about this game is that it's fairly simmiler to the old rainbow 6 just alot more 
 polished and redone so gameplay is just about the same as vegas 1 but polihed up.
  
  There is also a added game mode, very popular on the old vegas and on the new one wich is, Terrorist 
 Hunt or T-Hunt in this game mode you and outher player (1-4) can go to a map of your choise and 
 try to eliminate computer controlled enemys (NPCs, Bots or Mobs) this is a very popular and fun 
 game mode.
  
  Also the online (and now offline) ranking system has changed. First of all you get points every 
 time u kill someone or interact with an object. Unlike the old vegas where u just got points at 
 the end of the match and every one got equil points. Also they have made up a new way to unlock 
 guns, it's tricky to explain but i'll try. Everytime u get a kill in a certain way E. G. blind firing, 
 Headshoting, killing from a very short / long distance. you get a point or several (depending on 
 game mode) in a paticular specification wich are split up into 3 sections, CQB (close - quater 
 battle) , Marksman (head shots ect. and assault ( Grenade kills shooting trough walls ect.) so for 
 Example you blind fire round a corner, you get 3 CQB points and after 100 or so CQB points you 
 unlock a shotgun or something that will be affective in CQB. That weapon you unlock wont be all 
 that effective in long range shots and is more tailor made for Close quaters (CQB) . I hope i explained 
 that alright!
  
  The two fairly big new features to this game are, the sprint button allowing you to sprint for 
 a shot period and bullet penetration (shooting trough thin objects like, a plank of wood or a thin 
 peice of sheet metal. Both work really well taking nothing out of game play but adding alot in.
 
  
  This was my review, it was my first review EVER. 
  Sorry for any spellings i have got wrong, I'm only 14. 
  i tyed to sum this game up for you and 
 in my opinion. Any shooter fan GET IT! and anyone else who is new or not to keen on shooters, i 
 think you owe it to yourself to buy this game. really good game. Thanks for reading. 
  
  
  PS. If you liked the guide please message me. if you feel like asking me some more questions 
 about any outher games I have feel free to do so.
  
  Thanks, Mike
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deathwillcome
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  The game has nothing really new in terms of gameplay and graphics compared to the previous Rainbow 
 Six game.
  
  Advantages:
  
  - Same old gameplay may not mean a bad thing. I loved the previous versions.
  - Coop single player 
 story mode is very amusing even if you have completed the game. In fact, doing this will still 
 give you experience points to unlock further items. It is much more faster to level in campaign 
 then in versus mode or terrorist hunt.
  - You are now capable of doing terrorist on Xbox Live, which is EXTREMLY fun.
  
  Disadvantages:
 
  
  - Old graphics!!!!!
  - Short story mode. Finished in less then 4hrs. Although, realistic difficulty level is a bit more 
 challenging. Still didn't finish.
  - Same old laggy connections on some versus games. This is the most annoying thing I hated in the 
 previous version and which still exists.
  
  It feels a lot like this game has been just a simple extension of Rainbow Six Vegas. I loved the 
 previous version but this game suffers a lot from innovation.
  
  My recommendations, rent the game. If you like it after several hours of gameplay, buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pill922
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoyed 2006's Rainbow Six Las Vegas there aren't any surprises here. There is a new A. C. E. S 
 system which rewards you for every special type of kill (killing an enemy using a rope, head shots, 
 close quarter kills) . You gain experience for these special kills which earn you new weapons, camo 
 and amour. Yes now you can customize your amour and clothes with about 20 types of camo. It's a 
 bit disappointing not to be able to start with all your favorite weapons but having to unlock them 
 makes sure you don't get tired with the 30 so weapons available to you.
  Now the character you create for single player is carried over to multiplayer which feels identical 
 to the first Vegas. There are 12 new maps but it's almost impossible to find a solid server. Vegas 
 1 had these connectivity problems and you would think they would have fixed it the second time 
 around; hopefully a patch of some sort will be issued. No new game modes have been added but if 
 you're a multiplayer veteran you should appreciate the modes on new maps. Now the maps are new 
 in theory but several of them are from the Pc game R6 Raven shield, so their recycled maps. 
  Now if this your first time playing a rainbow six game you need to prepared for the different ways 
 of assessing certain situations. You control two rainbow members and you can have them storm a 
 room, smoke a room, grenade a room etc. You can have them use sound suppressers and only shoot 
 when being shot at. Controlling your squad is a bit difficult at time because they get stuck on 
 the environment and they some time don't respond. Something that's new to the squad mechanics is 
 now you can point our places were you want you squad to throw smoke or grenades. The problem is 
 you and your squad throws grenades about a foot in front of yourselves. Weapons are still very 
 satisfying to shoot and sound realistic. 
  Fire fights are still exciting and the environments you visit are great. The story like the first 
 one is forgettable it gets to the point were it is "look for this guy here". The campaign starts 
 you out in France 5 years before Vegas 1. It's strange why they choose to go back in time but it's 
 still enjoyable to play. Even with these flaws you won't find a better tactical shooter on the360. 
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shinkuru
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  I think everyone knows the score here. This isn't a new game. Ubisoft dusted off the engine from 
 Rainbow Six Vegas 1 and built some more levels with it. Hell, I've heard some of the terrorists 
 use the exact same audio samples that they were using in RSV1. Having played that game only a year 
 or so ago, that seems particularly egregious. Honestly, there is nothing wrong with this game, 
 and if you liked RSV1 more than CoD4, then you will also feel the same about RSV2. Having played 
 CoD4 for several months, I think that parts of RSV2 feel a bit clunky. The character models are 
 downright embarrassing, and the animations aren't as solid either. Weapon control feels a bit loose 
 as well. Still, the game can be fun without being perfect, and that pretty much sums this one up. 
 I think its worth the 60 bucks, unless you're still living on an allowance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordanbijl
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  So I never really did beat the first vegas, so I don't know what the problem with the ending was... 
 
  so I didn't really care about the story when it came to vegas 2. 
  
  What Ubi-soft did though, was simple, They took an already amazing, fun game, and added new levels, 
 a few new features, and made mulitplayer way more fun...
  which is good and bad in a way.
  
  Those who were expecting something brand new, were shoved away to find a "vegas 1.5" to say, 
 since the only newly added features were the Right bumper button sprints (well needed too!) and 
 the new ACES (i think thats what it is) experience points system, which allows you to now earn 
 XP, on your character no matter what your playing, so you can spend time playing offline, and upgrade 
 your character and go online and still have the same rank as singleplayer... Which is and isn't 
 fair in a way.
  Those who spend most of their time online or off both have a chance to upgrade without taking forever 
 to do so. I think it was a good idea! but most don't. the ACES system rewards you for close combat, 
 marksmen, and assault (or something along those lines) so you unlock weapons for how you kill, 
 not what your rank is! though it still counts towards your rank.
  
  The new sprint button adds more fun to the game, In the first vegas, did you get sick of trying 
 to run from grenades, only to find, you can run fast enough to get away? well no more! only problem 
 is, if it weren't for the fact you have to turn around, you almost could get away. but it makes 
 it easier to get around the maps.
  
  And speaking of maps. WOW! have they ever improved, no more playing that same damn calypso casino 
 over and over again because its the only balanced map... all the maps are twice as big, and twice 
 as fun. Now you have all areas of the map to cover, so make sure you use teamwork, our you won't 
 last very long online.. or off...
  
  The enimey AI has improved a bit, they still do stupid things, and somehow can't hear your gun 
 going off, but, can hear a door opening halfway across the map...
  weird...
  
  
  The graphics are, almost the same, slighty polished, and they look the same this time around online, 
 instead of degrading the online graphics, Co-op splitscreen looks like crap, but considering how 
 much is going on, its not a big complaint. My only complaint about the graphics is the textures 
 look far to repeatitious this time around, it looked like most of the textures were taken from 
 the first game, only now there in a high resolution.
  
  My other issue (STILL!) is with the custom face feature, which is already quite good, but it takes 
 time to get a good custom face. You need absolutly perfect lighting, and make sure your hair isn't 
 parted, or it'll look like your balding, also the sides of your head look weird (as well as the 
 shape of your head, it seems to squeeze it down so your hair isn't really part of your head... 
 so you get a "flat" face, they made it alot easier to use, but I wish you could customize a little 
 more (IE like add a hat, instead of just the 3 helmets, or sunglasses, or even adding a feature 
 that lets you "edit" your face a little (in case it flattens your face) . 
  
  The campaign trys to have a thoughtful story, but like any tom clancy games , I don't pay attention 
 because usually the story isn't written well compared to the books.
  
  
  All in all, vegas 2 really is vegas 1.5, they added new maps, new graphics features, and 2 new 
 features, is it really worth it?
  hell ya, the same fun gameplay is back again, but I really wish they would bring back the original 
 rainbow six gameplay back, were tactics needed to be used to survive... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flanker15
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 23, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  Regardless of how much Rainbow 6: Vegas wasn't a Rainbow 6 game I will admit that it was a great 
 action FPS. Unfortunatly Rainbow 6: Vegas 2 is not only even less of a Rainbow 6 game, it's actually 
 not a very good game at all!
  
  Gameplay: 
  Have you played Vegas? Good then you've played Vegas 2, oh but now you can sprint and tell your 
 thralls to throw grenades. Vegas 2 is essentially a copy of Vegas only they made some new maps 
 and added some new weapons but these new maps aren't very good and the new weapons appear to be 
 re-modeled old weapons.
  Story:
  Well I'm not going to spoil anything but I believe I've seen soap operas with better plots than 
 Vegas 2!
  Rainbow 6'ness:
  Incredibly the developers have manage to stray even farther from the Rainbow 6 winning formula! 
 How is it possible to get farther from Rainbow 6 than a run and gun shooter with no need for mental 
 competence?
  Well for starters there's boss fights, yes boss fights in a RB6 game how sad. Oh it gets worse, 
 one of these boss fights is against a Helicopter gunship; ok just think for a moment "this is a 
 Rainbow 6 game and I'm fighting a Gunship, by this logic I'll be fighting ninja aliens in no time"!
 
  The gun stats are nice and stupid this time too, they can't even get the magazine sizes right 
 (Goldeneye had more realistic weapon design than this, try to get your head around that) .
  Tech and Multi:
  It looks marginally better than Vegas but that's ok since Vegas looked pretty 
 good, except now it stutters like a PC trying to play Crysis on DX-10! The multi player is essentially 
 the same except now you have even less options, like or hate respawns you're stuck with 2 for all 
 ranked games. There's no team survival and team death match this time.
  There are no options to cater to fans of the series like to turn off third person cover or regen 
 health and make guns acctually resemble they; re real life versions. 
  If you're lucky enough to enter a game, you're hit with all the fun problems than Vegas had, unbalanced 
 weapon, exploits, host advantage, run and gun and drop outs. Also if you're playing on a PS3 it's 
 more than likely you can't even get multi to work!
  Conclusion
  I said Rainbow 6 was throughly dead with Vegas now Ubisoft is just pissing on it's grave in Vegas 
 2. I'm off to join the Blackfoot studio forums they're run by one of the original Redstorm and 
 the last hope for tactacle gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chilipepper87
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 2:23 am PT
Review:  Goods: Great customization, great online and off line competitive multi player, good customization, 
 great controls, good difficulty.
  
  Bads: Somewhat dated graphics in some areas, A. I. is bad at times, especially teammates.
  
 
  If you have been waiting for a shooter that not just run n gun and involves a bit more strategy 
 but tons of fun, this is the game for you. It has all of the good aspects of shooters nowadays 
 but more realistic and cover is needed more. It has good sound all together and good voice acting 
 as well. If you played the last one you will certainly like this and if you have not played the 
 last one you may like this even more.
  
  Get this game. Period.
  
  Think of it as Cod 4 and Gears put together but with much of its own spin.
  
  
  xxxx xxx 
 xxx xxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxx xxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pipchase
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 1:55 am PT
Review:  While I liked the first R6V there were things that I felt could be improved. Mainly the graphics 
 and presentation of the multiplayer. With the xbox 360 being so new at the time of R6V I could 
 ignore certain bugs and lack of polish but with this being the second in the series I find it hard 
 to believe that Ubisoft would not up the ante a bit more in terms of quality. It even has the same 
 bugs as the first game.. Graphics to me are clunky and boring. Just like the first one you have 
 sound issues. Basically it is the same game. With different maps. I really cant believe that it's 
 getting the scores that it is recieving because of this. 
  
  
  I hate to put it this way but this game is no Cod4. What Cod4 did prove is that the multiplayer 
 can look and play just as smooth as the single player campaign. If you are like me you purchase 
 this game for it's multiplayer which is what I feel they should have focused on here more. 
  
  That's why I rented this game before purchasing. If you buy this looking for another Cod4 I 
 feel you will be very disappointed. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinkabusdog
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 1:34 am PT
Review:  When I first saw the game, I was impressed with the graphics, but as the game progresses, graphic 
 detail decays to a look almost exactly the same as the first vegas game.
  Also, the single player portion of the game is awash with team glitches like the everpresent left/right 
 back and forth twist at lightspeed of a team mate caught in a loop where they stand in one spot 
 jiggling around. 
  Most of the single player game I was on my own, because the team AI is so awful that they constantly 
 get you killed trying to revive them after having been shot for being stupid. They get in the way 
 more than help, and on the most difficult setting, this is an added difficulty not appreciated, 
 so I post them in an out of the way part of the map and proceed on my own........... the AI is 
 terrible.
  
  Story? What Story? there is none that I can follow what-so-ever. 
  There have been reviews by people flaming other games complaining about the lack of a plot or story 
 line, and R6V2 is totally void of anything resembling a story. Website reviewers claim that R6V2 
 puts to rest the abrupt ending to the first game......... ARE THEY JOKEING? This is an empty game 
 with great tactical gameplay that leaves me with no real motivation to continue playing it beyond 
 the gunning experience. 
  This is virtually the same game as the first R6V with a few tweaks and no plot. There is no real 
 reason for someone to drop 60.00 for this game if they already have the first one. Save your bread 
 for GTA4.
  
  When I spend the kind of money these game developers charge for these games, I expect.... I DEMAND 
 a complete rebuild of a game rather than a cut/copy and paste from a previous template. So for 
 half a game, I give half a score.
  Expecting value for my dollar may not be especially popular among the dumbed down masses in today's 
 world, but it's what we all should begin demanding from these people who seem more interested in 
 profit over customer satisfaction. When the gaming public are so quick to accept half hearted attempts 
 at giving us bang for our buck, I think it is unlikely, and many will continue to have their cash 
 taken from them by game corporations whose bean counters decide the quality of the games we pay 
 for.
  
  R6V2 is the perfect example of a company milking a franchise much the same as Bungie.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mortzilla3
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2008 12:03 am PT
Review:  RSV2 is a lot like the first one but with a great amount of add-ons that I noticed. I'll start 
 with the cover system. When you pop out in Vegas 2 the crosshair is pretty large and takes a second 
 for it to become small. It makes it harder now for you to pop out and instantly kill somebody now 
 but it adds a little more realism to the game. The blindfire has improved from the first Vegas 
 by being not as much spread out and more shot in the direction you want it to. So that's what changed 
 about the cover system. In Vegas 2 they also added sprint which is a very good new feature. It's 
 useful for running from grenades and from cover to cover without being shot. But now in Vegas 2 
 you also have bullet penetration which makes you really think about which cover to take. It makes 
 battles more interesting. Next are the guns. A lot of the guns have been improved in Vegas 2. Like 
 the light machine guns. The light machine guns are now a lot more accurate which makes them a lot 
 more useful. Shotguns pump action are a lot more faster this time around too. Now you don't have 
 to worry about multiple enemies. Almost each gun now can have a high capacity mag which is very 
 great for guns that shoot fast and have low amount of ammo like Famous which only has 26 bullets. 
 The high capacity mag adds about 10 extra bullets but if you put it on you won't be able to get 
 a scope or a laser. Vegas 2 has 11 new weapons to choose from. So that's that for weapons. Now 
 for the Campaing. The Campaing is probably the same length as the first one. Took me probably about 
 9 hours to be it on Realistic. The missions in Vegas are a lot better and funner in Vegas 2 just 
 because of the environment. The environment is a lot more comfortable which makes it better to 
 battle in. To get the full experience you have to play it for yourself. I suggest that it is a 
 must buy but if you don't want to waste 60 bucks then just rent it. Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is great 
 new sequel that I think you will enjoy. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajaa
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Ok so most people have played Rainbow Six Vegas or heard of it. Well the second one is out now 
 and it is a must is get. First the story, This games story is really good it puts you right back 
 in the action and gets you started. You can only play 2 people co-op which is kind of sad. Next 
 is the multiplayer, it is very good they have added some new game modes like team leader which 
 is very fun. They also brought back terrorist hunts which lets you play with 4 people on like 12 
 maps. The game play is vey good, first is the ranking system it is kind of like call of duty 4 
 with the exp on the bottom and every kill you get it goes up like head shots, close range, and 
 grenade kills. They are broken in to 3 A. C. E. S classes marksmen (long range and head shots) , COB 
 (close range) and, assault (grandees, kill through cover) . The highest point or rank in A. C. E. S 
 which is what the call it is 20 in each. The more kills you get the more points you get. When you 
 get you rank up you get clothes and outfit colors. When you get A. C. E. S up you get guns. If you 
 do not have Xbox live you might want to hold of but if you do then go get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Everyone loves to go to Vegas. So, it isn't surprising that Rainbow Six would be returning back 
 to Sin City. Unfortunatley, Ubisoft Montreal has never EVER looked back and asked themselves what 
 ddin't go so well in the last game. Luckily, unlike that s*it stain of a Rainbow Six game called 
 Lockdown, the multiplayer, Co-op and Single Player modes a awsome.
  
  On the Positive side: Aside from Call of Duty 4, Raiinbow Six Vegas 2 has the best multiplayer 
 on the 360 as well as some pretty sweet single player levels, visuals and sound effects.
  
  However, not all of the Single-Player missions are as good as I hoped for them to be. As well, 
 this is all brought to you with one of the worst save systems ever. Lets take a look at one example 
 from the game. During the sixth mission, it is you solo versus a horde of really smart baddies 
 and if you have an extra Wii wristrap, put it on so you don't chuck your controller at the T. V. 
 Not only are the bad guys EXTREMLY accurate, the checkpoints are spaced out brutally far apart.
 
  
  In the end, it still is Rainbow Six Vegas and it stills follows the same formula that it did in 
 the original, for better or for worse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jasonfinger
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  RSV2 is an interesting title. Lets start by saying that the graphics are a bit better than the 
 1st RSV. You play through the game by yourself or with a friend in Co-Op. 
  
  Co-oP- 
  
  Pretty cool? Kind of, Player 1 has control over the squad so player 2 seems like there just 
 kind of there. Player 2 will have glitches while playing co-op, for example some dead bodies don't 
 show up for Player 2. The AI for your squad is glitchy as well. Sometimes it will feel like your 
 playing with a bunch of drug addicts that are zoned out.
  
  All in all the game is pretty fun, Sometimes you will experience terrible frame rates when there 
 is a ton of stuff on the screen. The whole game starts convulsing (only seen it on one level so 
 far) . You can get promtoted by earning XP from online or offline games. This will let you choose 
 different accessories like, weapons, armor, or clothing.
  
  All in all, not a too bad game but it does have a bunch of bugs in it. Feels like your playing 
 an old Beta. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cowman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Everything you liked about the first game can be said without words because when you start the 
 game up, all the features can be identified and new users can identify them too very easily as 
 the HUD is displayed neatly. 
  
  The reason I am giving this game a low score are the bugs in which i have had to face while playing 
 this game.
  
  grenades getting stuck in mid air and objects, along with team mates getting stuck in weird places 
 and on top of each other and if you give them order it looks like they are doing something so very 
 dirty for such a macho game.
  
  Overall this game is still fun to play, the locations are cool, the difficulty has been tuned perfectly 
 for the casual up to the hardcore and what we have here is a superb combo that just fails to execute 
 because some bugs were able to get passed the test phase. sad because i've had to restart a level 
 more than once because of bugs and glitches. 
  
  All I can hope for is Ubi to patch up these issues.
  
  Good game and would recommend it to 
 anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holycowimalive
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that makes us tom clancy fans appreciate what we stand for. This is a remake of a 
 classic game but with some new things to make it more interesting. I appreciate what this team 
 puts in to this game to entertain us gamers these days. Tom clancy has made 51 games to this day 
 and is still going I am impressed to see that these games are still popular to this day and that 
 many people are starting to notice how mcu fun you can have with these games. These games are a 
 slow paced tactical and takes patients to complete these games. I hope to see many more of these 
 games and to see many more people into these games.
  Tom Clancy has games for many systems like psp, ps2, xbox. xbox360, ps3 and even the gamecube. I never 
 really was into gaming but when I played one of Tom Clancy's master peices I was hooked. i just 
 got my copy of Rainbow six vegas 2 today and I loved it, like the way you can create your character 
 and choose your weapons and the 3rd person veiw and also the sprint these are some major changes 
 and are good changes. 
  "5 cheers for Tom Clancy" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nirvana918
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  Ya know, I never thought a game would come close to making me completely forget Halo 3 as Call 
 of Duty 4 did, then comes Rainbow Six Vegas 2. This game is better than the original. The graphics 
 are great, the gameplay is solid, and the multiplayer is a blast.
  The additions of being able to jump into games already in progress, and being able to move players 
 around on teams when the room is already full are great. The sprint button adds a whole new demention 
 to the game that definitetly makes it feel more fast paced, especially after the ridiculously fast 
 C. O. D. 4. Also the addition of some retro maps from Rainbow Six 3, Rainbow Six Black Arrow and 
 even from the last edition, were a great idea.
  The enemy AI in the campaign is smarter, if not much, than the first game. Just enough to make 
 you notice the difference and slow down just a bit when running through levels. Your AI partners 
 also seemed to have gone to school and learned a little more about not running out into gun fire, 
 although they will still go on these suicide missions and sometimes hide in cover in the not the 
 best spots.
  All in all this is a great game, definitely worth buying and playing over and over again with your 
 friends on xbox live!!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HvK_DEMON
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  I really Enjoyed this game alot, good fun the story was good and the online was nicely dun. But 
 their are still some things that they should of worked up on more. Being able to level up wile 
 you playing story mode or any mode for that matter. is really cool and it lets other players who 
 don't have online the chance to get the experance of online. Also they added more guns witch was 
 a nice add on. But the only main problem that i can say that this game has would be in the terrorist 
 hunt. When i was playing it their would people on ladders and stuck on ropes. really weird stuff 
 also some times they would spawn terrorist right next to me when i was in a boxed room with one 
 opening. But all in all it was a good game and i have bin playing for 3 days now and i really enjoy 
 it. This game is a def pick up for any one who likes shooters and wants to have fun and be challanged. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackadams1964
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six: Vegas 2 is well worth the sixty bucks it demands. First off, what makes this WHOLE 
 game for me, is the character creation. Put your own face on the character or make up an equally 
 hard ass model to teach a lesson to those tangos. 
  
  The satisfaction of the character creation isn't all the glory. Vegas 2 seems to have the mentality 
 "If it isn't broken, don't fix it." The squad tactics are nearly identical to the first game except 
 for the fact that they can throw grenades for you now. I personally think that was a good move, 
 because the squad tactics ROCKED in the first game as well. 
  
  The story feels a little weak, but the ending is nothing short of pure satisfaction. Finish the 
 game with your face on the operative? Sheer self esteem boost. 
  
  The one beef I do have with Vegas 2 is that the bodies disappear. Wtf is that? The first game, 
 there'd be bodies everywhere and you'd be all "Damn right, I did that." But after you look away 
 for a while? Poof. Bodies magically vanish. 
  
  But do not let that lame let down drive you from the game. Everything else is pure, blood spilling 
 tactics that make you feel like the military is missing out by not having you in their ranks. 
 
  
  All in all, 9.5. The games a blast, and everyone should jump on the bandwagon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tombradybaby
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  If you loved the first game, you will love this one. I absolutely loved the first game, im about 
 a hour into this one and i love it and it has quenched my vegas thirst.
  Nothing has changed since the first game, except the dash button, very useful and GOW like, but 
 a very welcome addition. Squad are still very reliable, graphics and music identical to the first.
 
  So, far the game has delivered everything i wanted in a sequel.
  If you have yet to play the first vegas, please go buy it, you will love it. 18 on play. com and 
 you know once you finish, you have a great sequel to hook up with.
  Fans of the first will not be disappointed, this game isnt amazing or ground breaking. Its just 
 such a great game and so enjoyable to play. I cant think of a bad thing to type about either if 
 the games.
  GET INVOLVED!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackKobra94
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 has almost everything you want in the game. It has an awesome story and great 
 multiplayer and great weapons. The story kind of tells you how the attack in Las Vegas began. The 
 multiplayer is great becasue of inviting your friend (s) to a ranked match. Thats right inviting 
 your friend (s) in ranked matchs. The game modes are little different now in Vegas 2. Ubisoft added 
 new game modes like Team Leader and Total Conquest. Team Leader works like this: Each team has 
 a leader and the team needs to protect the leader and escort the leader to the extraction point 
 ;however your leader is your only respawn sort in other words if your leader gets killed you can't 
 respawn, but if you get killed by the other team's leader you can't respawn. The main goal is to 
 protect your leader at all times. Total Conquest is the same in Vegas 2 like i Vegas 1 except the 
 title is different. The weapons are fantastic. Ubisoft added 10- 12 or more; new weapons into the 
 game like the M468, SR-25SD etc. Overall the is awesome and I recommanded for a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainbowsix11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  Well I must say that ubi-soft has done it again. They have produced another great game that I think 
 is better than the first one. First of all I think that the graphics are a little bit better and 
 are not as muddy as the first game. Not that the graphics are bad in the first one; I just found 
 that I could play 2 for hours and not get a hedache. Not the case with number one. I also really 
 like the new reward system; ACES. I found that it was a great way to reward players. Finally my 
 all time favorite part of the game. Or should I say my friends favorite part of the game is being 
 able to create your own dude and jump in at any time even when the host is on single player missions. 
 Plus all of you can rank up and get new stuff. 
  
  The only con. in the game is controlling the team when you have a friend over and you are both 
 playing. I found that it was kind of difficult trying to keep them with you when you and your friend 
 are flying though the levels. They often get shot when you are way ahead of them and then have 
 to sprint all the way back so you don't fail. I suspect though that they will become useful as 
 the levels get harder. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OGslayer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 6:42 am PT
Review:  graphics have been improved (MP on first vegas was disgraceful to HD tv.) vegas isnt like a new 
 engine or anything its just a lot more polished up and much cleaner looking. game runs at 30 fps 
 which isnt too big of a deal but cod4 spoiled us with the 60. all the modes are still there with 
 the addition to a couple minor things. the ranking system is redefined. the game is doing someting 
 cool to unlock gains and exp by rewarding points for certain kills. pretty much this game will 
 hold you over for a couple of months. i dont think it will be played as strong as the first one. 
 the variety of maps is fun because some require close quarters combat but then when you go to move 
 position you might have to kill someone with a sniper rifle. personally i like this game a lot 
 more then the original and it will be played hard until GTA comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walker1846
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  after the success of the first rainbow six vegas (and ending) it was inevitable that a sequel was 
 on the cards while the second vegas game doesnt feature much in inovation it produces a solid and 
 extremely fun tactical shooter, beleive the hype because it would be a bummer to not kill terrorists 
 in sin city again.
  
  an important feature and nice one is the customisable character, weapons and clothing it adds a 
 bit more to the game although you you have to unlock upgrades by doing stuff such as headshots 
 and most importantly terrorists.
  
  The story is fairly straight foward and is fun to play but coop online or off is a joy 4 players 
 in terrorist hunt match is sweet and you can even play it on one screen. snake cam is back again 
 and the usual assortment of arsenal except its all customisable now.
  
  if your into solid tactical shooters do yourself a favour and at least rent the game and you will 
 find out how good it feels to kill terrorists.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sludge15
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a prequel and partly a sequal to Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six vegas 
 1.... however it is basically identical to the first in every single way:
  STORY:
  4.0
  The Story To This Game Is Absolutely Terrible It Is Hardly Engaging And Has A Particularly Boring 
 Plot.....
  
  Gameplay:
  9.0
  Better Than The First But It Is Almost Identical To The First..... They Have Tweaked Around With 
 The Controls To Make It Easier To Perform Actions Like Tagging Terrorists And Switching ROE.....
 
  
  Graphics:
  8.0
  EXACTLY the same as the previos Vegas the graphics made me think i was still playing RSV1.... however 
 it still pleases me that the locations look as buitifull as the first vegas......
  
  Difficulty:
  10
  Challenging Fun And All Round Perfect...
  
  A. I
  8.0
  Improved From 
 the first but your teamates still have spaz attacks when you tell them to perform some difficult 
 actions... and can also not be seperated from eachother which i found dissapointing.....
  
  Length:
  7.0
  Short Unless Played On Realistic But Is Still A Thrilling Campaign....
  
 
  Multiplayer:
  9.0
  Great Stealthy And Tactical Multiplayer But It Is Annoying When The Ping For Matches Is Terrible 
 And You End Up Lagging And Being Unable To Leave The Room You Spawned From Because You Keep Getting 
 Magically Thrusted Backward By Lagg.
  
  Overall:
  9.0
  Not Worthy To Be Called A Prequal Or A Sequal But Still A Good Game.
  
  Contact Me At:
  XBL 
 - GT: Halobuster66
  MSN - ADD: Adam-Birch@Hotmail. Co. Uk
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lusion69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 12:52 am PT
Review:  Though Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a good game it does suffer from short comings that just don't make 
 sense. First off we will start with the controls. Largely similar to the first RSV the controls 
 should feel pretty much exactly the same right? Wrong, the controls feel a little more twitchy 
 than they should. The cover system just doesn't feel as tight or stable as with RSV, so I find 
 myself bobbling up and down and sideways, not all the time by far but enough times to notice. I 
 have even caught more than a couple bugs in the campaign, mostly glitched character animations 
 or waypoint glitches, where the waypoint would not move. Once a corner that let me lean out one 
 time but then not again. Suddle control tweaks have been made to make room for the run button, 
 which does make getting to cover a lot easier and is done pretty well. Also just a side note, it 
 feels like you throw grenades like a girl, I remember being able to throw better in RSV, it feels 
 like I can stand up and toss at a good angle and my frag will make it all of 15 feet. 
  So how is the game? Overall it is very enjoyable, truthfully the controls are tighter than a lot 
 of games on the market. But such a high profile game should not suffer from these problems (especially 
 on a rehashed game engine) . The single player campaign is packed with really intense fire fights 
 all the way through. And your team is pretty easy to command, and fairly capable of getting the 
 job done when you need them to shoot people, or in my case cause a distraction so I can shoot the 
 people. All of the levels are really nicely put together, with multiple paths of entry to pretty 
 much every room. Lots of strategy goes into completing the campaign, thats what I love about the 
 series's single player campaign is the need to be stealthy and precise at all times, run and gun 
 is almost useless in every scenario. Another thing that I really appreciate is that the CO-OP is 
 really fleshed out in this game. In the last RSV it was bare bones run from waypoint to waypoint 
 no real story telling took place other than the action. RSV2's Co-op is exactly the single player 
 campaign with an extra player tagging along. Terrorist Hunt has also been improved. This time around 
 you can go at it solo or with you cpu squad. In co-op terrorist hunt you can respawn, witch makes 
 grinding levels easier, and losing less of a worry. Speaking of levels you gain rank pretty much 
 like you did in the last RSV except this time it is active across every mode of play, so anytime 
 you shoot someone anywhere in RSV2 you get XP for it, thats cool. Experience also varies at different 
 difficulties , and type of shot. I. E. A shot on realistic difficulty from a far distance is worth 
 more than the same shot on any easier difficulty. Also all of your xp goes into your overall rank, 
 different types of shots also count twards three specific fields Marksman, CQB, and Assault; these 
 fields are how you unlock the guns. As for guns there are plenty, I didn't notice any that were 
 in the first RSV and not in this one, and there are several new additions.
  Multiplayer has several new maps, as well as a couple returns from RSV or its packs. There is also 
 a gamestop exclusive which is on disc and does not require a download or a generated code, you 
 just go to the extras and type Comcast Faster, and bam new level! Stupid really, ultimately its 
 just gonna cripple people that aren't in the know. Multiplayer its self is basically the same as 
 the previous game, paste the new maps, guns, and run button. I don't know if you could do the snake 
 cam in the previous game's multiplayer but you can in RSV2's multiplayer. So maps good, guns good, 
 run good, remember everything that was bad about the previous multiplayer? Hey its back! If you 
 don't, here's the skinny. Lag is a constant nag, yes you can get into a game with no lag, its usually 
 at a 10 player cap (not 16) , and even then its few and far between. It may only be a slight hop 
 every minute and a half but it bugs the $#!7 out of me. Also none of the levels are very big at 
 all so its hard to see why lag is, and always has been a problem, nor are they that graphically 
 impressive which further adds to the mystery. That said the level size also produces another problem, 
 namely frag grenades, namely all the noobs and "skilled warriors" who claim the majority of their 
 kills by blindly flinging them fifteen feet in any direction they hear gun fire from. Spawn camping 
 is also as big a problem as it ever was, and equally annoying. Don't get me wrong I loves to blow 
 some stuff up with a frag or two, but I usually always know there is someone there, and I Love 
 running in and raping a few people in their spawn on my natural trek through the level, but I don't 
 sit right outside of it and wait for them to come out of the three exits from their spawn with 
 my whole team. These two tactics are basically what most games boil down to, whoever can get a 
 firm grip on the spawns or whoever kills the most people with random frags. If your in a clan these 
 things might not pose a problem, but if your a casual player it comes into play more.
  The graphics are not improved which I wouldn't take off for but the textures actually seem to be 
 less detailed than the textures in the previous game, with the exception of the characters who 
 I think look better. Guns did not get a visual upgrade which I would have prefered over character 
 models. The single player experience is good it never really got me excited, but was entertaining 
 enough not to put down. Multiplayer is a bunch of the same if you've played RSV, a solid experience 
 with some balancing issues that may get on your nerves. All of the other modes are very well done 
 and seem to have addressed all of the wants of gamers. There are plenty of guns, as well as new 
 additions, and thats what this game is all about. The feel of each gun is as always unique to each 
 one and they all feel great. Upon gaining guns and rank you also gain access to Armor, and Camo, 
 and Clothing items, all but the armor are cosmetic and as fast as you die at harder difficulties 
 and in multiplayer it may as well be cosmetic. An above average first person shooter, RSV2 does 
 the job up good for die hard Rainbow Six fans, but is probably more of a renter for people who 
 enjoy a more refined look and play for their FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nnakatsu
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 12:10 am PT
Review:  The game's sound effects are not very good, the grenades to the gun fire. The graphics are not 
 as sharp as I thought they would be, and the small fonts in all of the multiplayer lobbies strain 
 my eyes.
  Overall Id say this game is not worth buying, but for $20 I'd buy it.
  
  I like Ghost Recon 1 or 2 better than this Tom Clancy Game.
  Id say of all the shooter's ive 
 played, Call of Duty 4 still beats them all. Gears of war and Halo 3 are next on my list.
  
  If you like slow paced multiplayer matches with a lot of camping and bad sound and graphics, 
 get this game. This game made me want to puke after an hour. Its not that I dont like tactical 
 shooters, but this one is definitely not worth it.
  
  I havent played the single player mode yet, I only buy games only for the multiplayer modes on 
 xbox live. Maybe the solo mode will be worth it, but it just gets boring to me playing against 
 the AI, kicking the living &^%$ out of them. Playing Real people online keeps me thinking and on 
 my toes. 
  
  If you love multiplayer on xbox live, this game will not please you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Of course, "Vegas 2" doesn't break new ground like the original did. Instead, it simply refines 
 what the first game did so well; immerse the player in highly intense firefights with spy-like 
 elements which wouldn't be out of place in a "Splinter Cell" title. In addition, there are now 
 lite-RPG aspects to the game. Kill enough bad guys with headshots and you're awarded with a snazzy 
 new sniper rifle. Blow away bad guys point blank range and you're given a shiny new shotgun. You 
 get the picture. This is a game that rewards your efforts with lots of cool unlockables. 
  
  The graphics have been improved from the first Vegas. They're a tiny bit sharper and the environments 
 are now even more destructible. Online has plenty of smaller sized maps which enhance the intense 
 shootouts. I don't have COD 4 yet, but I can tell this is one of the better tactical shooters out 
 on the market today. If you loved the firse "Vegas", than you'll like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sosotiit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Loved the R6 since ... and still do enjoy it just as much, but there is always a little something 
 more you would like to see/have in a game? and for me it would have been the ability to move my 
 team without requiring direct line of sight.
  
  In the first R6Vegas, it was on freemont St where I realised that I had flanked the enemy but could 
 not tell my team to advance without having a line of sight to where I wanted them to move. I had 
 to go back move them 10 feet and go back to flank!!! not ideal for this type of game.
  
  A few months after the first R6V, Ubi came with GRAW 2 where you could on the map move your team, 
 or by activating the vision as one of your team members, you give order to your team to move. Both 
 of these allowed you to manoeuvre your team such that you could squeeze the enemy and that without 
 you having to be basically by their side.
  
  I was sure it would come in this R6V , Still a great game, but could have been a nice added feature 
 from the first R6V.
  
  It is great to see three difficulty level, 
  Feel THunt difficulty is one step above the story difficulty (casual of Thunt is as tough as Normal 
 in Story mode)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiney50
Rating: 9
Date: May 10, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  This game along with the first Rainbow Six Vvegas game is what an FPS is all about. Great gun battles 
 in very intriguing and interesting settings. Multiplayer always fun. Well done Montreal Studios. 
 Nice Sequel. Thermal Scans an interesting touch. Persistent identity and rank from single player 
 to multi and back is a very nice touch. Rainbow Six really excels when it comes to the physics 
 of shooting and the real visceral feel of the gun battles as glass and other objects shatter around 
 you. Very taught action. Well worth the investment... I must say. For the full fun effect of the 
 game, in the single player mode, play it on Realistic mode. This is the most challenging. Multiplayer 
 is very engaging too and is a real addition to the Rainbow Six Vegas map set. Lots of FPS games 
 try to create innovative storylines and other features. Rainbow six focuses on the intensity and 
 tension of a real heavy gunbattle and this is where it really shines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skormm
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 21, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  I thought the first Vegas was pretty good, it brought a few new things to the table. But, Vegas 
 2 is a huge dissapointment in my opinion, the graphics are the same, there's pretty much nothing 
 new besides a couple new game modes, neither of which are anything spectacular. This game would 
 barely qualify as a decent expansion. The muzzle flash, explosions and blood splatter are look 
 extremely fake, the aiming system is almost as flawed as Army of Two. Even though Call of Duty 
 4 wasn't the greatest game of all time (too easy to be good at.) It did have an amazing aiming 
 system in my opinion, the best i've used in a long long time, even though all games seem to really 
 exaggerate how inaccurate a gun is when it's fired from the hip... If you're 10 feet away from 
 something and shoot 5 rounds at it with any gun... chances are you will hit it atleast 3 times 
 unless you're a complete idiot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikees1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  Well what can i say, this is my first reveiw so here goes! Yesterday i got the eagerly anticipated (well 
 for me anyway) Rainbow six vegas 2, iv only had about 5 hours on it so far but in that time iv seen 
 a completly solid game. It does not claim to break new barriers and it is generaly the same game 
 with some new tweaks, added polish and new areas. The first noticable addition is the sprint feature, 
 anyone who played the original knows that getting from cover to cover could mean being slotted 
 between the eyes in the process or taking enough rounds to turn your vision black (and yes that 
 still happens!) but now with the sprint you stand a much better chance of making it to that upturned 
 table, bar or fruitmachine. The other new feature is the ability to take out tango's who previously 
 you wouldnt have got due to them takin cover, granted you cant shoot through all cover but if you'v 
 got the right rifle and your target is behind soft cover then he's as good as dead. Also added 
 is the ability to tell your team mates where to drop a grenade, useful for taking out a tango behind 
 indestructable cover. The other new feature is the cover one team mate will provide for the other 
 when a move order is given, they now leap frog each other providing cover as they do. A new radar 
 is also an option, pressing up on the d-pad produces in the right hand corner for a few seconds 
 a layout of the area your in also showing up on it are any tango's that you may have missed or 
 are about to come across. Im not sure how much i like this option, i have only used it once before 
 but seeing as how im not far into the game im sure i may use it again. My only gripe being is it 
 takes up a bit of the screen, but then i spose that is why its called up only and not permanently 
 there. All in all i think my score reflects how i feel about this game. Ignore the other reviews 
 that give this game abysmal ect. They obviously do not have the inteligence to do anymore than 
 run an gun! Like i said on the review of the previous rainbow-its the thinking mans shooter and 
 in my opinion its well worth the money i paid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  I never played Rainbow Six: Vegas, but I constantly heard that it was a great game with great online 
 multiplayer, so now since a new installment to the series has come out I figured I'd give it a 
 shot. 
  
  First off, despite the "2" in the title, Rainbow Six: Vegas 2 is no sequel it's a prequel. This 
 is somewhat confusing as to why they did this, but the game does play right in the first really 
 well. You start the game off five years prior to the game in france where you Bishop are in charge 
 of two recruits one who is Logan Keller the team leader from the first game and the other turns 
 out to be the main antagonist of the game. As far as story line goes its pretty much just Terrorists 
 weapons in Las Vegas, that's pretty much all you really need to know. Despite being named after 
 Tom Clancy, the story isn't all too engaging. 
  
  Game play wise, the gunplay is a lot slower than other modern FPS like Call of Duty 4. This isn't 
 a bad thing by any means. RS: V2 is more about tactics rather than run and gunning. Instead you'll 
 be stopping at every door you come to looking through with a camera, telling your teammates what 
 to do, and carrying out your tactics. Ubisoft has described Rainbow Six as "the thinking man's 
 shooter" which is possibly the best way to describe the game.
  
  Along with the slower pace, you'll find the game a bit harder than other FPS. If you screw up your 
 tactics and burst in a room with out a plan, you might be a little screwed. But when you do kill 
 someone with your tactics you'll be rewarded with experience much like you are every time you kill 
 someone in CoD4 online, except this time you can get exp online and offline. With higher rank you 
 unlock better weapons and better equipment that like your experience you can use these items online 
 and off.
  
  Online has a ton of stuff to do. There are lots of maps and lots of modes. There are your standard 
 team death matches, set off/defuse a bomb, ect. Also there is a mode where you and some others 
 must go through out the map getting rid of terrorists that are place around the map. It will take 
 you a while to get bored with online being that there's just so much to do. If you're looking for 
 something to take you away from CoD4 then this may be it.
  
  On the negative side, I've experienced a few problems quite early in the game. First off in the 
 strip club level I experienced a high level of frame rate issues a long with sounds cutting off 
 and not even play (like enemy gunfire.) And from what I've heard from nearly everyone, the game 
 isn't exactly all that newer than the first one.
  
  Overall, RS: V2 is one great shooter that just lacks overall innovation to separate it from the 
 last one. If you were a fan of the last one, or just didn't experience the last one, you will probably 
 enjoy this one as well.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo5514
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  i love this game. its so much fun. and its such a nice difference from COD4 i loved cod and i also 
 love tis game. i love how it has a more tactical feel to it and i love how they added the new sprint 
 button to speed things up. Online and terrorist hunt are my fav, things to do. online is cool and 
 most of the people are really nice. and team leader is one of the best game types. this game is 
 so fun and the graphics are good but sometimes the frame rate dips which is only sometimes. but 
 other then that i have no problems with this game. so i would tell everyone to buy this game!! 
 dgjapgjapgjapgjagj pg adpgjapg ajgo gjgo djd jd gj o gojgo jd god od odj go gopa jte tja ut ga 
 a apipaej pau pa gpajpa gpadj gapjg paegjsonf d javn l djpadgj d pgjad apgop ae gjge gdj gdg adg 
 adgjg agjadg pagja gadgjadg gjag; ja gpajgadpjg 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoiled_spanich
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  Alright, so you are reading this player review. Though I am only one gamer, hopefully I can make 
 a difference. I'd just like to say one thing first though:
  
  not an expansion pack = vegas 2
  
  I must say the game is impressive on many frontiers. The 
 tactics and general feel is very satisfying for any shooter. Yet, as you have probably heard, there 
 was a bit recycling going on.
  
  It didn't bother me at first, but, through the single player campaign, it was a bit head-scratching. 
 The weaponry and story was extended, but is that all? I find this repetitive, the same design and 
 graphics, but hey, it was still pretty damn fun. 
  
  It kept a weeny bit too much on the original to make it a truly epic game. But, I think any gamer 
 should consider twice, renting is probably a good bet. 
  
  So if this review isn't a deciding factor (or is it?) , be sure to read other reviews. The experience 
 is hidden, it is willing to be revealed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aM_Inspire
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  In preparing to write a review, I usually read a dozen or so user reviews to get an idea of what 
 points I should focus on. The majority of these reviews fall into a couple categories: people who 
 like Vegas 2 better than the original, but rate it lower, and people who seem to think the series 
 has been ruined by Vegas 2.
  
  Let's start with the latter. I can assure you, the series is far from ruined. Framerate issues 
 are hardly noticeable - and I don't mean it like 'Mass Effect's framerate issues are hardly noticeable', 
 I'm being serious - the framerate 'issue' is not really an issue.
  
  As for the former, I have a theory. Sequels, of any genre, apparently have an additional facet 
 that is judged when they are reviewed. It must be human instinct to compare a sequel to its predecessor, 
 but I sometimes wonder why people are looking for something completely new and innovative in a 
 game or movie that is a sequel. If a game goes too far off the reservation, people hate it; but, 
 if it doesn't do enough new or 'take enough risks', people still hate it. It's an almost impossible 
 balance to strike, particularly when the previous title was Rainbow Six: Vegas, the 2006 Shooter 
 of the Year. 
  
  Personally, I think I think such a standard is a boat full of carp. Now, don't misunderstand: Expectations 
 of a game are important, and I'm all in favor of comparing the game to its predecessor, but it 
 shouldn't be any different than comparing it to any other game. Dinging a game on a review just 
 because it's a sequel, and dressing it up as some cool cliche, like, "been there, done that," just 
 doesn't make a whole lot of sense. I mean, it's called 'Rainbow Six: Vegas 2', not 'New Game X'.
 
  
  Now that I've beat on that issue until it's good and dead, let's move on to the review.
  
  The Good:
  Vegas 2 does almost everything right. The campaign is a lot of fun. You'll find 
 that the dynamics have been tweaked, which has a considerable impact on the game. Vegas 2 adds 
 the concept of penetration, or soft cover, to the game. Enemies can shoot through light cover - 
 this includes sheet-rocked corners and temporary partitions, among many other things. It really 
 changes the concept of hanging out behind a sign or a corner and waiting to pick off your enemies.
 
  
  Another addition is that your teammates now have a limited amount of gadgets to use between them. 
 This may have an effect on higher difficulty levels, but outfitting stations are very plentiful 
 in Vegas 2. They can also pop smoke, frags, and flashbangs in any place you tell them. Which brings 
 us to the AI.
  
  Gamespot hit the nail on the head when describing your partner AI as mostly helpful, but occasionally 
 retarded (paraphrase) . Your partner AI is very adept at acquiring targets. It also does a much 
 better job of using cover than it did in Vegas. Your partner AI will now make use of cover along 
 the way while executing move order across the room. The infiltration ROI also seems to be a bit 
 more effective (e. g. your partners actually return fire) than it was it the original, but that 
 just may be because my personal style of play has changed from one game to the next.
  
  The enemy AI has become emboldened in Vegas 2. They're better shots, they track you better, they 
 advance in a tactical fashion, and they will shoot you through soft cover. You really have to make 
 use of your team and your environment and think on the fly to progress through the game.
  
  The levels are fun and new, as well. Each one is laid out in a very believable way, and has plenty 
 of cover to move through. The graphics are much more rich and smooth than the first. I know a few 
 reviewers have left comments about the brightness, but the brightness is adjustable, and darkness 
 is just a part of the game - use night vision or thermal vision.
  
  One big change is how the PEC extends to the entire game. I won't get too deep into that, but it's 
 really a lot of fun. The new experience system that allows you to unlock different types of weapons 
 independently depending on the types of tactics you use, while gaining general experience to unlock 
 gear, is a lot of fun, too - it's something that I wish they would have had on the original Vegas. 
 
  
  There's a few new multiplayer modes and maps, but I haven't spent too much time on them. The cooperative 
 play is a lot of fun, too. It feels much more complete than the campaign co-op felt in the original 
 Vegas. However, as the GameSpot review noted, only one player can give commands to the team, which 
 will leave many players feeling like a third - er, fourth wheel. 
  
  The Bad:
  Well, the worst part of Vegas 2 has to be how the enemies can spawn literally right before your 
 eyes. It doesn't happen nearly as often as it did in the original. The framerate thing is forgivable, 
 but it also has to be factored in.
  
  Conclusion:
  Vegas 2 is definitely a great game worth buying. It has a few flaws which you might find a bit 
 obnoxious, but they're overshadowed by the great gameplay, story, graphics, co-op, mulitiplayer, 
 experience system, and customization that Vegas 2 offers.
  
  Honestly, I'd like to give Vegas 2 a 9.25, as I don't think it's quite a 9.0 or 9.5 (at least, 
 not right now) , but I'm going to buck the trend here and not ding on the game just because it's 
 a sequel. There's easily 50+ hours of high-quality gameplay here - Enjoy!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpuchess
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 4:36 am PT
Review:  This game is much better than the first one, I have really enjoyed playing it. The graphics have 
 been improved as well as the AI. The game features some nice improvements though minor make the 
 game more enjoyable, things like remembering you gun settings from one round to the next.
  
  They did seem to fix the problem of the enemy AI frequently being behind the door. However, 
 the problem of the enemy AI's just popping up in front of you or more annoyningly behind you is 
 still there. I really wish they would all the enemy AI would spawn at the same time my character 
 does. Seeing the AI get spawned right in front or off to the side ruins the suspension of disbelief. 
 More importantly they should be looking for me more than I am looking for them, this part doesn't 
 make any sense at all. They should be patrolling like a security guard or like the AI on GRAW2. 
 Most maps you know where many of the AI will most likely be, they are not always there but you 
 have a good chance of it.
  
  Regardless of these problems I still like the game and the game play and would recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capitancahonas
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2008 2:36 am PT
Review:  Ahh to be Tom Clancy, his vision when setting up red storm way back in the 90's has really paid 
 off nicely. The franchises he has helped into existence offer a consistant level of quality and 
 realism (ish!) not often seen in the video game industry, and regularly top the sales charts. R6V2 
 doesn't disapoint and Tom's minor input will still result in yet more fat royalty checks! (Jealous!? 
 me!?)
  
  As tiredness begins to take a hold of my senses, lets just say that I've been up all night (again) 
 charging through the single player campaign, which you'll complete in under 10 hrs (not including 
 100's of deaths on the hardest setting) . Everything feels familiar, with a tightening up of some 
 of the controls and the oft' mentioned "new" dash feature adding real urgency to the frequent, 
 frantic skirmishes. The real buzz for me though (at least in sp) is still found when setting up 
 an assault on a location and storming into a cluster of evil-doers via doors and windows (inverted? 
 sweeet!) , whilst issuing team commands via the headset (Go go go!) . 
  
  The voice recognition can still be a little squiffy at times though-especially when tired/drunk- 
 and I found myself issuing commands in a thick south african accent when my usual slurred speech 
 did'nt get the required results. U. S chat seems to work well, and even french and german gets some 
 results, I s'pose I am more easily amused by the harsh, pinched cadences found within the afrikaans 
 language/accent.
  
  Graphics are great, sonically we have a winner, with a really good, entirely apt' orchestral soundtrack.
 
  
  The online play is still pretty solid, with a few minor tweeks and modes that serve the sequel 
 well, if not groundbreakingly so. The online combat is more tactical than say COD4, but has a more 
 arcade feel to it (than R6V) , probably due to the running about now possible. You'll still be slammed 
 against cover a lot of the time though. Thankfully, the cover system is still good, with improved 
 blindfire.
  The developers have clearly stuck to the premise of "if it aint broke.. and thats fine, give the 
 people what they want and are accustomed to, and you've probably got a hit on your hands.
  
  In summation, a sound investment for shooter fans, with excellent online opportunities for 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insane_metalist
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2008 11:30 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a great tactical shooter. So far It's one of the best FPS out right now. 
 Rainbow Six Vegas 2 has been improved a lot from the first one.
  
  Features - Some of the new features added to the game are - You can now actually sprint instead 
 of being all slow and thinking uhh great! It's grenade once again and i'm dead! Some new weapons 
 are added to the game. Maps - Some of the old maps are still in R6V2 which is great you can still 
 play your favorite maps with your buddies. But of course there are bunch of new maps you can play.
 
  
  Single Player - It hasn't really changed much. They finally added a new *difficulty" to the game. 
 So now there are - Realistic, Normal, and ***Casual***. So if you're new to the game and just want 
 to beat the game quick see how it feels you can finally pick casual. It probably won't make much 
 fun though. You still get 2 AI partners with you. If you want to now you can invite your friends 
 and beat the game on co-op. That's a new feature in previous R6V there wasn't a co-op for campaign. 
 Also don't forget Terrorist Hunt missions can be played in co-op with your friends, up to 4 players. 
 Also every mission in a game is about one a half to about two hours long. *There are total of seven 
 missions in the game*.
  
  Multiplayer - Changed a lot i would say. There a lot less modes for multiplayer now. There are 
 about 6 modes left most of them are new. It doesn't mean it's a bad thing though. The multiplayer 
 is still great and it is one of the best games online. To unlock all weapons changed. In R6V it 
 use to be you had to hit rank "Elite". It's the highest rank in the game and it would unlock all 
 weapons. Now you have to kind of like challenges to unlock the weapons. Also the achievements are 
 great in campaign and multiplayer in case you're into achievements. 
  
  Overall - If you had R6V and you're wondering if you should get this one then the answer is yes! 
 It's a lot of fun. Or if you're looking to some great FPS that can less for a long time for online 
 and offline then i would recommend you get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bladealpha92
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2008 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a highly-addicting FPS with much character, suspense, and strategy under 
 it's belt. There is much to this very promising game. Although it is much like the first RS Vegas 
 there are many new features. Character Customization lets you create a custom character with face 
 paint, guns, gadgets, clothes, and armor. Terrorist Hunt lets you grab your team and hunt down 
 a set number of terrorists in the multiplayer map of your choice. You can host co-op story mode 
 matches or host a Terrorist Hunt match or an online multiplayer deathmatch. In a nutshell it is 
 much like Gears of War and the first RS Vegas but if you look past the similarities and envy the 
 gripping storyline, intense multiplayer, and stunning graphics, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a great 
 game for any FPS lover.
  
  Gameplay: 8 / 10
  Sound: 8 / 10
  Originality: 5 / 10
  Learning Curve: 30 min
  Time to Beat: 4 hours strait for storyline
  Time to Fully Unlock: about 
 48 hours
  
  Overall: 8 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigtruckseries
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is not a very big change from the original Vegas but since everyone will rush out to 
 get this game, you're pretty much forced into the upgrade just so you can still be able to play 
 with your friends. 
  
  Rainbow 6 Vegas 2 feels like little more than an expansion pack. 
  
  A $60 expansion pack for a $60 game. 
  
  Besides some tweaks to the control interface such 
 as the new Call of Duty4 styled SPRINT BUTTON in the [LB] button, this game is still the slow paced 
 quasi-tactical game it was in VEGAS1. 
  
  And there really isn't anything Tactical about this. This game is a CANNED HUNT unlike the original 
 Rainbow 6 which forced you to outline an entire plan around a map so that you could successfuly 
 cover every major entrance/exit. The Terrorists here are just waiting around for you to kill them 
 and for the most part, its easy to know exactly where they'll be. 
  
  I appreciated Call of Duty 4's damage system because when you got the drop on someone, you killed 
 them dead and there was very little protection afforded by armor. In Vegas 2 (just like V1) we 
 are back to stinging bullets which can injure, but not kill, unless you manage to spray a guy at 
 point-blank range. 
  
  The graphics are good, the sound is good, but nothing really jumped out at me. As I said before, 
 this game feels like a full-priced expansion pack. 
  The only true changes are to be found in the multiplayer and they really only have to do with how 
 you level up. Its nowhere near as good as Call of Duty 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SavageJedi03
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Lets get one thing straight : I liked Vegas. I did. It was a well-executed game, the play was excellent, 
 it was frantic and I enjoyed playing it. I liked Vegas 2 as well. The flipside to this coin, is 
 that I never felt so constrained, forced, coerced and funneled through hostage scene's in a video 
 game before Vegas. These seem to pop out of nowhere. Oh all of a sudden there's someone in distress, 
 and you have no time to plan. They're making their ransom demands while you're setting up your 
 breach. Oh what a perfect world they think we live in... Seriously, its like they threw those in 
 there just so you'd have a use for flashbangs and suppressors... Otherwise all the firefights can 
 be won with a couple of frag grenades and your trusty MP5. Oh and, why expose yourself to an enemy 
 when you can just blindfire and get a lucky headshot in there? While realistic with the way they 
 handled the cover system, it is in no way a tactical idea to even get into a firefight that requires 
 that in the first place. Sure not everything goes as planned all the time, but come on, tango's 
 rappelling down through skylights on top of the Rainbow team?? Nothing else screams "Arcade-Feeling" 
 more than that does.
  
  They keep touting these latest installments as "tactical" shooters. Rainbow Six was tactical, Rainbow 
 Six : Rogue Spear was tactical, Rainbow Six 3 : Raven Shield was tactical. This, this is a fun 
 game thats misnamed and trying to parade itself as Rainbow Six, and is anything but tactical. They 
 could have just as easily made these games about what they are now and called them some sort of 
 an offshoot name, which would have been more befitting. Alas, it seems that everything has to be 
 made to specifications which can please the largest audience rather than keep the die-hards, and 
 they couldnt do it by keeping Rainbow Six what it was and giving the other group a different game.
 
  
  I'm personally glad I rented this rather than purchased, because it wasn't what it should have 
 been, was short, and the multiplayer, while fun, just doesnt make up for the lack of "Tom Clancy"ness. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zimbermen97
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 20, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Disappointed after all the wait! Too much resemblance with the first episode while you are paying 
 full price of a new game. Basically they took the 1st episode and just change the map. Should have 
 call it an add-on instead (like Halo 2) . The controls are a bit quaky and you have to fiddle around 
 a bit. I find that most of the "scenes" are way too dark and I find myself or my kid squinting 
 all the time. Literally have to take a break for my eyes every scene. I am playing on a 42" HD 
 LCD and still hard to find the enemies. The enemy always pop out of thin air! The so called "check 
 points" are invisible barriers triggering the spawn of enemy but their preset location makes it 
 wierd. You can clear an area then hit a spawn point and enemy starts apperating in front of your 
 eyes! This is simply poor design that comes from shipping deadline. I think I will go back to COD4 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diehrdgamer
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 20, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  This will be the first review I've written on GameSpot. I usually don't feel the need to do so 
 since my opinion on the game is the same as everyone else's. But I felt I needed to let the public 
 know about the facade that has been placed over Rainbow Six Vegas 2 (henceforth referred to as 
 RSV2) .
  
  At first I was skeptical about RSV2. It was announced just a few weeks after Call of Duty 4 was 
 released, and nothing was shown off. To me it seemed like Ubisoft didn't like what Activision was 
 dishing out, and decided they needed to do something about that. The first few videos did nothing 
 for me. The death animations were generic, the graphics were sub-par and the whole game seemed 
 stale. Then some more videos came out, and I don't know if there was some sort of subliminal messaging 
 embedded in the video, but the game started to look better and I left those previous doubts behind. 
 I went into GameStop, picked up my copy, and went home eager to try it out. After about 15 minutes 
 of play time, I felt nauseated.
  
  All those doubts I put away came bolting out of the back of my mind and slapped me in the face 
 with a big "I told you so." How is it possible that a sequel to a game looks worse than the first? 
 So what if there are new adversial modes? Why does Team Deathmatch now blow giant chunks of regurgitated 
 vomit? The new experience system would be a nice touch if I didn't have to face hordes of clans 
 online who have spent the past 48 hours playing the game. What happened to gaining XP win or lose? 
 If only I knew 40 people who had no lives to sit with me and play games all day, maybe I could 
 have reached Elite ranking too.
  
  I feel bad writing this. I really do. I had such high hopes for this game. With the released of 
 Call of Duty 4, we were shown the path of the righteous. Activision and Infinity Ward had given 
 us a pedestal from which to climb and build upon. But some of us are content with trying to build 
 our own. Well we've seen how this pedestal size contest ends. And guess what? Call of Duty's is 
 bigger. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cd146
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game, but it has the base qualities of an excellent one. Unfortunately I sometimes 
 just want to reach out and choke the guys at Ubisoft Montreal for all their brain lapses while 
 making this game. First, the framerate is terrible. I can see 20 fps traversing environments which 
 should not be that difficult to render. Speaking of environments, they are sometimes nice, but 
 often unrealistically bland and boringly textured. Second, the coop is buggy. I can't count the 
 number of times my friend has been disconnected for no reason, or lagged out like crazy. Also, 
 there really should be a lobby for coop, when I want to play with a friend, we both want cutscenes, 
 but I must first start the mission and only then can I invite him. Third, the multiplayer mechanics 
 need some rethinking. I must attempt to connect to seemingly a dozen matches before one accepts 
 me, all the others simply won't allow me in for no stated reason. Once I have completed a match 
 I must reenter the same ridiculous process because I can only play with the same group once. I 
 understand the motives behind this but still find those rules to be utterly ridiculous. Give me 
 the ability to automatically join a match ala CoD or Halo. I'm not entirely dissapointed in my 
 purchase, it's an alright game but it has problems (problems which I believe Ubisoft could easily 
 correct in one good patch) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imafnpro
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  R6V2 - Plays like a shooter should. Controls, graphics and AI are all solid. Not great but solid. 
 I really don't have much to complain about except that the story is the same, old and tired, terrorist 
 of mass destruction are coming to get you.
  
  Last night my pal and I logged on and started the story in co-op mode. We talked about what worked 
 and what didn't. When AI would perform an 'intelligent' action and when, well, a bad guy would 
 end up shooting into a corner (actually I'm not even sure if this sort of thing ever occured) . 
 We talked about and ogled the games art, textures, lighting, story, March Madness and politics. 
 You name it, we talked about it.
  
  From a social aspect the game is great. We had a lot of fun and generally were not let down by 
 our experience. The fact that the story was fairly old only added to our fun by providing comedic 
 moments. There is a scene where a bad is guy is cornered by you and your team. At first he feigns 
 innocence... Look, writer-a-hole-guy, the average age of the R6V2 is greater than, failing to know 
 specifically, 12. Meaning, we've all scene these types of ploys before. Bad guy feigns being a 
 good guy just before whipping out a pistol. Needless to say, almost in unison, my partner and I, 
 without words, dropped the bad guy before he could get to the part where he shows his true colors.
 
  
  So, the story is old and tired, the graphics, sound and AI are all 'good'. Is there anything in 
 the game which rates a meritorious plug? I'm glad you asked.
  
  PEC + ACES = TONS OF REPLAY: evidence in the fact that every action, whether single player, co-op, 
 terrorist hunt or MP, works to build experience which has a direct impact on options available 
 when customizing your character. I play therefor my character has access to greater weapon/armor 
 options! Game developers take notice. We, those who buy games, like this sort of thing. Keep it 
 up.
  
  So what am I saying? Without any glaring issues, playing R6V2 with my bud was much like watching 
 a movie with friends. And much like a good B movie, there will, at least in my mind, be times where 
 nothing else sounds better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elisecobrauk
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  I didn't play the original TC Vegas game nor had i ever played any Tom Clancy game before , so 
 if i was to continue playing TC games this would have to impress me. 
  
  I first started the game playing the "Terrorist hunt" mode , which is where you are told there 
 are a certain amount of terrorists which you have to kill. I began on a map called "Villa" , probably 
 recognisable if you have seen the trailer or some of the screenshots. My task was to kill 25 terrorists 
 with the help of 2 AI soldiers. The first time i played it on Normal (Equivalent to medium) and 
 found it rather hard , but i persevered and once i managed the controls became able to play more 
 effectively . 
  
  One of the things you learn is , effective squad control , this is done with simple movements on 
 the "D-Pad". You can command your squad to move to a set point , or to open doors . You also have 
 the ability of ordering grenades to be thrown . The fact that these are easy to do sets this game 
 apart from some other squad based games.
  
  I then started to play th story mode , co-operatively with one of my friends. I have one huge complaint 
 with this mode and that it splits the screen from top to bottom instead of side to side , this 
 doesnt allow wide screen and really restricts your vision! As always i persevered and began to 
 march my way through battles and scale walls. I really enjoyed the missions especially the battles 
 , they were intense , powerful and very realistic, this game really makes every one of your moves 
 vital to your success in defeating the terrorists. I also noticed how quickly we were completing 
 the chapters , we seemed to get our gamerpoints , every half our or so for doing this. Im not saying 
 this is a problem , but length may turn out to be an issue. I also have to notice the settings 
 , beautifully made and well chosen , not once before have i played a game where you fight through 
 rock climbing facilities and gymnasiums , casinos and junkyards , and even a base high above the 
 clouds! These really add an extra aspect to gain praise !
  
  The multiplayer aspect of this game is also very well made , and offers extended life to this game 
 . The way it works is effective to , gaining "Experiance points" to unlock new clothing, armor 
 and weapons . This can often prove to be a very time consuming part of the game.
  
  Overall this game had good points from me , which i always think is a good sign , but all i can 
 say is i WISH the co-op was in widescreen ! But i suppose luck cant always be on my side ! 
  
  Anyway i would really recomend this game to anyone who loves an fps game , or just loves to 
 shoot terrorists ! my verdict is 9.0/10 
  
  I hope this has helped you ............ Elisecobrauk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: franky111
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off with the singleplayer. You are Rainbow operative codenamed "Bishop," who is called 
 back to duty in times of need. In the first five minutes you are thrown into the action, not a 
 single boring moment at all, the visuals of everything busting and breaking around you is absolutely 
 exhilirating. Also, just like in another classic title, "Gears of War," a friend can seemlessly 
 jump in and out of the story and the game whenever he or she pleases. This time around you don't 
 stop after every level, (If you know what I mean by the first vegas when it would say after every 
 level, "The match has ended!") You just go through the story as if you were playing alone. There 
 is now Co-op Terrorsit hunt, along with several new adversarial game modes. Did I forget to tell 
 you that you create your SINGLEPLAYER and multiplayer with the PEC system this time? Who could 
 forget the innovative, beloved A. C. E. S. system? You earn XP and points for doing certain actions 
 while in combat, you also have a new, convenient XP bar at the bottom of your screen with your 
 rank displayed. It is also alittle easier to rank up in this game than it was in the first, where 
 it took you an hour, maybe longer, just to fill up one of the five bars, plus the one at the bottom. 
 Also, the XP system is now COMPLETELY INDIVIDUAL, except in coop scenarios. What I mean by this 
 is if your team loses, you don't just get like 300 XP even if your were the best player on your 
 team, now you will actually be rewarded for that. Also, if you have completed the singleplayer 
 and played the multiplayer in the first installation, you automatically get your rank boosted to 
 Private Second Class when you begin playing the game. Who wouldn't want that? Another thing, ACU 
 camo! Gotta Love it! The enemy and friendly AI is also an incredibly forward leap in video game 
 technology, and when terrorist are yelling, "I'll cover you! Go! Go!" He will open fire while the 
 other darts to more cover. Gotta love the leap-frogging technique! Now there is one bad thing that 
 kept me from giving this game a perfect score though, the textures. Some textures on the levels 
 and weapons are absolutely dreadful and unpleasing to look at. (It's almost exactly the same from 
 the first vegas.) it almost made me cringe when I saw the fork-lift in the second level. Quite 
 a few are improved dramatically though. The framerate makes up for this, it is one of the best 
 framerates I've seen for an Xbox 360 game, and I'll take that over a few more polygons any day. 
 Aside from SOME of the poor textures, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is a flawless masterpiece of gaming, 
 and is absolutely worth that $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: threedown
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  I was eagerly awaiting the release of this title, the marketing of this game was excellent, i bought 
 into the hype once again, shame on me...
  
  the graphics are dated, boring repetitive and very blocky looking, no innovation in the gameplay, 
 the story... what story, i dont even know what it was all about, very short too by by the way. i 
 played the on-line team deathmatch for awhile, and HATED it at first, most of the maps were horrible, 
 i couldnt figure out any stategy whatsoever, just run and gun, i gave it another try, got in with 
 a group of cool people and had some fun with it for awhile and got to know some of the maps somewhat, 
 i just dont like the way the whole thing is set up, i dont see myself playing it that often, give 
 me COD4 any day, where the graphics are sweet, the gameplay is fluid and the action is intense 
 and even though the story is short, it offers a ton of variety in the missions you do and the onine 
 play is awesome... you get none of that with rainbow six. the only thing i liked is the cover system, 
 the repelling in through windows and.... and thats pretty much it... yawn, theirs probably people 
 who will enjoy this game, obviously by some of the other reviews which gave it 9 and 10s????? so 
 all i can say is please rent this one first befor you decide to buy it, ive had it 2 days, and 
 dont know if ill pop it back in again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOL-1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  well this game seems to be getting some serious flak does'nt it? I don't know what people were 
 expecting, but in my view this game delivers. Yes it plays very similarly to the first vegas but 
 why is this such a bad thing? The ai is very good, and the graphics have been tweaked enough to 
 make a slight improvement over the original. 
  
  One of the best improvements over the original is the addition of more external enviroments. I 
 got a bit bored of running around casino's and hotels in the first, it all felt very claustrophobic 
 by the end. The addition of "experience points" for kills is also a nice addition, getting these 
 points allows you to unlock extra costumes and equipment allowing for customized players.
  
  I have'nt played the multi player yet, but from what i understand its as good as the original, 
 so i look forward to trying it out this weekend. All in all its a very good game, if you have played 
 the first, its more of the same with some added extras. If you have'nt then your in for a real 
 treat (allthough for story purposes i would play the first one first) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHO_ONE
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  I remember the first Rainbow 6 Vegas game I owned and played! It wasn't the best as far as it's 
 graphics but the game play and addictive nature it possessed were questioned by none! It roared 
 into 1st place and stayed there for all to admire. To this day I still watch as people on my friends 
 list pop in Vegas 1 and play for hours. I watched for months in anticipation, read and watched 
 reviews on Vegas 2 all to stop in my local GameStop and pick up my beloved R6V2 and tear it open 
 and jump on line with my brother and friends to... to die a little inside!
  
  We watched in horror as we couldn't play 4 people co-op like we used to, even though it says you 
 should be able to in more than 1 spot on the box. The graphics were so dumbed down that I felt 
 my 10 year old son was on there color scheme team putting greens with purples and don't get me 
 started on how little attention was spent to any detail, the geometry of the cars, buildings, rooms 
 etc.. Were all just to simple! 
  
  Lets get passed the horrible graphics and geometry.. The sound* I have never be so un-impressed 
 by a games sound, or should I say a lack-there-off. I would die and there would be a buzzing sound 
 in my surround sound speakers and when firing my fire-arm the sound would just cut out for a millisecond 
 and pop back in. 
  
  The new A. C. E. S System is a joke. They took what COD4 did and gave it a 4th graders attempt at 
 improving it. When I play COD4 I understand what's needed and how to improve, in R6V2 it seemed 
 a bit to over complicated. COD4 and there Perc system was absolutely brilliant and when playing 
 R6V2 no matter how hard I gave it a try my brain yelled "PUT IN COD4 NOW!!!"
  
  I spent over $60 on R6V2 and if I don't trade it in now for at least half of my money I don't think 
 I can ever be right mentally again! UbiSoft you FAILED!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BillionSword777
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  Take pretty much all of the Good stuff from Rainbow six Vegas 1 and multi-player Call of Duty 4, 
 put it together, with a massively upgraded co-op mode, and you've got Rainbow Six Vegas 2!
  
  If you like tactical shooting games, The new features and upgrades make this one of the best 
 multiplayer experiences on the 360!
  
  Imagine playing Call of Duty 4, only in Las Vegas, with a team of Rainbow Elites.
  
  Well worth 
 playing, and if you are a fan of either series, it's worth buying.
  In a way, with all the inspiration Ubisoft "borrowed" from Call of Duty 4, It actually IS almost 
 like a new installment! If this game did not take place in Las Vegas, It could easily pass for 
 Rainbow Six 5!
  
  Sprint, Cover, Shoot through walls, Rank up DURING combat, Drop in - Drop - out co-op, Set up multiple 
 weapon loadouts... Sniper, Recon, Assault, etc. P. E. C. stays with you for campaign as well as multiplayer, 
 so you can even change your armor at the weapon boxes!
  
  Over all, the ambitious improvements make for a welcome and refreshing trip back to the City of 
 Sin!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cubspack
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  If you already own the first Rainbow Six Vegas you won't need this one. They are basically the 
 same. Look the same, play the same, sound the same, and feel the same. I expected more detailed 
 and realistic graphics. When watching your character climbing up or down, the guns he's carrying 
 appear painted on him. The feel of firing a gun has not changed. I guess COD4 has ruined most other 
 shooters because of the time they spent making it right. To me, there was huge difference between 
 GRAW and GRAW 2. Put one in my console without me seeing it, and I can imediately tell which one 
 it is. Not so with Rainbow 6 Vegas. IMHO, Army of Two was way ahead of this game and Gamespot rated 
 it lower? This should have been offered as a 29 dollar add-on to Vegas 1, not a $60 stand alone 
 game. Rent it first, this is definately not a step ahead of a game that came out 2 years ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IrishCyanide
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  My biggest disappointment with this game was the fact that they are doing ANOTHER Vegas venue. 
 While it doesn't concentrate on Casino's, it's still IN Vegas. Why? I'll never know.
  
  My second disappointment with this game is the lag and low frames per second in certain areas. 
 It's a console game, this shouldn't be happening. While I only noticed it in several different 
 levels (The entire strip club was a big slow motion fest for me) , for the most part it's smooth 
 gameplay throughout the game.
  
  My third disappointment with this game is I spent 60 dollars for expansion pack content. The graphics 
 aren't really improved, it's the same weapons with a few new ones. While they have improved some 
 over all aspects of the guns, it's nothing new.
  
  But, these are all minor complaints that I have. Should you rent it? No. Should you buy it? Yes. 
 The added features such as being able to swap out your outfitting at any point in the game (Including 
 armor and clothing) is great. On singleplayer, if you die just after outfitting, your outting configuration 
 is saved. What's even better is if you find a weapon on an enemy you haven't unlocked, you can 
 get ammo from the replenish bins, AND you can customize it - even though it's still locked. What's 
 better is the in the first game, there was maybe one or two parts where sniper rifles came in handy. 
 In this game, I almost always have one equipped because you never know when you'll need it.
  
  The levels are so much fun. Ubisoft really went over the top with the way they present the 
 level. You can't run and gun in this. Enemies WILL aim for your head. Also - if you think you're 
 the only person with a shield this time, watch out! Enemies ALSO have shields now. Let's hope you 
 are a marksman. 
  
  Overall, the content and fun levels are what makes this game great. If you can overlook the complaints 
 I have which I have been - this makes it a great game. I'm still finding multiplayer just a TAD 
 more fun on Call of Duty 4, but so far I have had no inclination in playing CoD again just yet. 
 Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is just too much fun.
  
  If you like FPS's, buy this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: all-star16
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is the best shooter of all time. My favorite game of all time 
 too. Very realistic. Great guns, great character customization, great armor, great maps, great 
 controls, great story line, great characters, great graphics, great tactical options, great game 
 modes, great cover system... what more do you want. Its a great sequel that continues a plot and 
 adds new features and improves other things such as graphics. Better than the first. Awesome online 
 play. Lots of online modes. Great new rank system. Story missions are fun and exciting. Story mode 
 incorporates stealth, tactics, and great firefights. Very polished. I haven't seen any glitches 
 so far. This game is a must own for Xbox 360. Id recommend it to anyone. All in all, Tom Clancy's 
 Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is one of the best shooters of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brian5
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  Like it's cousins sequel Ghost Recon 2, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 would be more aptly titled Rainbow 
 Six Vegas 1.5. That's not say it's not worthy of your time. Ubisoft has fixed what few problems 
 there were on Vegas 1 and borrowed some ideas from other francises namely COD4 by having added 
 a sprint feature and experiance points (XP) for completing specific kills and leveling up ones 
 charcter. The multiplayer has been given a bump with better conectivity, some new maps and some 
 old favorites (Kill House anyone) . The single player and co-op campain are average at best as the 
 level design and locals are no where near as good as the previous game. Your sent mostly through 
 back alleys, some roof tops of run down casions, a strip club, & a large estate complete with a 
 tennis court finally (WTF) . For me this was a let down as you lose what made the first game so 
 sucessful namly the cool factor. Mostly the ablity to repal down large sky scrappers and breach 
 into buildings is nuetered here. Ubisoft, I believe is ready to leave the streets of Vegas behind 
 them and move the series to a diffrent local. While the singleplayer campain is a bit of a yawn 
 Rainbow Six fans no multiplayer is were it is at and you be happy to know with all the new features 
 carried over from the campain are included here in the multiplayer as well. Also the XP you achevie 
 in the campain portion of the game can be carried over to your online charcter. The new maps for 
 online are good however the ablity to play the Red and Black DLC on here would have been welcomed 
 and given Vegas 2 a leg up on the competion in the form of the sheer volume of maps available. 
 You are going to get some series replay valve with Vegas 2 with the online aspect of this game. 
 But the question is did Ubisoft do enough to tear you away for Call Of Duty 4 as the players that 
 have made that game such a huge hit are the ones most likley to purchase Vegas 2. That answer is 
 probley no. Rainbow Six 2 is a nice distraction for the short term. It still is the best tactical 
 FPS shooter out there and it's gun mechanics are sick dare I say better than COD 4, but Ubi has 
 not done enough to call this a true sequel, it's more of a extension to the first Rainbow 6 Vegas. 
 Think of this as Rainbow 6 Vegas 1.5 and you will not be disapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: life4hire
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  Rainbow Six Vegas 2 (RSV2) sticks to the tried and true formula of its predecessor Rainbow Six 
 Vegas. The only downside of this formula is the lack luster textures. The game may appear to be 
 more clear but visually there is just no comparison to any game coming out now. But, take note 
 most games now look a lot better but play a lot worse than RSV2. 
  
  The game does a great job of making you "feel" your guns firing. I'm not talking about controller 
 vibration feedback but the visual appeal to firing the guns. There is a certain satisfaction to 
 burning through your 30 round clip in a matter of seconds successfully downing two enemies then 
 a third comes around a corner guns blazing at you and you have to get behind cover to reload and 
 popup to return fire. This happens a lot and is very exciting all because the guns are presented 
 so well.
  
  The levels are quite large and take a while to work through. The lesson I have learned the most 
 is to take my time. Numerous times I am repeating a checkpoint by getting too excited praying and 
 spraying to be gunned down right before I hit the next check point. So, I have slowed down and 
 have had my team mates use flash bangs, smoke and frags to help me. Your AI team mates are pretty 
 good in my opinion. A few times I sent them into an area first because I couldn't clear it and 
 they made mince meat of the enemy with lethal authority.
  
  By far my favorite feature is the single player experience points allowing you access to unlockable 
 items such as armor, weapons, camo schemes and gadgets. What you unlock in single player stays 
 with your character into the multi player experience. To my pleasant suprise the game picked up 
 I had played Rainbow Six Vegas (the predecessor to RSV2) and gave me three unlocks right at the 
 start calling me a "Veteran" (Sweet!) . This helped a lot considering I can't hit the broad side 
 of a barn with a battleship cannon pointing right at it... he he.
  
  Althought I complain about the graphics not being up to current standards they are by no means 
 ugly. After an hour or two of looking down the sight of your gun and watching the grenades fly 
 you wont really care about nicer textures.
  
  I haven't hit up multi player yet but if it is anything like the first Rainbow Six Vegas which 
 I have heard its better then multi player will rock.
  
  This is a great game with a great feel to it. 
  
  I highly recommend this game for tons of 
 fun.
  
  Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RainWolf32
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 20, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  I have been a huge fan of all Tom Clancy games. But unfortunately. Like the Hitman series. Its 
 going down hill at a rapid fast pace. This game is boring, predictable, the graphics are washed 
 out, patchy, and not even next gen. The gun sounds are very unrealistic. You have choppy frame 
 rate, lag, it takes forever to get online. 
  
  The story line is bland, boring, unoriginal. The cover system is awkward with holding a button 
 each time you hit a wall. And it has a very clunky, buggy looking at shoot from cover animation. 
 
  
  There are much better 1st person shooters out there. This game is not even worth a rent. Its very 
 bad. The buggy animation. The clipping and wierd textures. The bad gun sounds and animations. The 
 very bad AI and the team mates are just like bots. This is worst game this year. I have given up 
 on tom clancy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wutevrman
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  I really expected more. Not more of the same. It was almost like an expansion (some extra maps, 
 delete some games, add some game, take away 4 player coop campaign, add limited spawn points for 
 instant deaths from a spawnkilling fragfest, add an XP system that you can carry from SP to MP) . 
 I bought it to play with some friends on my friend list, but they, the die hard RS guys, said "wow, 
 I expected more". I guess it's okay if you want to slow your pace down a bit. I will say Terrorist 
 Hunt is a little better because at Realistic difficulty and high density, it's slighter more interesting 
 (the terrorists come looking for you) . The campaign, even on a difficult level on co-op is still 
 fun, although a little short so far. I started campaign SP, but it got kinda boring having to wait 
 for your teammates (which get stuck against walls and cars alot) , so I started doing coop instead 
 (at least two of us don't get stuck) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mafia_hitman01
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  I loved R6V, and when I finally got my hands on the sequal, I was wrapped. I drove home, ignoring 
 any traffic laws, popped the game into my Elite and sat back. Single player was great, I passed 
 through a few levels and thought I'd better get stuck into the multiplayer.
  1st map, Killhouse-WTF?
  2nd map, Presido-WTF?
  3rd map, Streets-WTF?
  
  This is the sequal 
 isn't it?
  
  Some new guns, the ability to run, a couple of 'new' maps and graphics that are of a high quality 
 PS2 game.
  
  There is nothing new or fresh about this. The changes that they have added could've been a 1gb 
 marketplace download for 1200 MS points. Instead they'e charged us $100 for a singleplayer game.
 
  
  This is a fine example of a company milking a franchise for the sake of a $.
  Ubisoft should be ashamed that they've spent 18 months on a game that offers nothing new or creative.
 
  After the COD4 patch wrecked the game for Non-U. S gamers with the host migration, R6V2 was supposed 
 to give us a new hope.
  Aren't we lucky EB games has a 7 day return policy????? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: souljaboy_101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  in rainbow six vegas 2 you are the leader of a group of elite counter terrorist, team called rainbow 
 and you are in vegas to kill terrorist, , the game play is ok but i only liked this game for the 
 online , and the A. C. E. S. that IS A customization tool that will let you customization you character 
 and weapons , to get new weapons and armor you have to get ranks by geting kills like close range 
 , sniper kills and assault . The AI in this game was kinda odd in a way , your team allways gets 
 in some sort of trouble but thats not the point , over all this is a great game , but i only bought 
 it for the online , but if you dont have online , the single player and co-op is still verry good 
 
  
  peace
  
  
 
   . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . .. . 
 .. . . . . . . . .
   ....................... ....... . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskongen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  
  
  OK. So Rainbow Six Vegas 2 is basically like the first one, with a few exceptions.
  
  
  Game-play : The game-play is very similar to RV1, similar maps, enemies, sounds, But even 
 though it recycles much of whats been seen in RV1 its still one great ride, With never a dull moment, 
 You'll be constantly checking doors, tagging enemies, deploying grenades or ordering your team 
 around. The Single-player Campaign is alright, its not too long nor does it have much of a plot, 
 but it feels long enough when you've beaten it, it can be beaten in one day.
  
  The best part of RV2 is the Co-op story mode and Terrorist hunt, in my opinion, and the fact that 
 the Character building system has been enhanced. The new system Called A. C. E. S (Advanced Combat 
 Enhancement Specialization)
  This rewards you with Experience in every action you do almost. There are also 3 Categories, Close 
 Quarter Combat, Assault, and Marksman, When you do actions that fit into these categories you earn 
 points in them, and eventually you unlock weapons, XP boosts, armor and such.
  
  You will also gain ranks which also unlocks different armor types and Camo colors, and more. 
 
  
  Unlike RV1 You can now Sprint, which is very useful in most situations.
  
  Difficulty levels have also been tweaked, Realistic is much harder than before.
  
  
  Graphics 
 : Graphics are better than RV1, which is rightfully so, they look very good, some character models 
 look odd however, but there is nothing to complain about, the scenery is good too.
  
  Sound : Sound can be one of the most important factors of a game, without the Right music or sounds 
 for the game-play, it won't feel the same. Luckily RV2 has it all, The weapons sounds realistic 
 on every aspect, Grenade sounds has explosions according to where you here them from, if you throw 
 it in a window from outside, it has a powerful isolated sound, While there is little Dialog in 
 the game the voice work is pretty good, the main Character Bishop sounds a little like John DiMaggio 
 the guy who voiced Marcus Fenix in Gears of War. Surroundings all sound good, and the Tension music 
 blends in with the Game's Atmosphere.
  
  Bugs : Not a lot, but i have encountered a few, Most frequent would be the Gun fire bug, where 
 something interfer with the gun sound and it loops over and over like someone with infinite ammo 
 was firing constantly, sometimes it goes away quickly sometimes not so quick. 
  
  Team mates sometimes do things you never ordered them to, like once when i was securing a rappel 
 rope one of my guys just climbed up on his own accord and got killed and i failed the mission.
 
  
  Also some places to take cover act up like you're lagging badly when you try to peak around the 
 corner, and some places perfectly good for cover wont allow you to cover behind, sometimes you 
 cant take cover where a team mate is even though there is plenty of room.
  
  Last bug i can recall is the Private First Class Achievement. If you've played RV1 before you will 
 get a XP reward when you start RV2 which rockets you past PVT 1st class, therefore not being able 
 to get it, a patch is needed to fix this problem.
  
  
  
  Conclusion : Too much of the same isn't always bad which Rainbow Six Vegas 2 Successfully proves, 
 The game is a Action packed great sequel
  With a Great multi-player, Definitely worth getting if you liked the first game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aduana69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  empesemos, Raimbow Six Vegas 2 es un buen juego, buenos graficos, el unico problema desde mi punto 
 de vista es que te da la sensacion de ya haberlo jugado. No lo tomen a mal pero uno cuando compra 
 un juego espera algo mas, algo innovador, tomemos el ejemplo de Gears of War o el de Orange Box, 
 que son juegos que deja con la boca abierta.
  
  Ahora pasemos al juego que es lo mas importante lo bueno es como toda sequela continua desde el 
 ultino punto de Vegas 1, pero muchas escenas tipo pelicula cortan la sensacion de fluides del juego. 
 Muchos se preguntaran porque escrbi este review del juego en espaol. Preguntenselo a Gamespot 
 que me tiene harto de que cada vez me quita un punto injustamente. Yo no he robado ideas de nadie 
 caramba hasta cuando con lo mismo. This part is in english gamespot notify me with a point loss 
 the reason I do not Know but since they don have any rules about writing reviews in spanish to 
 bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killiasxxx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  Ok, first rainbow Six Vegas Amazing. This One is As good and better. It has a better Rank System 
 A. C. E. S. The customization its even better to has more armor camo ect. Maps a really fun has some 
 old Vegas ones like Killhouse and some more. NO LUV Campus if your woundering but there is one 
 just like it I think its called Villa. Co-op story online isnt as fun because only 2 can play. 
 Bishop and Knight. Bishop tells the 2 AI teamates to stack up and stuff Knight is just your buddy 
 no real purpose. The story mode is very cool because you pretty much create your own character 
 his Name is Bishop. NO LOGAN KELLER he is there but you dont play as him.
  
  They also if you have Xboxlive (" that where the fun really is") everyone loved it. Ok well Team 
 death match has been changed in ranked matches which is cool but not cool. Well you only have 1 
 spawn after you die u come back then if you die you dont spawn back. But Player matches you can 
 have 
  The AI has gotten a little smarter the use sheilds and tactics and try to flank u its super fun
 
  
  And the graphics are even better they have alot more detail in eeverything this time around.
 
  
  
  Ok Im editing my review because of the bad reviews of this game LikeBeen There Done That" Don't 
 even play like that ok Whats Halo 3 then. RSV2 its did what Halo 3 did according to some reviewers. 
 Like NEW WEAPONS, A NEW STORY, AND SOME MORE NEW STUFF. 
  
  SOUND FIRMILIAR HALO3 BUT IT GOT A 9.5 OK SAY IM WRONG BUT COME ON PEOPLE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpyderUK
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 6:06 am PT
Review:  When the original Rainbow Six Vegas came out, how could any man with at least an ounce of testosterone 
 not be excited? I mean it's Vegas (the best place in the universe) ... with guns. There is nearly 
 no way that can end up badly. While the game's setting winded up being one of the factors that 
 made the original game so damn appealing, the original Vegas game wasn't great because of its setting 
 itself. Rather, it was the excellent gameplay that came with it. From the game's excellent cover 
 system, to its root in tactical warfare, the original game made a war-filled Vegas come to life.
 
  
  
  But there is still alot of things to be done in the entertainment capital of the world, and Rainbow 
 Six Vegas 2 is here to do them. You're going to get new maps, new guns, and a new campaign (with 
 a fresh story) to play with. Not only that, but Vegas 2 gives the game a new coat of paint, shutting 
 up graphic nitpickers who used that complaint to deride the original game. For those who fell in 
 love with 2006's Vegas will no doubt fall in love with 2008's, and this game can keep some gamers 
 busy for months to come. But still, it lacks the surprise factor the original had, and Vegas 2 
 winds up feeling more like Vegas 1.5 than a full-fledged sequel.
  
  I want to get to the multiplayer first before the single player, because the multiplayer part of 
 the game is clearly the focus with Vegas 2. For Rainbow Six die-hards, this game will keep you 
 at home. As far as actual control goes, there is hardly any difference between the two games, and 
 if it weren't for the new gloss of detail added, it would be nearly impossible to decipher the 
 two to a newcomer to the series.
  
  However, the actual multiplayer's pace has changed quite a bit. Picture the original Vegas on pseudo-speed. 
 With the new sprinting mechanic (which is the only true gameplay addition) , the game's multiplayer 
 tactics are changed entirely. You'll find the game encourages players to be more aggressive than 
 most shooters, which may be a death sentence to experienced campers. but it's music to my ears. 
 The game has a faster pace, matches go by quicker, and adrenaline is running a storm.
  
  The game's ranking system is pretty much the same as before, and anyone who played the original 
 Vegas or even to a lesser extent, Call of Duty 4, knows what to expect. You'll unlock weapons, 
 armor, and gadgets as you rank up, resulting in a very rewarding experience. The games new maps 
 are also pretty interesting as well, offering a great mix of backlots and Vegas themed casinos.
 
  
  However, the multiplayer isn't perfect or mistake ridden. Some maps seem just too big, resulting 
 in a long learning curve. It took me about three days of consistent playing to learn the ins and 
 outs of some of the game's larger maps, which was a pretty large pain. Also, while sprinting does 
 make the game a bit more fun, it does lose that tactical edge the series has become known for. 
 The sprinting mechanic doesn't blend that well with the cover system, and often, the odd blend 
 of "run-and-gun" and "stop-and-pop" gameplay affected my play with the game. Still, those who are 
 looking for a new multiplayer experience to detract themselves from Call of Duty 4 and Halo 3 should 
 look no further than Vegas 2.
  
  As far as the single player goes, Vegas 2 is improved over the original in numerous ways. For starters, 
 the game's story is one of the vocal parts of the game, something that isn't seen alot in Tom Clancy 
 games. The story is a welcomed addition, and although it doesn't really follow a strict timeline, 
 its leaps and jumps sucked me in more than pushed me away. Its not afraid to take risks, and changes 
 the game's pace sharply at unexpected points.
  
  Gameplay on the single player front is nearly the same to the game's multiplayer, except for some 
 new squad based controls. The single player is vastly more tactical than the multiplayer side of 
 the game, and that is something as a Rainbow veteran I appreciated. AI everywhere has been improved, 
 so expect alot of intelligent enemies and teammates. But the last game had smart AI as well, and 
 if it weren't for the new story, there wouldn't be much seperating this campaign from the last.
 
  
  But that in the end can summarize all of Rainbow Six Vegas 2. It isn't that new of an experience, 
 but it doesn't try to be that. It capitilizes on the excellent formula the original game had, and 
 refines things quite a bit. For those starving for a new shooter, Vegas 2 is highly reccomended 
 over any of the games coming out in the next few months (or shooters like Army of Two that have 
 come out recently) . As for those satisfied with Call of Duty 4 and Halo 3 at the moment, also check 
 out Vegas. It's not the freshest experience ever, but its still a great, refined shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PowerOfSoul
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2008 5:37 am PT
Review:  Well, I picked this game up yesterday right after school and had a chance to play it for a couple 
 hours. At first I had some trouble joining games online but that is only because I was not refreshing 
 frequently enough and was joining games that had already filled up. 
  
  To start off, the campaign is really fun and should take about 10-12 hours if you are playing on 
 realistic or normal modes. The co-op that they added is really cool because you can switch your 
 friends in and out of the campaign and not lose your place or have to start over when they leave. 
 In addition to the Co-op I also tried playing Terrorist Hunt with some friends online. This is 
 actually my favorite thing to do so far in this game because it is nearly impossible to win on 
 Realistic mode. I've played dozens of matches online with 3 other people and although we could 
 not win, we had a lot of fun.
  
  As far as I can tell, the other aspects to online play are really cool. While I am not a fan of 
 the Satellite game type (which is similar to Domination in Call of Duty) , I really like Team Leader. 
 The concept of this gametype is that each team starts off with one person as their team leader. 
 As long as the team leader is alive, the team can respawn if they die. However, if the leader dies, 
 the team can no longer respawn. The leaders objective is to make it to the extraction point and 
 stay alive while doing it. The team has to work together to keep their leader safe and guard the 
 extraction point that the enemy team leader is supposed to be reaching. 
  
  The thing that connects all of these things together is the customization system. While certain 
 parts of it are good, it is not too detailed. Going through the ranks and using different armors 
 is pretty fun though and there is a way to distinguish yourself from your team by using different 
 types of clothing. 
  
  All who think they would enjoy a FPS that is not like any other out on the market should buy this 
 game. With the cover mechanics well intact, this is a tactical shooter that you cannot compare 
 to other game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2008 4:31 am PT
Review:  The usage of first person-style interactive loads in lieu of cutscene theatrical moments keeps 
 the Rainbow Six Vegas 2's campaign at a constant, frantic pace, although it seems as though the 
 intensity was a bit higher the first time Rainbow was ordered to the strip. The actual gameplay 
 is just as good, however, and a bit more refined, with better enemy AI, environments and pathways 
 that vary elevation changes much more than the original Vegas. These two changes make Rainbow Six 
 Vegas 2 a greater strategic affair than before, as both the Take Cover system and squad commanding 
 come much more into play during every firefight.
  
  The more cerebral approach to completing mission objectives would have been easier to accept without 
 question had the co-operative AI grown at the same pace as the enemy's AI. Sure, they can toss 
 grenades for you now, but little good that does if they don't use a little common sense when doing 
 so. You'll also encounter frustrating room-breaching situations, whereby your men don't follow 
 marking orders or decide to storm into a room before given the signal. And there are still those 
 AI squadmates that choose to sit out in the open to absorb rounds. We're all for "taking one for 
 the team," but not in such an apparent manner. This also means that you'll find yourself relying 
 less and less on the AI system since it is a bit flawed-especially since ACES is tallying your 
 skilled shots and maneuvers, and not those of your team. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fairfiaa
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2008 12:40 am PT
Review:  i love vegas 2 i dont no what all these haters are talking about i cant stop playing it has better 
 maps than the first one and you get the to best maps from vegas one as well streets and kill house 
 its a must bye if you liked the first vegas you will love this i think the AI is perfect to i even 
 think its a bit more challenging than vegas one and the experiance points make you want to play 
 it over and over it will take so long to reach the rank of elite. This game is deffinetly a 10 
 out of 10 if not game of the year pretty close.
  if you dont have the vegas 2 go out and bye it dont rent it just bye it and ill see yall online 
 soon oh ya and i love the achievment set up to allot of them are going to be challenging its allot 
 harder than vegas ones achievment list.
  the next hot game will probably be GTA4 peace out yall 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nofriekinlemons
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 11:21 pm PT
Review:  well bottom line is that this game is the best tactical shooter out there and probably be for a 
 while The first one was a blast it caught me off guard and was mind blowing so when i finished 
 it and saw it as a cliff hanger i nearly went ape **** but still excited for a new one. to tell 
 the truth i was expecting the god of games to come out for a while now and i really thought this 
 would be it butt i was disappointed, and now i'm still waiting for that game to come out (halo 3, 
 turok, devil may cry, and a bunch of other games have failed me) ""who will be my savior and make 
 the perfect game, I'll tell you its not R6V2""
  another thing is this game is a tactical but a problem i see with it is stealth Guys here are smarter 
 now and well the silencers on your guns don't work as well as they used to there no good way to 
 take out a guy anymore without anyone noticing. Another thing i Hate is that now they make you 
 have to play the multi player to level up and get that equipment because of the customizable character (that 
 was supposed to be a good thing but they some how find a way to piss me off)
  
  now so that people will not be angry with me these are the goods sprinting does make you feel like 
 you are more in the game like going to cover to cover (like gears of war) but i didn't think it 
 work out that well i think stuff like that should be kept for 3rd person shooter (oooh my bad that 
 there was a con, oh well)
  
  A. C. E. S. is a great way to keep you engaged in multi player but don't be looking to level up in 
 story mode because it wont happen.
  
  Something I'm glad to say is that this gmae is still worth p, aying because it does have the best 
 multi player and the story mode difficulty is just right 
::::::

::::::
UserName: achanvc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 11:11 pm PT
Review:  
  Call of Duty 4 is all run and gun, I don't get why players are comparing R6V 2 and COD4. Yea, COD4 
 may have raised their bar, R6V2 is no doubt awesome in its own production.
  
  I've played through Vegas 1, it was awesome...... and Vegas 2? better environments to play in the 
 solo campaign than the first in my opinion. 
  
  Gameplay is the same, except the new LB running implemented.
  
  Graphically: Ok.... there IS 
 a difference between R6V1 and R6V2, V2 is much much more refined and detailed than the first including 
 the players attire, gear, weapons what have you. Those who claim they are the same graphics as 
 the predecessor, I urge you to visit an optometrist.
  
  The addition of allowing players to edit their R6V gear in campaign mode was sweeeet..... i got 
 bored playing in the same tactical suit in Vegas 1.
  
  If you're new to vegas you must buy the Vegas 2..... If you've already played the first, it maybe 
 a setback for you..... but the detail touches here and there in graphics and new environment and 
 being able to edit your players attire in the game just turns it up a notch, not by a whole lot 
 if you've played the first; but delivers and satisfies.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbt_austin
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  - the graphics are incredible, the game play fantastic, and I really like that you can play Terrorist 
 Hunt with AI characters now. The 1st game is my all-time favorite video game, and this one looks 
 to surpass it. The addition of the persistent elite creation so that you can build up your character 
 during multiplayer and single-player mode now is great. Your character can be male or female and 
 there are all kinds of cool unlockable camo outfits and body armor and features to reward getting 
 kills. I like the weaponry you get to start, but there are unlockable weapons too. I'm so happy 
 this game is finally out. I played terrorist hunt with a couple of maps, including one where its 
 supposed to be a Comcast sponsored video game tournament, which is a nice touch. I bought my copy 
 at GameStop, and got a free map - but it looks like it comes with plenty of cool maps too. The 
 graphics are incredible. Its definitely more challenging to play t-hunt with the AI teammates somehow, 
 I have cleared every t-hunt map in the first game including the red and black bonus map packs - 
 the ones in R6V2 look fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenken2g
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I am a huge R6V FAN but I will not let my opinion be biased. 
  
  We all know that R6V was a very impressive game on 360 when released. It was one of the best, if 
 not the best, tactical shooter... hands down. Now R6V2 is out and all I hear/read are people complaining 
 about it's just like the first one. What would have happened if they released it and changed a 
 bunch of things... removing the essential things that made R6V the great game it is. Ubisoft was 
 smart when making this game. They kept everything from the first one intact, improved on things, 
 and added much more content. 
  
  The graphics look great, the game runs smoother than the first one, the sprint button was a very 
 good add, custom characters, upgrade ability to unlock things, more maps, etc etc... what more 
 do you guys want? Yes this is the same great game that R6V was so it's crazy for GS to give it 
 a score of 8.5.... yet R6V1 gets a 9.1. I don't agree with the score at all... 
  
  I mean lets think of it this way. Ubisoft made R6V2 based off of R6V. Yes indeed it's almost the 
 same game... however... IT'S FREAKIN' FUN and they didn't take away from the game by doing a bunch 
 of "innovative" stuff. They kept everything great about R6V and added to it. So the question is... 
 how can they rate R6V-9.1.... and turn around and rate R6V2-8.5?????? When it's everything that 
 the first one was and more..... doesn't make sense. I mean hell.... they made HALO 3 sooooooo freaking 
 high up on cloud 9. We all know HALO 3 is just a "next gen" version of HALO. So why does it get 
 such a high score for the same formula? Halo 3's fame lasted for a good.... 5 weeks..... nobody 
 talked about it after that lol. R6V2 will be played as much as COD 4 will. See you guys on the 
 battlefield. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkpalm2
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 20, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  I guess I was spoiled by CoD 4 because the controls on this game feel just a tiny bit off. There 
 is no excuse for not allowing us to completely customize our control scheme all the way down to 
 individual button assignments. My brain keeps trying to use LT to aim down the sight but that is 
 cover. Clicking the stick is aiming. They basically reversed CoD4 controls for no real reason. 
 I love the cover system on this game as it's the best in the bix, but the whole thing is a much 
 slower experience than CoD. Oh, also, this game is identical to RSV1. CoD4 is the perfect balance 
 between RS and DOOM. I've also never heard this word n****r so much in any other online game. Even 
 CoD4 wasn't as bad as this. It sounds like it's 90% black dudes calling each other "n" and acting 
 retarded.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: williamgilles
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Well I mainly buy games for single player campaigns, except for games like R6. I love to play them 
 online and this one is superb. With the exception of some starting glitches (ie new servers, first 
 day out, etc) the multiplayer it tons of fun. They changed the focus from just leveling up to get 
 new equipment to completing specific tasks over and over in each match to get new stuff. It's split 
 into 3 categories (Marksman, Close Quarters, and Assault) each with their own point systems to 
 get new stuff. For example, for Marksman, if you get a headshot, you might get 5 points, if you 
 get a long range shot you get 5 points. Each level gives you something new and then the points 
 required for each level go up as well. Leveling up your rank only gives you new camo, so it's not 
 as big of a deal as in the first R6 Vegas. Overall, R6 V2 is awesome, check it out if you love 
 multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxbababooeyxx
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  For those of you who do not know me I have over 30 people that i do not even know who track and 
 read each of my reviews. I have been banned from this site more times than anyone but I keep coming 
 back. My objective is simply to help this industry of video games (whch i love) to continue to 
 improve and I will pull no punches in attempting to accomplish that goal. Feel free to join in 
 my quest and track my reviews as we all need to demand more from the game developers. With the 
 mission statement out of the way here we go....
  I was the first, FIRST person on this site to give this game a bad review. Before me everyone was 
 singing its praises, I however ripped it apart. After even more time with this title i will do 
 so again only this time in greater detail. 
  The single player campaign is OK but it has some serious flaws. the main flaw is of course the 
 lag. the game at times slows down significantly. it slows down so much in some firefights that 
 the sound disapears, you cant aim, everything goes in slow motion and my 360 even froze once. Its 
 completely unforgivable. This is suppose to be next gen. The lag happened at roughly 6 diffrent 
 times throughout the game. Thats not to even mention the lag online which makes online play nearly 
 impossible. Online play is hurt so much by lag that it is insane. Theres much more lag in part 
 2 than in part 1. why? The biggest problem with the story mode is that the enemies are not randomly 
 generated. They are not already on the map when the mission begins but have to be "triggered" by 
 reaching a certain part of the map. For example, I was clearing the library with my team from the 
 roof. I had made way from one end to another and killed everyone, upon rappeling into the room 
 all of sudden more bad guys just appeared from no where some even back behind me. This is the most 
 unrealistic and stupid thing about this gaem. I hate that you have to "trigger" the bad guys. what 
 in the world were they thinkin, same problem with the first game. COD4 graphics absolutley crush 
 this game. COD4 online play crushes this game. COD4 is by far the better title and unfortunately 
 for me I dont really like call of duty 4. (see my review) . This was ubisoft simply taking advantage 
 of the consumer. A game riddled with lag, no inevations, nothing new and not as good as the first. 
 Please write to them at http://support. ubi. com or call them at 919-460-9778 and tell them how disapppointed 
 you are. I could go on and on but you should you have the point by now, this game is diffently 
 a rental but I thats it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ag3ntz3rox0x
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  i loved the first r6v. and i was tired of everyone saying that this one is too much like the first, 
 i ask them. what so wrong about that? this game improves on the rank up system which allows you 
 to rank your guy/woman, in many various way. single player. online co-op, and online ranked and 
 unranked. yes i said unranked! the new online game modes that ive played so fatr are team leader. 
 its very very fun. i like to defend my team leader and help him get to the extraction. takes alot 
 of team work. one problem with online is anyone can make a game, i bet your thinking int that a 
 good thing? no its not, some people create matches and have walmart connections and it lags horribly. 
 and you cant quit because you dont want to lose hard earned exp points. so i said from now on imma 
 make my own rooms, and it hasnt laged once. the aces are a really cool concept. its kinda like 
 cod4s challenges, the more youu complete the more exp you get. if you cant tell i love the game. 
 a must get for anyone with xbl. oh yah and the campaign is good but online is superior. only con 
 to this game and it really brings down the replay value is the maps are horrible. besides that 
 its a great game, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raptomex
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  The first RS Vegas was great. RS Vegas 2 is even better. Better graphics, better gameplay, and 
 more fun to play. Now that there's more weapons it makes the gameplay even better. The AI is smarter 
 and it's a little more challenging than the first Vegas.
  
  Lets start with the AI. As soon as I started the story mode I noticed right away the AI is much 
 smarter. The AI enemies now use shields and snipe. The combat is fun and the things they say and 
 shout out are still awesome and funny.
  
  Ranking is great in RS Vegas 2. Whether you're playing in single player or multiplayer your exp 
 will increase depending on how you kill enemies. Also, if you have a rank in RS Vegas it carries 
 over to Vegas 2. So you can unlock things right away if your rank is high enough from the first 
 Vegas. Based on your rank you are unable to unlock a lot of equipments. There are many more weapons 
 to use and make the game more enjoyable.
  
  I find the terrorist hunt mode in Vegas 2 to be much better. Now in the single player terrorist 
 hunt you can play in lone wolf mode (alone) or with your squad. The addition of the squad really 
 makes terrorist hunt better and a litte easier. Though, if you like the challenge of playing by 
 yourself you can choose to play on lone wolf. Some of the popular terrorist hunt levels from the 
 first Vegas too.
  
  Overall RS Vegas 2 is a great sequel and just an exciting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Rainbow 6 Vegas 2 is actually a prequel to the 2006 Rainbow 6 Vegas. This time you would be playing 
 as a guy named Bishop and you'll be able to customize your character from the beginning of the 
 game before you start. You have the choice to play as a male or female. If you haven't played Rainbow 
 6 Vegas than you're going to feel a little lost in the story line because it cover some loose end 
 from the Cliff hanger ending from the first game. 
  
  Now on to the controls some of the buttons have been changed this time around also they've added 
 some new features as well. Before you weren't able to run but now Ubisoft has decided to add a 
 sprint button by holding the LB button just like you're able to do in Call of Duty 4. Also they 
 have change the way you use to tag up enemies from the snake came from the back button to the LB 
 button as well. I've also notice they have upped the difficulty on the normal settings. I caught 
 myself dying far too often on normal than I did on the Vegas game. Ubisoft has also added a leveling 
 up system similar to Call of Duty 4, rewarding you with unlockables for getting certain headshots, 
 grenades kills, and multi kills. 
  
  The Graphics are still good but not a huge leap from the previous Vegas game. They've added some 
 nice little touches with the water effects and destructible environments but nothing we haven't 
 seen before. One of the things they've taken out of the first Vegas game is 4 player co-op. They 
 have brought it down to two players now. The great thing about it is now you have all the cut scenes 
 in the single player campaign but you're only limited to one other friend to join you on the campaign. 
 Also only one of you can command your AI squad. 
  
  The Multiplayer is still great as you get several maps to choose from and 3 different modes from 
 the previous Vegas game are back. If you're a fan of the series than you'll feel right at home 
 and if you haven't played Rainbow 6 games before and looking for a tactical shooter different from 
 running and gunning type of FPS than you should definitely check out Vegas 2. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IllBOOMSTICK
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2008 10:20 pm PT
Review:  I purchased this game today and really didnt like the first one. Everyone knew all the maps and 
 was impossible to gain xp very fast. This version of R6 takes place in Vegas again, yet there really 
 isnt much new with the story line. If you bought this for the story you got the wrong game anyway. 
 Where this game really shines is the Multiplayer. You gain xp by completing missions and killing 
 terrorists. The single player and multiplayer points carry over from each other and apply to universal 
 kits and unlocks. This was lacking in the first game and really levels the playing field right 
 off the bat. The graphics are a little better this go around and you will see sharper image quality 
 with all the new locales. The character textures are more rich as well and are far better this 
 go round. The enemy A. I. could teach A. I. team side a thing or two about melting faces though. 
 Guns are great and feel right so far. Everyone online pretty much uses the incindiary grenades 
 to rack up kills, however the skills required to counteract this are easily honed in a couple of 
 terrorist hunts and team deathmatch. All in all the game really does require a great deal of skill 
 and practice. This is the game that Ghost Recon tried to be and comes off as one of the best combat 
 simulators out there. This is not Call of Duty 4. This is the hardcore version if you must compare 
 the two. If you like Call of Duty 4, stick to that, if you like improvements to Rainbow 6 pick 
 this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerseyborn88
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes, a very good game can seem like a disappointment simply because it's a less glitzy, half-step 
 sequel to a great game. Rainbow Six Vegas 2 leaves new boy, Bishop (your playable character) in 
 a bit of a bind. As this game is part prequel, part sequel, part concurrent game, you're never 
 visiting the same parts of the city as you did in the first outing. And this is where Vegas 2's 
 first problem rears its ugly head. Until the fifth level - and these are big levels - you never 
 get within 50 feet of a casino. Not a whiff of neon. Not a whisper of coins rattling through slot 
 machines. Just endless treks through generic warehouses and building sites. Sure, they're nice-looking 
 warehouses and building sites, but they could be anywhere in the world. This might seem like an 
 odd criticism, but if you're buying a game called Rainbow Six Vegas 2, you'd expect a few of the 
 famous landmarks to make it into the final product. It's a shame the developer couldn't leave Las 
 Vegas, because the actual combat is on par with the mighty Call of Duty 4. In fact, when it comes 
 to claustrophobic indoor gunplay, Vegas 2 actually trumps CoD4 thanks to its excellent cover mechanics. 
 When Bishop pushes his back to the nearest piece of cover, the camera zooms out to third-person, 
 leaving you with a view of what's ahead and a number of options at your disposal. You can issue 
 orders to your squad, let off a volley of blind-fire to kill off any terrorist dumb enough to rush 
 you, or you can snap out and take a precision shot before returning to cover. There are few moments 
 in gaming more satisfying than popping out from behind a door and pulling off a clinical headshot 
 on one of Vegas' many bad guys.
  
  The combat system served the original game well, yet there have been subtle, but notable changes 
 since. Mercifully, teammate AI has been considerably beefed up. Your buddies Michaels and Jung 
 are now smart enough to realise that taking a shortcut through a room full of terrorists isn't 
 the smartest way to get from A to B - a massive issue we had with the original. Even more impressively, 
 they'll move to their destination by creeping from cover to cover, watching each other's backs 
 as they go, so there's less chance of either ending up stranded in the middle of a room sucking 
 up enemy bullets. It's the most intelligent squad behaviour we've seen, and although this smart 
 programming is somewhat wasted on a couple of personality-devoid meat-heads in a semi-sequel, it 
 can only be a good thing for the future of the franchise.
  
  You certainly notice a change in the game when your buddies aren't around. One of the later levels 
 has you stalking Alvarez, the terrorist honcho, through (yawn) an industrial plant next to the 
 Clark County airstrip just outside Vegas. The stage is set entirely at night too, so you're at 
 the mercy of your night-vision, and in short it's a **** of a level to beat. Without its squad 
 mechanics, Rainbow Six becomes a frustrating, run-of-the-mill shooter where you're constantly at 
 risk of being shot in the back or picked off by a sniper before you reach the next checkpoint. 
 Long before you finish your little lone-wolfing session, you'll be begging to hear Michaels whispering 
 "Tango neutralized" in your ear.
  
  Another more noticeable change is the integration of Rainbow Six's multiplayer RPG-lite mechanics 
 to the single-player game. When you first play the game you're asked to create a custom character 
 and kit them out with a variety of weapons and armour. Once you've custom-built your all-American 
 hero, he (or she) is your character throughout both the single and multiplayer modes. This means 
 that as you plow manfully through the main campaign, or the offline Terrorist Hunts, your character 
 gains XP and levels up, unlocking new weapons, armour and clothing. On the plus side, this means 
 that you don't have to spend a handful of deeply frustrating weeks online shaking off your noob 
 status and leveling up your character to get the best kit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayjay7117
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is exactly what I've been waiting for... I mean wow! This has everything I love in a 
 FPS (Third Person Shooter hybrid) . I highly, highly recommend picking this up if you liked R6V1. 
 Total thinking man's shooter.
  
  I have to admit that I'm not too far into it and to give it a rating of a 10 already has to speak 
 to what it offers. I played for about 1.5 hours online coop with a buddy and about 1.5 hours alone 
 and both modes were a blast. Playing with a buddy allows you to discuss how to breach an entry 
 in the most tactically efficient way, while single player allows you to think on your own and position 
 your players most effectively. What's fun (like in R6V1) , is you have time to think it through. 
 I enjoy actually sorting out the obsticale and then deciding the best approach to take. A blast.
 
  
  What I didn't expect wast the upgrade to the PEC concept. You gain experience points/rewards through 
 both online play and by yourself. You are rewarded for stuff like headshots, sneaking behind for 
 kills, etc. It forces you to 'do a good job'. It reminds me of COD4 online play in how it rewards 
 you, but takes it further by combining the online reward concept with single player campaign.
 
  
  Like I said, I've only played it for a total of about three hours or so, but I'm pretty sure I'll 
 be hooked for a least a month. Saying that is saying a lot as I typically chew through games pretty 
 quick. I've played recient releases such as The Club and Army of Two and invested some significant 
 time in them (check my gamecard if you want to look at achievements) and those were good, but not 
 like this.
  
  Shooters are typically pretty basic concepts but this has so much to offer beyond the basics. It's 
 humorous that the few early reviews such as XPlay have dogged the graphics (XPlay that rates crappy 
 DS games and WII games well (man that show sucks these days) ) . The graphics are more than good 
 enough, plus imo, gameplay is always   than graphics. I would imagine that you will not see the 
 graphics as a downslide as they are just fine.
  
  In summary, this game, especially if you liked R6V1 or Gears is one to get. It's been my experiance 
 that it typically takes me a few hours to really start to enjoy a game (Ao2 is a perfect example) . 
 This game quickly illustrated that it has what I love in a game and will be worth playing for a 
 long while....
  
  Get it.
  
  Graphics: 8
  Gameplay: 10
  Sound: 9
  Value: 10
  Tilt: 11 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Expo_Smacko
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Well, I must say I am impressed and not so impressed. For one the game and maps are a lot better 
 then the first Rainbow Six. Rest aside, it does have its flaws and other things that I don't like 
 so much about the game.
  
  I can start with the things that I do like.
  
  It does, have more weapons and they are very awesome none the less :)
  The graphics are better 
 then the first.
  Your guys with you don't act like retards
  The maps are well designed
  The AI is good.
  
  Now the stuff that is kinda annoying.. and there isnt a lot just on my own 
 opinions.
  I think gaining ranks in single player is kinda wack, this is probably the only thing that I hate 
 about the whole game.
  I think it should be done threw Multi player.
  
  Over all, this game is very good and is more of a BUY then a RENT.
  So I would recommend you 
 go buy this game ASAP!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chopchop330
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Very different than COD4, it is more tactical and slower than COD4 due to the ability to cover. 
 Reflexes don't help you as much as in COD4. Customizations are unique and has a huge variety of 
 gun selection. Haven't tried the online mode yet but I'm sure it'll be great. It is a solid shooter 
 but nothing too surprising in my opinion, perhaps COD4 raised the bar for me. Both games were the 
 only ones I have played in the series so I am not biased in any way. 
  
  The first mission was harder than I thought it would be, died a couple of times but that might 
 be because I have never really played the new R6 series. I was too used to the run-and-gun style 
 in COD4 multiplayer. I feel that this game will have a great online element due to the large amount 
 of customization menu. Unlike COD4 where 90% of the players will look alike and uses M16 with stopping 
 power. 
  
  The multiplayer mode is frustrating, I have not been able to play for more than 5 minutes because 
 connection gets cut or games are filled when the list shows that they are available.
  
  In conclusion, great game, totally different than the fast-paced COD4. Sweet customizations and 
 gun selections! But nothing TOO surprising in my opinion. Pick this up if you need a good tactical 
 shooter.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jruckus140
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  I just bought the game today and I have played it for more than 3 hours already because its incredibly 
 addictive. WIthout a doubt it is the best in the series and one of the best shooters to date. While 
 it isnt dramatically different from the last vegas, the graphics are crisper, gameplay is smoother, 
 and the new system is flawless. Story and online play are better than ever, needless yo say this 
 game is ridiculously good, and should be owned by all ps3 owners. As far as xbox live being better, 
 as far as this game goes i think that there is no difference. I have had the ability to play it 
 on both consoles since my bro got it for xbox and it works equally as well on both consoles. The 
 graphics look a little better on the ps3 as far as I can tell so if you have both systems you should 
 def. by it for ps3. In the end it doesnt matter what console you buy it for, just buy it. If you 
 like tactical shooters, or fun games than Rainbow Six 2 vegas is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaElderScrolls
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  This is not only the Best Rainbow Six game i have ever played but its the best Tom Clancy game 
 i have ever played. It has better looking graphics than the first vegas 13 new maps that are highly 
 addictive online and there are 11 new weapons and lots of new armor and camo to deck your guy out 
 that you play with. The Coop in Rainbow Six Vegas: 2 is amazing and outstanding and the story in 
 the game is very well played off compared to the first one. Back to the Coop though you can play 
 Coop over Xbox live and you have to guys that are the main to Bishop who is the host and Knight 
 who would be the second guy someone would play with. The Story lasts a good bit not to long though 
 but the Multiplayer online is awesome its got some serouis competitive intense modes and is also 
 a good game to play online when you want to have fun and chill out and relax a bit. Rainbow Six 
 Vegas: 2 will problay be shooter of the year not game though cause of good old GTA4 but this game 
 is great buy for xbox 360 ps3 or pc 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goppizzi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 5:42 am PT
Review:  The usage of first person-style interactive loads in lieu of cutscene theatrical moments keeps 
 the Rainbow Six Vegas 2's campaign at a constant, frantic pace, although it seems as though the 
 intensity was a bit higher the first time Rainbow was ordered to the strip. The actual gameplay 
 is just as good, however, and a bit more refined, with better enemy AI, environments and pathways 
 that vary elevation changes much more than the original Vegas. These two changes make Rainbow Six 
 Vegas 2 a greater strategic affair than before, as both the Take Cover system and squad commanding 
 come much more into play during every firefight.
  
  The more cerebral approach to completing mission objectives would have been easier to accept without 
 question had the co-operative AI grown at the same pace as the enemy's AI. Sure, they can toss 
 grenades for you now, but little good that does if they don't use a little common sense when doing 
 so. You'll also encounter frustrating room-breaching situations, whereby your men don't follow 
 marking orders or decide to storm into a room before given the signal. And there are still those 
 AI squadmates that choose to sit out in the open to absorb rounds. We're all for "taking one for 
 the team," but not in such an apparent manner. This also means that you'll find yourself relying 
 less and less on the AI system since it is a bit flawed-especially since ACES is tallying your 
 skilled shots and maneuvers, and not those of your team. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
