-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/tomclancysghostrecon3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Campaign is exciting and challenging, even at normal difficulty.
 The door-gunner missions are awesome.
 Offers a definite tactical feel with its difficulty.
 Amazing graphics and presentation.
 Really looks and feels like you're in a city.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 except there are no civilians.
 Teammate artificial intelligence leaves something to be desired.
 Bright, high-contrast lighting can sometimes make it difficult to see.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  8, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.2
Critic Score: 9.0, 93 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 15,755 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Paris
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date: Mar 9, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Advanced Warfighter is the best-looking game to date on the Xbox 360, and it offers exceptional 
 tactical shooting action to back up those great visuals. 

  When Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter was first announced for the Xbox 360, it looked like a pretty 
 ambitious project. Ubisoft was asking a lot out of the engine to have the game set entirely within 
 a sprawling metropolis, complete with advanced lighting and particle effects, as well as lots of 
 picture-in-picture video screens on the heads-up display. The early video and screenshots looked 
 fabulous, so it was disappointing when the game didn't quite make the release of the system late 
 last year. The wait was definitely worth it, though, as Advanced Warfighter isn't just the best-looking 
 game on the Xbox 360, but also, arguably, the best game in the series.  

          Scott Mitchell, are you a bad-enough dude to rescue the president?     

  You take the 
 role of Scott Mitchell, a captain in the elite Ghosts -- the light-infantry unit whose members are 
 renowned for their skill and heroism in the face of long odds. You find yourself in Mexico City 
 as part of the security entourage tasked with guarding a summit between the leaders of Mexico, 
 Canada, and the US. Disaster strikes when Mexican rebels attack the summit, killing the Canadian 
 prime minister and causing both the Mexican and US presidents to go missing. Over the course of 
 the campaign, you'll explore the massive city -- fighting rebel infantry, armored vehicles, and helicopters 
 from within the dense, high-rise areas in the center to the dilapidated shanty towns on the outskirts. 
 You'll do this solo and with the help of three teammates -- who you can issue simple commands to -- and 
 supporting vehicles. Major landmarks, such as Chapultepec and the spire at Angel Plaza, are represented 
 fairly accurately in the game's depiction of Mexico City.  

  The first thing you'll notice about the game is how breathtakingly massive and believable the city 
 looks. You take several helicopter rides throughout the campaign, and the city is literally sprawled 
 out all the way to the horizon with buildings and streets. Fires and smoke curl up into the sky 
 from patches of fighting or factories. As you land, you find yourself engulfed by the metropolis 
 and plying your way through the maze of buildings, streets, and alleys. The graphic detail extends 
 not only to the character models, which are some of the best we've seen in a modern shooter, but 
 also to the unique lighting and shadows. The sunlight is so bright and intense that it's almost 
 oppressive at times, with the way the glare affects your vision, particularly when you're squinting 
 through a scope. Some people may find this annoying, as the high-contrast lighting makes certain 
 areas very hard to see. But, presumably, this overbearing light is pretty realistic of how daylight 
 can be in a near-equatorial area.  

  Our only major complaint about the graphics is that for a city that looks so believable, it's as 
 empty as a ghost town. Apparently, all 9 million residents of Mexico City either vanished or are 
 hiding indoors with all the unrest going on. Still, it's a little eerie to see no cars moving around 
 the streets and highways or people trying to go about their daily business. To be fair, though, 
 it's only the stark realism of the environment that gets you to notice a flaw like this in the 
 first place. The good news for those playing on standard-definition televisions is that the graphic 
 quality of the game is plainly obvious no matter what type of television you use. HDTVs make it 
 all the better of course, but even using just an S-Video connection, it's clear that a game that 
 looks this good couldn't be done on a regular Xbox or PlayStation 2.  

          The game engine is incredible, what with the level of detail it uses to render an entire 
 city.     

  The size of the city affects the gameplay, in that at any given moment, you operate within several 
 city blocks. There are often different ways you can take to get from point A to point B, and you're 
 encouraged to explore around to find the best path. If, for example, you find a road block as you 
 make your way down a street, it's usually possible to go around and try to flank those defenses 
 from a different angle. Other missions let you climb up on something and take advantage of elevation 
 for an assault instead of running headlong into entrenched defenses. The maps are not always so 
 open-ended, though, and you can and will run into arbitrary borders if you try to. But for the 
 most part, Advanced Warfighter does a nice job at keeping you from feeling hemmed in, and there's 
 generally a good amount of freedom to roam. The game also does a good job at keeping up the tension 
 by throwing enemies at you from different elevations. There's nothing quite as tense as turning 
 a corner into a street that looks clear, only to narrowly miss getting sniped by a marksman on 
 top of a roof that you didn't notice.  

  To help you get through these massive battlefields, the game lets you control not only a three-man 
 support team, but also support vehicles, as well. Robotic UAV recon units, for example, can scout 
 ahead and detect enemies that may be lurking. The enemies, as well as your objectives and teammates, 
 are marked digitally on your HUD, so you can track them even when they're not in your line of sight. 
 You'll do a lot of fighting in this game from extreme distances by shooting with scoped weapons, 
 so the plain markings on your HUD often come in handy. At various times throughout the game, you'll 
 command tanks or armored vehicles, as well as helicopter gunships. You can only command the tanks 
 to move forward or backward, as if they're on rails, but they make for a good source of movable 
 cover. Gunships are great for support fire, as you can command them to take out distant targets 
 without getting into danger yourself. These support vehicles aren't invincible, though, so if you 
 run your tank into a rocket-propelled-grenade ambush or send your choppers into machine-gun fire, 
 they can go down.     

  Commands for your teammates are pretty basic. You can command them as a unit, and they'll respond 
 to move, attack, or regroup commands. If you position them well, behind some low cover for instance, 
 they're generally effective at shooting enemies, but they're not so smart about operating around 
 corners. Too often when you command them to fire from around a corner, they'll step out and expose 
 too much of themselves. They're also not so good about keeping themselves safe when they're following 
 you behind a tank, but they do try to use the environment whenever possible to stay under cover. 
 Commanding teammates may not be one of GRAW's highlights, but since you're probably doing most 
 of the shooting anyway, it's not too big of a drawback, and they can be very effective in the right 
 situations.  

          Get used to peeking around corners -- you'll do it a lot in this game.     

  Advanced 
 Warfighter affords you an impressive amount of control over your character. You can sidle up to 
 any wall or flat surface and peek around the side by pushing up against it, which lets you peek 
 around the corner while remaining safe. The game lets you fire around the corner or over a low 
 wall with a minimally exposed profile, although this method of firing is less accurate. If you 
 use a scope, you will expose more of your body to fire. You can kneel or go prone and even dive 
 for cover if you try to go prone while running. There's a low-light mode, which you'll need to 
 use for darker areas of the game. You do lose a lot of sharpness and resolution in this mode, so 
 even in dark areas, you'll probably find yourself frequently switching in and out of this mode. 

  The fact that you can die in a single hail of fire, or just a few glancing shots, means a slow, 
 tactical pace for GRAW. This is definitely a slower-paced fare than something like Call of Duty 
 2, since you can't fire accurately while on the move or at all when you're on a dead run. You'll 
 definitely need to take advantage of corner-peeking and recon vehicles whenever possible to plan 
 your movements and attacks. This aspect gives the game a bit more of a cerebral feel -- but make 
 no mistake, there's plenty of action in the game. There are no medikits. Occasionally, though, 
 you'll find ammo stations on the battlefield that will heal you, and you'll also get healed whenever 
 you rendezvous with a troop carrier to get new teammates or move to another location.  

  The game's campaign should last most players around 10 hours or so, counting restarts from death, 
 but the campaign is fun enough that it's probably worth a replay on the hardest setting, which 
 is devilishly difficult. GRAW offers plenty of value outside the single-player campaign as well, 
 with 16-player online play over Xbox Live. There are standard deathmatch and capture the flag modes, 
 which are fun and work pretty well with the 10 maps that are included. Some of the maps are symmetric, 
 while others are not so much, and the environments offer a good variety no matter what sorts of 
 levels you like -- lots of cover for sneaking or more-open environments for faster gameplay. The 
 most interesting aspect of GRAW's multiplayer repertoire is the included cooperative campaign. 
 These are four specially designed missions for co-op play that can be played locally or online 
 for up to 16 players. They're pretty fun, and the difficulty does scale depending on how many players 
 are in the game.  

          The minimap is a useful tool for planning out assaults or movement.     

  The game's 
 sound is an excellent complement to the fantastic graphics. The different guns have very unique 
 sound effects, and they're all very sharp and impactful, which adds to the chaos of pitched battles. 
 The best sound effect in the game, though, is the high-pitched whine of the Vulcan cannon as you 
 spin it up and fire out the side door of a Blackhawk during the helicopter-combat portions. Just 
 the sound of that gun as you hose down enemy infantry and vehicles with a hail of depleted uranium 
 is enough to get any action-fan's blood pumping. Tank cannons and rocket explosions are literally 
 deafening, as the game muffles the sound coming out of the speakers briefly if any explosions go 
 off near you, thus simulating a deafening effect. There's some music that spools up during the 
 gameplay, and the thumping beats suit the theme for the most part, but during some of the helicopter 
 rides, licensed rock music comes up that sounds oddly out of place.  

  If you like shooters or action games, and you own an Xbox 360, Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 
 is a must-own for your library. A solid and challenging campaign and a unique, online-co-op mode 
 combine with an unmatched presentation in what is arguably the best game yet on the Xbox 360. Even 
 those who don't necessarily like shooters may want to at least try the game out, as GRAW represents 
 the best of what a tactical shooter can offer and can serve as a useful graphical benchmark to 
 judge other games on the console by.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1335 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: karlos008
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 1:49 am PT
Review:  What can I say about this game.... it's amazing! Graphically it is STILL one of the best around 
 and is a perfect example of what a 3rd Gen Console can do. I had Ghost Recon 2 and decided I would 
 try the first one n it is js as good! There are a few niggling issues though. My main issue is 
 the cover system it seem disjointed and you cannot go in and out of cover easily. But having said 
 this the controls are perfect, especially the use of other team members which games have yet to 
 consider. Also the small touches such as the drones and constant friendly fire add to the realness 
 of the game.
  
  It is impossible to rate a game just on the campagin, and the main reason it is so great is online 
 mode aswel. My favourite part of Ghost Recon is the ability to do co-op missions, it makes you 
 feel like you are part of the "Ghosts" and really grabs a hold of you unlike most online games.
 
  
  Even now when it has been out for a long time if you haven't played this game i would recommend 
 it to anyone especially noe the price is less than 10 :)
  
  XIDangerMouseIX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c52chungyunya
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 16, 2009 2:02 pm PT
Review:  G. R. A. W. is a average game, yet it is not truly next generation, there are many technical issues 
 and wrong physics, the game's shining star is only the graphic. 
  
  A. I.: AI is awesome and they are really smart, the allies knows where to go and move, and the enemies 
 will cover each other and behave like normal soldiers, they'll also take cover behind objects, 
 you'll like the AI except some places, where they'll charge at you and act like patriotic corpses!
 
  
  Gameplay: 
  I want to thank Ubisoft for this awesome gameplay combat system, the only problem is that when 
 you're close to an enemy, you don't get to rifle butt them, instead, you need to shoot at them 
 and retreat, I mean, special forces had a lot of options at dealing with the enemies, but how come 
 you don't get to punch the enemy in the face, you got to be kidding me!
  
  Story: You play as Captain Mitchell as a Ghost unit, you are the soldier of the future, the Mexican 
 president, American president, and the Canadian prime minister was ambushed by the Mexican rebels, 
 2 out of 3 of them are dead, you're going to protect the Mexican president at all cost in order 
 to complete your mission. As you play, you found out that there's a double agent in the NSA that 
 sells the enemy Intel to the rebels, and your orders are to eliminate the target, and it was true, 
 it was an American Intel provider that killed your helicopter buddy, and yes, you found your target, 
 ELIMINATE HIM!! The story is told through your corss-coms, they are the center of the future soldier, 
 and everything is animated in 3D!!
  
  Graphics:
  Best graphic ever, GRAW might be the first game that truly delivers the awesome graphic to the 
 XBOX 360 system before Gears o War arrived, some textures are bad, like your chest armor, which 
 looks unrealistic, lack of facial animation also gave the game a minus point, but overall it's 
 pretty good, especially the lightings.
  
  Sound:
  GRAW isn't doing well on sounds, but it's okay, the gun shot sounded great but the controls are 
 a little bit off to what people might expected.
  Presentation:
  The environment GRAW is bad; the only place you fought in is on the Mexican soil (no offense to 
 the Hispanic/Any other race, I reviewed the game base on its graphic presentations. It's not varied 
 and I hated, of the environment designs. Most of the time you just go through a pretty straightforward 
 environment, and then after you're finish, you'll be extract, I mean, what is this!!!
  
  I gave it a average review because of the other factors, but I wouldn't recommend you to buy this 
 game, the first one is okay and the second one is too short, if you really love Tom Clancy, buy 
 splinter cell or Rainbow Six to fulfill your dreams, the Ghost Recon series needs to be change, 
 in a lot of ways. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rezpatriot
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2009 10:11 am PT
Review:  I am actually playing this game as we speak and its really nifty. The chat features are great so 
 lots of banter and in talk and ability to co-ordinate, it also helps to get rid or sort out problems 
 with blue blue fire. 
  At the moment there are a couple of players talking about glitches with the gun camera.
  So you 
 can imagine theres a good community and from the ratings a lot of people like the game. Its good 
 tactical shooter, and follows a solid single player campaign too. The only slight niggle is the 
 multiplayer maps. It would have been nice to see something a little special in there. Plus a lot 
 of people tend to play team elimination and nothing else. Giving very little reach to gain some 
 of the achievements on offer. The camping isn't a problem but it happens every game with a few 
 players and some of the time you get a whole team of campers. Very rarely I am online and there 
 isn't a match, I'm sure there are hundreds but the servers dispatching the game host is probably 
 networked. But overall this is not an issue.
  
  If you have never played a Rainbow Six or Tom Clancy game then I urge you to re assess your game 
 collection, nah i'm only joking, but its a great game and will go down in history.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cookie857
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Completely flawless graphics combined probably the best tactical shooters series create the obvious 
 choice when buying a 360 game. Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is amazing. the addition of the 
 cross-com system makes giving orders simpler and faster. The proof of how great the graphics is 
 when you go to the US embassy and it suddenly blows up it is amazing how real it looks when you 
 reach the utterly destroyed embassy. The incredibly intelligent enemies will take you down in moment 
 if given the chance. The ability to command vehicles with the cross-com is awesome when you put 
 the drone in scan-mode to look for enemies. I just love the multiplayer though it is so cool how 
 you use the drone for scouting out enemies but how it can get shot down is great. The multiplayer 
 has its moments but not like single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Magnarr
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2009 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Category : Modern Shooter
  
  Story 9/10 : This is one of the best story that I have seen, I really connected with it and enjoy 
 a lot, I have beat the game on both difficultys and beat them bout about three times and I do enjoy 
 doing everytime. You play Army Captain Scott Mitchell who is a commander in the Ghost is has to 
 go to Mexico after the Mexican and American president is attack when they are signing a tready 
 that will let Mexico, America and Canada to defend the border.
  
  Gameplay 8/10 : The gameplay is really well put together, you will go to level that was really 
 throught through, when you get firefights in this game you will have to take cover and use your 
 teammates or you most likely die or get hurt, they also give you sereval diffrent ways to get to 
 where you suppose to be going which makes it, if one way is giving you trouble, turn around and 
 try the other way.
  
  Graphics 8.5/10 : This game is your eyes best friend, the environments are beautiful to look at 
 and are well put together and most of all the level look diffrent and sometimes you will stop and 
 catch yourself just looking around saying wow these graphics are freaking sweet.
  
  Audio/Music 7.5/10 : The sounds are also nice whether your blowing something up or just shooting 
 you gun, you will be pleased to hear them since you will be hearing them alot, there are sometimes 
 where the music is nice for example the music at the menu is really nice.
  
  Single-Player 7/10 : The single-player is really enjoyable and everyone who plays this game should 
 beat it at lease once, since it is so well put together, most shooter/war fans will most likely 
 enjoy the single-player, I'm a huge fan of the war games and I love it.
  
  Co-Op/Multiplayer 8.5/10 : This game stands out with in it's multiplayer, which is really fun, 
 you could find youself losing time and just sit there if you get with the right people that will 
 actually help you win the match, another thing that makes stand out is that if you have a friend 
 that wants to play online with you and does'nt have XBOX Live then they can just play with you 
 on the same XBOX and it makes it really fun, me and my brother used to play on the same XBOX for 
 hours at a time and not get bored. Really worth checking out.
  
  BREAK it down : GRAW is really worth checking out for any kind of gamer since it is so enjoyable 
 and great to look at. The story can take a couple of hours to complete if you just sit there and 
 then you can hit the multiplayer (if anyone still plays) and then have a really great time, it came 
 out in 08' and I still enjoy playing to this day, even after two years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pwnd56
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced War fighter is the step up for Ghost games that people have been waiting for. 
 Good campaign, and SERIOUSLY SWEET MULTIPLAYER!!!! The graphics are awesome, great sense of stealth. 
 I found myself donning the multiplayer guise almost as soon as I got it, and I was not dissapointed. 
 Shooting down people using the sniper scope is AWESOME, and there is really good teamwork mixed 
 in the game. There is also a really good suspense maintained in the game, too, whether it is waiting 
 for an enemy around the corner of your cover, trying not to be discovered sniping down players 
 online, or, even being super-quiet, when, suddenly, you hear a small clanking, and, BOOOOOOOOMMMMMM! 
 You just got pwnd by a grenade you couldn't even hear. Whatever feature you look at, it is tight, 
 well done, and just perfect, which boils to one thing: 
  THIS GAME OWNS!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turky-sub
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  GRAW.... well, it really is just another version of it's following title (GRAW 2) as it is just 
 so similar to advanced warfighter 2. I will probably end up refering to GRAW 2 for comparsions 
 in this review because the second version is the one i played first
  
  The plot, well to be completally honest I really can't fill in a detailed description as I can't 
 name everything that happened and how it started, accept my apology. Well, from memory, Rebel forces 
 kidnapp various presidents refered to in the game as the V. I. Ps to prevent radio interseption and 
 well simple really, you guesed it - you have to go get them back! Along with your selectable Ghost 
 Recon team made up of four members you have to complete your mission at all cost as ordered by 
 General Keegen (that may not be accuratally spelt) . 
  
  compared to GRAW 2 (you guessed it, I went there) it doesn't support as many featurs but the campaigns 
 are both kind of the same length. Graphics are great for a 2006 game but are easily improved in 
 GRAW 2. Weaponry selection is pretty good, including legendary Ghost guns such as the SCAR. 
  
  You gain support from different reinforcement units like choppers, tanks, and jets and you 
 can also order your team various comands such as - regroup, hold position, attack, Recon mode (hold 
 fire) , Assault mode (fire at will) , ect.......
  
  All in all, GRAW is an excellent Tom Clancy game but I slightly prefer a Rainbow Six Vegas game 
 due to a more intense feel, and more tactical gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GRAW2596
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a tactical shooter so staying alive can be difficult at times, 
 this is why the game emphasizes on using cover very effectively.
  
  This game has two difficulty settings, normal and hard. Normal allows for you to take 3-5 shots 
 before going down where as hard mode you'll be lucky to survive 2 shots.
  
  The games story takes place in Mexico City over the course of two days in 2014. Rebels in Mexico 
 City are trying to get their hands on Guardrail lX after the plane that was carrying it was shot 
 down. That's when the Ghosts are sent in to retrieve it. The main Rebel leader in Colonel Carlos 
 Ontiveros who will be trying to keep "The Pakage" (Guardrail lX) away from the ghosts.
  
  There is also a fairly big variety of weapons and vehicals to keep you occupied. The multiplayer 
 mode is great. There are co-op missions so you can play with your friends, capture the flag, helicopter 
 hunt, and more.
  
  Altogether this game has good graphics, a good storyline, and is great at creating an environment 
 which ranges in difficulty as the levels go on. I would really recomend picking up this game. If 
 you haven't liked the previous ones this one may surprise you, in a good way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agordplayer
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  This game is a great improvement to the ghost recon series. The graphics are greatly improved from 
 the Xbox versions. One of the best first person shooters for the xbox 360. It has great graphic 
 effects like glare from the sun and no jagged edges. Unbelievable graphics. The campaign is quite 
 hard on normal. But once you get used to it its easy. I have played the coop missions for this 
 game and they are very challenging and fun. The Ghost Recon series is much better on the xbox 360. 
 The online is awesome. Best Ghost Recon ever. 10 out of 10 stars!
  
  Best Ghost Recon ever. 10 out of 10 stars!
  
  Best Ghost Recon ever. 10 out of 10 stars!
 
  
  Best Ghost Recon ever. 10 out of 10 stars!
  
  Best Ghost Recon ever. 10 out of 10 stars!
  
  Best Ghost Recon ever. 10 out of 10 stars!
 
  
  Best Ghost Recon ever. 10 out of 10 stars!
  
  Best Ghost Recon ever. 10 out of 10 stars!
  
  Best Ghost Recon ever. 10 out of 10 stars! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gasparetti07
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Great for a 2006 game, at times lighting is an issue its either too dark or too bright.
 
  Gameplay: Very good and also very hard. It will keep you entertained for weeks though. 
  Campaign is very fun and worth your time to play through. 
  Online is now basically dead because 
 the game came out in 2006 but that shouldn't shy you away from buying it. 
  There is also a coop mode with a series of missions for you and a friend that can be played online 
 or offline.
  This is also not a first person shooter but it sort of feels like one. Commanding your squad is 
 a great feature because your in control of what you want them to do but the AI can be a bit frusterating 
 when your men are standing in front of some guys but they won't shoot because there in stealth 
 mode. 
  Overall this is a great game that any shooter will love.
  Now you can find GRAW used for around 10 bucks now and thats a steal for this great challenging 
 shooter so if you want to play a very difficult game with a great story go to the local store and 
 get yourself a copy.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AddictedGamer50
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  If Tom Clancy has ever had a bad game, this is definitely not that game. Ghost Recon has up to 
 date graphics, though it was released in 2006, and entertains many categories of gamers. It mainly 
 supports shooter fans, but the game play freedom is amazing. You can command your squad to hold 
 back and cover you while you go lone wolf, or your whole squad can get behing a barrier and snipe 
 some enemies. You can also decide who you want in your squad, so there is so customization involved. 
 Not only is there some customization, but there are many gameplay options to keep you entertained 
 like the huge variety of weapons. But, this game only got a 9, so there must be something wrong 
 with it. That is the difficulty. Even though you're in command of your squad, sometimes they'll 
 roam off and enter battle, making it quite challenging. And if you run out of ammo for a specific 
 weapon, sometimes objectives are not possible to complete. Still overall, another success for Tom 
 Clancy.
  Graphics: 8
  Gameplay: 9
  Customization: 6
  Strategy: 8
  Long Lasting: 9
  Controls: 9
  Overall: 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccerboy8
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Allright like all of my recent reviews, let's see what you can do in this game. Campaign, multiplayer, 
 and local play. 
  
  The campaign is very very nice. There's a nice training mission which really shows you the game 
 and what to do, the main letdown for tom clancy's rainbow 6 2. The actual campaign is incredible, 
 you get 3 other al ghost that help you, they don't really kill that many soldiers compared to you, 
 but they are nice scouts =) On top of that sometimes you can command recons, tanks, and even helicopters!
 
  
  Multiplayer and local play can both do co-op campaign, deathmatch, team deathmatch, etc etc. Deathmatch 
 and team deathmatch aren't really that good, the reason being, it's a tactical game, not halo 3 
 or cod4. However co-op campaign really adds on to the game. It's nice and exciting when you have 
 5 people + fighting alongside you. Respawn points can be enbaled, however too many people run and 
 get themselves killed, knowing they can respawn. You can have guest online so you could have 4 
 people on your tv and then 4 people on another Tv, in another country. The system link is pretty 
 nice, espically if you have a huge party. Same features and multiplayer. 
  
  Pros: A must have for people, even those that have never tried tactical shooters. Lots of features, 
 making this game with a lot of replay value. The training mission shows people what to do for first 
 timers. Nice and cheap nowadays, and it still is super good.
  
  Cons: Can be a little hard sometimes there's only normal and hard for campaign, no easy. Deathmatch 
 isn't really that good, it's 3rd person not 1st.
  
  Conclusion? Get it, you can find it super cheap, espically amazon, I'd say about $15 max used on 
 amazon, including shipping. They have it for xbox and ps2, but from what I've heard, not that good.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beastcake
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 18, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Although I played the sequel before this one I still agree that this one has a much better and 
 longer campaign. When you play a sequel before its predecessor you tend to point out its flaws. 
 But even though they were blatantly obvious, like, unwillingly sticking to walls, the ability to 
 shoot through walls without being exposed, and the not so smart AI teammates. I won't rag on it 
 too much since it was an early Xbox title . But the campaign and intense gameplay make up for its 
 lack of perfectness. Being one the first Xbox 360 titles I have played, it shows remarkable visuals 
 and squad play. The online multi-player is forgettable but the co-op campaign/missions are very 
 fun; especially with good teammates. Final words, Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is an amazing 
 addition to the tactical warfare genre and sets the standard for future tactical games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lahdeedah
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 13, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  This is possibly the worse game I have EVER played in my life. It was boring. The guns were cool 
 and stuff, but I absolutely hated the game.
  
  You're some guy with a squad. How this game has good graphics, I don't know because everything 
 is mostly glowing blue. Your enemies are red though. 
  
  The Story is that there are a bunch of mexican and stop them. It's your typical shooter. They do 
 a bunch of bad things and you have to kill them. 
  
  Another thing I hated was that my missions kept getting aborted and I was really getting pissed. 
 This game was so terrible I didn't even play passed the 2nd level. If you're looking for a good 
 shooter, I recommend Gears of War, Halo 3, or anything else besides this.
  
  Overall Ghost Recon sucks really badly. What more is there to say? You hide behind cover shooting 
 red diamonds... or you can command your team of blue diamonds to kill the red diamonds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moshxpit91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  being a fan of shooters i sometimes tend to see past a games flaws and just notice the good things 
 about the game. some may think i'm doing just that while reviewing this game. i beg to differ. 
 if you like guns and explosions you will find something to like about this game. 
  
  Story: didn't keep me too interested to be honest. It does have a storyline, just didn't keep me 
 immersed in it well. Its a battle in mexico. i guess someone takes the president hostage and some 
 radio jamming thing called guardraill 9 or something like that. its kinda confusing but thats not 
 really the point. There is a separate co-op campaign in Nicaragua as well but that story makes 
 even less sense than the single player one.
  
  Graphics: This game is an older game, no way around the fact. But this game looks like something 
 that would have come out a week ago. it really holds up well. The lighting really makes it though. 
 the only thing that bugged me was some VERY MINOR clipping, some choppy smoke effects and the fact 
 that when you re-load, the mag doesn't actually come out of the gun. But if you can get past those 
 things like i did, you'll really find yourself immersed in this lifelike re-creation of a war torn 
 Mexico.
  
  Sound: The sound is fantastic. it really puts you right there with your squad. the explosions sound 
 so real! and the guns have a nice popping sound to them that puts your sub woofer to use as well. 
 Once you get to the end of the game, you'll start to realize how repetitive the explosions start 
 to sound. It doesn't make them bad by any means, it just doesn't seem like they had enough variety 
 with them. The voice acting is also top-notch
  
  Gameplay: Works very well, but has a few flaws. your squad mates WILL get stuck or confused and 
 most of the time its at the worst possible time. i've had to re-start entire levels multiple times 
 throughout the game because my squad would get stuck and confused when i order them somewhere then 
 get themselves, and eventually myself, killed. Other than that the cover system works very well. 
 i can't really compare it to gears of war or rainbow six vegas cause they're all good, its just 
 not similar enough to either of them to compare. but believe me, it works really well. a few frustrating 
 aiming moments but only a few in what i thought was a decent sized campaign. 
  
  Multiplayer: INTENSE. not many people are playing anymore though, its hard to find a match so i 
 suggest hosting a match of your choice and just waiting for people to join, and they will. i had 
 a game will max players going one night. it was a 4 hour party pretty much. it was so fun, everyone 
 was talking. we had good teams, everyone was communicating and coming up with tactics to defeat 
 the other team and capture points and such. it was awesome. but it was short lived, only cause 
 like i said its really hard to find players who still play this version online. i never got to 
 finish the co-op campaign. i played 2 of the missions with some guys i played online matches with 
 and it was pretty fun. just as fun as the single player, but not much more. i'm not so sure what 
 it was i didn't like about it but it just didn't seem quite as well done as the campaign missions 
 in single player. seems almost like ubi decided to sacrifice quality just cause it was co-op and 
 we won't care, cause its co-op and that's whats "in"
  
  
  you can get this game for like 10 bucks or less at gamestop. if you don't have it, just go get 
 it. you'll like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer3450
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 2:54 am PT
Review:  Now since this is in the year 2013 you have all this technology. First you have the cross com. 
 If you have see screen shots, you will see blue displays, that is the cross com, it displays ammo, 
 health, teammate status and video sent by mission control. By pressing the back button you can 
 access a field map. In GRAW you're Scott Mitchell and you team up with the Ghosts for a hot time 
 in Mexico putting down terrorists and saving heads of state. Once you put your team together and 
 select your weapon load out you can move out. In some missions you will have use of a drone, a 
 kind of eye in the sky to help you recon the battlefield. You also have somewhat limited control 
 of helicopter gun ships, Bradley fighting vehicles and M1A1 Tanks. The Multiplayer is definitely 
 the lasting contribution and will have you picking this game up months and even years after you 
 beat the campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 18, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Another Shooter from the Tom Clancy Vault. GRAW takes the Ghost Series into Hyperdrive with its 
 High-Tech best in the time Gear and weapons. The game features an innovative new Cross-Com HUD 
 that gives you Heads-Up and Tactical Information ans well as a TV reciever for orders and Bulletins.
 
  The Story is intricate but i will break it down. The Ghost are called into Mexico to help stabalize 
 a Civil War torn Country in crisis. The ghost are sent by the High command in Fear of the Conflict 
 flowing over the Border into home Soil. Cpt. Mitchell and his team are thrust into battle with 
 objectives from Escorting the Mexican President to Destroying Revolutionist held Radar and Fuel 
 Bases. You will be armed with weapons of the future-now such as the SCAR and the XM8 Rifles to 
 the Most recent Sniper Rifles cappable of Penetrating Armor. The Graphics of the game are very 
 different from the other Console Versions, They Rock. Not to say the others suck but this is Perfection 
 on an HD TV. They more than meet the 360 standards. All in all the game is a great Tactical Team-Based 
 Shooter of the Near Future. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: headymoe79
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  ***Great game. I had to come up with some creative ways to get away from some hairy situations. 
 Smoke cover and book it outta there!!! Graphics are awesome. Everything looked, sounded, and felt 
 real. I was definitely rocking out to the music. I felted relaxed during those times as if i really 
 left the battlefield. Then getting ready for the new objective. 
  
  ***My negative comments are you cant control the VIP's. Like Rainbow 6. They walk into the line 
 of fire. I found that annoying. Also, your squad isnt especially adept at taking cover without 
 being given explicit instructions. At times they seemed to do their own thing. And how about some 
 night vision goggles??!!! The latter part of the game I went to thermals primarily because I couldnt 
 see anything.
  
  ***Overall, I loved the game. Hopefully those things are addressed in the GRAW 2. I'll see this 
 weekend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KFrog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Just like Rainbow Six Vegas, Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a top notch game with graphics, 
 audio, action and great tactical game play. 
  
  In GRAW you're Scott Mitchell and you team up with the Ghosts for a hot time in Old Mexico putting 
 down terrorists and saving heads of state.
  
  Once you put your team together and select your weapon load out you can move out. In some missions 
 you will have use of a drone, a kind of eye in the sky to help you recon the battlefield.
  
  You also have somewhat limited control of helicopter gun ships, Bradley fighting vehicles and 
 M1A1 Tanks.
  
  One thing I sometimes had trouble with was the visuals of the game. Sometimes there was high contrast 
 lighting from bright sunshine which made it difficult to see. I felt I needed to put on my sunglasses 
 at times. On the other side there where times when it was so dark I couldn't see where I needed 
 to go. That was kind of odd. And last there are times when your HUD is "scrambled" by enemy forces 
 and all you can see is static and scrambled scenes. After all this squinting my eyes began to get 
 pretty tired.
  
  Once I put a few drops of Murine in my eyes I found that I had a great game on my hands. 
  
 
  The visuals in this game are absolutely stunning. The detail and realism are a sight to behold. 
 As is always the case with Ubisoft and Tom Clancy games, the graphics and sound effects are excellent. 
 The action and battles were fun and challenging. It just doesn't get much better than this.
  
  I enjoyed the maps presented in the campaign. They're large, varied and events take place during 
 the day and at night. 
  
  This is another great Ubisoft title. I just want another one to come down the pipe sooner rather 
 than later.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief115
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Hello, I will be talking about the aspects of Ghost Recon in this review.
  
  Graphics: First off the graphics in this game are just amazing. I loved the look of everything. 
 Sorta made you feel as if you were in the actually battle. The people that you fought looked very 
 well done indeed. The character you play also has been made very well.
  
  Gameplay/Controls: Alright the gameplay can be interesting at times, you know get shot out of no 
 where. Which really isn't a bad thing it gives you a challenge to over come if you like that sorta 
 thing, I do. Now the controls. These controls, since I was new to the series, were a little hard 
 to get use to, but oveer all pretty easy to overcome. OH and sniping in this game is fun as hell!!!
 
  
  Overall: This game is great I will say that for sure. I got it as a surprise since I really never 
 thought of getting, but believe me it amazed me I was addicted for a good time. Overall this game 
 is a buy if you don't have it. It's just one of those games that if you don't have it your not 
 complete. :P Peace MC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360progamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  i have played this game 3 times all ready and i must say it never gets old. the mission are amazing, 
 the graphic are great as well. the achievements are good you get 25 achievement for each mission 
 and then if you do it on hard you get 25 as well.. 
  
  i did not enjoy the mutilplayer of this game. but the story line is simply this you play a guy 
 name mitchell you go through training they teach you how to shoot your gun, how to use your thermal 
 and night vision goggles, how to stay behind corners and how to do as i call it the peek-a-boo 
 behind a corner. so then you go on your frist mission and so forth and so forth but You have a team 
 of 3 other ghosts who you must command and move along with yourself across the battle zone. 
  
  
  Now since this is in the year 2013 you have all this technology. First you have the cross 
 com. If you have see screen shots, you will see blue displays, that is the cross com, it displays 
 ammo, health, teammate status and video sent by mission control. By pressing the back button you 
 can access a field map. this will show you enemy locations, cover and battle zones. when that doesn't 
 work, in a few missions you can use a uav, which is basically a stalite. But make sure it does 
 not get destroyed or its gone. You will be required to take cover if you want to live. Running 
 and Gunning play will earn you a quick death no matter how twitchy your trigger finger is. ( you 
 probably had lots of practice with halo) You should also take care to make sure you team is under 
 cover to because if they go down you will have to save them. You will see what i mean when you 
 get the game, this is the most annoying and inconvenience. your squad members can hold their own 
 but still require cover fire when engaging. taking cover and planning assaults is the only was 
 to win the missions, but do this fast because enemies will use you cease fire to advance on you, 
 and sometimes your squad will not cover you. my one issue is in the night vision mode. when you 
 shoot someone ans they die the are still brightened like they are alive. you cant tell the difference 
 between someone dead or prone. I have died numerous times when i used my last bullets to take down 
 a guy and ran over to take his gun, thinking he was dead and he shot me dead. not fun. also lamps 
 and other light sources sometimes have the same heat signature as an enemy behind cover so be sure 
 to investigate. but this game is a must buy .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harryrjjj
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  hi and welcome to my review on GRAW. the game is pretty hard becouse a few shots will kill you 
 easily. the graphics is amazing and the realism is just brilliant i have the game my self and enjoyed 
 it id say the key feature of this game wohld be the graphics and gameplay for sure i bet if youd 
 played the game youd agree. overall the game is allright and really hard thats what makes the game 
 not so fun id say rent before you bye. thanks for reading my review on ghost recon advanced warfighter. 
 (all the games i review i have played) please read my other reviews that i have written like fight 
 night round 3, bully, skate, and many many more so thanks once again. hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hih 
 hih hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi 
 hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: USS-Voyager
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 11, 2008 1:16 am PT
Review:  This game is so fun and addicting that you will find yourself playing it for long periods at a 
 time. When you play this game on normal it is not that hard but some parts are, but when you play 
 it on hard the whole game changes, it is really hard, which doesn't happen in most games. The online 
 play is amazing! When you pay online you get a different experience all around. It is not too fast 
 paced or too slow paced it is somewhere in the middle, but wherever the heck it is between those 
 it is just fun to play. The achievements are really fun to try to get too. One you get when you 
 kill 10,000 men in multiplayer mode, which takes longer than it seems! GRAW also comes with a special 
 co-op campaign that is really fun to play with your friends. This game looks really good. The enviroments 
 look really good and so do the character models. Even today in 2008 it looks great. This game is 
 so great that anyone who has a 360 should definitely consider buying! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 10
  Value: 8
  Tilt: 8
  
  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a highly realistic modern tactical shooter that 
 is extremely challenging. Which can be enjoyable for many, however, the total opposite for others. 
 G. R. A. W's single player campaign only has two difficulty choices: realistic (hard) and ultra realistic (very 
 hard) . To make the Mexican battleground experience more difficult is that there are no health packs, 
 the only way to regain health is by reaching the checkpoint or by putting in the heath cheat. Nonetheless, 
 the punishing campaign is all made up for by the great online mode, which features many modes, 
 including, co-op campaign, team/solo elimination, territory, and objective. There are several match 
 rules you can choose from for each mode, for example in the elimination mode you can choose from 
 sharpshooter and last man standing, to name a few. Moreover, there are around 35 weapons to choose 
 from, such as, PSG-1 and SCAR-L Carbine. Also, in the campaign you will battle and control many 
 machinery like blackhawk helicopters and tanks. Overall, Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 
 is an outstanding next-generation game, being one of the first games of the Xbox 360. Today there 
 are not many servers online, but once you find one you will play for a good period of time, as 
 once the match ends you will stay in the party to start another. Plus cheats do not affect achievements, 
 so don't worry about using them when in need. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supaza
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 2:35 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter (GRAW) was the first Tom Clancy game to reach next gen consoles, 
 and it was very good. The story has you taking control of Cpt. Scot Mitchel and the Ghost Recon 
 squad in dealing with an attempted coup in Mexico City. The whole game plays out through the city 
 and involves lots of dodging between cover and blind firing around walls. Given the new consoles, 
 this game both looks and feels awesome. The controls are easy to handle, as are switching weapons 
 and controlling your team. The whole thing feels very fluid and easy to do. The new cover system 
 were you can lock on to any object and fire around corners ups the games intensity, making "taking 
 cover" essential. The way in which the characters move is also very well done, making your AI teammates 
 feel real and alive. This is equally as good as the fact that they can be killed, and you need 
 to use them in a way that keeps them out of harm's way, but deals damage to your enemy. Having 
 semi-futuristic technology at your finger tips adds new features to the game as well. A UAV can 
 to used to survey a street for hostiles so you know what you are up against before you engage. 
 This makes planning and executing encounters with the enemy a lot more engaging for the more hard 
 core gamers who want to plan their every move and then sigh with satisfaction when the situation 
 plays out according to plan. This is also improved by intelligent AI who reacts realistically, 
 flanking and taking cover or calling in reinforcements. GRAW makes the Ghost element of the recon 
 team essential, particularly when playing on the higher difficulties. This new take on the Ghost 
 Recon franchise is awesome and well worth a play through once, if not a couple of times. Once again, 
 the difficulty settings you chose will dictate the way you play the game and use your squad, giving 
 a few more breaths into a relatively linear game. Although out done by newer games, this release 
 xbox360 release game is still certainly worth a play through, both for experience, and visuals. 
 If you like it, there is also a sequel which follows on the story. 
  Multiplayer is not as engaging as one would initially hope. The graphics are significantly toned 
 down to host the 16 player matches and the "realistic" health makes the game hard to play for new 
 players. One shot one kill games can be dominated by experienced players, leaving little space 
 for the new guy. Predictable spawn areas are also easily watched by campers and snipers wanting 
 nothing more than a new guy to feast points off. If you take the time to get good, the game can 
 be very rewarding. There are a lot of levels, all of which are quite diverse and look nice. The 
 whole game is more about stealth than all out combat, so you will find the experience quieter than 
 that of something like Call of Duty. In a game, gunfire is rarely heard and grenades even less 
 so. The game is more about sneaking up on your opponents and downing them before they can even 
 lay eyes on you. Firing your weapon gives away your position to your enemy, so shoot to kill is 
 essential. This is how the game is easily dominated by those who are both good, and know the maps 
 inside out. The multiplayer also excludes the snap-lock cover system found in the campaign. Missing 
 this feature means in an online match, one can't slide up to a wall, pop you head round a corner 
 and squeeze off a few rounds before ducking back under cover before the second guy gets you. Instead, 
 seeing an opponent first doesn't always mean you'll get him first. The 3rd person view allows you 
 to see around corners; however you still have to leave the safety of the wall to engage your enemy. 
 At this stage, all you have left is the element of surprise (should your opponent be facing your 
 direction) which even should you win, leaves you exposed to return fire from other players attracted 
 by both sound and muzzle flash. 
  The strongest feature of the multiplayer is probably not the competitive side however. The game 
 has another multiplayer mode that puts 16 players on the same team against varying numbers of AI 
 in massive co-op missions. In these, the ghost team must complete a series of objectives while 
 the AI patrols the map. In these games, teamwork is essential. One co-op mission may require the 
 players to take out a series of objectives such as destroying a depot, eliminating a general, and 
 destroying a communication station. While these can all be done in which ever order you or your 
 team chooses, working as a squad and trying to achieve all simultaneously will yield the best results. 
 Destroy the depot before the radio station and you'll have enemy reinforcements to deal with later 
 etc. The game play is good fun, however multiplayer controls are not as smooth as the single player 
 and although the games have great potential, in the long run they are not that much fun. Elements 
 such as the changing game experience according to the way in which you carry out your objectives 
 is barely noticeable.
  Overall, GRAW has a strong, solid single player that is a visual masterpiece of its time with intense 
 missions and hosts a good balance of stealth and action. This does not however carry over into 
 the multiplayer experience as well as one might hope. It has all the right ideas, but can't quite 
 pull them off. It's also very hard for any new players entering full of veterans to get anywhere. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gammit10
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 25, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  I put off playing this game because I initially could not get past the beginning of objective 2. 
 Yeah, that's right, 2. The reason for this is I normally play games that I'm only semi-interested 
 in (like this one) on "easy." Well, GRAW doesn't have an "easy" mode. It has "medium" (a few bullets 
 and you're dead) and "hard" (one bullet can kill you) . I knew this was a tactical shooter going 
 into it, but I think every game should have an "easy" mode.
  
  Regardless of that, I really enjoyed the game. It had a plausible contemporary settings that didn't 
 kill my suspension of disbelief, it's tactical shooter elements continued this feeling, and the 
 use of high-tech weaponry was sweet.
  
  Many have made light of the game's enemy AI, but had it been more realistic, I never would have 
 enjoyed this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_user
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 23, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter (often referred to as simply G. R. A. W.) is the third 
 installment of the tactical shooter series Ghost Recon, published and developed by Ubisoft, the 
 multiplayer was developed separately by Red Storm Entertainment. Being a tactical shooter G. R. A. W. 
 requires the player to quickly develop strategies in combat usually involving the unique use of 
 surveillance equipment, the player's own squad, and vehicles accessed only during certain levels. 
 The player is given several options when entering a lethal situation and the outcome of the event 
 usually depends on the players own wit and the success of his or her tactics. Although mildly futuristic 
 the game is more realistic than a majority of modern shooters, which is both a blessing and a curse 
 as the player's character, his squad, and the vehicles are easily wounded much like their counterparts 
 would be in reality. The game requires a great deal of concentration and a large manipulation of 
 what resources the player's character (Captain Mitchell) has available during the mission. The 
 game is both innovative and surprisingly fun for a game that requires such a great deal of strategy. 
 However, like every game it has its fair share of faults. 
  
  The game begins in an artificial training yard in which Captain Mitchell (who has already gained 
 his persona) most complete several obstacles that could prove deadly in reality. As my character 
 entered the training ground I could automatically tell the difference from this in past games; 
 not only had the graphics improved to a great extent but the guns also gave you the option to shoot 
 several bullets at a time or shoot one at a time depending on the situation you're in, the scope 
 had improved gravely and allowed me to get a better view on the hostile enemies I was about to 
 face but wasn't so perfect to the point a player could get a shot in without effort like in previous 
 games, the HUD allowed you to save the location of enemies, tasks, and weapons 'till they are defeated 
 or completed. G. R. A. W also now allows players to have complete control over their team, which is 
 an option rarely seen in shooters but instead almost completely reserved for real time strategy 
 games. It's both impressive yet sometimes tedious to see this kind of game play for the first time 
 in the third person shooter genre. However, I do not think it should be a necessary feature as 
 not all Ghost Recon enthusiasts (including myself) enjoy being obliged to control my team. Ubisoft 
 attempts to fix the problem by allowing players to play solo, unfortunately this makes succeeding 
 in combat more difficult. I also felt it was frustrating that your team mates and the pilots in 
 vehicles you gave orders to where not intelligent enough to make their own decisions in close quarters 
 combat and often died if Captain Mitchell wasn't quick enough to give them an order. However, all 
 these are minor problems that can be easily be ignored, at least compared to the multiplayer.
 
  
  The multiplayer is possibly the worst aspect of the game. Ubisoft has had a track record as opposed 
 to giving players a multiplayer that completely replicates the single player game play experience 
 they had a completely different team develop the multiplayer to create a mediocre game within a 
 game that's hardly worthy of inclusion in a game as potentially great as Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter. 
 The graphics in the multiplayer are bland and there is completely no texture in most areas, the 
 missions that-at most-4 players can decide to enter are incredibly easy and only require a player 
 to complete the same objective a certain amount of times while fighting repetitive enemies with 
 apparently no intelligence whatsoever. The multiplayer game does not include the new editions to 
 the game such as taking cover against walls and benches, climbing obstacles, and the corner gun 
 that has been used in most previous Ghost Recon games is nowhere to be seen. Most multiplayer levels 
 can be run through with little to no effort, and since every hostile enemy looks exactly the same 
 it is almost impossible to not spot them despite their best attempts to camouflage. Four player 
 co-operative is great in concept but poorly executed. However, despite the appalling co-operative 
 play the online competitive modes-although generic-actually manages to be pretty entertaining. 
 I enjoyed the combat despite the fact most multiplayer games have been used in every shooter since 
 the late 90's, but despite the fact the multiplayer competitive modes can be considered for a shooter 
 enthusiast it is easy to feel cheaply killed online and the graphics are still terrible. 
  
  The story is by far one of the best I've seen in the shooting genre, although there are some 
 pretty obvious clichs. Overall it manages to be an interactive thriller with a plot you'd expect 
 to see in theaters as opposed to a video game consoles, but the multiplayer still is a large enough 
 dilemma to effect a player's personal experience with the game. While the single player game is 
 fun, manages to have great graphics, and the story could be passed as a classic and exciting thriller 
 multiplayer is a modern necessity in most shooters. I also felt the tactics system that gave the 
 player full control over their character's team (while innovative) became tedious when Ubisoft 
 made it necessary to control every single motion of your team. Personally I enjoyed the game although 
 I did feel there was little to do after I finished playing; I'd recommend it for those looking 
 for a great nontraditional shooter but I'm not making any promises, the game requires a certain 
 taste to enjoy after completion. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cozmono
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 3:21 am PT
Review:  What do i say about this monstrosity? If you like stupid AI, stupid controls and a stupid story 
 , with some of the most kick ass graphics your likely to see, go for it. If you don't, your doing 
 yourself a huge favor. Ive played through the prequels to this series, but just cant be bothered 
 forcing myself to conjure though he pain that this game is trying to leave me. It was the big Microsoft 
 hit. It was the game that was going to show the gaming community what awesome graphical abilities 
 the Xbox360 had to offer, and it did. But in the end, after watching all the cool graphics, it 
 fell well short in almost every way. To be truthful, im only typing what is left of this review 
 to get my 800 characters out the way . In the end, this game is so bad, i wouldn't even use it 
 as a coaster. Rainbow Vegas is far superior to this crap. Nothing else to be said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  Previous Ghost Recon's were all about being one of the most silent and effective units ever to 
 wipe out growing terrorists. The older games before ghost recon 2 were usually based in heavy jungles 
 and rural locations. Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter is more urban and more... frantic. Although 
 the missions are less stealth based this does'nt mean its lost the classic Ghost Recon feel. Advanced 
 warfighter is still extremely tactical with open maps with winding streets and tight alleyways 
 in order to approach your enemies without them noticing. 
  
  There are many things that make this game special, some of that is how loud the game is, especially 
 if you use surround sound it feels almost like you are really there. The screen shakes and rumbles 
 as you let lead loose from your rifle. Squad manuevers are more advanced than they used to be, 
 you can also use things like small flying cameras to inspect a location before you arrive there 
 allowing you to set up your path.
  
  The Good -
  
  - A massive arsenal of weapons and character classes for you to choose from. 
  - A pretty nice 
 physics engine.
  - More frantic urban gameplay 
  - Good graphics, excellent on HD
  - Fantastic sound
  - Classic and original musical score
  - Good Multiplayer
  
  The Bad 
 - 
  
  - Sometime's dodgy AI
  - Quite tough (dont let that put you off though)
  - Repetative
  
  The Overall - 
  
  Its good points outweight its bad... and to honest there 
 isnt even anything bad about it anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maybe137
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 5:06 am PT
Review:  i really liked this game but one of the missions was scary lol
  but anyway there will be 12 missions if you count with the training mission
  in the training 
 mission you cannot die so it will be very easy and for each mission you complete you will get 25 
 gamerscore and it will be 2 difficultys
  one you will die harder and in the second you will die in one shoot because the well only aim at 
 the head and you can duck but the thing i didnt liked was that you cant se the player as the normal 
 games you can only se the whole person from backwards and you will have 3 teammates that willl 
 help you but not always and one thing was funny for me when you teammates get injured or dies you 
 can heal them up with some bandage or something but when you die they cant help that thing effected 
 the score rating for me to but the graphic is good and the sounds when bomb explodes and you will 
 command your team and you can command tanks and helicopters that was a good thing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Civfan333
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  I came into Gamestop wondering what to get, I came out with what I now know to be one of the best 
 tactical shooters out there, only bested by it's Tom Clancy cousin, Rainbow Six Vegas. The Controls 
 are polished, better than recent games such as Frontlines: Fuel of war and Quake wars. It takes 
 about 30 mins. to an hour to get a good and satisfying knowledge of the controls, but once you 
 do, it's a blast.
  
  The Campaign is hard, but not hard enough to make you want to quit. Also, it has a..... well, not 
 exactly gripping, but worth listening to. The AI is really good, and will go for cover in the right 
 circumstances.
  
  The Multiplayer is definitely the lasting contribution and will have you picking this game up months 
 and even years after you beat the campaign. It's competetive, and I surprisingly found lots of 
 people to play even though I just bought this in January. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxKing_Leonidas
Rating: 9
Date: May 29, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a tactical shooter set in the near future. You take control 
 of Captain Mitchell a leader of an elite squad of soldiers known as ghosts. Your mission find the 
 missing US and Mexican presidents, and the best part kill any rebels that get in your way.
  This is a game that is overall an amazing game. From the great online play to the difficult campaign 
 this a great game.
  
  Pros- 
  -Great online with a variety of maps, gamemodes, and weapons to chose from. 
  -A challenging 
 campaign that can take some time to beat.
  -Great visuals from the great character models to the amazing looking cityscape's.
  -Changing 
 missions that will have you doing one thing then something bad happens and your doing something 
 else. 
  -Smart A. I. that will rush you when you least expect it.
  -Great squad mechanics, you can control tanks, choppers, even a drone to scout out the battlefield.
 
  
  Cons-
  -With all these massive cities, where are all the people?
  -Squad members get them selves killed too much. 
  -When rescuing people they don't attempt to 
 take cover and killed often
  -There are spots where you can't go any further because your leaving the battleground, that gets 
 annoying.
  
  Overall Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a great game with memorable gameplay and some great 
 visuals.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: swift1981
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  ah, the xbox360. I love it so - the fact you can pick up so many quality games for a mere pitance. 
 I picked up GRAW about six months ago for 7. Id frequently overlooked it since first purchasing 
 my 360 but as with a lot of titles i wait until there bargain basement to try my hand. What another 
 steal. This game really is superb. First class tactical shooting. Awesome weapons, great locations, 
 good variety to boot. The difficulty borders on tedious but mark my words it will have you coming 
 back for more. The difficulty factor reminds me of Stuntman for the ps2. Its the having to repeat 
 certain missions over and over that almost makes you say f**k this ive had enough. But the fact 
 is the game has so much quality, and looks so great it will keep you coming back for more. You 
 will feel all the more rewarded the more you stick at it. Havent finished it yet but i will be 
 buying GRAW2 as soon as i have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 8
Date: May 4, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  Its a good shooter but only buy it if you've got multiplayer capabilities. This game's single player. 
 Erm.. Okay i guess
  
  GRAW... Funny story.. I though i bought GRAW 2 used and after a month I realized they put GRAW 
 1 in the GRAW 2 case. Oh well.
  
  The single player is so hard! I had to use a cheat every now and then. The graphics... good. The 
 AI... Bad guys are really smart. Good guys. Well a rock would do better on my team.
  
  Multi player is lots of fun and actually im pretty good. I expected a lot more out of this game 
 but its good. Its a lot of fun. I reccomend it to anyone who is a fan of tactical shooters. . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Oh and be sure to have multiplayer if you buy this. Because 
 the multiplayer is a lot better than single. Single is extremely hard but multiplayer is the key 
 to fun in this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S0mEGuY12
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 27, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:8/10
  Alright lets kick things off. This game is aging a bit, and this review is a bit late, But my friend 
 just let me borrow this... So yeah. Lets start. GRAW is a tactical shooter that takes place in Mexico. 
 A bunch of the Mexican military rebels, and the U. S President with the Canadian Prime Minister with 
 the Mexican president propose an agreement for security. Things go wrong, and you have to go fix 
 it. 
  
  Presentation of this game is awesome. This game has slick controls, Nice weapons, unique and fun 
 gameplay, and some variety. In my opinion, this game could have been better... WITHOUT ITS DIFFICULTY! 
 Its either i suck at this game, OR ITS THE GAME!!! I cannot even describe HOW many times i was picked 
 off and i saw a Game Over screen and my squadmates saying CAPTAIN!!! Really... This game IS punishing, Even 
 on the easiest difficulty. Heck, there are only 2 difficulties! Realistic and Ultra Realistic. Theres 
 basically only a Hard and Very hard in this game. Ultra Realistic is very hard... But its not much 
 harder than Realistic due to Realistic being already so unforgiving! You have to be PERFECT at 
 this game! Also... Enemy AI..... The enemy AI is... not too bright. But it doesent matter. Their bullets 
 in Realistic will kill you almost instantly, and in Ultra Realistic will have a 90% Hit ratio in 
 the FREAKING head! Thats a bad combination... High damage bullets with stupid AI. For example... Stupid 
 enemy soldier runs up to me like the idoit he is.. I try to retaliate... BUT HE GUNS ME DOWN DUE 
 TO HIS OVERPOWERED BULLETS!! In a regular FPS, Those are easily taken care of... But this game is 
 different... MUCH different.... Now about your squad. They're stupid as well. You give them orders, But 
 sometimes they do it good, make a mess of it, or dont do it at all. You cant order them individually 
 either. I was laying down heavy fire on enemies once, when all of a sudden my squad member just 
 walks up in front of me, and my whole squad says MAN DOWN!!! Due to me doing friendly fire! Is it 
 really my fault that he had to come up in front of my face while i was shooting? Also, these guys 
 will not take cover efficiently. I had them take cover once... And sometimes THEY STAND THERE FIRING 
 AT THE ENEMY, BUT IT WAS LIKE THEY WERE ASKING TO BE SHOT AT! Squad AI has a lot to be desired like 
 Gamespot said...
  
  The cool thing about this game, is the variety of weapons with certain special abilities... A favorite 
 of mine is the one with the Camera.... Im assuming that its a variant of the cornershot.. i forgot. 
 Also the Cross system that allows you to use vehicles work quite well. Vehicles actually listen 
 to you most of the time (Most) Especially helicopters. I love to take cover behind APC Strykers 
 and to annihilate enemies with helicopters. This is a plus in this game, and i wanna see if its 
 better in GRAW 2 if i ever play it. Bottom line for gameplay... Smooth gameplay with a good system.. that 
 is severly brought down by difficulty, and stupid AI
  
  Graphics:9/10
  These graphics are quite nice. Though they're not the best, Ubisoft did a terrific job at rendering 
 such a large city and still making the game look nice.
  
  Sound:9/10
  Also good, audio is nice in this game, and the firing of several weapons sounds great, and since a 
 lot is going on, the game is pretty loud if you know what i mean.
  
  Overall:8/10
  Really, in my opinion this game could have been much more if it wernt with all this problems. Everything 
 works smoothly...... Except the problems i listed earlier. Hopefully if i ever purchase, rent, or 
 borrow GRAW 2 these problems will be resolved.. Except the AI i hear its still pretty stupid. I 
 have not played Multiplayer yet, but il list it later once i do. So far...8/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Payasoplas
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  I love Tom Clancy's games, I'm one fo the biggest fans for the Ghost Reocn franchise, but I'm not 
 blnded by that fact, actually I must be honest and say the truth This game sucks!!!
  
  Anyother fan would tell you, "OH, BOY THIS GAME ROCKS IS THE BEST GAME EVER...!" But I'm going 
 to tell you that along with Rainbow Six Lockdown this the most disaponting Tom Clancy game ever.
 
  
  Ghost Recon games always had good AI, Advanced Warfighter has the most idiotic soldiers ever, the 
 Enemies are very tough but the temmates are nothing than a bunch of idiots, they get in your way 
 when you are shooting, they don't obey orders from you, they take the longest and most dangerous 
 route to get to a place, etc.
  
  The story is the most idiotic argument ever, I wouldn't be surpirsed if in the next Ghost Reocn 
 game you would fight aliens form the planet of pink elephants who fly from flower to flower, the 
 weapons suck, assault rifles get out of ammo in 2 seconds, in the other Ghost Recon games this 
 didn't happen, this is very annoying because just when you are ready to take the shoot of victory 
 you have to reload your weapon, and then you get killed.
  
  You have some support like tanks ,UAVs, helos, etc. but they don't obey orders just like your temmates, 
 the UAVs, are useless, they only detect enemies the firs time, then they never do it again.
  
  I don't know how Tom Clancy approved this game, every new game bearing the Tom Clancy name 
 gets more and more arcade and less realistic.
  
  The visuals are great, taht's the only good thing about this game....
  
  As a mexican I must 
 grateful that at least they did a good job making Mexico City look the way it is, and not a town 
 full of guys with sombreros. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dotXtreme
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter was one of the Xbox 360's main selling points out 
 of the starting gate and the breakthrough game for the Ghost Recon series. Always a great series, 
 but seriously lacking in some ways, Advanced Warfighter started from the ground up and, at the 
 time, became the best in the franchise. Advanced Warfighter is still a wonderful experience to 
 be had, but its some-what overwhelming difficulty and lack of long-time online players may drive 
 newer players away.
  
  As I've stated before, Advanced Warfighter can at times be an extremely difficult and frustrating 
 game. AW pushes the envelope in realism, but it's so realistic that it's exceptionally hard to 
 evade incoming enemy fire. You are usually outnumbered, with allies or not, and most enemies are 
 armed with either assault rifles or high-powered machine guns, so dodging bullets relies on either 
 luck, or how much cover you're under. In Advanced Warfighter, you control Captain Scott Mitchell, 
 a hardened veteran of war and leader of a squad of "Ghosts", a special operations team. Captain 
 Mitchell can hide behind most types of reliable cover, including walls, trees, sandbags; anything 
 that looks remotely like a square can usually be taken as cover.
  
  To help ease down on the difficulty of the game, there is a feature in the game called the CrossCam. 
 The CrossCam shows you what allies you are in control of, and what they're currently looking at. 
 Through the CrossCam, you can issue basic commands to your allies, like "Move" or "Fire", and it's 
 pretty easy to use. The CrossCam can sometimes be a hassle to use, however, as your allies will 
 occasionally not follow your commands (especially when ordering Armor Strikes) . However, its positives 
 far outweigh its small negatives, and it is a welcome addition to the series.
  
  As always, Captain Mitchell is usually commanding a team of allies. These allies can range from 
 a squad of Ghosts, to more powerful vehicles like tanks or helicopters. These allies all have their 
 advantages and disadvantages, but when it comes to taking down the enemy, these guys are extremely 
 helpful. Seeing as how you'll be dodging bullets for most of the game, you can order your squad 
 of Ghosts to help you out in a multitude of ways, and each has a different function (like "Anti-Tank" 
 or "Rifleman") . A useful tactic when facing a large opposition of enemies is to order your squad 
 of Ghosts to direct the majority of enemy fire while you sneak around the side to easily flank 
 them. It's great gameplay tactics which bring out the realism of the game.
  
  To help you take down your enemies is a massive array of weaponry to choose from. Captain Mitchell 
 can carry three types of weapons: a primary weapon, a secondary weapon, and a handful of grenades. 
 In the single-player campaign, you're choice of weapons in limited, but in the multiplayer mode, 
 you're allowed to choose from dozens of different weapons. There are only two types of pistols 
 and one type of grenades, but there is a very large selection of primary weapons. These weapons 
 can range from assault rifles to sniper rifles, or even grenade launchers and RPG's. This new selection 
 of weapons helps you create even more strategies, and really makes both the multiplayer and online 
 modes shine.
  
  In essence, the plot of AW is pretty basic. It's basically a bunch of traitorous Mexican soldiers 
 began a rebellion while the Mexican President, the American President, and the Canadian Prime Minister 
 were signing a treaty. You're tasked with recovering both the Mexican and American presidents, 
 and then taking out the leader of the resistance. Most of the story is predictable, and the ending 
 is one of the most disappointing sequences I've ever witnessed. Because I don't want to spoil the 
 ending for you, all I will say is that it is exactly what you expected it to be, no more no less. 
 To such a difficult game with such a great amount of realism, the ending is just... horrible. I 
 really expected more from it but was left disappointed.
  
  In better news, the game looks amazing. Ubisoft did a really great job on this game, and it clearly 
 shows. Mexico City looks and feels just like a real city (albeit there are no civilians in the 
 game) . They also put a really cool bullet stream behind bullets, so you can see the smoke trail 
 from the bullets as it whizzes through the air. It's extremely helpful, as it can usually tell 
 you where enemy fire is coming from if you don't see it directly. However, Ubisoft left this addition 
 out of the multiplayer and online components of the game, so any tactical advantage you got from 
 watching the bullets fly don't work here.
  
  The sound in Advanced Warfighter was just done perfectly. The realism really shows more clearly 
 in the sound. Every gun you use has a different sound effect to it, which in turn helps make identifying 
 what gun you're enemy is using easier. When close to a blast radius, either it being from a nearby 
 grenade explosion or a vehicle exploding next to you, your HUD will start to get fuzzy and shake 
 around, while all of the sound will be drained from you. After a few seconds of fighting deaf, 
 the sounds of the battlefield will slowly come back to you, and you can resume fighting as usual. 
 Speaking of the sounds of the battlefield, since you are fighting Mexican rebels, they will yell 
 to each other battle commands in Spanish, and if you know a little Spanish, you will know exactly 
 what they're trying to do to kill you. The same voices of the Mexican rebels do tend to be used 
 frequently and you will hear the same phrase used many times, but it's not extremely noticeable, 
 and you shouldn't mind it too much.
  
  Advanced Warfighter will last you for a very long time. There is of course the long and difficult 
 single-player campaign, but there are also multiplayer and online modes as well. Advanced Warfighter 
 delivers an outstanding multiplayer mode, in which you and up to three other buddies can take out 
 up to 50 computer-controlled rebels. There are three different modes of play to choose from, but 
 they are largely uninteresting and the main focus was clearly put around the Elimination mode, 
 in which you must take out the enemy force. As I've stated before, all of the weapons not available 
 in the single-player campaign are available here. With the new weapons comes new tactics, as one 
 of your friends can carry a grenade launcher, while another can carry a sniper rifle, etc. There 
 are also several different maps to choose from, all having great advantages and disadvantages. 
 For example, one level is on a boat at sea, while enduring a thunder storm. There are close fighting 
 spots for you to take out the enemy, but with the heavy rain coming down and the boat rocking back 
 and force, you're bullets may droop down and miss you're target directly, so perhaps a heavier, 
 yet more powerful and more accurate rifle is needed. It's great gameplay tactics like this that 
 makes playing AW's multiplayer a blast to play, and it will keep you addicted and focused for some 
 time to come.
  
  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter is clearly one of the most tactical and realistic 
 games out there today. However, with its heavy sense of realism comes a heavy sense of difficulty, 
 and you will find yourself playing the same, long parts over and over again. Besides its difficulty, 
 Advanced Warfighter is a great game overall, and with its outstanding multiplayer and online features, 
 it's a game that will last you for a long time, and justifies its price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Italianmoose
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a very good game, because it makes use of most 
 of the Xbox 360's brainpower to draw an entire city, and the explosions make me want to blow things 
 up, for the sheer hell of it, because they look very cool. The one bone I have to pick with this 
 game is that the AI doesn't help much. Except as a meatshield. They end up making you run around 
 reviving them, when you could be doing something far more useful. Also, the Bazooka is really hard 
 to aim. If you point it over a fence and pull the trigger, chances are it will blow you up. However, 
 some of the missions are fantastic, such as blasting the crap out of rebels with a Vulcan cannon, 
 that sounds cool, and shakes your hand to pieces. The Instant Action feature can keep you coming 
 back, because it can make you feel like a real badass-taking 30 rebels down with a sniper rifle 
 without dying was one of the coolest bits of my gaming career. And if the going gets tough, there 
 are always the cheats. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr-Elijo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought this game I was buying it because of the excellent critisism I had head about 
 it. When I first played it I though it was great but as I got into the game I found it to get a 
 little repetative. Luckily the game only lasts about 12 hours before you have completed it but 
 if it went for too much longer I think it may be boring. I'm not much of a fan of really short 
 games but it was a good idea to play it safe with this one.
  
  Aside from that, the visuals are good, the sound is fantastic but there are so many glitches that 
 it's not funny. I don't know how many times I had to load my last checkpoint because my player 
 was stuck with half his body moulded into the wall.
  
  Overall I give this game 8.5/10. It losses half a mark for the shortness/repetitivaty and it losses 
 a full mark for the glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmyo4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  ghost recon has alot of serious moments and is probably the most realistic game of its time. it 
 has a very wide range of weapons and gadgets to use to your will. it is a long relatively hard 
 and fun game to complete. it is set in the near future where the americans are fighting an all 
 outwar against the mexicans. The mexicans fight back by stealing US tanks and military weapons. 
 The mexicans have the mexican seperatist leader under fire and eventually capture him. The game 
 is fun and has alot of unique twists and turns to make it a game of its own genre. It isnt a very 
 good online game and has very tactical and hard multiplayer experiences. it has alot of fun levels 
 and variations of paths you can take to complete the level. The game also includes alot of call-in 
 situations for tanks, helicopters and even bombs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PerfectlyDark
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Not so far off the Xbox 360 launch came the tom clancy beast, GRAW. This third person shooter is, 
 in a word, GODLY. The action is very much like any other war game, but this one seems to pitch 
 the idea of "realistic" more than any shooter out there. This is a badass, hardhitting smoke em' 
 dead game, that does everything you'd want a tactical shooter to do. Clancy's back...
  
  Grpahics and Audio: Jaw Dropping. Every street, every soldier from start to finish looks super 
 well done. The only inperfections lie in the weak looking character models and the slightly blurry 
 textures when close up. Otherwise, running on an HDTV, this game looks very well done. Everything 
 from the camera bob to the wicked weapon effects, GRAW kicks YOUR ass. The Sound is, and I quote, 
 THE BEST, on Xbox 360. The explosions sounds insane, the weapons rip across your 5.1 speakers and 
 your squad commands are crispy on the radio. The best sounding game i've played sinse Metal Gear 
 Solid 2, and thats saying something.
  
  Gameplay: Extremely well done. GRAW captures a war torn mexico like no other game. As you battle 
 through the cities and fight various tanks, Helicopters and battalions of men, you'll laugh as 
 you slaughter them all. The Minigun portions are some of the best I've seen in a shooter and make 
 you feel invinsible. The single player may be hard, but its sick as hell. The AI is smart, and 
 the action is heated. The multiplayer is also VERY deep, but it doesen't use the same Graphics 
 engine as the Single player. The Multiplayer is fun, but it feels alot like the old Ghost Recon 
 2. Thats not a horrid thing, but it kinda blows. Nonethless, the slow paced muliplay might intrest 
 some gamers, but those used to Call of Duty or Halo may want to play just the Single player and 
 then move on.
  
  Overall thoughts: Truely a next-generation title. If you got the set up, this is really a fun game. 
 The multiplayer could have been so much more though... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallenAngelXBL
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Hey GS
  
  Id like to put down how I Score games (this is important if you want to understand why my score 
 is so 'low':
  1 - Utter rubbish
  2 - Utter rubbish
  3 - rubbish
  4 - average
  5 - Good
  6 - Pretty good
  7 - Great
  8 - Greater than 7
  9 - Awesome
  10 - so great 
 ill never review a game that's this good... period.
  
  This has been on all my reviews, but starting from now, its now at the top so people can understand 
 the system quicker. Now read the review. 
  
  GRAW 1 is a Tactical 3rd person shooter from Ubisoft. Its not a new game. However, that doesn't 
 make it a bad game. Like many people seem to think these days. 
  
  GRAW 1 puts you in the boots of Scot Mitchell a hard core military type who you learn nearly nothing 
 about in the story line, and you don't really care because the general idea of the game is to move 
 you and your squad/squads into the best location using the most advanced equipment known to man 
 to killyou guessed it, Mexicans. 
  
  Now to the details:
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics, whilst possibly dated compared to some more recent games, still look pretty good 
 with dynamic lighting effects and real time shadows. However, they over use the lighting, which 
 can sometimes make a target almost invisible. The huge city your fighting in most of the game is 
 nice, but a bit on the bland side. But overall, they are pretty nice. 
  
  SOUND
  
  The voice actors do a pretty good job at making the game feel more generic, and bland. Gunshots 
 sound rather pathetic most of the time and the music is forgettable. Sound is overall acceptable, 
 but could have used less generic American stuff.
  
  CONTROLS
  
  At first they are awkward, changing drastically from a standard TPS, however they do grow on you 
 and they work rather well, if slow to respond at times. This is especially notice able when shooting, 
 as it takes a second or so to fire, this may just be my controllers but maybe not. Either way im 
 putting it down for it. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  You travel around Mexico city killing rebellious Mexicans using cool gear and equipment accompanied 
 by the most elite units known to man SASI mean the GhostsYou often get to control other units 
 like tanks and less cool infantry like bog standard American or Mexican soldiers who are just not 
 as good as anything else and shouldn't really be there. This is all fine and well but you have 
 no REAL control over anything, its awkward to issue orders to tanks as they are on rails and cant 
 really do anything productive rather than slowly kill things and be mobile cover. One of the best 
 things is the Cross Com (x-com from now on) . If you have a UAV satellite drone, you can scout out 
 and area and enemies get highlighted on the map. However, they also get highlighted on the HUD 
 as red diamonds allowing you to locate and eliminate enemies with pinpoint accuracy. This also 
 happens when you place you cursor over an enemy, which also helps. However, this makes the game 
 rather easy in some ways. But you do realise that it would be stupidly hard without it, and the 
 game makes up for it by being stupidly hard to begin with. The game is rather long coming to about 
 15 hours. The story is rather gripping and intense even if it is like looking at a generic wall 
 that it strangely bland and generic. And the online is rather good, even though it has been replaced.
 
  
  OVERALL
  
  GRAW 1 is a above average shooter that anyone a fan of the genre should pick up. Considering its 
 only about 8/$16 at a good games shop or online, its well worth the price. 
  
  5/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawgsfan1447
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  GRAW takes the typical Tom Clancy style and throws you into some sort of global strife, in this 
 case in Mexico. You must recover the Mexican president, who has been abducted by a group of rebels 
 (I think, been a while since I was at the beginning of the game haha) . Anyway, you are Captain 
 Mitchell, the leader of a squad knows as the Ghosts, a special forces unit in the Army. You will 
 go through several missions of varying types, some of them offense, some of them rescue, some during 
 the day and some at night. You also have a slew of weapons at your disposal, along with occasional 
 support from tanks, helicopters, UAVs, and such.
  
  The game is a third person style shooter. It may not be up to par graphically with games like Gears, 
 but it still looks very good, especially for such an early 360 title. The sound is great, with 
 some modern music mixed in at cool points, and cinema quality orchestra pieces at others. The gameplay 
 itself is very well done, immersing you in the battle. The way jammers and such things affect your 
 computer systems is very cool, although it seems unrealistic that it also affects your regular 
 vision as well. What are we doing, looking through a camera? Battles can get pretty intense, with 
 explosions going off and bullets flying in just about every direction possible. I will say it is 
 definitely more realistic than some things. In other words, if you're a run-n-gun sort of person, 
 this game may not be for you.
  
  GRAW may lack a little bit in depth of story, but since when are these games made for the story? 
 It does a great job of sticking you in a situation, if not a full blown war, in the middle of a 
 dense city, and making it a fun trip. I don't have an hour figure, but it will last you long enough 
 (I certainly wasn't saying "dang that was short") . If you enjoy tactical shooters, this game is 
 certainly worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syck_Reign
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 16, 2008 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Fun and frustrating. For as old as it is the graphics were excellent, game play was challenging 
 and it was an overall solid tactical shooter. The two main things that bothered me the most were 
 taking unexpected head shots that would make me have to go back and redo 30 minutes of play but 
 more importantly when successfully making a head shot the skull did not explode and there was no 
 fountain of blood. In the end I'm just glad to have finally completed it so I can get to other 
 games I have neglected to start playing like Mass Effect and Eternal Sonata.
  
  Anyone looking through the bargain bin for a quality way to kill some time and a couple hundred 
 Mexican rebels should pick this one up. It sure beats some of the other alternatives. But if NHL 
 2k7 or the Burger King games are your thing then I guess there are some other great ways to spend 
 under 9.99.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: freshcutgrass1
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 4:53 am PT
Review:  Plot: The plot has terrorists attacking in Mexico City killing the Canadian prime minister and 
 the Mexican and US presidents go missing. It has a good story and is progressed through picture 
 in picture videos.
  Graphics: The graphics are excellent and G. R. A. W. was one of the 1st games to show the potential 
 of the new consoles power. The new lighting was just done perfect and the detail on shadows was 
 unheard of. The explosions were decent and the textures were there. The frame rate is perfect, 
 and it has great draw distance. G. R. A. W. blew away the competition at the time of its release and 
 in some ways still can compete in terms of looks.
  Gameplay: The gameplay was stepped up from the previous Ghost Recons and cover is made easier than 
 it was. There are also new diving maneuvers you can use to get from cover to cover, and some surfaces 
 can be shot through. There are plenty of weapons to choose from and there are a bunch of multiplayer 
 maps, along with game types. The multiplayer is fun and the single player sees not one dull moment 
 because of incoming tanks, air strikes, and whatever the enemy throws at you. A problem with the 
 game play is the teammate A. I needs some work.
  Sound: The sound is done well; the guns sound great as do the explosions. The team has some chatter 
 to an extent and you constantly have new objectives being called out and it just sounds like advanced 
 warfare would sound like. The only problem is that it reuses the same music for almost the whole 
 game and the menus.
  Value: The game has a good single player campaign that will last 8-12 hrs and you'll probably go 
 through a second time. The fun doesn't end there; you also have the multiplayer, which is really 
 fun with new map packs and such.
  Achievements: They have you beating the game on hard, beating coop and playing 1000 matches while 
 killing 10,000 players. They even have one where you have to get 5 or so kills with one clip of 
 ammo without reloading.
  Tilt: G. R. A. W. is an excellent game, with its good story, excellent graphics, and fun multiplayer. 
 With little A. I glitches and the same repeating music being the only little complaints that can 
 easily be over looked it is definitely one of 2006's best. Many tactical shooter or Ghost Recon 
 fans will find a great game in G. R. A. W.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zerostatic0
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  I have to say I was quite disappointed with this game. It's a good game, but I was expecting something 
 really great from the reviews that I was reading and it didn't live up to my expectations.
  
  The graphics are nice, but not quite as amazing as everyone says they are. My measure of great 
 visuals is whether they make me want to stop and look at the world. This game never does that to 
 me. However, they are still above average visuals.
  
  The gameplay is deep, they're are a lot of factors to consider and there are usually multiple ways 
 you can go about completing various missions.
  
  My two biggest problems with the game is the atmosphere and story. Or rather the lack of either. 
 I wish there were civilians, animals, or just life in general in the environments. The lack of 
 this always reminded me that I was playing a videogame rather than engaged in missions in a real 
 city. The story also leaves a lot to be desired I wish I cared more about the missions and my squad 
 mates. 
  
  Honestly, this is not a bad game, and had I not had such high expectations for this game I probably 
 would've liked it more. It is a solid game, and if you squad based combat and slower-paced shooters 
 you'll love this game. If you are more like me and care more about atmosphere, engaging characters, 
 deep storylines then you should skip this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HardcoregamerXX
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-GRAW has some great features including destroying tanks, uavs, great online coop, and 
 my favorite is blindfire by sticking to walls. You can also order around your squad, which is cool.
 
  
  Graphics-The GRAW graphics are pretty darn good. Some of the mexican movements are kind of weird, 
 but other than than that, I give the graphics an A+.
  
  Storyline-The GRAW storyline is all about fighting mexicans. This is an exciting storyline and 
 has some good twists, but the objectives get kind of repetitive.
  
  Online Multiplayer-The verses for this game online is not cool at all. It runs on a host system 
 where any player can host a game. This really sucks because most players try to jack it in there 
 favor. Aside from verses, the coop is very fun. You can set up different missions or just fight 
 endless beaners running at you. It's very entertaining.
  
  Overall-I would give this game a higher rating but the online verses sucks too bad. But still, 
 worth buying.
  
  THANKS FOR READING MY REVIEW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarcusFenix2009
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  Forget Call of Duty 4. GRAW games were here first and are still better. You can't even wall grab 
 on it. 
  
  Tom Clancy always delivers and this game is far from an exception. It' exiting campaign and clever 
 multiplayer makes it my favourite game.
  
  It seems futuristic but maintains the play space of a war battlefield. The gameplay is the icing 
 on the cake for this game, it provides exiting shoot'em up battles and tactical bouts, with a range 
 of guns from sniper to machine gun, grenade to smoke. Making an all around must have game.
  
  This game is in my opinion is a must have for any 360 gamer.
  
  (also if you like this 
 you'll love GRAW 2) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taino1128
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Good: Always challenging, no matter what difficulty or mission. Visually stunning. The city is 
 incredibly detailed. Varied campaign. Solid gameplay. Online play will keep you sucked in for a 
 very long time. Great sound effects.
  -
  Bad: Sometimes idiotic enemy and teammate AI. The game might feel like it ends a bit too soon.
 
  -
  Everybody knows that the Tom Clancy games are all about intense action with a tactical feeling. 
 Ghost Recon is argueably the most popular Tom Clancy game. It has always been solid in every aspect. 
 Don't make any exceptions with Advanced Warfighter. It improves every aspect of an already great 
 game, making it a must own for everybody.
  You play as Sgt. Scott Mitchell and you have to rescue both the American and Mexican presidents 
 from Mexican rebels throughout the game. Then afterwards, you have to take back a suitcase stolen 
 by the rebels, which takes quite a while. Most of the time you'll have 3 squadmates under your 
 command following you and helping you take care of business. There are a few missions where you 
 have to go alone. These teammates feel a bit on the inexperienced side. There will be times where 
 you tell them to follow you, but after 5 seconds they'll run ahead without you. Then when they 
 get hit you'll get that, "If you would have listened to me you wouldn't have gotten shot!" feeling. 
 Same thing can sometimes happen when you order them to go to a certain spot or to hold position. 
 Thankfully, they are good when firing at enemies and at times can save your life. There also times 
 when you have to command a helicopter & tank. The AI of those in the tanks and helicopters aren't 
 as stupid as your teammates on foot, but still aren't perfect. I say because they only fire if 
 you order them to. They could be standing there getting shot at and not do anything. Even the enemies 
 are quite on the dumb side. When they get shot at, even though they shoot back, they stand in the 
 same spot without taking cover unless they see you before you shoot. Ubisoft should really taken 
 more time developing the AI of your teammates and enemies.
  All of the missions in this game are challenging, not matter what difficulty, but that doesn't 
 keep them from being fun. It actually makes them more fun. This is most tactical game I've ever 
 played. You press can press a button at any time to unlock the map. You can use the map to plan 
 your route or assault and can order your teammates to go to a specific spot in the battle area. 
 Before a mission starts you can select which weapons and teammates to bring with you. Using your 
 HUD, you select which teammates to command and what commands to give. Obviously, you can choose 
 your weapon and your firing mode. If you choose to play the game in third person view, you select 
 which side you would like to view it from. That means you can choose to view the camera angle from 
 either over his left shoulder or over his right shoulder. This is useful, especially when taking 
 cover from fire and selecting a side to shoot from. 
  The missions are so action packed you'll definitely want to play through them again, especially 
 since there are so many things to unlock to build up your gamerscore. There are many enemies, beautiful 
 explosions, and much more. The campaign takes place in the city of El Paso, Mexico, which is highly 
 detailed and looks beautiful. There some parts where there are battles in the woods and outskirts 
 of the city up in the hills, opposed to the urban areas of the city. On regular difficulty, the 
 game can be beaten in 8-10 hours. That is the normal amount of time for a shooter, but you can't 
 help but wish it was longer. When a game is as fun as this one, everybody wishes it would last 
 forever. Even though that's impossible, it would have been nice to see it carry somewhere over 
 15 hours. Most of the lasting appeal will come from the multiplayer.
  Multiplayer, both online and off, is absolutely amazing. You play both against each other and join 
 in co-op campaign. The networks allow up to 16 players per session, which is pretty good. There 
 are up to 1,000 customizable game types. This probably the best Xbox Live experience on the X360 
 yet.
  The visuals, next to the online play, are the second best part of the game. All of the character 
 models go down to the smallest details. You see wrinkles, facial hair, acne, etc. The city of El 
 Paso is immensely detailed. This game might make you take a vacation there, its just that beautiful. 
 The explosions in this game are so viscerally satisfying. It just feels so good ordering your teammate 
 to destroy a vehicle, especially when your enemies are taking cover behind it. The sunlight reflects 
 off almost everything. Its almost like that beautiful sunlight you picture on a beach, except its 
 on a dangerous battle field, which is just as good. There are no flaws in these visuals. Expect 
 one of the best looking games ever made. 
  The sound is also pretty amazing. Obviously, surround sound is where it's the best. The explosions, 
 as stated previously, look amazing and also sound amazing. They'll sound like they are right next 
 to you. It's the same thing with the gunshots. All of the characters are voiced well. There is 
 some catchy backround music thrown in here and there, but it would have nice if it was there all 
 of the time, it's just that good.
  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is an outstanding achievement. It delivers on all fronts. The game 
 would have been perfect if the AI wasn't so lacking and if the campaign was just a few hours longer. 
 Despite those flaws, this game is amazing. From an intense campaign and multiplayer experience, 
 this game is so entertaining. This game should be checked out by everybody, no matter who you are. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whiteghost09
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  This review is probably gonna be really short, just because there are only 2 control issues I have 
 with it GRAW.
  
  The story is really amaizing, and the best part is that it goes on for a long time (with the campaign 
 lasting about 10 hours) . It's set in Mexico City and surrounding areas, as a rebel force has begun 
 to fight against the government in opposition to a recently signed alliance between the US, Canada, 
 and Mexico. You are Captain Scott Mitchell, a "ghost (special forces soldier) " squad leader. You 
 take part in missions where you are accompanied by a squad of 3 other ghosts. There are also some 
 solo missions. The gameplay is nearly perfect, as are the conrtols (barring the errors described 
 below) and level designs. Then there are the graphics. Wow, they're stunning. 
  
  The two problems I have are both control problems. The first one is how you "stick to cover". In 
 short, you can do it, it's just easier to not use it. You end up being less exposed if you just 
 peek around the cover, not getting right up next to it. The other is about the way by which you 
 control drones and tanks through a little camera screen in the upper right corner in your HUD. 
 It's confusing as it is, but you're never really told how to use it, which compounds the problem. 
 Eventually you figure it out, but it takes a while. 
  
  In conclusion, GRAW is about as good a tactical shooter as you're ever going to find.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdwolf260
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 12:25 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter puts you in command of Captain Mitchell, a Ghost squad member. 
 A coup has thrown Mexico in turmoil as rebels take down the elected government, to make matters 
 worse they come into posession of a suitcase containing the United States' nuclear missile launch 
 codes. It's up to you and your squadmates to squash the rebels and recover the launch codes using 
 high tech suits that give you access to the battlefield by highlighting the enemy and objectives. 
 The game gives you a variety of things to do, including gunning down rebels from a helicopter, 
 commanding tanks and other heavy armored vehicles, and scouting area for enemy to pick them off 
 with a sniper rifle. Set in Mexico City and surrounding areas, each level is gorgeous and extremely 
 detailed. However, the action never gets close and personal. Most of the time I spent shooting 
 at the enemy from a distance at which they appeared only as blobs with a red outline around them. 
 Fortunately multiplayer if fun, fast, and engaging. If you're looking for game to enjoy with friends 
 you can't go wrong. If you're looking for an immersive single player campaign, this falls a little 
 short due to the fact that most of the time you spend feeling removed from action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ausutorarisu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  Up till now, I have spent 40 hours or so with GRAW the Xbox 360 version already. Even though I 
 have yet to finish the entire game, I can firmly tell every of you this is a masterpiece.
  
  Graphically this game is well-done. I currently acquired a new scope of judgement for graphics, 
 life-likeness. Except its colourful, highly-detailed and pretty visuals, GRAW runs smooth-like-silk 
 on the Xbox 360. Opposite to its PC cousin, the framerates always stay above 60 fps. In short, 
 fluency plus beautiful visuals make the graphical experience exceptional impressive.
  
  The combat is solid and satisfying. The AI is still very smart on both ends but players can finally 
 make a kill. A minor setback is that aiming-down-your-sight and shooting with the controller are 
 quite inaccurate, to say the least. So be it. Players are given plenty of ammunition at their disposal 
 and they can pick up the guns that enemies drop. I still could not figure out why I could not pick 
 them up in the PC version.
  
  Checkpoints are placed evenly in single player mission. Thank God! Admittedly, death can be quick 
 in certain scernarios but our hero can sustain plenty of damage in most cases. We can finish the 
 mission and move on to the next pretty fluently. I feel much more relieved knowing I can take more 
 than two bullets. You do not know my reference to which game, right?
  
  Squad AI is above my expectations. During tight firefight, my comrades fight like real soldiers 
 and I owe them a lot. Even though they are good, most missions cannot meet their success on their 
 own so I feel the team AI is done just right. In contrast, the PC version gives me a team of idiots 
 who merely help to diverse enemy fire. But not for long.
  
  Other components of the game are great too. I can rarely pick a flaw from it. This is as good as 
 Gears of War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fazio93
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  This was the first Tom Clancy title I ever played. What I really liked about it, was how you were 
 able to take cover and then pop out and shoot and take cover again. It was very useful and not 
 many other shooters I have played have this option. I also liked how you could heal your own soldiers. 
 
  A lot of the levels looked similar with no people in sight, only the enemies. The graphics were 
 OK. The missions were, in a way, similar to one another asking you to complete similar objectives. 
 The story wasn't anything spectacular. I loved how you could command your squad, helicopters, and 
 even tanks. You could tell them where to go, what to do, and when to do it. Speaking of squad, 
 for some reason the enemy AI were quite smart, but your squad couldn't get any more stupid (e. g. 
 standing in front you while you shoot, getting shot at and doing nothing, etc) . The weapons were 
 not that realistic and I found the controls a little slow (like the time it takes to react to you 
 pressing a button) . It was pretty fun shooting from helicopters though. The cut scenes were OK, 
 but the text was kind of hard to read. 
  
  I didn't find much interest in the online play.
  
  All in all, it was good game, but nothing 
 spectacular. From playing the demo, I can tell you GRAW2 is a little better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bossmannslim
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  A must have in terms of War gamesOne of the best games released on the X-box 360. It takes war 
 and strategy to a new level. GRAW gives you the ability to control all the men and a helicopter 
 and a tank when missions have those at your disposal. There are tons and tons of missions in this 
 game, so the campaign is definitely not lacking and the multiplayer is fun, even though most people 
 within Xbox live tend to play the same boards and the same game types over and over again. That 
 has nothing to do with the game play, but it's always something to keep in mind if your intention 
 is to get a great multiplayer game, so with that aspect it can get boring. So I would recommend 
 hosting your own matches to keep it interesting. Go buy this game and enjoy the systematic destruction 
 of your enemy...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xeo_Fury
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  It took a lot of convincing for me to pick this game up. I played one of the earlier Ghost Recon 
 games and got killed through a tree, the action was terrible, and all in all it wasnt a fun experience. 
 However I can say that GRAW makes up for it by making a good game better with a great storyline 
 and deeply fun gameplay. The command system is fun and Sending your units into a firefight seems 
 a little stupid but they mostly find their way out of trouble without taking too much damage. The 
 weapons you have to choose from seem a little pointless because once you pick a weapon over and 
 over again you get hooked on it. I havent played much of the multiplayer but I dont see the point 
 since I own GRAW 2. All in all I'd reccomend this game to a friend happily and find it enjoyable 
 to play over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  It imminent. You walk in to a vdeio game store and that kid picks up the latest Clancy gem, and 
 tells you how "sick" or "ill" the graphics are, you just have to respond, "I remember back when 
 Ghost Recon was ugly, when we shot at blocky enemies and went prone amidst seven-polygon trees!" 
 Well not anymore...
  
  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter takes place across the Mexican border where illegal 
 Mexicans are trying to get in to the U. S. Okay thats a total lie, but here is whats hot and whats 
 not so hot.
  
  On the positive side: The multiplayer to be found in this game is the best multiplayer ever. Period. 
 As well, the graphics and sound effects are just what you'd expect from a Clancy game.
  
  On the negative side: Your teamates are the stupidest people alive in the entire game. Speaking 
 of people, where is everyone?
  
  Verdict: This is a Clancy classic and if we are lucky, we won't get anymore of that Rainbow Six: 
 Lockdown crap anymore... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bannockburn1314
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Being a Ghost Recon fan, and playing every Ghost Recon to come out on a console, I can only jump 
 for joy at GRAW. I write this review for individuals who have played the series, and not the turn 
 of the tide fan boys. I suppose the good first; as you would expect the graphics are very well 
 done and is far superior the GR2, or SS. That would of course to be expected coming from the 360 
 instead of the original Xbox. You'll be the beloved Scott Mitchell, in third person form leading 
 your ghost. Some of the features that makes this game above the rest is simply the ability to cover 
 and therefore able to block enemy fire. This is such a nice feature instead of the "peek and look" 
 ability in GR2 and SS; I'm sure we've all experienced the phenomena of being behind cover and looking 
 just to get hit and getting killed. Graphically the game looks amazing, especially when you blow 
 up an enemy vehicle. You'll never get tired of blowing stuff up, which is a nice feature since 
 it makes you feel like Scott is in his environment; previously you could shoot at an enemy vehicle 
 and not even flatten the tires. Moreover, you'll actually put your gun on auto instead of single 
 shot, and you'll find yourself not zooming in and therefore not exposing yourself to lack of peripheral 
 vision. 
  
  As you expect, you can control the Ghost, but again there is little point in doing this. It was 
 pointless in GR2, pointless in SS, and your battle buddies were so go in GR and Island Thunder 
 that they did most of the work for you. The game improves on the "tactical" side of being a "tactical 
 shooter". This is found basically in the larger urban environment where you can order your ghost 
 to suppress and you flank them. I suppose they took into consideration the "find them, fix them, 
 flank them, f*uck em" motto. You'll view your surroundings through the HUD (head's up display) 
 and your enemies will appear by being zoned by red diamonds. This is interesting feature that is 
 suppose to put the "advance" in advanced warfighter, but I found this to make the game almost too 
 easy, even though it does come in handy for snipers and at night. What's nice however is the ability 
 to take this off and mimic GR2 and SS; you know, not know the enemy is there until they are right 
 on top of you. 
  
  This brings me to my next topic  the enemy AI. The enemy AI is just as absurd as you've seen previously; 
 gun fire going off and they will run out for the picking off. They will however find cover and 
 empty a magazine in your direction. You wait for them to reload, and that's when you hit your target. 
 This is the standard tactic; find cover, wait, take out enemy. What IS nice about the game is the 
 influence of heavy engagement  your screen will shake and it will seem a bit chaotic. Of course 
 Scott Mitchell being Scott Mitchell, a little gun fire is nothing he can't handle. This is such 
 a nice feature along with your controller vibrating that is makes you feel a bit more in the environment 
 than what the previous games have been able to do. For example, in the third level there is a massive 
 fire fight outside the American embassy. Your controller is going crazy, and the screen is going 
 nuts. With explosions going off here and there, the sound of enemy voices approaching, it is certainly 
 fun, exciting, and you must admit, a bit frightful. This is something you never got in the previous 
 GR games  an element of suspense. 
  
  This brings me to my next point; the game seems much more linier than before. Practically, every 
 enemy is either right in front of you, or within close proximity to your left or right. Being in 
 urban combat this seems a bit strange since you would like to think they would have enough sense 
 to try to out flank you; again, credit that to typical GR AI. Unlike the previous games where you 
 can easily get surrounded, this doesn't seem to be the case with GRAW. What is a nice feature is 
 the ability to control allied armor; some tanks, Bradley fighting vehicles, and an Apache. It's 
 fun seeing a rocket blow up a tank right in front of you, but at the same time you know you be 
 dead as well. There has been a few times where I've been caught behind a wall and an enemy tank 
 is firing at me, and apparently this tank can't blow up a wall. Something that is a bit disappointing 
 especially when you would like to think people play GR for it's somewhat believable combat  I 
 use that however extremely loosely. 
  
  Another nice aspect to this game is the ability to play missions where you're in a Blackhawk firing 
 down on enemies and convoys. This is fun, and brings a real sense of enjoyment to a game that is 
 overall extremely good and fun. You get some prototype weapons like you did previously, but if 
 you're like me you, then you'll want to mimic the game as close as "real life" as possible and 
 therefore pick non-prototype or experimental weapons. Oh, this reminds me; if you've played GRAW 
 for the Xbox, and not for the 360, don't worry, the 360 version is a hundred million times better, 
 and doesn't even remotely seem similar to the Xbox version. You get a UAV in some missions and 
 this is such a nice feature. You can scan the map and therefore get enemy intel. You can then find 
 your best strategy to eliminate your target. This is a fun, but time consuming feature. It all 
 depends how you want to play the game. 
  
  The game is great, with great sound. It stays true to being a GR game; its arguable that it's the 
 best, but I think it is. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dork_assailent
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighters is an amazing game, with its awesome graphics, 
 amazing sound, and pretty decent storyline. All of these factors make the game an incredibly realistic 
 game, however, theres a fine line in between reality and making the game "fun".
  
  Some features in GRAW that make the game more realistic include the drone feature, and how you 
 can use the drone to scour the entire map for enemies. I don't know if it's just me, but I have 
 never seen this kind of "minimap" ever be put on a fps before. Maybe it's because that I'm not 
 one of those big fps type of guys, but I still think that the drone feature takes away from what 
 is otherwise a really great game. I prefer the old school minimap system where you could see your 
 enemies on your minimap if they're within a certain distance from you no matter what. There's no 
 need to maneuver drones or anything. Although that does seem kind of unrealistic in a sense, but 
 it sure does make the game a lot less complicated, and for me, a lot funner.
  
  Also, the multiplayer on this game is decent, however, it is frustrating at times when the "diamonds" 
 don't form around the enemies before they kill you. You have absolutely no idea where the shot 
 came from until you realize that you're in the waiting screen again. Now I may not be very "pro" 
 at this game, but I do think that if they were going to make the diamond system work, it would 
 have to show enemies that are directly ahead of you, no matter how far away they are. Again, this 
 would take away from the realism of the game, but I think it would certainly add to the fun factor. 
 This is because most of the battle in GRAW are from long distances, and thus you wont necessarily 
 always have the time to react to a gun being fired, especially since most of the shots in GRAW 
 kill you in one hit (again, because of realism) .
  
  Overall, it is a wonderful game, with a lot of stuff done right, however, because they overcomplicate 
 and make the game too realistic, it hampers the overall enjoyment of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infinite_venom
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 12:32 am PT
Review:  One thing great about GRAW is its great fun gameplay. The battles are intense and if your not careful, 
 you may get killed. If you get injured, the damage done to you will stay unless you recieve a medikit, 
 reach a chekpoint or finish the mission. This makes the game a little difficult. The AI though 
 is quite intelligent as they will try to take cover especially when under fire. One problem with 
 the AI as ones they saw you, they will always know where you are even when on cover. The gameplay 
 is still fun though that you may not mind it that much. GRAW's graphics is simply outstanding. 
 The environment, objects, characters and anything else you see looks good. The lighting too looks 
 great although it may be sometimes to bright that you can't see well which is problematic especially 
 on fire fights. The sounds of the game also is great. Some of the musics of the game may though 
 may not match the current situation your character is in.
  
  If you don't have Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, buy it. If you don't have a 360, buy one then 
 buy GRAW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amixedgamer
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a very good military third-person shooter that has alot to offer. 
 the single player is quite well put together, the story is very well put together, the sound is 
 superb, the controlls are very easy to learn and use, and the gameplay will keep you occupied for 
 hours. The AI is ok, the enemies are smart, dont get me wrong, but they lack the whole team work 
 thing. The enemies are really easy too kill because if you wait long enough, they will probably 
 come running out into the open just shooting at you, if thats not an easy kill, then i don't know 
 what is. but i suggest buying this game because if you're a hard-core military gamer like me, this 
 should be in your collection (even if the AI needs work) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pure_Awesome
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 3:11 am PT
Review:  Review: Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2
  
  
  When people hear of a sequel, there is always a small part of their conscious saying "It could 
 be a failure." But luckily GRAW 2 vastly improves on every aspect of its predecessor making it 
 one of the best games I have ever played!
  
  
  GRAW 2 takes places straight after the events in GRAW 1. This is good, as there is not much story 
 lost during the gap between the two games. The story this time around is that Scott Mitchell must 
 stop a nuclear strike that may hit American soil. Once again Mitchell finds himself and his team 
 venturing through mountainous, desert and suburban areas.
  
  
  GRAW 2 ups the graphics that were already brilliant in GRAW 1 by a huge margin. During the first 
 level when you use your C4, the explosion afterwards looks amazingly real, not just the explosion, 
 but what affect it does to its surroundings, smoke in a cave will pour out any gaps or holes that 
 it has. The game has been given a massive atmospheric feel as there are places in the game that 
 you can see smoke bursting from areas in the far distance and it looks real. Besides the smoke, 
 every time you see into the distance you get a great feel of scale and how small you are in this 
 war. Just when you think that graphics can't get anymore awesome, you will then see rain. Rain 
 looks amazing with it blowing all around you in all directions, and bouncing off your close surroundings.
 
  
  
  The only 2 negatives I have with this games graphics is that lip syncing is still not perfect, 
 but is much better than GRAW 1, actually the all the Cross Com scenes where the is someone talking 
 to you have been made to look much more real and effective. The other negative, Mitchell still 
 reloads with invisible clips or magazines. Once again you see him eject them, and grab an invisible 
 one from his chest and put it back in and reload, this is one thing that is really noticeable and 
 takes away the realism of the game. But besides those two minor issues there is nothing else wrong.
 
  
  
  Game play is also greatly improved, this time you may actually use your UAV. The developers have 
 introduced a lovely appreciated feature into their updated Cross Com. Wherever you are, you can 
 choose to see from their field of view; whether it's a tank, helicopter or your squad. From their 
 view you can tell them where to go and what to attack. I found the main use for this was using 
 it to operate your UAV, being able to move it where you want easily made the UAV really useful. 
 This feature is also great so you don't have to get out of cover to be able to see an enemy that 
 you want to order down. This is all thanks to the new revolutionary Cross Com 2.0 Mitchell now 
 has equipped.
  
  
  Besides the cross com, game play is very similar to the first game, nothing too dramatic, there 
 are more choices of weapons and this time you have the option to carry a sub machine gun instead 
 of taking a hand gun as your secondary weapon. This makes the decision to take a sniper rifle much 
 easier. Medics!! Finally poor old Mitchell can get some healing love. No more surviving on red 
 level health (if you choose a medic to accompany you that is) .
  
  
  Your squad will no longer wander into the middle of a fire fight to see what that shiny object 
 is on the ground. Now the ever so smart squad will take cover, tell you what's happening and inform 
 you on how many enemies are in the present area. Thanks to the new AI they have been given.
  
  
  Sound is fantastic, epic music will start pumping out at you when a massive event happens 
 and slowdown when things are quiet. It's great and makes you feel awesome when strong music is 
 playing and keeps you on edge when things are quiet. The sound effects blast you away on your 5.1 
 surround sound, because the game has vast backgrounds, you will also hear what's happening in them 
 whether it be gun fire, or an explosion.
  
  
  After playing with the IGN AU team on multiplayer I have to say it's great, it runs smooth with 
 Australian hosts. It's fast paced and voice chat is needed to succeed which helps prevent idiotic 
 chat. It does however lose a lot of Single Player functions but it's still great. This is the most 
 enjoyable multiplayer game I have played in a long time.
  
  
  GRAW 2 is a brilliant game and I would recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueyeboy97
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  the storyline was pretty cool. Creative would be a good word I guess. Who would have though Mexico 
 would ever give us some problems......
  
  Graphics were great. Really top notch. Gameplay was awesome. Multiplayer is good. 
  
  worth 
 the buy, probably should rent it first. Awesome game
  the storyline was pretty cool. Creative would be a good word I guess. Who would have though Mexico 
 would ever give us some problems......
  
  Graphics were great. Really top notch. Gameplay was awesome. Multiplayer is good. 
  
  worth 
 the buy, probably should rent it first. Awesome game
  
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa aa a aa a a a a a a a aa a aa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cr3429
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  Good all round shooter, with some nice graphics andsome good quality audio..... however the AI, 
 both friendly and enemy, is just damn annoying. Your squad make stupid mistakes, like shooting 
 a rocket in to the wall infront of them wipig out you and everyone else... well except the enemy..
 
  
  The game allows you to shoot through objects as yo could be in real life.. problem is that this 
 makes walkng around suicidal. Naturally the enemy knows your every move.. not that they can see 
 you or anything.. and promptly shoot you.. you die and you have no idea why.. Also there are quite 
 a few glitches whereby things randomly appear/disappear... including enemies.
  
  Oh and also during the game there are certain radio/comms interference blocking out some options... no 
 big deal... happens alot in games like this.. well this interference in GRAW makes the whole picture 
 go "wobbly" and it really distracting... fai enough if your mini-map goes loppy but not your own 
 flamin screen!
  
  I'm glad I bought this game as it is a good shooter, however had I known then what I know now I 
 wouldn't have bothered... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bone3593
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  Lets get the bad stuff out first. The game can be frustrating sometimes because the A. I will act 
 stupid. I don't know how many times I had to revive one of my teamates because he wouldn't take 
 cover. Another thing is the sound is unimpressive. Tom Clancy games aren't known for there sound 
 so I can forgive this game but maybe they should work on it a little bit. Last the cover system 
 is flawed and can be hard to use. It is not horrible but games like Rainbow Six Vegas use a better 
 cover system. Now to the good stuff. The graphics are incredible!!! This is the first Xbox 360 
 game that really showed how much the xbox 360b can do. Everything looks top notch from the soldiers 
 to the incredible lighting. The gameplay is pretty fun to. It can be repetitive sometimes but overall 
 it is pretty fun. If you had a choice of this or Rainbow Six Vegas get Rainbow Six Vegas because 
 it is more fun. But if you are looking for some good old fun then definetly get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  GRAW was a game that was supposed to be a big deal but I didn't really think it was once I played 
 it.
  
  You are part of a team of infantry guys (elite ops or something) and you basically fight your way 
 through some missions. Nothing we haven't heard before. The games big fancy feature is your screen 
 is like the hud you see on the goggles on your guys head. Enemies high lite in little boxes. You 
 can see your teammates view thanks to their cameras on their helmets.... stuff like that.
  
  I really did enjoy the game. It had some intense missions over vast dessert like areas and had 
 a story that drew you in. Thats why I gave it the score I did. But the problem was it just felt 
 bland. Your buddies were good to have long but they are kinda useless and its great fighting through 
 town but where is everyone? Theres no people besides you and the enemy! You'll be running through 
 MASSIVE levels and it feels lifeless. 
  
  So in the end you don't even really feel much because all you seen were bad guys. What were you 
 doing exactly? lol. Theres no one to protect! Or keep safe or whatever. And the wide open spaces 
 after awhile begin to look the same, grant it its desert and jungle.
  
  The online play was also ok. It felt more like a jumbled mess of people that just ran around like 
 rambo then actually bothering to play as a team.
  
  So rent this game. Not worth the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azoumsl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best of its generation if not the best. Xbox 360 has performed great once 
 more. You need to buy it you wont be disapointed. And once you've done that, if you dont like it 
 then you need psychiatric help... Seriously you dont even deserve to own a Xbox 360. I have played 
 the second one as well. It's fantastic...
  But I can keep talking all day long about this game (G. R. A. W) . So let's stop wating both our time 
 and just go and buy it. It's not even expensive no more. You wont regret it. promise...
  Come on now, off you go 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon is an awesome game, great graphics great game play and lots of tactical action. Like 
 in prior Ghost Rcon games you play a advance warrior fighting for the US and the United Nations. 
 You are put in some really differcut
  if not impossible mission, where you go behind enemy lines and reach your objective. The game is 
 very hard if not impossible at times, starting over or from your last check point is a normal occurrence 
 so get use to it. Though you are suppose to be a team you find your team isn't very good, and get 
 shot most as much as they shoot an enemy, and even worst you find yourself alone taking out a tons 
 of enemies alone. That's pretty weak, considering you would never ever do that in real life. The 
 game is a lot of fun, but not really a Gear of War sort of game so don't buy this if you think 
 you gonna go running and gunning, not gonna happen here. This is more like the one shot your dead 
 sort of game, which can be very frustrating after playing games like GOW and HALO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamReallyROXS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game i didnt know what to expect. I thought it might be your typical 
 run of the mill FPS but this game turned out to be much more than that! This game has an amazing 
 combat system that is really fun and easy to learn. The game looks and sounds amazing and you'll 
 actually feel as if your in mexico city trying to save the president! The only multiplayer is highly 
 addictive and can keep you playing until you have the worst headache you've ever had! Overall, 
 if you have an Xbox 360 and are lookin for a great game, this is the one for you!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warlord20
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  I never got into the whole Ghost Recon series but one day i just decided to try this game and now 
 i can honestly say i do not regret it for one second. This is the game that got me interested in 
 other tactical shooter games. I must say that this game was well made. The weapons selection is 
 not a limited one. Only in some stages they would require you to use a particular weapon and for 
 good reason. The A. I in this game is fantastic. Not like some other games before its time where 
 you shoot someone another guy may be 5 feet away and does nothing. The enemy all respond so taking 
 cover before shooting and using silencers are always handy and a good idea.
  
  I also liked the fact that i could hug the walls and peep around corners to check if the coast 
 is clear before preceeding. This addition made the game feel more realistic to me. As for the graphics.... they 
 are nothing short of outstanding. The sound effects and the explosions are very close to realistic 
 and playing this game on a surround sound system is an experience.
  
  This is definantly a game to try and/or add to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostwraithe
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  First of all I was not a fan of the original Ghost Recon. I just couldnt get into it. So here comes 
 GRAW. I downloaded the demo twice, and finally came to appreciate its style of play. Its a little 
 slower than most military games, but very rewarding. Learning the controls take some getting used 
 to, but after a while feel right at home. So much that you find yourself in other shooter games 
 trying to reload with the A button. The game feels like a war simulator. That means a clean shot 
 to the chest and you are dead. You can't run and shoot accuratly in real life, nor can you in this 
 game. You control 3 teammates through most of the game with an occassional support from a tank 
 or helicopter. As you slowly creep through the streets of Mexico, you have to watch constantly 
 for snipers and ambushes. The enemies respond very life like. If you take a shot at one bad guys 
 buddy, the other guy will run for cover or hit the ground. So enemy AI I felt was very good.
  
  Your teammates AI is fairly good until about the last 2 levels. They suddenly become tards. 
 I told my teammate to heal a soldier in a firefight as I took cover. The downed teammate was 3 
 inches from my active teammate and in cover. What does he do, he leaves him to die. Numerous times 
 I would send my teammates to take cover, and they will stand in the middle of the road and try 
 and shoot the baddies. One the 2nd to last level, they would not regroup on me at all. They also 
 kept running into a room of snipers, even though I told them to hold position outside.
  
  The graphics are simply amazing. I recommend turning up the brightness from the pause menu, as 
 certain dark levels can be almost impossible to see in, and the night vision I didnt find to be 
 too helpful.
  
  The choice of weapons is large in some areas and small in others, it just depends on the situiation. 
 The most helpful weapon is the camera gun. Look around corners without being shot. Also equipped 
 with a small scope for easy sniping. Unfortunately, this weapon is limited to about 2 or 3 levels 
 at most.
  
  There is another option for playing single or multiplayer called instant action. It is 4 different 
 campaign levels with various objectives. The game switches its play style right away. As this is 
 a multiplayer level. You no longer have cover. Weapons no longer have recoil. All in all it feels 
 a little arcade.
  
  The cover system in the single player experience is amazing. It takes a little getting used to. 
 See a corner, push into it and you will automatically hug it. Then pick around a corner, and aim 
 and shoot. It works well and is a must to survive the single player experience. Online multiplayer 
 works the same as campaign mode although you have different styles of gameplay. Lag is not noticable 
 however a few times while playing a game I would be ejected to the lobby. Along with everyone else 
 playing in the game.
  
  All in all its a great experience, just expect some idiot squadmates later in the game and some 
 frustrating moments of feeling lost and not knowing where to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havik0666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  The game is very nice at all lv of the game.
  
  You have many weapons, night vision,2 kind of grenade but only one kind of handgun : ( , Well it's 
 can't be perfect. You can command 3 soldiers (you can choose tear weapons too!) ,or tank, chopper 
 and sattelit. All mission are very long and more you will do more the ennemies will be hard to kill. You're 
 mission are in many place in the south America (particulliary in mexique, mexico) . You have different 
 kind of mission like rescue, assault or other. The multiplayer isn't great and xbox live isn't good 
 too (no one play this game now! they all got the GRAW2) . I don't take care of the story really in 
 this game (there have no story in this game just many long and funny mission) The gameplay is more 
 impressive than the story.
  
  Well for Tom clancy's fan, that's a game to bring at home and for other, try it before buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yorkie1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Very good and sometimes suspencful game play, exelent multiplayer, very good graphics. over all 
 alot of fun, hard to believe i picked this game up for &pound;10!!! a true classic for the 360. 
 1 complaint i will make is the lack of choice when it comes to guns in single player. theres only 
 4 real options for an assault rifle. usually, the only guns avalable are the fn scar, the mr thing 
 and the g36k, it wouldnt bother me so much if the range of guns to choose from in multi player 
 wasnt so massive! Also, sometimes it gets a bit confusing trying to issue commands to multiple 
 allies, espesially when running for cover while getting shot at. As well as this, here are only 
 two modes of dificulty, normal and hard. Normal gets too easy, and hard is way too hard! Apart 
 from those minor flaws, a very good game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AJMarra
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter was one of the Xbox 360's main selling points out 
 of the starting gate and the breakthrough game for the Ghost Recon series. Always a great series, 
 but seriously lacking in some ways, Advanced Warfighter started from the ground up and, at the 
 time, became the best in the franchise. Advanced Warfighter is still a wonderful experience to 
 be had, but its some-what overwhelming difficulty and lack of long-time online players may drive 
 newer players away.
  
  As I've stated before, Advanced Warfighter can at times be an extremely difficult and frustrating 
 game. AW pushes the envelope in realism, but it's so realistic that it's exceptionally hard to 
 evade incoming enemy fire. You are usually outnumbered, with allies or not, and most enemies are 
 armed with either assault rifles or high-powered machine guns, so dodging bullets relies on either 
 luck, or how much cover you're under. In Advanced Warfighter, you control Captain Scott Mitchell, 
 a hardened veteran of war and leader of a squad of Ghosts , a special operations team. Captain 
 Mitchell can hide behind most types of reliable cover, including walls, trees, sandbags; anything 
 that looks remotely like a square can usually be taken as cover.
  
  To help ease down on the difficulty of the game, there is a feature in the game called the CrossCam. 
 The CrossCam shows you what allies you are in control of, and what they're currently looking at. 
 Through the CrossCam, you can issue basic commands to your allies, like Move or Fire , and it's 
 pretty easy to use. The CrossCam can sometimes be a hassle to use, however, as your allies will 
 occasionally not follow your commands (especially when ordering Armor Strikes) . However, its positives 
 far outweigh its small negatives, and it is a welcome addition to the series.
  
  As always, Captain Mitchell is usually commanding a team of allies. These allies can range from 
 a squad of Ghosts, to more powerful vehicles like tanks or helicopters. These allies all have their 
 advantages and disadvantages, but when it comes to taking down the enemy, these guys are extremely 
 helpful. Seeing as how you'll be dodging bullets for most of the game, you can order your squad 
 of Ghosts to help you out in a multitude of ways, and each has a different function (like Anti-Tank 
 or Rifleman ) . A useful tactic when facing a large opposition of enemies is to order your squad 
 of Ghosts to direct the majority of enemy fire while you sneak around the side to easily flank 
 them. It's great gameplay tactics which bring out the realism of the game.
  
  To help you take down your enemies is a massive array of weaponry to choose from. Captain Mitchell 
 can carry three types of weapons: a primary weapon, a secondary weapon, and a handful of grenades. 
 In the single-player campaign, you're choice of weapons in limited, but in the multiplayer mode, 
 you're allowed to choose from dozens of different weapons. There are only two types of pistols 
 and one type of grenades, but there is a very large selection of primary weapons. These weapons 
 can range from assault rifles to sniper rifles, or even grenade launchers and RPG's. This new selection 
 of weapons helps you create even more strategies, and really makes both the multiplayer and online 
 modes shine.
  
  In essence, the plot of AW is pretty basic. It's basically a bunch of traitorous Mexican soldiers 
 began a rebellion while the Mexican President, the American President, and the Canadian Prime Minister 
 were signing a treaty. You're tasked with recovering both the Mexican and American presidents, 
 and then taking out the leader of the resistance. Most of the story is predictable, and the ending 
 is one of the most disappointing sequences I've ever witnessed. Because I don't want to spoil the 
 ending for you, all I will say is that it is exactly what you expected it to be, no more no less. 
 To such a difficult game with such a great amount of realism, the ending is just... horrible. I 
 really expected more from it but was left disappointed.
  
  In better news, the game looks amazing. Ubisoft did a really great job on this game, and it clearly 
 shows. Mexico City looks and feels just like a real city (albeit there are no civilians in the 
 game) . They also put a really cool bullet stream behind bullets, so you can see the smoke trail 
 from the bullets as it whizzes through the air. It's extremely helpful, as it can usually tell 
 you where enemy fire is coming from if you don't see it directly. However, Ubisoft left this addition 
 out of the multiplayer and online components of the game, so any tactical advantage you got from 
 watching the bullets fly don't work here.
  
  The sound in Advanced Warfighter was just done perfectly. The realism really shows more clearly 
 in the sound. Every gun you use has a different sound effect to it, which in turn helps make identifying 
 what gun you're enemy is using easier. When close to a blast radius, either it being from a nearby 
 grenade explosion or a vehicle exploding next to you, your HUD will start to get fuzzy and shake 
 around, while all of the sound will be drained from you. After a few seconds of fighting deaf, 
 the sounds of the battlefield will slowly come back to you, and you can resume fighting as usual. 
 Speaking of the sounds of the battlefield, since you are fighting Mexican rebels, they will yell 
 to each other battle commands in Spanish, and if you know a little Spanish, you will know exactly 
 what they're trying to do to kill you. The same voices of the Mexican rebels do tend to be used 
 frequently and you will hear the same phrase used many times, but it's not extremely noticeable, 
 and you shouldn't mind it too much.
  
  Advanced Warfighter will last you for a very long time. There is of course the long and difficult 
 single-player campaign, but there are also multiplayer and online modes as well. Advanced Warfighter 
 delivers an outstanding multiplayer mode, in which you and up to three other buddies can take out 
 up to 50 computer-controlled rebels. There are three different modes of play to choose from, but 
 they are largely uninteresting and the main focus was clearly put around the Elimination mode, 
 in which you must take out the enemy force. As I've stated before, all of the weapons not available 
 in the single-player campaign are available here. With the new weapons comes new tactics, as one 
 of your friends can carry a grenade launcher, while another can carry a sniper rifle, etc. There 
 are also several different maps to choose from, all having great advantages and disadvantages. 
 For example, one level is on a boat at sea, while enduring a thunder storm. There are close fighting 
 spots for you to take out the enemy, but with the heavy rain coming down and the boat rocking back 
 and force, you're bullets may droop down and miss you're target directly, so perhaps a heavier, 
 yet more powerful and more accurate rifle is needed. It's great gameplay tactics like this that 
 makes playing AW's multiplayer a blast to play, and it will keep you addicted and focused for some 
 time to come.
  
  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter is clearly one of the most tactical and realistic 
 games out there today. However, with its heavy sense of realism comes a heavy sense of difficulty, 
 and you will find yourself playing the same, long parts over and over again. Besides its difficulty, 
 Advanced Warfighter is a great game overall, and with its outstanding multiplayer and online features, 
 it's a game that will last you for a long time, and justifies its price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tensor44
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  graphics are really good other then the facial graphics. i like the guns other then when u shoot 
 a guy with sniper 5 times and he doesn't die i really like thew part when u can shoot through walls. 
 one thing they could of improved on is when your men are being shot they don't run for cover they 
 just stand there shoot, get hit and some times die. or at least a button that you could pres and 
 make them do that. thew game is a goods length but could of been longer. i cant wait for the next 
 one and i hope that one has a co op story mode like the previous games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer-clemm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  In 2013, the Army will unleash a new breed of soldier. A soldier whose lethality has been honed 
 by the finest technologies. A soldier equipped to see first and strike decisively. Today, he's 
 yours to command. -- back cover.
  
  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is the best Tom Clancy game I've seen yet. Sure, Rainbow 
 Six Vegas was good but this had to be better. The graphics are amazing, the lighting in this game 
 is spectacular and the sounds are phenominal.
  
  This third person shooter of modern combat was great for the Xbox360. This game might beat SOCOM 
 at it's feet. In this game you play a Captain Micheal. With a team of three other soldiers you 
 must follow order and save the President and find the Football.
  
  There is not cinematic clips in this film once-so-ever. Which kind of sucks since I like watching 
 cinematic clips and all. But I recommend that gamers that like shooters to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdknight21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  I'll get the bad out of the way first. It seems like annual releases are just killing what made 
 these games great in the first place. The A. I. that you actually had to strategize around. Now 
 all it seems, is an exercise on remembering where the enemies you killed were planted, and if you 
 die, taking them down again, until the next checkpoint.
  I am speaking of this game on the hardest difficulty, where they shoot really good, but their efforts, 
 aside from one or two split points where they are obviously going to try and flank you isn't that 
 overwhelming and there are a few parts where they'll spawn your enemies behind you for good measure.
 
  Overall the difficulty is a bit gimmicky, but still a decent challenge because of the A. I. s precision 
 and sheer numbers sometimes. The AI goes both ways, too, and you'll find that your squad mates 
 aren't moving as tactical as they really would. Your AI usually needs you to tell it where to shoot, 
 which isn't a big deal, but what was disappointing is finding how many times they'll just decide 
 to hang out in open streets instead of taking cover, even after you've commanded them to do so.
 
  The graphics and sound were good. That is really about all there is to write. The game has slight 
 frame rate dips, but not enough to really knock it, and it has the graphical capabilities to represent 
 the warfare you are in well. Suffice to say, you can't tell this was a first gen 360 game. The 
 sound registers where it should, and the game offers immersive surround. Explosions have range, 
 each weapon sounds unique and you can tell where the firefight is with just the audio. Some of 
 the voice acting is pretty strong, and sounds similar to some A-list stars, which isn't the most 
 original, but the acting still holds up.
  As for the story, it was a bit 'been there done that'. With a twist that is becoming overused in 
 Tom Clancy games. It is almost as if the story didn't want to be intrusive to the action, and that 
 shouldn't be the case this generation.
  Probably the highest point of this game is the pacing. With a mix of squad based movement, single 
 man tactical movement, and movement to include UAVs, Bradley tanks and helos at your disposal in 
 some parts of the game they add even more into the mix with scrambled HUD display scenarios along 
 with being the helo gunner in some scenarios. This is some of the best mix of third person shooting 
 scenarios and pacing packaged into a game and probably the main reason why I went easy on the lack 
 of intriguing story.
  The multiplayer is preference. It holds up well and I didn't really find any technical issues in 
 gameplay. Because of the size and variations you can find it taking a number of minutes for a game 
 to start. I didn't get around to playing the game for awhile, but my roommate played it when I 
 got it near release date and this was happening as well. I'm not really a fan of large scale, memorize 
 spawn point on-line. It is very campy, which is tactical, but you have to have patience. I'm not 
 a run and gun gamer, but I don't like spending possibly minutes between frags. But I also just 
 enjoy maps more akin to Rainbow 6: Vegas than the Ghost Recon. To each his own.
  The game is worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celtic1962
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  Back in my PC only days I was a huge fan of the FPS genre, going back to Wolfenstein and including 
 games such as Doom, Duke Nukem, Quake, Medal of Honor, Call of Duty etc. About eight years ago 
 I was intrigued by a new type of shooter when I first read about Rainbow Six. I tried it out and 
 was fascinated by the realism and the mix of action with tactical strategy. I went on to play a 
 few more of the Rainbow series as well as the original Ghost Recon. As time went on I spent less 
 time on the PC and more on the Gamecube and PS2. The only problem was that I never found any FPS 
 games that I thought could compete with the PC. Two weeks ago I purchased an Xbox 360 and I had 
 read so many glowing reviews about GRAW that I felt I had to try it out. Here are my impressions:
 
  
  GAMEPLAY (9) - For anyone that doesn't already know, GRAW is a FPS that also allows you to command 
 three other soldiers and occasionally a tank or a helicopter as well. The story takes place in 
 Mexico City during a rebel uprising. It follows the Rainbow Six realism in that you have to use 
 cover and strategy. You can occasionally get away with being hit more than once due to your armor 
 but usually can't take more than two. The game lets you switch to an overhead 3D map which is extremely 
 useful in deciding how to get you and your men to your objectives. Your command over your men is 
 somewhat limited to telling them where to move or who to attack. It also lets you set them to aggressive 
 or recon mode. It offers an impressive list of real weapons, each with their own unique abilities. 
 Occasionally I wished that my soldiers AI was a bit sharper but for the most part they did alright. 
 I thought that the enemy AI was very good. They moved very realistically and effectively used cover. 
 A useful helper is a spy drone you can use on some missions that will buzz around ahead of you 
 and let you know where the enemies are waiting. The drone is vulnerable, though, and if it stays 
 around too long it will get shot down. This game gave me the best control I've ever had in a console 
 FPS. The aiming was very smooth and accurate. Also, the controls were laid out very well so that 
 you could easily switch between shooting, giving orders, and referring to your map. Obviously this 
 a game that require patience, and almost every mission required me to attempt it more than once. 
 This was not frustrating because most of the time it was simply a learning experience in finding 
 out the most effective way to approach the situation, and there were usually several different 
 paths you could take.
  
  GRAPHICS (10) - Might be a bit biased since this is one of my first 360 games but I thought the 
 graphics were incredible. The characters were photo realistic. As I moved my man and my team it 
 was like watching actual camera footage. The environments were also very impressive, as we're talking 
 about fighting through a detailed Mexico City that also looks very realistic except for the fact 
 that there are never any civilians or ordinary traffic. The lighting and textures were incredible. 
 Think of what it would be like to be in Mexico City in the early afternoon. There are times when 
 you have to deal with an almost blinding sun but there are also night missions requiring you to 
 use night goggles. This is the type of game where graphics are important and GRAW was just about 
 perfect.
  
  SOUND (10) - Music does not play a big part in a game like this, but when it was used it was appropriate 
 and blended in well. The sound effects, however, were great. The different weapons each had their 
 own distinctive sound, and the explosions will make you cringe. More than once I thought I was 
 in a safe position only to hear that dreadful ping of a sniper's bullet just missing my head as 
 it hit a concrete wall.
  
  VALUE (9) - The game took about 10 hours for me to finish though that is not completely accurate 
 as it does not take into account the times I had to retry a level after being killed. I should 
 also point out that the missions will be made up of many objectives, and the game will autosave 
 after each objective has been met, so if something suddenly goes wrong you will not have that far 
 to go back to try again. While the single player portion might not be incredibly long it does offer 
 a lot of replayability in the multiplayer mode. One feature is that after you complete a mission 
 you can go back to it at any time and retry it if you are interested in seeing if there was a more 
 effective approach. I don't have my 360 hooked up online so unfortunately I can't comment on it 
 except for the fact that I've read it is extremely fun and is very popular. It also offers extra 
 missions that can be played by up to four people offline. I bought this game used for $18 so I 
 definitely got my money's worth.
  
  SUMMARY (10) - When it's all said and done it still comes down to whether you enjoy this genre. 
 Many people won't. Many don't care for FPS and there are also many FPS fans that don't want this 
 level of realism. I have to admit this is the type of game I only play every once in a while because 
 the intensity can be exhausting! All I can say is that if you think you might have the slightest 
 interest in trying out this type of game than you won't find a better example than G. R. A. W. Completely 
 recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AirborneRizz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Ghost recon is one of the best FPS series in the biz, and this one is no let down. I have to be 
 honest, I went ahead and read a few of the other reviews, and was shocked to see that some ppl 
 hate this game. imo, I think they're either sports game fans, or maybe they're just against the 
 360 version, idk, but that's my opinion... Anyways, this game is so awesome on so many lvls. First 
 of all, the first thing you're gonna notice are the graphics, outstanding!! everything looks so 
 realistic, the weapons the soldiers, hell, you can even see the Camelbacks that they're wearing! 
 (Camelbacks are hydration systems that soldiers use instead of canteens) Along with the graphics 
 I must add are the weapon designs, very nice! Everything looks so real! The control is very responsive 
 with everything, moving, crouching, truning, zooming, firing... Online is awesome, then again, 
 I do like everything on Xbox Live. While the game isn't as realistic as COD3, this one is definately 
 worth the now $40 they're asking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmed_009
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  With its super visuals.. great weapons... powerful battles... it may be the best game of Tom Clancy's 
 games .so back to basics. We have great textures. great explosions and do not forget the great sound. 
 with enemies have good AI to shoot you down with your team and also it has a great story line which 
 let you go far far away in the game to save lives of VIPs and to fight terrorism and kill its leader 
 in great battles &amp; let have full control on gunships, tanks and apc's . so in conclusion its 
 a great game with super team tactics. From great creators Ubi Soft . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bozo9182
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  First off, Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter (G. R. A. W.) is an outstanding game. The graphics are 
 great, the gameplay is awesome, and online mode is pretty fun. Some great things about this game 
 is that the campaign mode has a great storyline and the ability to control other soldiers is a 
 really cool idea. Another thing great about the game is going online. You can play many different 
 areas and choose from classes that give you better handling with certain weapons. The matches that 
 you play also have great customizable options to make the match exactly how you want it!
  
  There is one bad part though, but only if you like getting achievements from games. Getting achievements 
 in this game is easy if your doing campaign mode, but getting achievements while playing in multiplayer 
 mode has a little to high of standards. Some achievements are to play multiplayer mode for 8 hours 
 straight! another is too host 1,000 matches (which is hard to do if your not popular ) , one more 
 that you can get is by killing 100 drones, and people hardly ever allow drones on the map. So that's 
 the only flaw in this game. But other than that, it's AWESOME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonzilla_basic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  Out of all the hype that has been around the game i couldn't wait to get it when i got my 360.
 
  
  Graphics: Since i don't have a HD TV i am forced to play on a normal TV. The graphics still look 
 awesome. Night time day time it doesnt matter, The player models look amazing and the surroundings 
 look perfect. Sound: Sound is excellent. If you have your sound system turned the gun shots are 
 impacting. It really sounds authentic. Glass breaking, Explosions, Voices, There are no complaints 
 here. Gameplay: Gameplay is what needs to be the most important in games and G. R. A. W delivers. 
 Doesn't matter if your playing co-op, single player the game play is excellent. Overall: Overall 
 the game is amazing. I think that it blows the COD3, or COD2 out of the water and i love those 
 2 games. Great game, Great replay value and great online play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kilgorejd
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  As many have said, including Gamespot, this is a very beautiful game as far as the graphics go 
 - with the exception of the 'ghost town' feel. But the enemy AI is a little too all-seeing, all-knowing, 
 and your squad is of very little added value. They also have no real personality, so you don't 
 feel like you are really part of a squad. Gears of War and Rainbow Six Vegas do this much better. 
 It is even more puzzling to me since Vegas and GRAW share so much in terms of controls and interface. 
 Still, a nice game that any fan of shooters will enjoy, especially since it is now in the half-price 
 category! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monkey-Man1234
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  GRAW is a realistic tactical shooter set in the near future. Most of the technology in the game 
 is in testing in the military. There are LOTS of guns in this game. Each with it's own attributes 
 such as accuracy, firing speed, and ammo. In the single player campaign you'll play as captain 
 of Ghost Squad, Scott Mitchell along with 3 squad mates, through a slightly longer than standard 
 campaign. The Canadian Prime Minister, and both U. S. and Mexican presidents are working out their 
 problems as a group of Mexican rebels attack. The Prime Minister is killed, and the presidents 
 go missing. Scott Mitchell and his squad are sent to find the presidents and ultimately diffuse 
 the situation.
  
  In order to be successful you must command your squad well. The only problem is, your squad mates 
 aren't so bright. If you want to just send them to a general area, and have them handle the rest, 
 too bad. Your squad goes precisely where you ordered, and won't scatter for cover, making them 
 sitting ducks. Luckily you or any of your squad mates can revive a fallen soldier. Unfortunately 
 once your down, you get a game over screen. It would of been great to see a revival mechanic such 
 as the one in Republic Commando. Since you get finished off rather quickly if you're not careful, 
 you'll need to be behind cover in firefights, along with ordering your squad to get into cover.
 
  
  The campaign will take you around 12 hours (varies depending on difficulty settings) , but there's 
 a gripping multi player to tackle still. The multi player goes up to 16 players and contains all 
 the standard game modes plus a few. The most interesting one is the co-op. You can play with 16 
 players on a few different co-op missions that are not part of the single player campaign. If you 
 download the bonus content, it'll add new maps guns, and co-op levels. The multi player may be 
 the best part of GRAW if you really get into it.
  
  GRAW is a great tactical shooter, that should not be missed by anyone that owns a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awoneillz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 1:54 am PT
Review:  When Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter was first announced for the Xbox 360, it looked like a pretty 
 ambitious project. Ubisoft was asking a lot out of the engine to have the game set entirely within 
 a sprawling metropolis, complete with advanced lighting and particle effects, as well as lots of 
 picture-in-picture video screens on the heads-up display. The early video and screenshots looked 
 fabulous, so it was disappointing when the game didn't quite make the release of the system late 
 last year. The wait was definitely worth it, though, as Advanced Warfighter isn't just the best-looking 
 game on the Xbox 360, but also, arguably, the best game in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaos_Prince
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  GRAW leaves alot to be desired in some shooter games. The graphics were good, witch would have 
 sold some people, but i have never been one to be too picky about graphics. The actual gameplay 
 is slow at some points, also with a very lacking AI in the team members and the enemies. The gameplay 
 itself is OK, its nots the most exiting shooter i have ever played, and is most likely the worst 
 Tom Clancy game i have ever played. The game is realistic, with i like in my shooters, but that 
 can make the combat slow at times and can also make it seem a bit too normal. I like shooters more 
 then most people i know, im almost obsessed with them, but this title leaves alot to be desired. 
 The campaign is very east for someone who knows how to play a shooter and has played harder ones. 
 If you can compete online, then the single player story leaves alot to be desired, and its not 
 too long either. Mutliplayer can be fun at times, with is maybe the only reason i gave this game 
 higher then a three, but it can't make up for everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leaping-tiger
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  i thought this was a very good game. i have never played a tactical shooter before but i really 
 enjoyed this, despite thinking i wouldnt. the only problem i have with this game is that just as 
 you get into it it stops. i found it quite hard to begin with but the more i played on it the easier 
 it became. despite a great story and fantastic graphics it is a bit too short for my liking. definately 
 worth a go though. i only payed a tenner and for that price i really can't complain. i just hope 
 the second one is a bit longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austinmuckelrat
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 3, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  This game would been a lot better if they fix the team. Because the team in this game are stupid. 
 They tried to get them self kill like idiots. This game would been lot better.
  
  Graphics look awesome
  
  Sound would been a bit better
  
  Value is not good at all
  
 
  I know that Graw is the worst team in the world. But thats not going to stop it. Thats why I did'nt 
 buy Graw 2.
  
  I know there going to create a graw 3. I hope there team is smart like Rainbow six vegas was.
 
  
  Im really sick of the Mexican Border level in the game, That's were Im stuck at.
  
  The online play kinda boring in my fact. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigb89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon puts the player in charge of a fictitious, newly-conceived squad of U. S. Special Forces 
 operators from Company D, 1st Battalion, 5th Special Forces Group (5th SFG) stationed at Fort Bragg, 
 NC. Except for the 5th SFG designation, this unit is entirely fictional. They are sometimes referred 
 to as The Ghosts . Their role is not unlike other real world Special Operations Forces, in that 
 their operations are kept highly classified.
  
  The Ghosts are organized into three fireteams named using the NATO phonetic alphabet: Alpha, Bravo, 
 and Charlie allowing for a distribution of two soldiers per team. However, since the player can 
 only assign a total of six men in a single player mission, it is not uncommon for one of the fireteams 
 to be disregarded, depending on the preference of the player. The player enjoys limited tactical 
 control on the battlefield environment, and can issue maneuver commands as well as rules of engagement 
 for each of the fireteams through a command map. It should be noted that the Xbox and PS2 versions 
 of Ghost Recon do not have Charlie teams.
  
  In the original game, the soldiers themselves are organized into four different distinct roles 
 (or classes) . Every class can carry a primary and a secondary weapon, which are organized into 
 kits . Even though the primary weapon remains the same in all the kits (being defined by the soldier 
 class  see below) , there are several different equipments to be chosen as the secondary weapon. 
 * Rifleman: this class provides the majority of the selection pool of personnel that the player 
 can choose from. He can use a variety of different weapons and equipment (or kits) . His primary 
 weapon is the M16 assault rifle. Secondaries include the M203 grenade launcher (which is attached 
 under the barrel of the rifle) , the M9 pistol, additional spare magazines, or binoculars (in later 
 versions these were replaced with deployable sensors) . * Support: this role is to provide a high 
 volume of suppressive fire with the M249 Squad Automatic Weapon (SAW) . In addition to the machine 
 gun, the support class may also carry the M9 (suppressed) , M67 fragmentation grenades (known as 
 frags ) , Claymore mines, or binoculars (again, changed to sensors in later updates to the game) . 
 * Demolitions ( Demo ) : although the name is self-explanatory, this class also serves in the anti-tank 
 role. His primary weapon is the M4 carbine, a compact cousin of the M16 rifle. This soldier can 
 also be equipped with demolition charges (explosives) , frags, extra magazines, or the M136 AT4 
 light anti-tank weapon. * Sniper: this class is complete with a camouflaged Ghillie suit, and the 
 U. S. Army's M24 Sniper Weapon System (SWS) , also camouflaged. The sniper may be equipped with the 
 M9 sidearm, with optional suppressor, extra magazines or frags. Unlike the other soldiers, the 
 sniper can not rely on sheer firepower to overcome his enemies should he ever get involved in a 
 direct firefight. The sniper relies on cover and concealment, and his ability to move stealthily. 
 Although a deadly advantage on maps with longer ranges (such as some of those found in the expansion 
 pack Desert Siege) , the sniper is to be used wisely if the player intends on keeping him. Reinforcement 
 from the rest of the team should never be too far behind when deploying the sniper in a combat 
 situation.
  
  As the player progresses through the single player campaign, his soldiers gain Combat Points to 
 add to the skill level and effectiveness of the individual men. There are four basic categories 
 of skill: * Weapon: affects the accuracy and aiming of the weapon; the reticule will close faster 
 and tighter as more points are added to this skill. * Stealth: enhances the ability of the soldier 
 to remain undetected by enemy forces, and reduces noise generated by the soldier moving. * Endurance: 
 improves recovery time when taking hits, increases the soldier's ability to survive a wound and 
 reduces the effect of heavy equipment on speed. * Leadership: for every three points of skill, 
 all other soldiers in the same fireteam gain an extra point to each of their stats.
  
  The player also unlocks specialists from NATO or allied countries by completing special mission 
 objectives. The specialists are more experienced than the Ghosts and have more Combat Points, making 
 them an essential addition to the team. They are equipped with weapons from their homeland. Two 
 of them, in particular, are armed with the Objective Individual Combat Weapon (OICW) , as part of 
 field tests and implementation of the U. S. Army's Land Warrior program.
  
  It's played entirely from the first-person perspective, and there are no in-game weapon models. 
 A Heads-Up Display (HUD) relays information such as the name of the soldier you are controlling, 
 his fireteam, weapon and ammo inventory, a threat indicator (similar to the heartbeat sensor made 
 popular in Rainbow Six) , health status, and a stance indicator (whether the character is standing, 
 crouched, or prone) .
  
  Bullets will not penetrate dry wall, but they will break glass. A grenade launched from a grenade 
 launcher will blow a door apart, and kill anyone within the blast radius on the other side. Depending 
 on the armor on your target, it is possible to neutralize a threat with one or two well-placed 
 shots.
  
  Ghost Recon has both single player and multiplayer modes of play. Up to 36 players are supported 
 in the PC version's multiplayer over an internet (TCP/IP) connection or LAN.
  
  Expansion packs and related games
  
  Ghost Recon: Desert Siege is an expansion pack that debuted 
 in 2003, and it is available for the PC as a separate purchase. It is also bundled with the Mac 
 port. The expansion pack adds 2 new multiplayer game types (Domination and Siege) , 5 new multiplayer 
 maps, new weapons for use in multiplayer, an eight-mission single player campaign, and several 
 new characters. The PS2 version of Ghost Recon allows you to unlock levels of Desert Siege as a 
 bonus.
  
  Ghost Recon: Island Thunder was released later in 2003 as an expansion pack for the PC and as a 
 standalone game for Xbox. It contains eight new single player missions, 12 new weapons, 5 new dedicated 
 multiplayer maps, 3 new multiplayer modes (Cat and Mouse, Defend, and Behemoth) . On the Xbox, Island 
 Thunder features five additional missions and twelve multiplayer maps.
  
  Island Thunder was never released for PS2, but its content was combined with eight new single-player 
 missions set in Columbia and additional multiplayer maps and released under the title Ghost Recon: 
 Jungle Storm in 2004.
  
  Plot summary
  
  Ghost Recon begins in 2008, with civil unrest in Russia. Ultra-nationalists have seized power in 
 Moscow, with plans to rebuild the Iron Curtain. Their first step is clandestine support of rebel 
 factions in Georgia and the Baltic States. This is where the Ghosts come in: to silence the rebellion. 
 Armed with some of the most advanced weaponry in the world, the soldiers of the Ghost Recon force 
 are covertly inserted into Eastern Europe and given specific missions to curtail the rebel actions 
 and overthrow their benefactors.
  
  The game's storyline stems from political turmoil that came to light a few years earlier, in which 
 the Ultra-nationalist regime came to power and placed its leader, Dmitri Arbatov, as Russia's president. 
 By 2007, the threat posed by the Arbatov Administration became clear. Russia forms an alliance 
 called the Russian Democratic Union (RDU) , which is made up of the previously conquered countries 
 of Ukraine, Belarus, and Kazakhstan. Together, they launch a campaign to revive the long-dissolved 
 Soviet Union by taking back all of the former Soviet republics.
  
  During the first few missions of the game, the Ghosts have to battle South Ossetian rebel forces 
 from the north of Georgia, who are harassing the legitimate government and its allies. The Ghosts 
 fight in the forests, on farms, and in villages while assisting their NATO allies in fighting the 
 enemy. Unfortunately, the Russian government complains to the United Nations that the Americans 
 have interfered in their affairs, and eventually they send in their army to aid the South Ossetian 
 rebels. This ignites a full-scale war between the U. S. and Russia. Unfortunately, the U. S. cannot 
 hope to stop the Russian Army from invading Georgia, so the Ghosts slow down the invading forces 
 so that all NATO forces and the Georgian government can evacuate. Eventually, the Ghosts are all 
 that's left of the U. S. forces in Georgia, and they evacuate by helicopter on the rooftop of the 
 American Embassy in T'bilisi, just barely avoiding the Russian forces. The Georgian government 
 flees to Geneva and sets up a government-in-exile. Sadly, with the fall of T'bilisi, Georgia surrenders 
 and is forcefully incorporated into the RDU.
  
  After Georgia falls, the Caucasus region is vulnerable to further attacks. The Georgian government, 
 Great Britain, Germany, and the U. S. all protest the Russian invasion, but Moscow ignores this. 
 Russia then focuses on invading the Baltic States on Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia, which the 
 Ultra-nationalists have hoped to regain control of for years. In response to this, the Ghosts are 
 sent behind enemy lines to find intelligence on the enemy attack. Unfortunately, the Russians launch 
 their attack early and overrun the Baltic States within days. The Ghosts then are sent back in 
 to slow the invasion down so NATO reinforcements can arrive from Germany. After cutting off the 
 Russian reinforcements, the Ghosts fight alongside American forces to push the Russian Army out 
 of the Baltics. Victories are won within the next months in Utena amd Rezekne, and finally, NATO 
 reaches Vilnius, Lithuania. The city was almost leveled after intense fighting between Russian 
 troops and Lithuanian rebels, but after the city was liberated with some help from the Ghosts, 
 the Russian Army retreated from all three countries.
  
  The loss of the Baltic states takes its toll on Russian. President Arbatov is blamed for the disaster 
 and placed under house arrest, starting rumors about a coup de'tat. The Ghosts then run into Russia 
 to free American and Russian POWs. Some Russians have prompted major protests across the country, 
 landing them in prison. After this event, President Arbatov is executed by his once-loyal government. 
 This sparks a rebellion all across Russia that borderlines on civil war. The Ultra-nationalists 
 quickly lose the support of the people, and many members of the RDU are also liberated or quit 
 the alliance. The Ghosts are then sent on a campaign to disable the combat capabilities of several 
 Ultra-nationalist military bases, such as the naval base at Murmansk and the airbase at Arkhangel'sk. 
 They destroy several subs and prototype aircraft, depriving Russia of vehicles. While the Ghosts 
 are striking bases, the Ultra-nationalists engage in battle with American troops and Russian forces 
 that are now opposed to the government north of Moscow. Unfortunately, the Ultra-nationalist forces 
 detonated a nuclear bomb during the battle. Alongside Arbatov's execution, this act of terror causes 
 the Ultra-nationalist regime to lose all legitimacy in the international community, prompting an 
 immediate invasion of Moscow.
  
  After the Ghosts succeeded in weakening the Russian fighting force, NATO forces launched an assault 
 on Moscow, with the Ghosts spearheading the assault. By this time, the Ultra-nationalists had lost 
 control of all territories except for whatever they held in Russia itself, and the RDU was effectively 
 dissolved. However, the coup was not finished. The remaining Ultra-nationalist forces holed up 
 their tanks, snipers, Spetsnaz, helicopters, and artillery in the wooded areas surrounding Moscow 
 as a last line of defense. However, the Ghosts broke through the lines and cleared a path for NATO 
 forces. On November 10, NATO forces finally reached Moscow and were joined by friendly Russians. 
 The city was partially deserted, as many civilians had fled prior to the attack. The Ghosts were 
 sent in to finish the job once and for all. They saved a small squad of American troops from an 
 ambush and cut into Red Square. When they arrived, American invasion forces were pushed back, but 
 the Ghosts wiped out the tanks and infantry guarding the walls of the Kremlin. Without any remaining 
 defenses, the Ultra-nationalists, led by Prime Minister Karpin, finally surrendered and both the 
 Americans and the newly-liberated Russians celebrated their victory in Red Square. However, the 
 world would feel the effects of the war for years to come.
  
  Desert Siege
  
  In the year 2009, old hostilities between Eritrea and Ethiopia have resurfaced. Colonel Tesfaye 
 Wolde of the Ethiopian military had participated in illegal arms trades with Russian ultra-nationalists. 
 Sparing no time at all, and with a newly refurbished arsenal, Col. Wolde seized the opportunity 
 to reclaim Eritrea (which won independence in 1993) . The situation garnered international interest 
 when the conflict threatened the shipping lanes in the Red Sea. In response to a plea from the 
 Eritrean government for international support, the Ghosts have been mobilized to stop Col. Wolde 
 from advancing any further.
  
  Ghost Recon: Island Thunder
  
  In 2010 Cuba is free, or at least it is supposed to be. Since Fidel Castro's death in 2006, the 
 island of Cuba is wary of the communist rule it had been under for nearly 50 years. It is time 
 for the first free and open elections since Carlos Prio Socarras, who was overthrown by Fulgencio 
 Batista in the early 1950s. The FDG (El Frente Democratico del Pueblo or People's Democratic Front) 
 has fronted a man named Priego as their candidate. The FDG are an outspoken anti-American political 
 faction that wishes to return Cuba to its perpetual state of independence. Although the FDG publicly 
 denies utilizing violence as a means of coercion, the reality is quite the contrary, as the Ghosts 
 quickly discover. Now it is up to them to set things right again, without making it appear that 
 America is getting their hands too dirty, and ensuring the elections proceed smoothly.
  
  Ghost Recon: Jungle Storm
  
  Taking place just after Island Thunder in Bogot&aacute;, Colombia, 
 the drug cartel that had aided and financed the FDG in their efforts in Cuba has initiated a number 
 of terrorist attacks against the Colombian government who has allied themselves with America. After 
 Colombia's call for help following an attack on a U. S. Embassy, America responds by deploying the 
 Ghosts to restore order and put the cartel out of business. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgamer367
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  The original Ghost Recon games were basically crap. But GRAW took the series in a new direction. 
 GRAW does a good job in tactical controls, but sometimes your squad controls can be nonresponsive. 
 The graphics and visuals of Mexico look amazing. The explosions look great too. The voice-overs 
 are excellent, but the music is rather cheesy. The learning curve may be high, but once you learn 
 how to play, this game rocks! The story of the Mexican rebels is comeplling and amazing. This game's 
 weakness is it's multiplayer. The missions and level designs are bland, and I don't see why you 
 can't do co-op in Campaign mode. I also wish you could at least use cover in multiplayer, but you 
 can't. GRAW has an excellent Campaign mode, but a boring multiplayer. If you enjoyed this game, 
 you should play GRAW 2, it's better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdf115
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  dont be fooled by my comment should have been an expansion i actually enjoyed playing the single 
 player campaign i just thought its was a bit short more like a add on pack not a full new game 
 like it was sold as, also theres no changes to the multiplayer it works exactly the same, you could 
 say why change something that works? but apart from the that and the fact my xbox happened to break 
 when i started to play this it was a great game exciting and fast paced just like the original 
 id definatly try renting this first if you are thinking of buying it chances are you'll complete 
 the campaign mode before taking it back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Ok even though this review will be long winded Im gonna make it short and sweet here at the beginning. 
 Have you played GRAW 2? If you have than do you want more of the single player fun that is GRAW? 
 If you do than pick this game up, because the multiplayer in this game has less than GRAW 2 but 
 that is to be expected. There now that we got that out of the way lets see how the original GRAW 
 stacks up against the other amazing games in the Ghost Recon series.
  
  Everyone said that the original GRAW was harder and longer than GRAW 2. This came as no surprise 
 to me because I had played the PC version of Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter and difficulty wise 
 it was gaming hell so a difficult 360 version was to be expected. Then as I starting playing I 
 realized why everyone found the second one to be easier and shorter. Which ever game you play first 
 is the harder and longer one. It took me about eleven to twelve hours to complete the campaign 
 in Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 and it only took me around five hours to complete the campaign 
 in this installment. The single player game is absolutely amazing. I did notice that there are 
 some things that were just added for Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 such as the ability to heal 
 yourself. I figured that this would add to the difficulty and lenght of the game, but it didn't 
 really affect the gameplay as much as I thought it would.
  
  If you notice the time spent playing portion you will notice that I said it was just 10 to 20 hours. 
 This is because since I already own Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 I was playing the more up 
 to date version of the multiplayer in that game, but the co-op is worth playing through as well. 
 If you do not own Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 than you will probably play the multiplayer 
 version of this game a lot more than me so chances are that number will be in the 40 to 100 hour 
 range seeing as how the multiplayer is so robust and just a good time.
  
  This is one of my shorter reviews but there really isn't much to say except that if you are looking 
 for a fun single player game with some awesome multiplayer than this is the game for you. I liked 
 this game equally with Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2, but if you already own GRAW 2 than you 
 are probablly just playing this for the single player game and maybe the different multiplayer 
 maps so if thats the situation that you are in than pick this game up used since its cheaper, but 
 if you are new to the Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter series or looking for a reason to own an 
 Xbox 360 than it doesn't get much better than this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wull1977
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 22, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Thank you, Ghost Recon 3 (sorry, Advanced Warfighter!) . Thank you for the SORE THROAT! No one of 
 those good sore throats from, let's say, laughing or cheering. No, no, no, my friend. This is one 
 born of outstanding FRUSTRATION!
  
  I was promised a next generation game. Loading up Ghost Recon - yes, it looks the part - superb. 
 Training mission - very training missiony, but showed plenty of promise. Despite some out of place 
 back slapping from your training, Outstanding! You told someone to stand next a wall! I think you're 
 a SUPER SOLDIER! . OK, I made that up, but it is over the top self congratulatory American, as 
 if the developer were perhaps mocking the American military... Subversive. Then... wrong, wrong, 
 wrong... Starting with All Along The Watchtower ? What? I'm afraid that that put my teeth on edge 
 straight away. It seemed glaringly out of place - a minor thing, but enough. Then a bit of exciting 
 solo action, except that the second I fired everyone knew exactly where I was. And they were accurate. 
 All that fancy armour not really doing a blind bit of good. But, still very exciting.
  
  The graphics are lovely to look at with some nice lighting effects and smoke effects, which makes 
 it seem all the worse when you look into a window and the reflection is a shoddy, pixellated texture. 
 But, the rest of it looks amazing.
  
  But what, dear reader, of the sore throat? That would come from my team mates. Highly trained killing 
 machines who believe that the best cover is... Well, nothing really. But, oh my, can't they spout 
 some putrid one liners... Stay frosty ? No. I shan't. Lock and load ? Yes, yes I have, thank you, 
 what being a CAPTAIN and all! Put bluntly the AI is quite literally MENTAL.
  
  I've seen my squad all picked off by the same sniper as they stood in the middle of the road. I've 
 heard them shout APC! then refuse to move to cover when I tell them, only to be blown up. And every 
 time they do something stupid I shout. And swear. I curse and hurl oaths at their stupid, dead 
 faces. But then the enemy AI... I never realised that the Mexican army was composed of psychotic 
 ELVES. With robot eyes. All the better to shoot you through the lungs at 700 yards. Through a car. 
 And smoke. I spent the better part of an hour looking for the Join Mexican Army button on the controller, 
 but sadly, to no avail.
  
  Look for positives, though... Let's see... Weapons? Slightly limp. With 1 or 2 hit kills, there 
 is no real reason to change weapons during the game. In fact, your starting weapon is without a 
 doubt the finest all rounder in the game. With little feedback either through the rumble or sound 
 effects, there are no positives to be found here. Except that I liked the pistol.
  
  The helicopter gunning missions? No. Bad. Not good. I would rather find a mysterious lump on my 
 body than have to sit through one of those again. Full stop.
  
  Tactics? Ah, the Ghost Recon series is famed, nay, BASED on it's tactical side. No. Not this one. 
 Hiding behind a wall is not tactical. That's what Gears of War is for. Here you commands amount 
 to Go there , Come back to me , and Cease fire . No easy method of flanking on the fly, no method 
 AT ALL of getting them to man machine guns.
  
  The Crosscom? Wow! You can see what your squad sees! But can't really do anything about it... You 
 get mission updates in little videos! So what? Why would a soldier need to be distracted by getting 
 the news sent to his stupid helmet? Why does he need to SEE his CO? Oh, and there are missions 
 where it fritzes out, so you can take it off! No, wait! Actually you can't! A trained special forces 
 soldier would apparently rather wander about in the dark with compromised vision, rather than take 
 of his crazy electro hat, apparently. GO GHOSTS!
  
  Plot? Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha! No. Not really, just move right on.
  
  For all 
 these faults, I played through the game twice and there is enjoyment to be had. There are plenty 
 of thrills when you know where those hidden snipers are. It could just be me, but I felt like I 
 was missing something missing all the way through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lathan94
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  This game is a game you need to play if you have an xbox 360. Its a game that has very good tactical 
 shooting. The shootouts in the game can be intense and hard to manage sometimes but very fun. Its 
 so fun to have tanks at you command as you go into a base to do some housecleaning. The sound in 
 this game is crazy explosions on a nice sound system will make you turn down the voulume due to 
 how loud and realistic the sound. The graphics are good and have nice detail. If you like tom clancy 
 games or tactical shooters buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven4d8
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  Im not gunna lie i dont really remember this game much... i love online shooters and from what 
 i remember about this game it wasnt all that great. i still had much more fun switching back to 
 my PS2 and throwing on the Socom for an online shooter rather than this game.
  
  i give this game a 7.5/10... it looks great, the guns sound awesome gameplay is just as expected 
 in a shooter game... single player missions were good
  on the downside... I did not enjoy the multiplayer at all
  
  Overall fun but not overly fun 
 make sure you rent this game first before you buy it unless you find it in the bargin bin thats 
 for damn sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamin261
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  This game is a revolution in tactical shooters by Ubisoft, who made masterpieces Like Splinter 
 Cell and Rainbow Six 3 that made the most of graphical technologies at the time.
  When you are plunged into a massive Mexican city enviroment with massive detail from sun glare 
 and haze to car alarms and local music playing. You get the feeling you are in this city which 
 can be intimidating because of the large buildings and places for enemies to hide. Its unfortunate 
 there are no civilians around which could have added a new dimension to urban warfare.
  Espectially seen as this is an early x360 game, the detail and tilt is rarely beaten in recent 
 releases. I liked the new tactical fighting system that encourages you to hide behind pieces of 
 wall etc. , it adds realism and common sense.
  The story is pretty standard for a shooter, go kill the bad guys and stop the evil dictator from 
 threatening America. The story is a reasonable length of 8-12 hours to complete with other multiplayer 
 options you'll in most shooters with multiplayer.
  There are a few issues with the gameplay; the team AI can be foolish at times because when they 
 follow you they get in you line of fire and get into vulnerable positions so enemy can shot them.
 
  The brightness by default can be annoying because you can't see anything infront on day missions. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hogowagh
Rating: 4.8
Date: Aug 14, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  I relly relly dont like this game its sucks. The story is just bad. This game is like feeding on 
 glass beganing is not but the ending hurts. I thing hitting youre self is funner then this game 
 sure some people like it I dont like it. I know some people say you dont have it youre right and 
 Im happy beacuse I rented beacuse if I boded I realy kill my self Im not kidding. If youre planing 
 on geting it buy it white a gun or a knife so it wolde be esayer. If youre a adolde and youre buying 
 it for a kid dont buy it for him or youre going to have a funeral next week. You may like it a 
 lot pepole like it you too maybe you like it but if I was you I wolde not trt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoov_B
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2007 1:45 am PT
Review:  I thought you were watching a movie. 
  
  When the initial line-up of games for the 360 was announced, what caught my eye was Ghost Recon. 
 Even over the summer the visuals were stunning, and after playing the two previous incarnations, 
 courtesy of my roommate's game collection, I was hooked on the series. I've always been a fan of 
 squad based, tactical war-games. It started way back with Maxis' RoboSport. A turn based strategy 
 game where you controled a team of robots fitted with assorted weapons. The best strategy always 
 involved quarterbacking your team like an elite commando squad. Why it took so long for squad based 
 shooters to follow up on this format is beyond me. Hand it to Ubisoft and Tom Clancy for finally 
 figuring it out however.
  
  Unfortunately, G. R. A. W. was not to be had when the 360 was released. Nor was it ready when I finally 
 got my own 360, a month later. Still, what will become the flagship game for the 360 (until Halo 
 3 is released) , was worth the wait.
  
  Unlike previous incarnations of the series, Advanced Warfighter puts you in the role of one man 
 as you battle your way across a sprawling, intricately detailed, present day Mexico City. I only 
 have two gripes with the game, and as all I have for this game is praise, it's worth mentioning 
 those problems now.
  
  The very fact that you're restricted to one player is a drawback. In previous versions, you were 
 able to carefully assemble your team, arming them with a variety of weapons, each suitable for 
 different jobs. When you encountered a certain situation that your present character was ill equipped 
 for, you simply changed characters and took someone that could handle the situation appropriately. 
 No longer is this possible. Ubisoft's alternative is that you can choose a target and tell your 
 team to attack it. In some cases this works well. Such as telling a helicopter to destroy a partcular 
 armed transport. The dissadvantage is most notable when sniping however since if your team can't 
 see your target they won't engage - or move into place to engage. What I've found is that this 
 limits what kind of weapon you can select since you essentially always have to be a sniper; not 
 by character but certainly by role. If your gun doesn't have a scope, you're at a serious disadvantage.
 
  
  For example: while pinned down after a long fight through the city, I found myself out of ammo 
 for my rifle and left with only my hand gun. With two snipers eyeing my team down, it was up to 
 my hand gun to place a few lucky rounds to take them out. That took awhile. Being able to swap 
 characters at that point would have been nice.
  
  Previous versions of the series also had the feeling that the results of each mission could have 
 a serious impact on future missions. When a team member died, they were done for the entire campaign. 
 When they got injured, they took time to heal. And the more you used particular members, the better 
 they got. Not so anymore. Now, selecting team members has more to do with who's name you like better. 
 Except for weapon type, there's no reason to choose one member over another.
  
  G. R. A. W. also has a new feature called rally points. Getting to a rally point will let your entire 
 squad, including yourself, fully heal. A nice feature simply because of the difficulty of some 
 missions. But realistic? No, not at all. Same with your ability to revive fallen teammates in the 
 heat of battle. That said, however, it is a nice addition - just not in line with the original 
 sim concept of the game. With multiple save points, G. R. A. W. plays much more like Halo than it 
 ever did before.
  
  And that sums up my biggest complaints. Not terribly impactful. Certainly not a reason to pass 
 this one up. The visuals are remarkable. My roommate walked in while I was playing one day and 
 thought I was watching a movie. An over-statement perhaps since her reaction was only momentary, 
 but certainly noteworthy nontheless. The pacing is spot on and there's always an air of tension. 
 The entire interface and game play has been refined so that commanding your squad, giving orders 
 to helicopters and tanks, spying via airborne drones, swapping weapons, reloading, crouching and 
 standing, healing teammates, taking cover behind walls, peaking around corners, throwing grenades... 
 all of it's just a finger click away.
  
  The primary new feature of Advanced Warfighter is the HUD system your character wears. It displays 
 tactical information, allows you to see what your teammates are seeing, and even identifies enemies. 
 That last point was one of my main concerns as I thought it would make the game too easy. Happily, 
 it's not entirely so. The system won't acknowledge an enemy until you've seen them first. And even 
 then you have to maintain some sort of contact with them to know exactly where they are. It is 
 certainly an advantage however, since you don't need to be able to explicitly see your enemy. A 
 glance around the area will usually allow your HUD to pick out the targets, without much work on 
 your end. That doesn't mean you can rely on it though. There'll be times when it won't pick out 
 your opponent until they're shooting you - or if you don't see them shooting it'll never find them. 
 Also, there'll be times when you have to go in blind; when your HUD is being jammed. There are 
 times when you definitely learn to appreciate the advantage that it gives you - namely, when it's 
 not available.
  
  In the end, if you own a 360, you owe it to yourself to have Advanced Warfighter. Nothing has ever 
 looked this good on a console, and few have had PCs capable enough to do the same. As impressive 
 as the visuals are, this is only the beginning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theeman2000
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 12, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a fun game that is pretty easy to learn and fun to play. The 
 command options are fun, being able to tell an Apache helecopter to launch a volley of missiles 
 at an enemy tank. The controls are fluid, and the gameplay is smooth. It looks great too, its almost 
 breathtaking when you're shooting a gatling gun over an expansive landscape of Mexico City. Commanding 
 your ghost squad is OK, but they dont use cover very well, and they follow you at unnecessary times, 
 and get shot up too easily. The HUD might be the game's best feature because it helps you point 
 out enemies and you never get lost.
  
  Overall, this game gets 2 thumbs up from me for its solid gameplay, clean graphics, and fluid gameplay. 
 I give it a 9.2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ballroompirate
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 9, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  After hearing the hype Graw got from numerous people over the past few months I finally got my 
 hands on Graw. As fellow lover of shooters at first I had a mediocre reaction towards Graw even 
 though I've played my share of Clancy games, I guess its just weird seeing a Ghost Recon game not 
 in a FPS view which Graw uses over the shoulder 3rd person camera which I LOVE!.
  
  When the game first starts off your in a training session which I have to say helped alot since 
 Clancy games can get tough. After your training session you aka Scott Mitchelles get sent to Mexico 
 city on a mission thats in the span of 72 hours/3 days. Sadly the game only puts you in Mexico City 
 whether it be night time, day time or evening which looks amazing in Graw you basically dont go 
 out of the Mexico City setting, which it woulda been nice to see Ubisoft to make the games engine 
 in more than one setting like it woulda been nice to visit a forest, mountains or even a swamp area.
 
  
  Im gonna say this with pride that Graw has some of the best cover mechanics in a game ever, when 
 your taking cover behind a wall, car or dashing to find something to cover your body from oncoming 
 enemy fire it feels like your actually taking cover and your doing it as an elite member of a task 
 force or army who knows how to take cover. At times your squad can have a pretty dull AI, which can 
 get on your nerves which happens once and awhile. Almost at the end of the game you barely use the 
 Recon map which felt like it was rushed since it barely helped you at all. Graw lacks the opportunity 
 of holding more than one main fire arm which sucked if you ran out of ammo for which in turn you 
 might have to pick up one of the crappy dropped merc weapons. These lil flaws dont alter your game 
 time or how you play the game they are at most not noticeable except for one major flaw I found 
 is after some missions your left alone even after getting picked up with yourself and your squad 
 your basically what I call John Wayneing which you are by yourself taking on a group of mercs and 
 some how you pull off a win without much trouble.
  
  I want to say whoever did the script for Graw did a hella good job since you felt like the cast 
 is actually in a modern military branch and they know how to act under stress, giving orders in 
 code or whether it be military smack talk. As the game progresses so does the way Mitchelles character 
 goes from basically a all talk guy to a team player with a hard attitude that you wouldnt expect 
 from just looking at him and it totally threw me off alil which left the impression on how serious 
 Mitchelles character grows on you. Graw is a must have for any shooter lover (in my book its in 
 the top 5 shooters of all time) or anyone whos new to the 360 system since now Graw 1 is around 
 $20 and is well worth the price even if it was $80 Graw would be worth a good play through whether 
 its for single player, co-op or having online fraging with some friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayormoose
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  GRAW (Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter) Takes place in the U. S. backdoor, Central America. The Storyline 
 is complicated and hard to follow so I'll keep It simple. Carlos Auntivaros, son of General Auntivaros 
 wants to stop a treaty between Canada, U. S., and Mexico. General Martin, is putting you in various 
 parts of Mexico ( especially Juarez) to eliminate Rebel camps, artillery, and soldiers. You also 
 get to rescue, The U. S. and Mexican President, and a general too. All weapons and gadgets are realistic 
 and are in use by todays U. S. Military. Fourtunetly, you're not alone. You have the help of elite 
 ghosts like yourself , whom you can control to make neutralizing the enemy easier. The multiplayer 
 is spectacular. The head gear is camofloged, the weapons are State of the Art, the skin tones and 
 facepaint give you that extra umph in stealth. The maps are diverse and full of ample cover. There 
 is the jungle of Temple , the marketplace in Treasury , the suburbs of Old Town , ghost town of 
 Nowhere , or the maze of Dry Dock . This game is a must buy... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Jaminson
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 6, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  You play as Captain Mitchell who leads, team of American Ghosts, meaning one who is unknown amongst 
 the enemy, are sent in to help stop the corruption of the Mexican Government and the terrorists 
 responsible for doing so. These terrorists also kidnapped the president of both countries and evidently 
 that is priority number one. This game is amongst the best tactical shooters you could ever play 
 for numerous reasons. The graphics are superb, the gameplay is smooth, the tactical aspect is enforced, 
 and even great multiplayer/cooperative modes. The graphics were great in every way. Everything 
 looked as realistic as anything on the Xbox360 to date. The guns all looked very good as well, 
 just lying there or when being fired. The character design is great, the Ghosts look very realistic 
 with the very cool looking outfits. Even on top of the impressive visuals in this game, the gameplay 
 is the best aspect of the entire thing. Like I said before, if you do not like tactical shooters, 
 this one will not disapoint you anyways. For movement you can run, stay low and move while crouching, 
 or you can prone and move slowly but unseen. All this is determined by pressing, sometimes holding 
 the left analog stick. While running, you can press the analog stick to do a sliding crouch to 
 get slow and behind cover if the enemy is firing at you. You can obviously use cover to you advantage, 
 by walking straight on to the cover you move up against it. Here you can blind shoot around or 
 above the cover, or look out to aim and get a better shot. The shooting itself is great too, not 
 too realistic but at the same time you can't continuously spray with perfect accuracy. When you 
 use a scope you can hold your breath to make your shot more precise and also do to this you can 
 change your rate of fire from single shot to automatic, and occasionally burst is an option. For 
 most missions, you will have at least one other unit to control including other Ghost squad members, 
 a UV cypher and the occasional tank and helicopter. You can tell these things to move around, to 
 follow you and in all cases but the UAV, you can tell them to attack the enemy. The game is challenging 
 even on normal difficulty as the damage is fairly realistic with about 3 hits on average. Overall 
 this is a great game on all levels. Great campaign, nice story, and excellent multiplayer. This 
 is an easy recommendation if you're looking for a shooter on this console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grapetoucher
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  I love the pace of this game. You don't just run and gun, you scout and defend. I know many shooters 
 are using cover systems now, but most don't use the realism of quick kills like graw and r6 type 
 games. The game flows very well, seamlessly transitioning from one mission to the next with several 
 checkpoints in between. One cool feature found in this version vs. ps2 is the helicopter missions 
 where you get to use the gun to mow down everything in your path. In fact, if you don't, the helicopter 
 can't land to drop you off to meet your team and you can't advance in the game. Like I said, seamless, 
 very little breaks in the action.
  
  Graphics are outstanding even after a year or so after original release. Not as good as gears obviously, 
 but the sound is better. Sound helps you with the enemy AI. they tell you when they are throwing 
 a grenade so you can move out of the way. Cross-com with the team is cool if you bother to look, 
 it's out of the way so if you stare at it too long, you're probably dead. The team is good at providing 
 cover and enemy locations, but that's it. They don't cover themselves up very well while attacking, 
 leading to alot of healing or letting them die. I played the ps2 version first, the AI in that 
 version is dreadful, the 360 version is just bad. One thing that does work well in the 360 version 
 that didn't in the ps2 is the controls, especially with support units. You press a button, and 
 the game acknowledges it, works very well. Not a huge fan of the cover system, especially after 
 playing r6: vegas. The cover works ok, but it's easy to pull out of cover when you don't mean to. 
 Those are really the major gripes, some AI and control issues. Replay value is built in with so 
 many multiplayer options and two difficulty levels. Most people have probably moved on to graw2 
 by now though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: High_Spy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 4, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  I should first point out that when I first got Ghost Recon, it was one of those games -- like a beacon 
 of light that just calls to you. In fact, at first, I preferred GRAW (Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter) , 
 over Gears of War. My opinions soon changed for the game, because the campaign was overwhelmingly 
 hard, and I wasn't the tactical type of person who could escape from the tight situations the game 
 throws you in. I switched over to Gears for quite a while, but soon my Xbox impaled the game, and 
 now I'm sitting here with some spare change in my pocket, waiting to go to Game Stop. Anyways, 
 with the death of my copy of Gears, I decided to give Ghost Recon that second chance. The clouds 
 started to clear up. That beacon of light was shining bright back on me again.
  
  It has been about seven days or so since I started replaying GRAW. It is simply put, a solid modern 
 tactical shooter. You play Scott Mitchell, an esteemed soldier part of the Ghost Reconnaissance 
 Unit, ordered to infiltrate a diabolical plan brewing somewhere in the heart of Mexico. With the 
 squad of your choice by your side, you fight for the safety of the world, breaking through the 
 forces of all the evil Mexicans that try to stop you. A man known as Carlos with a hard to pronounce, 
 spell, or anything last name is behind all of the terror that is hanging over Mexico.
  
  The gameplay is similar to any basic hide-and-shoot 3rd person shooter. Once certain button, in 
 this case, the left analog stick, is used to control basically all of your tactical hiding skills. 
 Such as ducking, hiding, and crawling on your belly. This game is basically the cornerstone of 
 all 3rd persons on Xbox, and great games such as Gears of War, the up coming Mass Effect, and so 
 on have built off of the great system.
  
  In Ghost Recon, your health is not recoverable, so every hit counts. It is mandatory to hide in 
 the game, simply because one nice bullet to the head, or heart, will knock you out clean. It usually 
 takes at least 15 to 20 shots for you to actually die in the game, however, it is still a great 
 idea to keep cover. Of course, with your arsenal of weapons (A. K. A your main weapon, your pistol, 
 and your frags) counter attacks are common, and in order to proceed through the level, are often 
 needed. Ubi Soft didn't neccesarily put their heart and soul into the gamplay, seeing as it's been 
 done so many times before, but they did try, and they gave as much effort as they could. There's 
 only so much you can do with a hide-and-shooter.
  
  The graphics were the best on the Xbox during the time of the 360's launch, and although GRAW isn't 
 the king of graphical engineering anymore (giving this title up to Gears of War) , it is still in 
 the top 10, and is very close to being the champ of graphics.
  
  One complaint about the game was it's intense amount of lighting. Mexico is a hot place, and the 
 sun often boils peoples blood like crazy, but the peculiar amount of light glazed all over the 
 characters, and enviroments, is strange, and is a hazard to those who experience seizures and the 
 such.
  
  The sound, just didn't capture me. The game possesses the same action movie music that titles like 
 Rainbow 6: Vegas, and Halo 2 have, but it just isn't as thrilling to me as it was in the other 
 games. I don't know, maybe it just sounds too generic. I'm more a fan of hip-hop, and R&amp; B than 
 I am a fan of rock. So, maybe I have a biased opinion of rock in general, but when it sounds good, 
 I can tell. And GRAW's music just didn't sound good to me. In fact, when I play the game, I often 
 hear the sounds of the bantering Mexicans, or the roaring bullets of my gun more than I hear the 
 music. So all in all, I just didn't like the music. The only time when I actually acknowledged 
 any of it at all, was during the Centro Historico act, when you're placed in a helicopter with 
 a mounted machine gun, and forced to shoot at the enemies below. The music there was at least, 
 acknowledegable
  
  The game has some nice value. It's one of those pick up and play titles. Most people shun theirselves 
 from the campaign because it is brutally hard. I myself, beat the game on my offline account, and 
 never bothered to replay it on my live account. Often, when I play this game on live, I look at 
 other people's proflies, and the suprising thing is, most of them haven't beaten the campaign either! 
 Everyone just jumps straight to multiplayer because they know they'll most likely never beat this 
 challenging title.
  
  So, what do I think of this game overall. It's a passable product. And passable isn't even the 
 right word. It's a classic title, but it depends on the type of shooters you like. One thing that 
 drew me over to Gears and Halo is the fact that they're sci-fi shooters, which means they have 
 fictional weapons and fictional things. And I just love fiction! I do like shooters in general, 
 but maybe GRAW wasn't as inspiring to me because it was a modern warfare type game. But I still 
 love to play it, and hey, I'm not the whole world. There's a lot of people out there who prefer 
 GRAW over Gears any day.
  
  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter for the Xbox 360 is indeed a solid, well thought out, 
 and actually challenging title. I give the Ubisoft crew credit for making the game hard as hell. 
 And if you never stop to revive your injured teammates, they'll die, and never come back. GRAW 
 is all about, teamwork, and having one less man on the squad won't get you anywhere. So check out, 
 Ghost Recond Advanced Warfighter for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -_Jeremy_-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  GRAW is an amazing shooter that has a decent story, great gameplay and amazing graphics.
  
  Gameplay: Pretty much redefines the Ghost Recon series. Everything was redefined for this game. 
 Your movements are way too lifelike that it almost scares me. It's really easy to control, and 
 makes it fun and fast as you go on through the game. Unlike most first person shooter, or even 
 third person, you can't turn around, move your reticule or run very fast. It tries to be a little 
 too lifelike and I find it annoying if you have to go a far distance and you only make it there 
 like a minute after. I don't like that.
  
  Graphics: The environments are amazing to look at, and every single detail sparkles with next-gen 
 goodness. The characters look really good, and all move around like they would (if again, they 
 were in life) .
  
  Sound: All the voice acting is very impressive. The guns sound (wow... lifelike :o) and the shouts 
 that the rebels make when they see sounds like how a (real) war would be. Value: The campaign is 
 a decent length but doesn't have a big, great, BOOM! finish. Sure. What-his-name-that-I-forgot 
 falls to his death. Sure, it's funny. And satisfying. But Gears had a big finish. That's even more 
 satisfying. Anyways, if you have just bought yourself a 360, and your looking for a shooter. Get 
 this. Oh, and Gears too. Duh! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakjbt
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 24, 2007 3:48 am PT
Review:  graw is a brillently made game that should not be missed be anyone who has patience.
  
  gamplay: the gamplay is brillent with massive evnvoirments and many ways to take down a enemy. the 
 control or your team is a great thing aswell. you willl have to be carfl though as 1 bullet to the 
 face could instanlly kill you so you will have to take smart cover.
  -----------------------------------------
  graphics: the graphics are supurb they are very real 
 looking and feel great. with a sdeady frame rate to keep you happy aswell.
  -----------------------------------------
  sound: the sound is absolutly amazing!1 bullet sounds 
 like it flys past your ear when surround sound is on!
  wxplosions are great aswell!
  -----------------------------------------
  value: youll get a good 20 hours out of campaign
 
  -----------------------------------------
  online: i was really looking ford to this online... but it isnt as good as I thought t would be you 
 cant lean against wall to take cover!
  -------------------------------
  -------------------------------
  but in the end youll find ghost recon is simply a billent game 
 for anyone whos a fan of shooters! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bamafan3414
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 19, 2007 12:42 am PT
Review:  So I went to EB Games and I was planning on getting Splinter Cell: Double Agent but when I got 
 their they were sold out. I was pissed because I was really looking forward to that game. The manager 
 told me to check out G. R. A. W. so I bought it for $15! Man that was a great buy. When I got home 
 I immeditaly started playing it and I looked up and it was a few hours later. I had completely 
 lost track of time since playing. This game is just so much fun. The campaign was my favorite thing 
 on the whole game. You are Captain Mitchell in control of the Ghost Squad. You get to command over 
 three troops, tanks, helicopters, and a flying drone that acts as a spotter. This game combines 
 stealth, strategy, and shooting. Stealth is one big part of this game. It isnt so much stealth 
 as it is taking cover and coming up on the enemy. The night vision that you can use at night or 
 just when its dark is really cool. It actually works unlike some that are screwed in other games.
 
  
  This is defintly a strategic game as well. You have to plan who, or what to send into combat. You 
 have to know where to send them and where to send them. The controls to control your men and vehicles 
 are very simple. It pretty much consist of up or down on the d-pad.
  
  Ha o man is this game defintly a shooter. It is one of the best shooters year to date (besides 
 Gears of War of course) . Their is a wide range of weapons and they defintly look realalistic.
 
  
  Another great thing about this game is that all of the weapons you see are either in combat now 
 or are prototypes. It just seems cool to see the future of weaponary and combat.
  
  The multiplayer is really great to. The only thing I dont like about it is that you dont have a 
 cover system as you do in campaign, but this game still runs really well with little lag. Overall 
 this is a great game, some cons, but pretty much a 10 out of 10. I give a standing ovation to the 
 creators of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihaveadreamcast
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 11, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  I dont really like these kinds of one shot your dead game. but the graphics and sound and presentation 
 were all really nice but in my opinion stealth games like this suck. i dont find them really entertaining 
 so i cant recommend this game. but rainbow six vegas i like for some reason. not everyone will 
 like these types of games. i need 100 words
  
  All work and no play makes jack a dull boy All work and no play makes jack a dull boy All work 
 and no play makes jack a dull boy All work and no play makes jack a dull boy All work and no play 
 makes jack a dull boy All work and no play makes jack a dull boy All work and no play makes jack 
 a dull boy All work and no play makes jack a dull boy All work and no play makes jack a dull boy 
 All work and no play makes jack a dull boy All work and no play makes jack a dull boy All work 
 and no play makes jack a dull boy All work and no play makes jack a dull boy All work and no play 
 makes jack a dull boy All work and no play makes jack a dull boy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodbore8
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 8, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  GRAW from Ubisoft is a squad-based third-person shooter in which strategy is one of your most destructive 
 weapons. The game is a lot of fun to play. The game features great multiplayer with awesomely designed 
 maps. While the muliplayer is really good (not perfect but still really good) , the single player 
 has a lot of minor flaws. While the single player is a blast to play, the second half of the campaign 
 is extremely hard and requires you to think very carefully and plan your strategy. The shooting 
 matters, too, but if your strategies stink, the shooting doesn't matter as much... because you'll 
 already be dead! The first half of the game on both of its two difficulty is easy while the second 
 half feels too hard and requires a lot of controller throwing moments. The single player campiagn 
 is also a little short clocking in at around 7-9 hours on either difficulty setting. But overall, 
 GRAW looks beautiful and is a solid title for the next-gen systems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nadtheimpaler
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2007 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Theres something to be said for a shooter that rewards you for having the drop on your opponent 
 aside from just their health being half gone before they start shooting you. Halo for example is 
 one like that. Picture this: Your laying down on a ridge overlooking a few busted buildings and 
 some wrecked cars. The most powerful weapon available, a .50 caliber sniper rifle is cradled in 
 your grip and your peeking down the scope at the huge desert below, just begging something but 
 the sand to move. Movement on the hill across from you catches your eye and theres gunfire to your 
 left. The movement was another sniper setting up shop across the map and the gunfire was a team 
 member taking out someone on the road leading up to your base. As you swing back around the sniper 
 on the hill lets loose, having sighted you in. Gunshots hit all around you and you fire back howling 
 into your mic, 'Come get some!'. Right before you die. Multiplayer simply must be played if your 
 interested in possibly the most realistic online combat available. Be aware though. It is hard. 
 Single player campaign is equally rough. One shot one kill seems to be the montra for the game 
 and being a hair of a second to slow may mean your reloading from your last save. It's possible 
 to adapt to it fast enough but it's still going to be frusterating to some to turn a corner a dozen 
 times and get the same two guys shooting at you and not be able to find the sniper that drops you 
 right after that. For me it wasn't too bad, but controller throwing moments did abound for some 
 others I spoke to online. The realistic combat, in fact was a turn off to some players of Gears 
 and Halo that preffered to have time to shoot it out before dropping dead. Skilled FPS and 3ps 
 should be able to finish the game easily enough, but the multiplayer got me addicted. Words will 
 not do it justice and rest assured, more realistic combat outside of a Tom Clancy game shall not 
 be found. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zebu9
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 6, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely awesome. The graphics are amazing. The city from above looks beautiful 
 &amp; the deserted streets and buildings sometime give you a photo realistic view. A very few &amp; 
 almost unnoticed graphics glitches. The Enemy AI is good, enemy will take cover where necessary 
 &amp; usually won't just barge at you. Team-mates AI sucks big time. Fools always gets caught up 
 in firing range. The covering system is good, but not as good as Gears of War, but it is still 
 very very cool. The weapons and animations looks quite real. The physics mechanism is good. If 
 you shoot at the car's tyre, it will burst etc. Yeah then again I noticed that there wasn't any 
 civilians :P
  Long &amp; lengthy delicious missions. Story could have been improved. Shooting mechanics are quite 
 real, even on normal difficulty, a couple of bullets will do the trick. Voice acting is okay. Music 
 is really very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Links14
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 5, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is one of the best shooting game for xbox 360. The single player is great. It's 
 just not running to point A to B. You have side missions on the way and when you get there there 
 is always a twist in this game which makes it so good. After you beat it on normal try it on hard. 
 The multi player is great for ppl who have xbox live and who doesn't. For offline 4 players can 
 play on the same xbox 360. There is even a mini co-op for multi player which is 4 missions long. 
 There pretty long if you only have one respawns. There are different modes to play too. The online 
 for this game is great. There is always someone to play with online even if there is GRAW 2. You 
 just need to look for the right matches. I think this is a must buy game for xbox 360 and it's 
 CHEAP!!! Thanks for reading. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lancealot325
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 15, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  When Ubisoft brought out the first Ghost Recon, it changed stealth shooters and amazed anyone who 
 played it. Just a few years after the first Ghost Recon game, Ubisoft decides to bring the soldier 
 of the future to Ghost Recon. Enjoy.
  
  The game takes place in 2012 after the U. S. signs a treaty that ensures safe trade in Mexico and 
 Canada. But, as usual, someone in Mexico kills the Canadian prime minister and kidnaps the other 
 2 presidents and does some more damage. Don't fret: you're the new soldier of the future. You've 
 got something called Cross-Com , which is really cool. Some cool guns coupled along with some cool 
 gameplay, this game really immersies you in 2012 as Capt. Scott Mitchell.
  
  All in all, GRAW is one game that will keep you mashiing buttons until you've finished the game. 
 Also, don't forget the cool multiplayer. If you like all that I just wrote, don't be afraid to 
 go boot up your Xbox 360 and play this game that I dubbed the best Ghost Recon game so far . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hermitkermit
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 12:01 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: You are a ghost, you don't exist! Spooky right? Only if your the bad guy. The game plays 
 just like Gears of war, you take cover if you don't you die, you hear you die!!!! Also you get 
 to control a squad, which is about 3 people. Kinda like Gears.... (GRAW did come out first so...) 
 Not only that you can command tanks and even helicopters!!! Also afraid of getting shot? (Then 
 this game is not for you..) You can send out a hover drone into the battle who tells you where 
 the baddies are..... (Cheating? This is WAR, Knowing is half the battle, while the other half involves 
 alot of death and guns.....)
  You can change what equipment you want to have and what sqaud men to use. Although there are some 
 missions where you have to go it alone, Lone wolf style..... Did I mention you get to ride in a 
 helicopter?!?!
  
  Graphics: Still blows me away like a gunshot to the head, (J/K) really, the lighting is good, the 
 bullet effects are great, explosions? Yep awesome.....
  Really, it's is a great looking game, even if it is a launch game.....
  
  Sound: Terrific, 
 I almost spelled Terrible, but good thing I used spell check...
  The gun shots to the mexicans shouting or even cursing at you are superb touch. I wonder what does 
 Idiot sound like in Spanish......
  
  Replay Value: Multiplayer is still good, but GRAW2 may have took alot of the active players... Still 
 it has another co-op campaign and multiplayer.... However you can't take cover in the multiplayer........ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halolegend35
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2007 3:54 am PT
Review:  ghost recon is a superb game with excellent graphics and gameplay. the multiplayer is brilliant 
 and you can spend hours offline playing against the ai. the single player can however be very frustrating. 
 the simple reason is the health bar , a couple of bullets can send you back to the previous checkpoint 
 and with a frustating team ai you seem to die just to easily. however all of this makes the game 
 far more challenging and realistic and superb graphics and sound make for mind blowing battles. 
 which make you concentrate from start to finish.
  
  conclusion this is a truly fantastic game with a lenghty single player campaign, plenty of mp options 
 for online and offline play and brilliant gun battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas830
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 30, 2007 9:49 pm PT
Review:  This is a surprisingly good game, that has some of the best graphics on the 360, along with an 
 enjoyable and challenging campaign. One of the biggest problems with the campaign side of the game 
 is the ordering around of your squad, since you need to constantly redirect them while controlling 
 your own character, and sometimes it gets frustrating when you are stuck in an intense situation. 
 Other than that, the tactical action is great. Online multiplayer is good, and there are many gametypes 
 to keep it new. Playing against the computer with friends or fighting against other real people 
 on live is a fun time too. Overall, Ghost Recon offers a refreshing shooter experience that has 
 tactics as most important to win, unlike other run and gun games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: virtua91
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 30, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Where do I start, imagine the robbery scene from Heat, Black Hawk Down, Team Fortress Classic, 
 Counter-Strike, Full Spectrum Warrior, and Splinter Cell rolled into one nice package and you've 
 got a good idea of what it's like playing Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter for the Xbox 360. I've 
 never been a huge fan of Tom Clancy games other than Rainbow Six Vegas, other than that I never 
 really cared for any of the past games that had Tom Clancy thrown on the title. Ghost Recon 3 sounded 
 interesting and the screenshots I had seen were impressive - yet I expected a bit of a bore: a 
 slow-paced strategy game with complicated menus and impossible team controls. When I stopped in 
 to buy it, because it was only $20 I had little knowledge the game would keep me playing for 8 
 hours straight, generally impressing.
  
  GRAW is a simulator that takes place in the year 2013, which considering the pace of technology 
 available, it is surprisingly realistic with very intense action. I imagined that since the game 
 was on the Xbox 360 and I don't play many PC games anymore, the graphics would be impressive in 
 1080i. Initially I was taken back -- it looked more realistic than most games I'd seen on the new 
 console yet with truly impressive details. Immediately I noticed the game was less cryptic and 
 complicated than the original Full Spectrum Warrior, but difficult enough to give a gaming veteran 
 that pays extra attention to details and controls a slight edge in warfare. War's hell, and this 
 game simulates it well. The easy-to-master controls, balance of power, realism, and action create 
 one heck of a great simulator. GRAW defines the genre of war simulators, with numerous features 
 that anyone will appreciate. There are more on-screen indicators than you can shake a stick at, 
 including an enemy/vehicle health level, range to waypoints, and nice overlaying map. There are 
 plenty of extra bells and whistles to keep everyone happy which can be toggled for custom multiplayer 
 games.
  
  Commanding allied troops is very simple. You simply choose the group (if there's only one allied 
 group to control, it's selected by default) using the left-right arrows on the D-pad, then press 
 up on the D-pad for the location you want to move them toward. Pressing down causes troops to regroup. 
 You can also set waypoints on the map (brought up using the Back button) and attack specific units 
 by highlighting them and hitting Up. The left shoulder button (L8) is used to switch between Recon 
 and Assault modes. This button will toggle your units between a sneaky ninja approach and a kill 
 everything that moves assault.
  
  The seemingly never-ending modes of gameplay will please anyone even remotely interested. You've 
 got deathmatches, team battles, campaigns, assaults, defenses, and more. You've got territories 
 to occupy, seek-and-destroy, and specific rescue missions. The key here is replay value and this 
 game packs it on.
  
  Cameras are well executed and further enhance its gameplay. The default view is a 3rd person over-the-shoulder 
 camera that allows you to see the ultra realistic character models run and dive in real-time. Drones, 
 deployable cameras that let you fly around the map to scope out enemy positions, come in handy 
 during hostile situations. The Drone is also available in multiplayer, although I think it takes 
 away from the action on large Live games because it keeps you busy with something other than combat. 
 Cameras follow your commanded troops in a small window, allowing you to babysit them as necessary. 
 You can command other units as well, including helicopters and armored vehicles, with cameras to 
 view them as they tear through the battlefield. The environments vary from cities to jungles to 
 deserts, and beyond. Most environments are extremely realistic with great surround sound, offering 
 distractions such as police sirens and whizzing bullets. The cities are especially convincing with 
 some interactive terrain, buildings, and vehicles. You'll find yourself taking cover behind cars, 
 dumpsters, and park benches as you struggle to survive barrages of enemy fire. Occasionally you 
 may see some clipping on terrain or textures that tear at seams, but these small problems are few 
 and far between.
  
  Character and vehicle models are great, leaving little to be desired. The time spent developing 
 realistic character movement is appreciated. When something puts out a lot of heat, it blurs the 
 camera appropriately. The lighting effects are absolutely state of the art, offering photo realistic 
 scenes that will leave your jaw on the floor. The camera filters and iris effect are mind-blowing. 
 In darker levels in heavy fire, the bullets and explosions illuminate the level like Freemont street 
 in all its glory. These light shows might catch your eye for just long enough to get you killed. 
 Smoke effects like smoke grenades are a mixed bag. While Call of Duty does a good job with smoke 
 effects, Ghost Recon does the job better in most ways, particularly seen in its variation of colors 
 (as opposed to all bright gray) and more transparent effect. Ghost Recon has some of the most impressive 
 visuals ever seen and it's truly next-generation.
  
  If you're looking for the safest way to grab some weapons and go to war, Ghost Recon is your ticket. 
 If you liked Counter-Strike, Rainbow Six, F. E. A. R., or even Golden Eye, you'll love this game. 
 GRAW would be a great tool to demonstrate your new home theatre system to friends. Its minor shortcomings 
 are greatly overshadowed by its high points, offering a unique and immersible experience, the likes 
 of which most games fail to even scratch the surface. If you like shooters, action-strategies, 
 realistic combat games, and team-based combat, this is definitely a title to add to your library. 
 It's so easy to be able to turn on a single device that lets four players sit in a room with wireless 
 controllers and fight a huge battle that it's hard to recommend any version at this time except 
 the Xbox 360's version, even without having played the other versions available. In addition, if 
 you've got the coin, this is the perfect opportunity to upgrade your surround sound and maybe even 
 your television. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryo_Kensen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  The HUD is really cool, voice acting is pretty good, controlling squads is fun, taking out tanks 
 and helicopters is both fun and rewarding, guns are fun to use, Xbox Live is fun, graphics look 
 great, shooting with the turret in the helicopter is way more fun then it needs to be.
  
  The Bad:
  In game music and effects drown out the people trying to tell you important things, 
 little to no lip sync, music can be unfitting, frequently repeated lines from your squad and enemy 
 characters, Squad A. I. is like trying to tell a 1st grader to do Calculus, Terrible Achievements, 
 Xbox Live lobbies are terrible which makes it hard to find a game, Very easy for people to spawn 
 camp on Xbox Live since most people spawn in one place.
  
  Review:
  A lot of the gameplay focuses around Get to this point which along the way to the point that you 
 need to get to you run into a lot of enemies who will try to take you out. The gameplay is actually 
 way more fun to play through then it sounds. It reminds me of the gameplay of Call of Duty, Gears 
 of War, and Resident Evil 4 combined. Fun though the game may be, a lot of the missions are pretty 
 hard and it takes a while to get used to all of the controls that you need to remember to take 
 out enemies at whatever distance. Sometimes when you control your Squad and tell them to get behind 
 cover so they won't get killed they'll often go out of cover and start shooting in the open, which 
 causes them to get killed. That sometimes can happen at a very bad moment in the game, like when 
 there are 10 marksman trying to take your head off and one of your Squad decides it'll be a good 
 idea to run out in the open and shoot like mad, once they're dead you can't go and revive them 
 without getting shot. So usually in those situations you just have to let your teammate die, luckily 
 though you can send teammates to heal your dying teammate, but of course by doing this you're risking 
 your other squad mates..
  
  Xbox Live is pretty fun, though it does come with a few prices. You no longer can take cover (at 
 least not in the game types I played, I'm not sure if you can take cover in certain game types) 
 and the person hosting chooses rather or not you're in Third Person. Playing in First Person after 
 you're used to the game in Third Person takes a while to get used to, but after you're used to 
 it you'll do fine. A lot of the Game Types feel like they're lacking compared to other online shooters. 
 Capture the Flag isn't as fun when you're worried about expert GRAW veterans sniping you from a 
 hundred yards away. A big problem that gets in the way of GRAW's online is the people that camp 
 by the Spawn points, which in a game like Team Elimination it pretty much ruins the game. Though 
 with all the problems GRAW has with Xbox Live, the people you meet that play fair really are what 
 make it worth while to play.
  
  GRAW's graphics look really good on an High Definition TV, and pretty good on a Standard TV. The 
 buildings and environments look fairly nice and polished and smooth, the character models look 
 fairly nice, but do have some minor problems that could be worked out. For a Xbox 360 launch window 
 title however, Ubisoft did a wonderful job with recognizing a lot of what the 360 is capable of 
 and using it to their advantage. Whenever you're flying in a helicopter looking down at the buildings, 
 houses, and ground it looks really nice. It actually looks like something you'd see if you were 
 flying in a helicopter over the city. Ubisoft did get carried away with the smoke, since it seems 
 like every time you're flying over the city you see smoke. But I guess you're in a war zone so 
 I guess some people got bomb happy. The entirety of GRAW is spent in Mexico City, one of the largest 
 cities in the World. Mexico City looks really good in the game, and it's highly detailed and very 
 realistic looking.
  
  The voice acting is fairly nice, but a lot of the lines are pretty cheesy and feel like the writers 
 came up with them at 5 AM on a long work day while their onl 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamst3r
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 23, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  its a game that is really realistic to me its slow but intense at the same time if you can get 
 into it then youll have a blast i will sometimes loose because everyones using strategy and im 
 just trying to kill lol probably not for everyone but for the people who it is for will be amazed 
 the graphix are really cool but when you go online the graphics are worse the sounds are just really 
 amazing they really are some of the coolest sounds of the year easily they are awsome this game 
 can get kind of boring after awhile online and campaign so your going to need some time off every 
 once in awhile if you like realistic stuff but alot of fast paced fps fans will be dissapointed 
 if thats the case then rent it first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a2entertainment
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 12:32 am PT
Review:  I was very excited about this game. In fact I bought it before I even had an Xbox 360! I had played 
 it a friends house before and when I finally got my xbox i was amazed.
  
  Gameplay:
  Gameplay is if not perfect, then very close. Controls are very smooth and the game play is very 
 smooth. Frame rate occasionally drops for a second but immediately fixes itself. Wide range of 
 missions and weapons. Best of all is that you get to control your team mates by giving them orders. 
 I don't know how many time i have sent my team into a wide open area packed with enemies just to 
 laugh! =)
  
  Graphics:
  Amazing! revolutionary would have to be the best word to describe the graphics in this game. Not 
 all levels look as nice as each other so I often find my self playing older levels just to look 
 at them. One thing I noticed is that if you fire at a wall the bullet hole left looks authentic 
 instead just a float picture.
  
  Sound:
  Bullets whizzing past your head sounds nice if you have surround sound. Music is very tense at 
 times which helps the feeling of infiltrating enemy territory.
  
  I believe this to be a good by for anyone who likes shooting games and people who like games with 
 awesome graphics! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 22, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I do prefer the likes of Rainbow Six or even Gears of War over a tactical shooter 
 such as Ghost Recon. That said, this is one outstanding game. Graphically, it's totally next-gen. 
 The lighting, especially, is outstanding. The sound is also great, maybe better than the graphics. 
 Gameplay is good as well, as you move from mission to mission on the spot with little time in between. 
 My one issue is the controls, only because I am not a fan of micro-managing my soldiers like this 
 game does. My other gripe, ( which is a gripe with all tactical shooters, really) , is that the story 
 is almost non-existant, just an excuse to send you on another mission. Despite these issues, Ghost 
 Recon is an outstanding game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinkIsMyGod
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jun 21, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  After seeing how high of a rating GRAW got, I thought that it would be a good game to try out. 
 Well I couldn't have been more wrong. The tutorial gives a general overview of the shooting and 
 the taking cover part of the game, but later, you have to deal a bunch of things that aren't even 
 mentioned in the tutorial (ie. satellites, commanding troops etc.) . I really can't review this 
 game too well because I have only played for a total of about a half and hour, but that's all that 
 I was able to stand before falling asleep. The reason I hate this game may be because i'm not a 
 fan of this type of genre I don't know, all I know is that I wasted my money buying this game when 
 I could have bought Oblivion. So maybe my review might not be fair, but it can serve as a warning 
 to people who are thinking about buying this game but aren't sure if they're a fan of this genre 
 because I guarantee that you'll be much better off spending your money on ANYTHING other than this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: payne6705
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 13, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  this game like typical Tom Clancy fashion is hard i mean really hard as in most of the time your 
 enemies will shoot you in the head and you will have to start over but it doesn't make you angry 
 the check point system is done nicely the game itself is a very cool idea it has you as a ghost 
 commander and you control a squad of men or tanks and helicopters now the cool thing is you have 
 a camera which you can see what your team mates see like if you have a helicopter selected you 
 see the war zone from the helicopters view point like the top of buildings and soldiers on the 
 other side of the war zone also you have a targeting system that points out enemies and allies 
 in a cool way as in if you see them and they hide behind a wall you can see their outline and see 
 which way they are going or what they are going to do.... its very nice and its nicer when you have 
 something called the counter sniper which is a sniper that can shoot through thin walls finally 
 the enemy A. I. is smart if your hiding in a good spot and they can't get you they will throw grenades 
 they will find ways to flank you and your team the enemy A. I. surprises me at times...... yet there 
 are so problems that annoyed me a bit the first problem you allies are dumb i mean really dumb 
 even though you control them i feel sometimes that i baby sit them sometimes though they surprise 
 me and saved me a couple of times another problem is i noticed a lag sometimes when a enemy is 
 close and i'm about to shoot him it doesn't work it lags for about 2 seconds but before he shoots 
 the enemy kills me and i have to start over also i must mention the cover system it is just awkward 
 you must run to cover push the stick up and he sits there then hit the shoulder button to make 
 him turn left or right and if i have to move from cover i must hit the Y button or i have to fight 
 with him to leave (which doesn't help when a grenade is next to you) also sometimes i feel like 
 it just won't do what i say like move from cover it will just sit there and i have to fight other 
 than that a awesome game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richassassin
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  GRAW has a lot of great stuff about it. It has good graphics, a nice campaign mode, and some exciting 
 other modes such as co-op and instant missions on multiplayer. The Campaign is pretty lengthy and 
 hard even on the normal difficulty, and it will take you a solid 10-15 hours if you're good and 
 maybe more if you're new into the shooter genre. The voice acting is good, and the checkpoint system 
 is pretty forgiving since you can always restart from a checkpoint whenever you died. You also 
 have the option to play levels separately too. The team control is basic, but still allows the 
 player to have some excitement with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blitzkrieg10
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 9, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  Despite having some problems trying to get used to controling multiple units at once, this game 
 is spectacular in both its single player campaign and multiplayer capabilities. The single player 
 campaign is very good with a flawless storyline and good graphics and sound effects. Both difficulties 
 of this game are at a good challenge level and provide the difficulty needed for both new and veteran 
 players. The multiplayer campaign has a very good storyline and has a solid connection with the 
 game's overall story. Despite having to support so many players, especially on Xbox Live, it still 
 maintains high level graphics and sound effects. The best feature of this game is the fact that 
 gamers have the choice of first or third person view which makes it comfortable for any gamer. 
 For these reasons, I give this game a nice 9.6/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  This has to be one of the best tactical shooters I have played so far. The controls are nice and 
 simplified and team commands are made at the touch of a button. The Cross Com system is very useful 
 allowing you to pin point enemy positions once spotted makes this game a little easier. The story 
 is very interesting and the action is non stop. The level design is also great on this game. Skyscrapers 
 tower above concealing snipers and enemies hide behinfd cars for cover but a nice well placed grenade 
 can elimate that cover. The graphics are right up there with great games like rainbow six vegas. 
 You can also pick this up at bargain bucket price with the sequel being release not long ago. However 
 this game is not for everyone. This is no ordinary shooter it requires a lot of duck and cover 
 with a little trial an error as well. Some levels seem almost impossible especially when your on 
 a mission without a team and there is a jamming device nearby which badly distors your cross com 
 system. But other than that this is a solid game and I have completed it several times now and 
 it does not get boring at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 8, 2007 10:24 pm PT
Review:  From now on, im just going to rate the game and thats it. Im tired of writing reviews, so i will 
 just rate it and do somthing else. So from now on i will only rate the games i have played. Ghost 
 Recon has always been about great multiplayer, and GRAW 2 keeps the family name intact with a huge 
 selection of maps (some available in night and day modes) , dynamic respawn areas that prevent rampant 
 camping, entirely customizable game modes, and a new medic system that gives you the chance to 
 save your teammates in the heat of battle. The new clan system also deserves praise, as it allows 
 you to select custom team names, import logos, choose your team camouflage, find clan matches, 
 and recruit/demote clan members. I would have loved to see a ranking system like those in Battlefield 
 2 and Rainbow Six Vegas, but it didnt make it into this version of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo2_fan391
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 3, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: GRAW may look very complicated and intimidating to play but it's not. It's an extremely 
 fun game. The controls are a lot like Vegas if you've ever played it. You can hide behind cover 
 in this game unlike other ghost recons. The crosscom is almost too big of an advantage because 
 you can see almost every enemy and kill them pretty fast so this game is a lot easier then previous 
 games. There are a decent variety of weapons and playing the game is just so amazing!!
  
  Graphics: OMG this game is spectacular! The mexico daytime missions are abosoulutly gorgeaous. 
 The third last mission is the best mission I think.
  
  Sound: Great, no complaints
  
  Value: For the price now it's a must buy for a game like this.
  
  Overall this is my favorite 
 third person shooter and delivers so much and is a must buy for all tactical shooter fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paradise19
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 3, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  Good game with some flaws. Single player lengh is good, superb graphics, and combat, though not 
 satisfying (personal opinion) is still superb in many ways. 
 
  n
  nn
  n
  nnn m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m mm m m m mm m m m mm 
 m m mm mm m mm m m mm m m mm m mm mm m m m mm m mm m mm mm m mm m mm mm m mm m mm m mm m mm m mm 
 m m mm m mm mm m m mm m mm m mm m m mm m mm m m mm m mm m m m mm m m mm m mm mm mm m m m m m mm 
 m m m m m m m mm m m m m mm m m m m mm m m m m mm mm mm mmm mm mm m mm mm m m mm mm mm mm m m mm 
 m m mm m mm 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellionSilus
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 31, 2007 2:46 am PT
Review:  Now, this game I can see is a very good game, but only if you like this sort of game. I prefer 
 a bit more fast pasted game, which this game is not. Gameplay:
  You spend the majority of the level, slowly and cautiously moving from street to street most of 
 the time defeating enemies by either sniping or using your awesome allies. Now this can be fustrating, 
 because first it's slow and second you die with ease, which means you have to do it all again. 
 This is why the game is either love it or hate it, and that's the realism factor. It's good for 
 online play, which it has, but for single player it can be a annoying. You'll probably spend alot 
 of the time going in slow mo and dying. You may be thinking, that's because I suck at the game. 
 Yeah, I do, but probably only because I'm impatient. I did very well till about half way through 
 when I got bored to death with the realistic approach, that and I had just saw Rambo. Graphics:
 
  Well, they're truly the first sign of Next Gen graphics. With nice textures, character models 
 and especially, albeit rare, explotions. Not much to say here, see the screenshots. Replay value: 
 Well, again, either love it or hate it. If you love the realism, then you probably love the challenge, 
 the game offers harder difficultys for you to go back and rack your brain at once again. Sound: 
 Actually, I really liked the sound. It's got some good, suited, tracks as well as realistic sound 
 effects. It's somewhat satisfying going against cover, with the sound of bullets hitting the wall 
 you're behind. Overall:
  I say rent it first, if you like this sort of game it's a solid addition to your game libary. If 
 not, never buy it, go off and buy Halo like everyone ^_^. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razza95
Rating: 3
Date: May 30, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  GRAW throws you in at the deep end a bit. There's a nice training level to get you used to the 
 basic controls, then the first mission lands you with all this satellite rubbish and controlling 
 APCs which they really needn't have bothered with. It's all too complex for an intro to a game.
 
  
  The controls are awkward and, well, random. Shooting is just about the only control that actually 
 works, even if the weapons are completely useless.
  
  Your team is rather stupid for a professional warfighting squad - they have no concept of 'don't 
 stand there when you're getting shot' and when they are alive, couldn't hit a barn door from 3ft 
 away.
  
  Then there's the cover system.... what? there's a cover system?! Telling your guy to go into cover 
 doesn't seem to work much, and when you aim round a corner you end up totally exposing yourself 
 and getting shot. If you want a game that involves tactical shooting involving cover.... Gears of 
 War.
  
  On the plus side (which is a small plus side) the graphics are pretty good and the sound isn't 
 bad. But I didn't buy it for those.
  
  I'm only on the 2nd mission I think, I really can't be bothered to get any further. Takes forever 
 to load as well.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 29, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Im going to try to break this games review down into sections to make it easier for you, the reader 
 to read and be able to follow.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in this game in my opinion is amazing. The new cross-com feature is so cool. 
 One of its features are being able to command things like tanks through your cross-com. You can 
 also see the base outline in red of enemies even if there between walls. So I think that is wicked 
 cool. I like the 3rd person point of view too. I really hated all the other ghost recon games, 
 but I tried a demo of this game on the xbox live marketplace and loved it from the start. Its different 
 for the most part from the others, and thats exactly why I like it.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are crazy good. The sun effects and how the sun reflects off 
 of things look really good. The character models look very good too. Especially close up. Pretty 
 much everything in this game looks pretty much amazing.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is also very good. Just hearing the shots from the guns are music 
 to my ears. Some games are very sloppy when it comes to the sounds of all the weapons not just 
 the guns. But this game nails the right sound right on the dot. Bravo
  
  Replayability: This game has quite a bit of replayability. There are seperate achievements for 
 the two modes-normal and hard-. So once you have fun beating this game on normal, you can have 
 more fun MAJORLY challenging yourself by playing it on this very hard mode. The enemies have better 
 AI AND they can kill you in 1 hit. But its definetly a challange.
  
  Live: This games live is OK. Its not the best live gameplay out there like compared to say Gears 
 of War, but its still pretty fun. Its just so annoying when an error occurs then it quits you and 
 everyone out of the match!
  
  Overall I think if you like tactical games and you liked the others, than you should most definetly 
 buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JungleFender
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 29, 2007 2:49 am PT
Review:  Well the first Ghost Recon game for the Xbox 360 is here, and all I can say is... it's great. Welcome 
 to my looooooooonnnnggg review for the Xbox 360 version of the Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced 
 Warfighter game. I hope you will enjoy it.
  
  Although this game is out for many other platforms, but this is the best (well, for me) . The 360 
 version of this game have quite a big difference from the other platform's, one of them is that 
 this game is player on a third-person view instead of the first-person view for the PC. But for 
 first-person shooter hardcore fans, don't be upset, cause this game allows players to change camera 
 view into first-person, which is great! (Too bad weapons wont be displayed in first-person view)
 
  
  Even wonder what do they mean by next-generation game? Well this game says it all. Those gadgets, 
 weapons and vehicles really gives you a feeling of being an Advanced Warfighter . One of the cool 
 stuff in this game is the Cross Com system, allowing you to communicate with your teammates and 
 control vehicles like the UAV 3 (unmanned air vehicle) , tanks and black hawks. But unfortunately, 
 these supports are not always available and most of the times does not last long. Most of the time 
 you'll have three teammates with you (chosen by yourself) . You have options like riflemen, gunners, 
 grenadiers, marksman (it's a women though) and antitank gunners.
  
  Now for the campaign. For me, it's quite lengthy, about 10 to 15 hours of gameplay, (Yep, that's 
 what I just said) depending on how good you are. This game's new pop-and-shoot cover system just 
 makes the Xbox 360 version of this game much more funner. This game's campaign has about 11 mission 
 including a training mission. The campaign have two kinds of difficulties, Normal and Hard. (Kinda 
 too little, huh?) In normal, uhm well, it's just normal whereas for the Hard difficulty, you'll 
 die in one shot, which is good for all you challenge seekers out there. Overall the campaign is 
 really fun and replayability is quite high.
  
  For the multiplayer, it's just plain fun. You can have 24 players at a time in a server and they 
 are tons of weapons to choose from, from the famous AK-47 to the powerful M107 .50 caliber sniper 
 rifle. One of the most dissapointing thing in multiplayer is that you can take cover like you do 
 in singleplayer. There is also a campaign for the multiplayer mode. This campaign have four mission 
 can be played either by alone, split-screen or co-op. These missions have no respawns if you want 
 to get some achievements, which is kinda hard. The number of maps availabe is quite satisfying, 
 most of them are really big. Overall this highly addictive multiplayer will just keep you coming 
 back for more, probably last for many months.
  
  The Graphics of this game is everything you can ask for from an Xbox 360. Traces of fire flying 
 across the cities, smoke flying throughout the skies, lots of explosions going off at a time, textures 
 on the characters, everything just looks good. But unfortunately, the graphics for the mulitplayer 
 is torn down turmendously compared to the singleplayer's graphic. But who cares, right? As long 
 as it's fun, everything's alright.
  
  The sound for this game is good, some of the soundtrack and music is really nice, voice acting 
 is ok.
  
  If you're a fan of shooters and don't know what to do for this weekend, well this game is for you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flav333
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 27, 2007 1:12 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing because the campain mode as you paired up with two other people that are the 
 computer and the AI is amazing and every level you beat you will feal like you have ocopished something. 
 Now for the online, you can play with 24 other people online and it is very fun. It will keap you 
 hanging you will want to be the best. What would make this perfeect would be that the price is 
 a little cheaper it is worth every penny.
  This game will change your expirient it fells so good wen you play it , it jest licke your in the 
 game . I enjoy playing Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter I hope you 2 :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makavelo
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 21, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  This game delivers that feeling of next-gen.
  
  You could see the differences if you played all the TC Ghost Recon series.
  
  I loved everything 
 about this game from the game play to story, from shooting buildings far away and still hear the 
 blast and after blast a couple of seconds later this game really bring the reality out.
  
  The soldiers were futuristic dressed so that's a +.
  and the weapons were great each with there 
 unique sound,
  and the great part is that you don't only watch Mexico from the Helicopter but you can also shoot 
 from it at the rebels.
  
  Can't wait to buy the next G. R. A. W. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tombrady1234
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 21, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  GRAW is an ok shooter. Its got a good campaign but the battles are just 2 far away from u. Its 
 online play isnt really all that good but its a good way 2 kill at least 30 mins. This games gameplay 
 is relatively good except for the part that it can get boring or frustrating pretty fast. The graphics 
 in this game are good but they could be improved, mostly the scenery. Now the thing i cant complain 
 about is the sound because the sound quality of this game is great. The gun and the people sound 
 real. Now this is a good game but its not personally one of my favourites. its worth playin but 
 not 4 too long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icepunch29
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 20, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Great multi player, great single player, great graphics, and guess what it is a great game. The 
 charachters are good and the weapons are sweet. The graphics are so good I can't explain how good 
 they are. The diffuculy levels are choosable and the gameplay is awesome. Learning how to play 
 takes about 10 minutes and when you get threw the tutorial it is all fun and games. hi hi hi hi 
 hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi 
 hi hi hi hih hih hi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas10soa
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2007 7:11 am PT
Review:  ghost recon advance warfighter can be described in one word, amazing.
  
  this game truly is amazing not only does it look great, it has a awesome style of gameplay a realy 
 tactical style and a cool online multiplayer
  
  only real bad thing i can think about is the graphics on the online play, sadly the online play 
 graphics have realy been downgraded it looks like an xbox game, still the online is great.
  
  the singe player takes place in mexico where terrorists are taking over, so you the leader 
 must defeat them. The single player realy feels great to go through however one or two levels can 
 be more annoing than anythig like a lot ot tom clancy games
  
  if you want a great shooter thats cheap and quite a long experience, you must get this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: braylee
Rating: 9
Date: May 15, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  this game is great the style of the game is awsome the type is great the controling is great the 
 graphics is great the multiplayer is awsome this game is great the style of the game is awsome 
 the type is great the controling is great the graphics is great the multiplayer is awsomethis game 
 is great the style of the game is awsome the type is great the controling is great the graphics 
 is great the multiplayer is awsomethis game is great the style of the game is awsome the type is 
 great the controling is great the graphics is great the multiplayer is awsomethis game is great 
 the style of the game is awsome the type is great the controling is great the graphics is great 
 the multiplayer is awsome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeldante
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 14, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  GRAW Is a great game.. The use of cover system, squad commands are placed exceptionally well in 
 this game.
  
  Graphics - Graphically GRAW is amazing. Scott Mitchell's suit is well designed. But in Night missions 
 you cannot see anything, you are forced to used night vision for the whole mission.
  
  Gameplay - Gameplay is the plus point of this game. It is very realistic. You can only take three 
 shots before going down. So you take cover or die. You really feel you are in the game. Though 
 it is not so intense as Gears of War, it is the best tactical shooter.
  
  Sound- The sound id just right in this game. The explosions are awesome.
  
  Story - I was surprised. 
 I thought military shooter have no story. But I was wrong. Though it is not as deep as Halo, it 
 will keep you on the edge of your seat.
  
  SO, what are you waiting for? Head to the stores and pick up a copy of GRAW..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beutlich99
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 8, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  I did not know what to expect from GRAW for the 360. I actually came into the game figuring I would 
 not like it that much. I had played a Ghost Recon game for the original Xbox, and I was not all 
 that impressed. The action felt too slowly paced and the squad mechanics were difficult I thought. 
 I figured not much had changed in the series, but everybody seemed to like the game. I was pleased 
 to see that the Ghost Recon series has come a long way since my first attempt a few years back. 
 The action is much more quickly paced and controlling your squad is not much of an issue. The commands 
 to your squad are simple: go there, regroup, aggressive, recon, kill that guy, etc. All can be 
 controlled by pressing only 2 directions on the D-pad. But other than the ease of controlling your 
 squad, that is where the squad aspect of GRAW ends. Your squadmates are not the sharpest tools 
 in the shed. As you play the game, it is a constant dilemma as to whether or not tell your guys 
 to attack something. If you do, they have a tendency to just stand out in the open and shoot. While 
 effective for killing one or two opponents, it has the effect of getting your guys killed dang 
 quick if any serious opposition comes up. That then leaves up to you to try and find some way to 
 thin out the bad guys your squad can actually be of some use. Furthermore, if the game is supposed 
 to be a squad-based game, why are there so many missions that you play WITHOUT your squad. While 
 being good at getting shot at dying, they are still nice to have around for the added firepower 
 (they also draw fire nicely) . It just seems to me that the squad mechanics could have been implemented 
 better (i. e. Brothers in Arms or Full Spectrum Warrior)
  
  On the other hand, if you approach GRAW from a strictly first person tactical shooter, the game 
 is very good and sufficiently challenging. The visuals are amazing, even on my non-hi-def tv. There 
 is a great balance between having to shoot while on the move, and/or holding the left trigger so 
 that you go into aim mode. You can still move, but much slower, but your aim is superb then. The 
 cover mechanic is well implemented as well. All that a player has to do is push up against any 
 object and the character will assume the appropriate cover stance. You can use this to look over 
 low walls or around corners without fully exposing yourself. Shooting from behind cover is a must 
 as well. While you are still vulnerable, you are much harder to hit, which makes the game that 
 much more realistic. Along that line, because it is a realistic tactical shooter, you can die in 
 just a few gunshots. Frustrating at times, but rewarding when you make it through a particularly 
 difficult section without even being winged. One of the best parts of the game is the amount of 
 technology available to you and your ghosts. The picture in a picture function is great (albeit 
 too small to see much detail) . This allows you to see what your squad sees, essentially letting 
 you be in two places at the same time. Additionally, you can control a scout drone to identify 
 targets coming up, you control Apache and Blackhawk helicopters for fire support, and even M1A1 
 Battle Tanks. All of the above give you large amounts of firepower, and make you feel like you 
 really could take on the entire Mexican rebel army with just you, your squad, and few well placed 
 support items. On the whole, GRAW was a fun game to play. As a first person tactical shooter, it 
 is a game that keeps you on your toes, presents you with multiple angles to defeat enemy units, 
 and gives you the feeling that you really are a super soldier of the future. Unfortunately, I was 
 hoping for a better implemented squad. They do help, yes, but if you are looking to do any kind 
 of cover fire, flanking, or other specific squad mechanic stuff, it won't be in GRAW. The squad 
 is simple; they follow you around and shoot some extra stuff. So depending on what you want, GRAW 
 may or may not be the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antonius86
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 6, 2007 4:55 am PT
Review:  I must say this game looks amazing, awesome graphics and visual effects. Very good storyline.
 
  
  Its a good game to play on normal difficulty for anyone, but on hard difficulty, a pro at shooters 
 can understand what to do in the situation. The multiplayer is awesome to play and you can also 
 play online co-op with 16 other players. But the disadvantage is waiting for the game to launch, 
 it takes a while to have 10 to 16 people in and ready for fight. But other than that, online is 
 fun to play. Now onto Achievements. Everyone can get all the normal diffculty Achievement easy, 
 but may be hard to get all the hard diffculty achievement. A few achievement are what i thought 
 kinda stupid because not everyone have time to play 8 hours online play straight, or be on the 
 top leaderboard of all three, solo, team, and champaign.
  
  And finally, I don't really like games that are complex to solve the situation. Whenever I play 
 hard level, its so hard I get pissed off a lot. But thats just me, I like nice simple games that 
 are fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokiisback
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 21, 2007 6:37 am PT
Review:  This game really is solid. The game play can keep you going for hours on end. Thats not even mentioning 
 the graphics... They are near photo realistic quality. For starters, the thing that really gets 
 me going, is the way the camera shakes when you walk or run, it's almost as if theirs a person 
 following you with a camera for Soldiers Fortune . The sound could be a little better, but that's 
 the only thing bad I have to say about this game graphically. The only other thing wrong with it 
 is that the story line doesn't have much of a story, but with this intuitive game play, you don't 
 need a story. Also, the online really is lots of fun, between the co-op, and the versus, you will 
 have hours and hours of fun playing GRAW, it's a must  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FistandantilusX
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 14, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellent tatical third-person shooter, for all that like military shooters. The key 
 word though is tatical ; if all you want to do is run and gun, with little to no strategy, then 
 go play Halo, Gears of War, or another shooter like that. If you play like that, you will be dead 
 in minutes, if not seconds after engaging the enemy, even on the lowest difficulty level. However 
 if you want a tense, realistic third-person shooter that takes place in a setting mere years in 
 the future, then I recomend this game to you. The realism is truly omnipresent , for I have yet 
 to encounter a health pack, and your health does not regenerate. You can however revive fallen 
 comrades, IF you can get to them and patch them up before you to get shot. Otherwise gameplay-wise, 
 the only complaint I have is the stickin' helicopter areas, personally I hate when you have to 
 man the mini-gun in a helicopter, but that is just me.
  
  Graphically, and sound-wise this game is highly immersive with excellent graphics, espiecally considering 
 it was one of the first games released for the 360, and all of the sounds make it seem like you 
 really are in the middle of a firefight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NakedSnake25
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 13, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun, on't get me wrong, it's just your team. They are so stupid. I can't tell you how 
 many times I had my squad go running right into gunfire. And that's only on the first level! Yep, I've 
 only played the training mission and halfway through the first level so far, and they've died more 
 times than I have in the entire Gears of War campaign. It's ridiculous! And that's not my only complaint. The 
 game just feel somehow uninspired. You never get out of the boring and bland Mexican enviornments, 
 and it just feels kind of lifeless. I haven't even gotten around to online yet, but I have played 
 the online demo, so I can say that that will probably save this game from complete failure. I know 
 people will hate me for this, and say I don't like it because it's too tactical, but I love Rainbow 
 Six, and that's just as tactical. So yeah, hate me if you must, but It's my opinion. I wouldn't say 
 don't buy it, because I think it really depends on the player whether you would like this or not. Definetley 
 rent it, because it's good enough to at least try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonbesto
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 13, 2007 4:34 am PT
Review:  If there's any game on the 360 that will make owners of ordinary XBOXes feel compelled to upgrade, GRAW 
 is the one. There's no way you could confuse this for a game that could have been done on the original 
 machine hardware, even if its also available on the xbox and ps2.
  
  On the 360, it looks staggeringly good. I'm aproaching a point now where visual effects are becoming 
 so convincing, they're actually quite hard to spot-and thats where Ghost Recon is at. It's almost 
 real.
  
  Sadly, the illusion is shattered whenever you watch one of your dumb squaddies getting shot in the 
 face because, in the middle of a huge gunfight, you missed the button for making him hide behind 
 a wall. Or when your commanding a helicopter, as well as your team of special needs soldiers, and 
 the stupid thing gets shot down by a man witha pistol, just because you were to busy to issue orders 
 to fire upon individual enemies!
  
  Apart from quibbles like that, and a horribly difficult helicopter shooting gallery thats somewhat 
 out of place here, its wonderfully good fun. I've never expirienced anything so stomach-churningly 
 warlike- its dirty. Its dangerous, and if at times you don't feel completely in control, you might 
 put that down to realism, too. If your feeling generous.
  
  This is the most technically impressive thing on the 360. Blast with the solo campaign and you'll 
 be all set to spend the next few months, taking on the world in the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AKASchwanksta
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  GRAW has been critically acclaimed by game reviewers and received high marks from the gamespot 
 team. I would challenge the gamespot rating, not to downplay GRAW to a mediocre game, but to illuminate 
 the repetitive game play mechanics found throughout the game.
  
  The base mechanics of the GRAW gameplay are:
  -Shooting behind cover
  -Casual and fast paced 
 tactical instructions
  -Use of outside resources (Tanks, UAV, etc.) for scouting and eliminating big threats
  -Use of 
 futuristic HUD to simplify and illuminate enemies and shooting
  
  These core elements are consistent and unwavering through the entirety of the game. The shooting 
 behind cover mechanic is fun for a little, but the lack of alternative moves to be done behind 
 cover are disappointing. We saw in GoW how shooting could be done blind sided and grenades could 
 be throw blind sided as well. Even more simplifying is the around the corner camera attachment 
 to the gun later in the game. Basically, this add-on makes the character decide to stand behind 
 corners the entire rest of the game and shoot with the camera.
  
  The on the fly tactical instructions are a little oversimplified and it would have been nice if 
 you could switch back to the more developed tactical style. The AI teammates simply react stupidly 
 and often have zero intuition of their own. If you tell them to move behind a cover that under 
 heavy fire, there will always be a lone idiot to decides to sit a little away from the cover and 
 into the sight of the enemy.
  
  The use of the military technology works well surprisingly. When looking at the game and thinking 
 to be fast paced, it was surprising how much I used the UAV to scout the area. I also liked running 
 beside huge tanks and using them for cover as the cannons would fire and turn you deaf. One thing 
 I didn't like however, was how easily you could use the helicopter to take out vehicles. Missions 
 with the helicopters became a simple routine of targeting all the vehicles and slowly the soldiers, 
 making you do nothing. The futuristic HUD has some cool ideas, but most of them don't really do 
 much for the game. I like the fact that you can see what your allies are seeing, but it never really 
 helped me at any point in the game. I also didn't really like the targeting system. I realize that 
 they had to do this because they didn't want you to feel like you were cumbersomely shooting at 
 targets you weren't sure of (probably because of the game's annoying lighting scheme) .
  
  Lastly, the enemy AI is VERY stupid and the death animations are boring. Outside the game play 
 elements however, the visuals are very attractive (I especially like the Mexican vistas in the 
 helicopter) , and the sound is quite good. Near the end the game becomes a bit of a cumbersome sniping 
 fest, with little visceral and team action to be had. Overall, I liked the game, but people were 
 way too impressed with the visuals and didn't realize the shallowness of the game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kantana_man85
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  I am not the kind of person thats into the tactical shooters, but G. R. A. W is the best game i have 
 played on the 360 ( except for DeadRising) . What makes this game great is the graphics, sound, and 
 tight controls coupled with a great storyline. The plot, a rebel uprising in mexico has the canadian 
 primeminister killed and the president of the U. S. A missing. Its up to a team of ghosts head by 
 Cpt Mitchel to rescue the president and crush the rebellion. Their are a variety of cool weapons 
 that can be used to exterminate the rebels, like the light mg it can fire 100 rounds and has a 
 massive 800 round capacity. Now, the multiplayer is where most people will be. It offers a wide 
 variety of matches, from the standard deathmatch and team deathmatch, to offering a whole other 
 campaign to do with other players. If your a fan pick up this game, for everyone else why dont 
 you try this game I am sure that you will enjoy this awsome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhump119
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  The best game ever along with the origional. Highly addictive I can't put it down to even play 
 another game. Ever since putting this in I can't stop. Multiplayer is the greatest ever. Only downfall 
 is games get dropped pretty easy. Easy to get the hang of. Great amazing graphics. I give it a 
 perfect 10. Along with Graw 1 these two games are the best games ever made. I can't put this game 
 down. Best game ever!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I don't care what anyone says this is the greatestI'm running 
 out of thing to say i have to have at least one hundred words to submit it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diehardgames2
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 2, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  This was the first game i bought after a got the 360 and i can tell you that one you get used to 
 the setting and controls you will be playing this non-stop untill you pass out from being tired.
 
  
  The main thing is that this game overheats your console big time and you will get 2 red lights 
 if you do.
  
  Gameplay is great, you will not be able to find a better playing game. Your Teams A. I is something 
 not to be proud with because when they're following you and you jump over a low wallyou would expect 
 them to jump over it aswell... but guess what... they don't.
  
  The graphics are great.. tat's all you need to know.
  
  My Ending Comments are PLAY IT IF YOU 
 HAVN'T ALREADY!!!!
  
  DHV 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcs565
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 3, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  This game looks really good and the game play is tough, but doable. The game has a lot of potential 
 and the linear combat is pretty fun. But there is just too much HUD info on the screen which makes 
 it difficult to see what is going on in front of you. The developers should have made it optional 
 for all of the HUD information to be visible. And the times when the HUD is being jammed by the 
 enemy can literally give you a headache. The checkpoints are also often too long in coming and 
 some control commands are clunky. Why should you have to press y every time you want to climb or 
 crawl off something? And why can this guy not jump or descend down obviously open pathways? So 
 many questions plague a potentially fantastic game. If the HUD were cleaned up and some interactions 
 with the environment made automatic, this game would be a lot more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProductNumber49
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 31, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  This game came with my 360. The first minutes of gameplay were hard. You have to get use to the 
 controls. After you get used to them, its non-stop playing.
  The graphics are awsome, especially the lighting in some of the areas and time of the day. The best 
 graphic exprerience IMO is when you ride the helicopters, because you get a clear view of the city. 
 The multiplayer is awsome, even the split-screen. You get to use lots of guns in this game, except 
 for the pistols.
  The SP is overall very good, but it can get very hard at some points, because the health system 
 is very realistic, so you have to get cover or you won't stand a chance. The only problem I had 
 with this game, is the AI of your teammates. Sometimes, obstacles face them and all they do is 
 run forward. Finally. This game is a tactical game. It has great graphics, great sound and an awsome 
 multiplayer and single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damned_beast
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 27, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter or GRAW as most people call it. Is the third installment in the 
 ghost recon series. Taking out most of team tacticalness, may of lost most of the die hard fans 
 to the original ghost recon. But in this case, its a good thing. I have been a die hard fan of 
 ghost recon since the start, but this change of action and adding a story thats actually interesting 
 for ghost recon, has just made this game a must own... not just for ghost recon fans, but for 360 
 owners in general.
  
  The gameplay for GRAW is not as simple as i would like to make it out to be. Its still a tactical 
 game. But the game is a third person game, mainly because of the whole cover situation now. To 
 enter cover you run up to it and Scott automatically enters it. You can go from there, by peeking 
 up, or shooting from cover. But when you shoot you expose yourself, and can be shot (consider that 
 a balance to the cover system) . You can control your team using Up and Down on the Directional 
 Pad- Up to tell you team mates to go to that position, now if you tell them to go to a wall, They 
 well go in to cover and not always be complete retards and stay out in the open. -Down is to call 
 your team mates in, or to follow. Left bumber tells them to go to recon mode or assault mode - 
 this function is simply great for flanking. The game never lets the action go down, you will always 
 be in it. It works though, you are always having fun. Even if you die you will always want to go 
 on.
  
  Graphics in the game (for the date it was released [cause im not including Gears and GRAW 2] ) is 
 awesome. Some of the best on the 360. The games character models including the guns, look great. 
 The only problem is when you reload there not animation for the clip coming out and a new one going 
 it... but thats nothing that will bring the game down
  
  The sound is great, everything sounds realistic, and perfect for the moment. this is one of the 
 best games for sound out. The Value is great now, with awesome single player and great multiplayer 
 you cant go wrong.
  
  If your a ghost recon fan or own the 360, i recommend you pick this up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnTheGamer
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  GRAW! It's the name you've heard of hundreds of times. There's a very good reason for that. It's 
 fun to say. Just kidding, the real reason you've heard this is because this game is truly great, 
 it's easily one of the best games available for the Xbox 360. It has took the standard squad-based 
 game and thrown the formula in a blender and created something all it's own.
  
  In the game you play as Captain Scott Mitchell and command a group of Ghosts . In 2013 the US president, 
 Mexican president, and Canadian prime minister are at a summit in Mexico City to sign NAJSA (the 
 North American Joint Security Agreement) , this would make each country responsible for protecting 
 the borders. Well a group of Mexican revolutionaries have killed the Canadian prime minister are 
 after the US and Mexican presidents. Well now you come in to find and protect the presidents and 
 get the leader of the group who began this coup d'etat. The leader of this group is Carlos Ontiveros 
 who is a son of a famous Mexican general and a student of one of your comrades. It is great to 
 see a war game that isn't set in WWII or the middle east.
  
  The game plays out from the third person point of view, however there is an option for first person, 
 but while in this it is harder to tell if you're in cover all the way. You have to use cover if 
 you want to get anywhere in the game. The cover system is decent but if you've played Gears Of 
 War it will will seem archaic, but doable. You enter cover by just pushing up against it or hit 
 Y near it, to exit push back on the analog stick or hit Y. You can also climb some cover and other 
 barriers by hitting Y. Some things you shouldn't have to hit a button to climb such as a curb, 
 it's anything but fluid as well. Some of the cover you get behind can be shot apart like a stack 
 of barrels which is how it should be. The controls aren't very confusing and the training mission 
 irons out the details. Changing weapons is a bit on the annoying side but you won't need to change 
 that much. To change you have to hold the B button and then select what you want. You can only 
 hold a main weapon, aka a machine gun or sniper, then you also have a M9 handgun, and smoke and 
 frag grenades. Issuing commands to your squad is a breeze. Basically you just aim were you want 
 them to go and just press up on the d-pad, to bring them back to you just hit down on the d-pad. 
 You can also open up the map and send them to a specific location. If your cursor is on an enemy 
 and you press up, this will issue the command to attack, if your aiming at a downed teammate and 
 press up it will issue one of the other teammates to heal. You can hit the LB button and they'll 
 enter an attack mode of sorts, they'll stay ahead of you and shoot at any enemies the see, no questions 
 asked. You can also control vehicles, but not directly. You control them the same way you do your 
 team. If you're in command of a tank or helicopter basically all they can do is attack so you just 
 find enemies and tell them to take them out. You also have this thing called a UAV 3 Cypher. It 
 is a radar type thing that you can send anywhere in the outside levels to find your enemies. To 
 find them you hit the LB button to put it in detect mode which lowers it and it scans the surrounding 
 area, while in this mode though in can be shot down as it's lower to the ground. It is hard to 
 tell when the UAV is getting shot at so you have to pay attention to it when you use it. When it 
 finds any enemies they show up as red diamonds and will show up on your HUD until you take them 
 out. Your teammates show up as blue diamonds, allies as green diamonds, and the objective as a 
 yellow square. This is a great feature of the game and very innovative, just so you know this is 
 the Cross-Com which gets a lot of buzz too. During missions you'll have a screen in your HUD which 
 shows you what your teammates are seeing. When you're in a vehicle between levels you will also 
 get news feeds through the Cross-Com delving more into the story.
  
  The game's levels are varied with most levels taking place in downtown Mexico City or factories 
 and others taking place in the rural areas outside of Mexico City, it is very odd however that 
 in the city you see no civilians. The objectives are also varied, it doesn't feel like you're just 
 being led along by the developer. Sometimes you'll have to take out a roadblock so your tanks can 
 get through, or a mission where you're out to destroy the enemie's equipment, or rescue someone. 
 The city is very open ended in the way you get to your destination. You can go through the streets 
 or take the back alleys. The game offers you all types of action. Like every action game it has 
 a mounted gun shooting sequence however this one is enjoyable as your team also helps. One of the 
 most memorable moments is towards the end of the game. You are manning the machine gun in a helicopter 
 as you fly around a few blocks surrounding a shanty town and factory. Meanwhile there are two enemy 
 helicopters going after you and tons of on foot soldiers and vehicles gunning for you. You're not 
 always commanding and working with a team. On some missions you'll go in alone, usually on infiltration 
 missions.
  
  Your teammates are pretty dumb. Sometimes they just won't get into cover when they're be shot at 
 or won't get into it when you tell them to. When you command them to attack and enemy or vehicle 
 and a building or other obstacle is in the way they'll just give up without trying to get in a 
 different position. Your teammates don't die to often though but usually it is due to their stupidity. 
 The enemies are challenging, especially on the hard difficulty. They stay in cover and shoot at 
 you from there, however it's funny to kill one of them and then another just runs and gets where 
 the dead soldier lays, he's dead so maybe someone is aiming there. Idiot. They will do things like 
 this every now and then but for the most part they aren't stupid. On hard it seems that the enemies 
 only aim for you and not your teammates. The games pacing is great until the last few levels which 
 seem hard just to be hard. I don't know what it is about them that makes it harder, maybe the enemies 
 just shoot faster, more accurately. On hard the game is a expletive, especially in the last five 
 or so levels you'll die countless times trying to perfect your methods. Your team also gets less 
 helpful on hard, as they tend to become more of a liability then being helpful.
  
  Multiplayer is a big part of this game. It supports up to sixteen players in the multiplayer and 
 co-op campaigns. There are a ton of modes all of which can be edited to the smallest detail. You 
 can make any game type and then take it online. There are also a big list of maps available and 
 they contain different types of settings and times of the day which changes the tactics on each 
 map. There are a few different classes to pick from although they don't change it up too much. 
 There are also some great co-op missions thrown in the mix. Also available through Xbox Live Marketplace 
 is a pack which adds four new co-op missions, new multiplayer maps, weapons, and the ability to 
 change the time of the day to the maps.
  
  GRAW has some great graphics to back up it's superb gameplay. The levels are very detailed, especially 
 in the cities. When riding in the helicopter and looking down at the city you realize this is only 
 possible in the next generation. The city is huge and the buildings are all super detailed, and 
 it'll be a hard to find a building that is duplicated. The lighting is superb, the sunlight shimmers 
 of the buildings, you'll be blinded if you look straight into the sun. It is easy to remember the 
 train station because of it's unique lighting. The ceiling is made of glass tiles and the sun shines 
 down and creates shadows of the tiles, the fans on the side of the building leave shadows. The 
 explosions are some of the best in any game. The soundtrack is amazing, it's not noticeable for 
 the most part but when you're in a firefight or the action ramps up so does the orchestral score. 
 In some of the helicopter rides you'll also listen to some modern rock for good measure. The voice 
 overs are good and as they should be, but the mouths don't match up the majority of the time if 
 at all. This isn't a glaring flaw but come on people this is the next generation and you got everything 
 else spot on! On a separate note load times are super short. The longest one is when you load up 
 to the main menu. In the game the cutscenes I don't think ever past ten seconds.
  
  You'll finish GRAW in no time, it took me about six and a half hours to beat the first time, the 
 mulitplayer will keep you enticed longer than most though and there is also the co-op campaign 
 which should keep you busy a while. Going back through the game on hard is definitely challenging 
 and if you love achievements will be worth it. Speaking of achievements most of them are fairly 
 easy to attain. About half of the games achievements are for beating the single player mode on 
 normal and hard, the rest are multiplayer and co-op with most not taking too much time to earn. 
 There are a few though that you'll never get, these being climbing to the top of the multiplayer 
 and single player leader boards.
  
  If you own a 360 you need to own this game. It has set the standard for all tactical shooters and 
 any game with online multiplayer. Thanks for reading and tell me what you thought of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_grady_76
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 23, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Pros- Great graphics, loaded with atmosphere and details. Epic plot twists and scenarios. Anti-tank 
 weapons! Blowing up APCs and tanks never gets old. Cons- Cover system could be much simpler, a 
 la Rainbow Six or Gears, it is far too complex for a game with too many controls already. Your 
 AI is occasionally lethal- and completely moronic. Sending all three behind cover usually means 
 two will take cover and one will stand out in the open. Order them to attack from cover and they'll 
 sometimes leave cover completley- getting blown to bits in the process, it's very frustrating. 
 All the assault rifles seem the same. Pistol is useless. Overall, my biggest gripe is pacing vs. 
 the sheer amount of controls, the balance is really out of whack. To be sucessful in this game 
 you almost have to neglect your AI completley and lone-wolf it many times. Not really what I expected 
 from a tactical shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hugh000270
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 23, 2007 12:55 am PT
Review:  I actually was actually surprised that GRAW was better than Rainbow Six: Vegas although it doesn't 
 beat my number 1 game, Gears of War .
  
  Lets start if what I think on all parts of the game.
  
  Graphics
  The Graphics are excellent 
 although doesn't surpass GAW. Still, I like it although some mission areas have a little too much 
 lighting making me unable to see that well. I'm still impressed in the game although I can see 
 that some shadows are not completely smooth instead, some shadows while on the helicopter when 
 the sun is setting, the edges are a little bit roughly shaped. Even though with it, the explosion, 
 smoke, gunfire, weapons, characters and others are highly detailed and are beautifull.
  
  Sound
  Ok, here, I don't understand much of the games sound as I can't hear much any music (is 
 it just me?) . Rather than the music, I'am impressed in the voice acting. The rebels shout if someone 
 attacks, the main players team mate shout or talk to the player saying if they need to reload. 
 Still, I'am impressed with the sound including the explosion.
  
  Gameplay
  Ok, heres what I don't like a little. Well, actually, I only rate the gameplay here as the third 
 thing I like. Well, still I enjoy it. Although I'am not impressed in the health system. I enjoy 
 my character hitting enemies with its nice sound although I don't like the controls like first, 
 I need to press the analog into the direction of the wall. Lol, ok, thats all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilsimon04
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is just freaking amazing, ive never seen anything like it. The controls are easy to navigate 
 and everything. Graphics are wonderful, sound quality is awesome. At first it gets a little getting 
 used to with all the controls but you will get the hang of it in no time what so ever i promise. 
 At first it is a little frusttrating but just like with all othr games, you gotta find your grove. 
 I have yet to play the online version of the game yet because im so cought up in the single player. 
 Its probally one of the best single player war games out on the 360 for sure! Beware tho the game 
 is highly addictive i have been told from my g/f because she cannot get me to stop playing the 
 game haha. But it is awesome. MUST BUY IT!!! and the price has even went down to only $19.99. That 
 is a steal, so get out there and get you a copy, no disappointments in his game whatsoever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halomassacre
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  This game has a great array of weapons and the teammates are basically worthless but in tight situations 
 can actually save you. The graphics are simply amazing as well as the sound and smoke effects. 
 The storyline is too short. It took me about 5 hours to beat but then I went and played it over 
 on the hardest difficulty causing it to take up about 16 hours altogether. The multiplayer is where 
 the genius is. It is completely awesome and no flaws come to mind at this time except I wish that 
 you could have 3rd person view because if you play the 1 player mode first you pretty much get 
 shot in the foot until you play for about 20 minutes This is a great game. I'll have more to say 
 about GRAW 2 tomorrow sometime as there is not much to say about this one besides it is great no 
 matter how you play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dfr4badkarma
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 22, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  I simply wish that they would have given an option on how intuitive your team would be. The game 
 gives you the ability of coordiating your team through a 3d Map... but they don't listen. If they 
 do listen, the second you give them a second command they decide they need to run out into enemy 
 fire and get to your position instead.
  
  If you're absent minded and you forget that you left your team 8 blocks back, then you should be 
 able to set your team on Intuitive and make some command decisions on their own. But if you're 
 aware of what you are doing, you need a team that will follow your orders! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splintercell93
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 19, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  GRAW is a great game in every way. The solo campaign is very funny and challenging at times the 
 multi player is great not the best but it is still fun to play. the graphics are amazing top level 
 so far for the Xbox 360. the sounds is also very good, at times it seemed like the guy was just 
 talking and it didnt match up to his mouth but thats about it. The levels in this game are great 
 every one looks very good and your sourndings can make it easy and hard in the game (open fields, 
 alot of cover etc.) i very much recommend this game its very good and i cant put it down. this 
 game is a must have if you have a xbox 360 but rent it first because some people dont like this 
 kind of game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gHoStLyEyEs
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 17, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best that ive played it runs down the rest of the other tom clancy games 
 with its good visuals and its awsome sound and story. As for me at least i like the story. this 
 game is a good game to pack with 360s they made a good choice this game has some cool futuristic 
 guns too. The ghosts are really cool looking and the games backgrounds are groundbreaking. This 
 game really puts the 360 in Xbox 360. The game though could be a little easier seeing as how smart 
 the enemies are and how stupid the other ghosts are running in front of you while ur shooting its 
 just not right overall this game is really quite good and it has the potential for a good trilogy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spitfire357
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 15, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  When i first tried the game, i didn't know how to do anything since i'm not much of a shooters 
 kinda gamer.. Then i found out how do duck and shoot and stuff and got the hang out of it... I 
 tried hard (After normal) and it was really hard, especially that part where you have to blow up 
 that tower thing. I tried that maybe 50 times with being shot in the head.. Anyways it had great 
 graphics, GRAW 2 looks amazing as this game.. Anyways it was a great game. Don't play it anymore 
 since i don't have live and i finished it on normal and hard. and i don't have another controller 
 to play with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fyr3F0x
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 13, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is one of the early games for XBOX360 and is still yet one of the 
 best. It offers so much that you just can't put the controller down. It lets you use a load of 
 weapons and great vehicles. You get to command you very squad and tell them what to do such as 
 going out on assault or staying in Recon mode. Each mission is packed with action and gunfire. 
 Multi player is fantastic, especially co-op mode. But it does have some crazy achievements that 
 are just completely insane such as being ranked in the world #1. The game play has reached it's 
 max and so has it's graphics. The storyline is great and is full of surprises. Concept is very 
 good and so is the Value and sound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fer212007
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 11, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  well i hate the ghost recon franchise but graw make my mind change about the serie here is my review
 
  
  1-graphics-gourgeus in every part of the game the second best loking game of the 360 and one of 
 the most inpresive in the history of gaming.
  
  2-sound-impresive battle sound effects like expltions etx. great voice acting to but the most stunning 
 part is clearly the sound effects.
  
  3-gameplay-impresives control and great characters movements but the hit detection is pretty bland 
 some times and some errors in online play.
  
  4-fun factor-the best campaig in serie but still a little borin and online play is pretty fun is 
 not the best but is good
  
  5-value-the campain have been help with the achivements thet keep value coming and online ad some 
 more replay value but not much.
  
  ghost is a great game but they made a game that is not next gen complet because the campain feel 
 like they made for a 2004 game and online have a lot of problems that games like gears dont have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bahamut172
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 7, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  First of all, i am a pc gamer, so, for me the game play lost some points due to the control system 
 on the game pad which is absolutely uncontrollable but its not the game developer problem. I cant 
 use to it in a FPS but maybe with some more practice i'll get better. But for the graphics, sounds 
 and the overall game play (except controls) this game is almost perfect, better than the last one 
 (pc version) , try it and u wont be disapointed. P. S. at least u can hide behind the wall... aim.. and 
 then shoot, if it wasn't like that, well i would die 400 time before finish this game, LOL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xLegend24
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 7, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  GRAW is a third-person tactical shooter set in the future in Mexico. The story revolves around 
 Scott Mitchell, your character, and kidnapping of the US and Mexican presidents. The story isn't 
 very deep, as there are no cutscenes, but you're updated from time to time via your ear com. The 
 gameplay does getting kind of used to but once you get get it you'll just breeze through. This 
 game is pretty hard as you can die in a few shots, and one shot on the ultra-realistic mode. Luckily, 
 there are plenty of weapons at your disposal, for you to get through. You also get two teammates, 
 which are very helpful during battle, and if they go down you can even revive them. There's also 
 a multiplayer aspect of this game. The multiplayer has your usual Sharpshooter, Team Sharpshooter, CTF, 
 and King of the hill. There's also co-op in which you can hunt terrorists or play through story 
 missions. The online can be very exciting as you can play with up to 16 players. Overall, this a 
 definately a great game, but only if you're into tactical shooter, otherwise don't waste your money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIJesse77
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 7, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  Well, i haven't played it in a while since i've sold my copy of the game, but I will review as 
 best as i can remember it.
  
  I think the story is about you, Scott Mitchell, having to go into mexico to stop the mexican government 
 from invading United States or something like that. The story does setup the action real good to 
 be knocked down by a hard blow. This game is intense! At first you will have to do a training missino 
 in some virtual world where it teaches you how to play, but the minute you the 1st mission starts, 
 you're in a helicopter blowing away at baddies with this huge gatling gun. Its darn amazing and 
 fun. The sheer intensity of it just makes you feel like you're playing Saving Private Ryan, but 
 in the future. There will be flows of enemies coming at you from all directions, and with the easy 
 cover system and smooth controls, it isnt such a hard task taking them out, but when you get to 
 about 20 enemies on one screen, the action pumps up and you will never be able to take your finger 
 off that trigger buttion. One really important thing about GRAw is the hud system ( in the game, 
 it is called your cross-com) The hud acts like it is your visor your player wears and you can see 
 through it. Its really great because you can tag enemies and no matter if they are behind a wall 
 or not, a red blip will mark them wherever they go. You can also see al of your allies whether 
 its your teammates or its an allied tank. In the corner of your hud, there's a box with a different 
 camer view wich lets you see through your allies eyes. Also with this box, you can command them 
 to do eral basic things like follow, go there, stop, and shoot this, real basic, easy to learn 
 things. This better your advanatge against the swarms of enemies you will go up against. The multiplayer 
 in GRAW is also one of its strong points. There are a huge multitude of optins, as where i am sure 
 they are fun, but the only one of them i played was the co-op with my friend. So, don't hear it 
 from me whether the multiplayer is good or not, i have'nt really played it. What i can tell you 
 is that the co-op is great. Yoiu select how many enemies you want your map to have ( low density, 
 medium density, high density) and it is a whole lot of fun when you put the maximum amount. Me 
 and my freind like the map Rocky Cove the most of all. Now that i have gone over the good things, 
 now here the bad things or whatever bad things there are about this game. I noticed that, even 
 though the game looks super duper freaking good, a lot of the textures are real low pixeled and 
 stuff and when you're in the action you don't really notice it, but when you admire the GFX and 
 such, you will se what i mean. Also, in the single player, the pace of the game is a bit slow. 
 It would have been nice if it could move fast like gears of war, the slowness will make it a bit 
 hard to do things in a heartbeat. I think would be the last of my complaints would be the AI. Your 
 freinds usualy don't listen to some of your commands or run out in the open to get shot. What i 
 mean is that your freinds are extremley suicidal. That about sums up my likes and dislikes. There 
 is a lot i didn't go over, but that is because this gmae is so great and even small details have 
 been payed lots of attention to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joszan7
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 4, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  The newest installment in to the Ghost Recon series, ADVANCED WARFIGHTER is definitely a plus for 
 the series. It has finally improved the graphics that really weren't bad in the first place and 
 made the online experience even better. The game's ups are: The graphics, stunning gameplay, awesome 
 online, and decently long levels and campaign. The down side that I can think of is the game's 
 AI can sometimes go brainless and sometimes seem too hard for the difficulty. Though the game is 
 not perfect, it is pretty damn close to it, which is why this is definitely a must-buy for the 
 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3killah
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  ya o it is good man i liked it alot i cant wait for the next 1 to come out ill get that fast so 
 they wont sell out like other games ive been waiting 4 ya i am relly looking forward to play the 
 next 1 and it looks like its gonna get harder from here on out killing is fun and all on the first 
 one but this but the second 1 is all about destruction and if there was a higher rating then 10 
 the second 1 sure to get it when i get the second 1 ill tell u guys more about it k 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermonkeygogo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 2, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  GRAW gets 100% for realism but about 70% for a game its great but lacks near everything for those 
 who don't like other war games. But being one of those people who likes war games themselves i 
 find it great story mode is massive and never gets old online isn't much of a 'wow' but definitely 
 does what its supposed to keeps you by the screen.
  The story mode is set in new mexico in 2013 and everything has gone to hell goverment is a thing 
 of the past and its up to you and your unit to restore order.
  
  GRAW really does what it says on the tine its great fun; serious fun and really makes you feel 
 great when you complete a level or get a headshot online from a mile away. For most a must have 
 game but like the prom it leaves a few horribly disapointed but like the prom who cares aslong 
 as your having fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shad0wofcha0s
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 1, 2007 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Come back with a Bang . Ive played 3 different versions of Ghost ... The first and 
 orignal that started it all. Great ... Then Ghost recon 2 was aight i really didnt like it to much 
 .. U know the graphics where great and all that. But Then Ghost Recon Advance Warfare 
 
  (Tears) ..... Great ... Perfections...... Im getting a New skull On My Arm With MGS Tatt.... 1. Gameplay 
 is very well layed out on the controls. It feels right and fits perfect. 2. Graphics Are amazing 
 . The Detail In the enviroments are very close to perfect.... There almost picture realistic and 
 they get to the point u think that your watching a news about war or something...
  
  3. The AI is crazy .. Its almost compareble to a real person playing with u... The way the characters 
 act and the enemy tactically go around is very realistic.
  
  4. The story is pretty intersting I will not lie and usally tom clancy games are very boring when 
 it matters to plots ... i mean splinter cell didnt get good until double agent came along with 
 the hole being bad and good plot... But na this hole mexican rebllion is really good no lie.
  
  All together the game is great .. This aint my most indepth review but i cant really think 
 of anything more to say ... It was so good that u cant of the words to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meto_360
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 28, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter has changed it's gameplay from other games in this series. You 
 can see your enemies, allies, support, and you can get to piont A to piont B easly, with the help 
 of the Cross-Com. They all are used as diamond symbols. But the game is challenging, ecspacily 
 on hard-mode.
  The story takes place in Mexico right around Mexico City. The year is 2013 the U. S. government 
 has unleashed a soldier more deadly, more compatable, and with more intel. You play as Captain 
 Scott Micthell, he leads the Ghosts to the U. S. President's position after a conference was ambushed 
 by Mexican Rebels. Also the Mexican Presdent is there with the Candain Prime Minister. The Candain 
 Prime Minister is dead. And the rebels have taken a suitcase called the football. So it's up to 
 you and your team of Ghosts to get the job done. The game has amazing gameplay and controls. But 
 it may take a while to get use to. You can command tanks, helicoptors, soldiers, and a UAV that 
 tracks enemies. Plus you can command them from your tactical-map. For your sqaud you can tell them 
 to be agressive and stay close and quiet. Which is easy. You can tell them to regroup or move to 
 a position and you can tell them to shoot a target. Same with the tanks and helicoptors but you 
 can't tell them to infilltrate or being agressive. For your UAV you can send it to any enemy position, 
 but be careful it can be destroyed while scanning. So be careful. Also the graphics are amazing! 
 Try playing it on a high-def , wide-screen plasma TV, up to 48-inches.
  Also you have multiplayer. Xbox Live is the best for this game. I prefer it!
  But overall it's 
 a great game, not perfect, but great. You'll enjoy this game online and off. The story is short 
 and sweet, but the level's are long with challenging missions. So go for this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musicsponge123
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 27, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  You know when something feels really real that your like woah dude that feels real?
  Well that's this game... kind of.
  The game starts with a very annoying and quite boring tutorial 
 but it does get you very used to the game. the whole control scheme is very challenging to master 
 at first pressing all the buttons to get weapons out and to zoom in and can get very annoying quickly.
 
  The graphics on this game are very good they look beautiful and give the atmosphere to the game 
 a massive boost.
  The squad tactics is great on this game and makes it really feels like your in the war and you 
 are capt. Mitchell himself.
  The reaslism just feels to try to hard maybe they should just make it simple instead off all these 
 very clever ai's etc.
  If your an experienced gamer then you will definetly love this game I think it's great fun but 
 it is ruined by some poor ai in your squad and ridiculously stupid diffciulty in some parts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: egomez3
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 27, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  GRAW amazed me the first time I played it. I had never seen a game quite like it at all. First 
 of all I was amazed with the graphics. They look excellent and the explosions are incredible. I 
 went into this game thinking that it might be one of those games where u get stuck on a level that 
 u can never beat and boy was this game a challenge. I think a lot of people get too frustrated 
 too early with this game though. Yes it's difficult but it's not too hard to get and it adds to 
 the experience when u keep trying and trying and when you finally get through it and get the achievements... 
 there's nothin better than that and believe me you will work hard for achievements in this game. 
 Overall the story didn't disappoint me at all. It wasn't the most enticing storyline but I enjoyed 
 it a lot. Another thing... the sound does not disappoint at all either. With all the explosions 
 you'd also want the sounds to be just as good as the graphics. Well GRAW did not disappoint in 
 either area. I think the one area that was quite not as enjoyable to me was the Multiplayer. It 
 didn't feel as structured as other games and it wasn't the best game to play online for me. But 
 that does not decrease my scoring cus this game was one of the most incredible games I've ever 
 played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billydakid2k3
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 26, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  GRAW could have been a Socom killer if only they fixed a couple of the games online problems. If 
 you could have picked your guns scopes, frontgripes, and have some vehicals would have smashed 
 socom, but its stills just as good. The other thing they need to allow players to do online is 
 adjust your look speed, and lean against buildings, like in single player. The single play is awsome, 
 and the visuals are great, could have been a little better though. I love the realism in the game 
 online, I hated Socoms arcadeish feel, but i would love to be able to jump in GRAW, heres hopeing 
 that we can all Jump in GRAW 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bringndaheat08
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 25, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  This is the first GR game i've played, and im glad I tried it.
  
  Ghost Recon comes on a new next-gen console, with spanking brand new features, and one heck of 
 a nice coat of paint. Yes the game can best be described as being revolutionary in its class.
 
  
  Graphics
  First of all, when you pop the disc in, the graphics scream and overbleed with the terms next-gen 
 . Character models are nicely done, and the whole ambiance and seamless city makes the experience 
 that more enjoyable.
  IMO, if you really want to show off your new next-gen console, then GRAW fits the bill perfectly.
 
  
  Sound
  You need, I repeat, you NEED a 5.1 sound system to experience what this game has to offer. Never 
 has the sounds of war sounded so realistic and crisp. Even the little voice acting there is, makes 
 the setting very realistic and engrossing.
  
  Gameplay
  This game will keep you busy. Yes, all the buttons are used and many complex operations are needed 
 from the user. The learning curve for some might be a bit high, but once one has passed the learning 
 curve, the controls becomes second nature.
  Although the game seems slow paced, it is far from it. There is plenty of white-knucle action and 
 pure dynamic gun fights to make it an experience of its own
  
  Conclusion
  GRAW is a fantastic game. Although not everyone might appreciate it, those who are interested in 
 AAA games, will surely find much enjoyment to be had in this true-next-gen revolutionary title. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GS16
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 25, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancys Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter is not your average shooter. It is an incredibly 
 realistic squad-based tactical shooter. When I say realistic I mean, you get shot once and youre 
 dead. The realism extends much farther than your health though. For example, if you shoot while 
 running, youre bullets will fly all over the place, but if you are prone, most of your bullets 
 will hit your enemy. GRAWs single-player campaign is tough, but exciting. In Normal mode, you 
 can usually survive a couple of rounds, but in hard mode, one shot will usually kill you because 
 of the improved enemy AI. Unfortunately, your teammates are as dumb as sticks. They will stand 
 out in the open in a firefight, stand right in front of you when you are trying to shoot, or even 
 shoot a rocket at a wall right in front of him, taking out your entire team. Thankfully GRAW packs 
 in a great multi-player experience. You can play competitively or in co-op mission either split-screen 
 or over Xbox Live. GRAW is easily one of the best Xbox 360 games to come out yet and anyone who 
 has a 360 should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IpodHero176
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 25, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  I just picked this game up because I wanted more 360 games to increase my Gamescore, not knowing 
 how great this game would be. In a matter of hours, I was addicted to this game and not caring 
 if I finished my other new games I got or not. I was going to trade this game in after I finished 
 it, but if I did I would of have to slap myself 30 times. This game is that good.
  
  You are Scott Mitchell, a Ghost of the US military. You are sent into Mexico to stop a conflict 
 that would disrupt the alliance of Canada, Mexico, and the US. The beginning two levels are mostly 
 training, but it's very exciting if you're new to this genre of games (like me) . The storyline is 
 performed very well, but the primise could of been different.
  
  Now for the gameplay. I love the gameplay. You can't just waltz into a mission and start randomly 
 shooting like Scarface. You have to use your mind, along with reflexes. You have to have the element 
 of surprise, or you will die in this game so many times. You have to hide against every wall, box, 
 or vehicle. Using your weapons and visor modes in combinations is a key I learned that will help 
 you a lot. A combo I have is throwing 3 smoke grenades, randomly shooting to throw off my enemies, 
 and go to the next hiding spot and go thermal, and take them out. It's a great combo, and I'll 
 allow you guys to use it. Mostly everything you have can be used in a combination. Your allies (your 
 team of three other guys) are a big help in missions. They give you a big selection, but there 
 is no point, they don't make a big difference in the mission (like one group of your allies isn't 
 different from another group, they're the same classes and have the same weapons) . It's really 
 upsetting, but you'll get over it soon.
  
  The graphics are really great. Shooting at a car until it blows up looks great. The smoke grenades 
 look wonderful as it clouds the street you're in. The sight of Mexico when you're in the helicopter 
 is beautiful, it makes you actually think you're there. If you shoot up a wall, you will actually 
 see your bullet marks in it, and it will stay there for the whole time you're in the level, which 
 I think is really cool and realistic.
  
  The sound is good. Sometimes I'm just randomly walking, and then I'll hear a machinegun go off, 
 and I'll have to run to hide behind a wall. It is also another thing that can help you.
  
  All in all, this game that I was about to trade in after I finished, is a must have or a keeper. 
 I haven't done the online stuff because I don't have Live, but it's still real fun without a friend 
 or Live. This is a game that I will keep for a very long time (even when I get the sequel) . I recommend 
 this game to all 360 owners, it is a must like Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StAngerFrantic
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 24, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is great. I suppose that should be the tagline. I bought this game 
 about a year late and I had very high expectations. I played Rainbow Six: Vegas before this and 
 knew what I was getting myself into - or so I thought. I got home put the disc in and read the 
 manual. Looked quite complicated, but I could get my head around it. Played the opening training 
 mission and got a little un-nerved when I took a hit and my helicopter pilot had warned me Take 
 another hit like that, and you are dead. But still I pressed on, completing the Training, and starting 
 Reach Ramirez. It was fairly tough getting used to the controls, and with them being fairly unresponsive 
 - it suits the setting - and just adapting to the difficulty.
  
  About 3 retries later, I had the winning formula down, the cover mechanic works like the Rainbow 
 Six: Vegas/Gears of War one, but is quite an early design. It takes getting used to. I found Ramirez 
 and used a UAV and was quite impressed to how it worked, but found my self upset the game was lacking 
 in what I was expecting.
  
  The next couple of levels was when it really kicked in. It was the level Secure President Ballantine 
 that destroyed me, in an amazing way. I mean a way in which I was crying on the floor in a fit 
 of painful glee. The level starts out fairly normally with having to save the President from some 
 Militia, and yes, I was a bad enough dude to save the President. Then when everything seems to 
 be going so well, the Embassy explodes. Miraculously the President survives but every Mexican Terrorist 
 you can shake a stick at moves into the surrounding area, and you take some cover in the bombed-out 
 skeleton of the aforementioned Embassy. You are fighting for your life, and if you take time out 
 of your Mexican killing schedule to look around, so is everyone else. There are so many of them, 
 you wonder what the hell you can do. Then the music kicks in. This is an orchestral piece, which 
 makes the sound fade out, so you can just hear the muffled gunshots, and see the High Definition 
 explosions. It is AMAZING. Words cannot describe how amazing it really is. You really have no hope 
 as to how you can hold out, with Tanks, Militia and so on, and once again, I was blown away. In 
 the last second when you cannot hold out any longer, in come the Apaches. For lack of a better 
 phrase, they blow everything up.
  
  My jaw was on the floor for the rest of the game. The rest of the game could be Kirbys Air Adventure 
 for all I could care, and this review would be exactly the same up to here. Thankfully, it isnt. 
 The rest of the game has a blistering pace that the first levels missed, and I couldnt be happier. 
 The missions are varied, from solo mission to all out urban warfare. There are missions where you 
 have to assassinate targets, missions where all you have to do is survive until back up arrives, 
 but my favourite (and the most dynamic) and missions where you are couped up inside a vehicle, 
 firing every bullet under the sun from a UH-60 mounted Minigun. These missions are awesome, and 
 challenging at the same time. Another favourite mission of mine is where you command an Apache 
 gunship, and a Bradley in the middle of the night. This kind of mission is what makes you happy 
 you have CrossCom. The CrossCom is a device built into your HUD where you control the other weapons 
 in your arsenal. You usually command your troops from one of these, but in select missions you 
 command vehicles and other devices. In this mission, your kills are very low. It is your command 
 that keeps the mission going forward. Taking cover behind a Bradley tank, you keep the tactical 
 map open at all times telling the Apache what to attack, and moving the Bradley forward very slightly 
 letting him be mobile cover for you and your men. That is a textbook mission in Ghost Recon.
  
  The game, in all truths, is over too quickly. I moved through it on the medium difficulty  
 having a hard time at it, I might add  in just under 9 hours. Even with only 9 hours play, I dont 
 feel cheated. It was a great 9 hours of game. I have put longer into a game and left with the game 
 feeling stale. This leaves you wanting more. As far as the plot goes, its thoroughly enjoyable, 
 even if it is in every other game with Tom Clancys name attached. The ending is a little anti-climactic, 
 but even a battle with Darth Vader upon the Death Star would have been anti-climatic, with a build 
 up like that!
  
  First of all, thank you for reading my rant. I just thought it would be better to use this format 
 than a traditional review format as this game deserved something special. All in all, this game 
 was amazing. Yes, the AI is lacking, and it does *sometimes* feel a bit like a trudge getting from 
 set piece to set piece (Quarterback springs to mind) the game easily destroys any criticism by 
 being a thoroughly enjoyable game, and definitely worth playing through. Especially now, since 
 the price is around &pound;20 in most shops.
  
  In conclusion, Roll on GRAW2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSYCO109
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 22, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Single Player Review
  
  Ubisoft has preseted us with another stellar Tom Clancy title which delivers a fundamentally different 
 single player experiance, while veterans of the serieswhile easily recognise the multiplayer missions
 
  
  GR: AW can really be considered 2 games, as in fact they are quite different and developed by different 
 teams. First I will address the Single player. It's obvious pro's are its realism and amazing graphics. 
 Key differences too previous generation gameplay is the tighter camera, and also the cover system. 
 The cover system- when you push into a wall you will 'stick' to it, and then be able to peek/fire 
 aound corners etc. This system works very well- and is essential when playing on the ultra hard 
 setting, which means that if you are out of cover or even 'peeking' for more than a few seconds 
 you die. Perhaps it would be nice to be able to expose yourself less when firing from a standing 
 position at a corner, but we can't have everything. The detail on models, guns and troops is fantastic, 
 superheated trails and tracers are able to be seen, and the animations are fantastics. Watch as 
 your model accelerates from walking to running, slide into a crouch position and cover-pant from 
 his exertions and duck when fired at. The enemy AI is good. Nothing spectacular for this generation 
 but the enemy will flank you while your pinned, seek cover (plus crouch go prone) . In Hard mode 
 they are very accurate. The AI for your squad mates is rather lacking, this is a slight result 
 from the command system which only has go to order and an attack order. Often frustration is the 
 result of you trying to co-ordinate something other than the most simple tactical plans. The vehicles 
 which come under your control are also glitchy, often taking a long time to attack enemy troops.
 
  
  But overall the single player is a very solid experiance, the lack of storyline is noticeable, 
 but playing through is very much like watching Black Hawk Down-not a bad thing. The 'futuristic' 
 abilities are very much overstated, but their loss is nothing big.
  The crosscom is far too small to be of anyreal value-but it is fun to watch. A big improvement 
 here would have been the ability to expand out the cross com with the push of a button, like the 
 map does. This would have added actual value (especially for the flying recon drones)
  
  The Campaign has decent replay value- the Hard mode will have you screaming for weeks at least. 
 Different gun options also provide replay-although a greater variety of weapons would be appreciated. 
 For Example while there are many, many assault rifles more LMGs, gun cameras (one of each for these) 
 and perhaps a few realistic combat shotguns would have been nice. Silencers seem to be useless 
 in single player. Definitely worth your money for the single player-and the multiplayer is better 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jangolopez
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 22, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  No doubt the game is really cool, the graphics are awesome, the weapons are good, the scenario 
 is really close to what Mexico city is (I live in Mexico) , I was really amazed to see the great 
 detail they put on all the streets, the mailboxes, even the phonebooths and boxes dropped on the 
 ground, not to say also on the buildings and other pieces of architecture that give you the real 
 feeling of being in Mexico city. Also the sound is great, the background sounds take you to Mexico&acute; s 
 every day noise, that&acute; s perfect.
  
  But the only thing that i couldn&acute; t stand was the fact that your squad is awfully unintelligent 
 (theres a better word to describe them but maybe you wouldnt post my review.) it was really 
 disturbing to tell them to take cover behind a wall (cause if you didnt do that they will just 
 run into the action to get killed) and after that if you gave them the order to shoot a soldier 
 they just get out to the middle of the street and start shooting!! Also if you didnt tell them 
 to heal a squadmate, they wont do it, even if they were aside of him. They dont give you covering 
 fire. If you tell them to shoot someone and they get close to you to have the shot, they may shoot 
 you accidentally, and if you have one of them with an antitank weapon and all the squad is on cover 
 behind a wall, if you tell them to shoot a tank the smart guy with the antitank weapon will blow 
 all the squad, because he wouldnt think that its a bad idea to shoot an explosive weapon onto 
 a wall, instead of sneaking aside of the wall and then shoot!!
  
  When I really enjoyed the game was when I was playing without them, I really cant stand to be 
 babysitting a supposedly elite trained squad!!!!
  Shame that this is a really good game, but with such low AI to really enjoy it.... : (
  also the 
 game has some annoying bugs as to be chest on the ground and wnhen you crawl your character will 
 get up and float, putting you to the sight of every enemy you were trying to sneak by....
  
  If someone wants to know what a squad is about, a squad that will really check on you, give 
 you covering fire, obey your orders (thinking the best way to follow them, dont just getting in 
 the middle of the enemy fire) and disposing enemies by their own, really helping you, you must 
 try STAR WARS: REPUBLIC COMMANDO.
  
  THATS A SQUAD! Thats the only game I ever played that has an excellent AI for your squad mates.
 
  
  I would really appreciate if lucasarts would publish a sequel to STAR WARS: Republic Commando. 
 Thats THE best squad-team based game with a unique quality and personality for each squad mate 
 that youll never forget!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JTH_22
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 21, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  I had read the reviews and watched the demos but I admit I was a little unsure about getting this 
 one. I mean after all the Ghost Recon series had continually slipped over the last couple of iterations 
 on the current gen consoles. But I finally broke down and bought a used copy and all I can say 
 is wow! This is quite simply one of the best FPS's ever made.
  First off the campaign mode is a challenge, ina good way. Enemy A. I. is sharp and if you stay in 
 the same spot too long they will try to circle around and flank you or hit you with grenades. Your 
 enemies are also some of the most alert you will find in a video game. Playing through on Normal 
 mode is an entertaining challenge. Multiplayer and co-op modes are even more entertaining with 
 an excellent array of achievments available.
  The controls are smoothe and responsive, easily some of the best I've played. The graphics are 
 gorgeous with impressive explosions and beautifully rendered landscapes and cities. This game really 
 showcases what the 360 is capable of and to think it's only going to get better. The sound is equally 
 impressive.
  Finally the achievments help make the replay value of this title unsurpassed. And right now at 
 $30 or less you won't find a better value out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orakk
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 20, 2007 2:34 am PT
Review:  When I first tried the game it looked kinda good with the graphics and the rending. It's wierd 
 that the first mission took me an hour or so because I didn't knew how to control the game controls. 
 How do i duck and stuff, but the game itself is actually really good. The learning curve is a bit 
 too high or is it just me?
  
  This game is holding for at least 20 hours. Including single-player and the multi-player. The multi-player 
 is just like single. Just with or players. You are a team that needs to kill the others and then 
 you have alot of fun.
  
  Graphics: 9
  Gameplay: 9
  Sound: 9
  Overall: 8.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zexxo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 4, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  GRAW is  all I really need to say. We got our copy firday morning 
 and here I am just 21 hours later and I have beaten the game twice, and havent slept sinse.
  
  PROS
  
  + Everything pretty much
  + Apache Gunship suppory
  + Mini gunnin'
  
  CONS
 
  
  - Gets old fast
  - Some genius at Ubi made the Visuals in Multiplayer GR2 quality...
  
  You really need to play this game, its amazing. The shooting is just inrcedible, the world 
 is so open and dangerous feeling, but even in time of war the game simply rocks. Seeing an Apache 
 heli fire missles and see them streak through the darkness is just awesome. This game has justfied 
 my 400 purchase. Next game we review - ???
  
  Anyway, get GRAW, it will blow your mind! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w4rgasm
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 15, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  To start things off, this game has excellent graphics and amazing sound to suit the mood. The first 
 thing i noticed when playing the game was the amount of detail put into every mission's environment 
 and the effects of the combat. The game features a nice introduction to control over the AI; however 
 your allies can become tedious and unresponsive in the midst of fighting. For instance, regardless 
 of my commands, my allies occasionally ran off in the middle of no where to get killed. Which, 
 for me, wasn't such a bad thing, since I like the solo missions better, and I don't like the tedious 
 nature of the AI. One last gripe consists of the weapon-switching-system. From time to time, I 
 wish i had easy access to all of my weapons... which wasn't the case when you can only quick-swap 
 between two weapons at a time. This caused some trouble when I wished to nade, snipe a few ensuing 
 enemies, then clean the rest up with a pistol. These are just two gripes though, and the rest of 
 the game stands out noticeably. The combat is intense and the weapons are all well-done to add 
 unique strategies to playing. I do not own xbox live at the moment, so I was unable to play multiplayer. 
 But this game's single player did not call for multiplayer in my book. It was still a very good 
 game to play and the replayability factor was still high. A great first-person shooter overall. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigBoss712
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 14, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  The game takes place in 2013: Mexico City. You play as Scott Mitchell, captain of a Ghost squad, 
 a group of highly trained soldiers with the latest weapons and gadgets. Your mission is to rescue 
 the US president, cut down the rebel insurgency, and destroy its source.
  
  I love the non linear gameplay and how unexpectedly the missions objectives change. Playing as 
 a blackhawks gunner is very satisfying, as well as giving orders to your teammates, especially 
 the vehicles (APC Stryker, Apache) . Your teammates and characters change all the time so you never 
 create a bound with any of them. Theres a nice selection of weapons and some of them are unique 
 but for the most part they dont differ much from each other. It took me eight hours to complete 
 the single player the first time through. The multiplayer is fun with tons of modes and options, 
 giving the game some needed replay value.
  
  The graphics and sound are excellent, the explosions, environments and vehicles are very well done. 
 Most of the battles are set for long range combat and because of that sometimes you might not be 
 able to appreciate the great graphics.
  
  The AI isnt that great, they do some basic things like taking cover but thats about it. Unfortunately 
 you will be fighting more or less the same enemies throughout the entire game. The game main difficulty 
 comes from the number of enemies you have to face and how little damage you can take. The difficulty 
 never gets to the point of frustration because each time you play a mission you find new and better 
 ways to complete your objectives.
  
  Somewhat the game felt a little unfinished to me, it has a bunch of minor bugs and the last mission 
 was a let down, it could have use more development time. Advanced Warfighter might not be perfect 
 but overall is a satisfying shooter with some spectacular and memorable moments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowofamn1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 14, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  GRAW is the first 360 game I owned and it is one of the best I have owned. The graphic is amazing, 
 kind of expected it seems it is suppose to be the new generation console. But the detail of the 
 environment and the surrounding other than you are fully render, no sloppy work. The sound is quite 
 amazing, a good mix with gun fire and the environment noise.
  
  The single player is more realistic than multiplayer, for some reason multiplayer doesn't offer 
 covers, which makes mp more fast paced, online is absolutely amazing, however xbox live don't have 
 a very stable connection, you can play up to 16 people but if you have a average speed connection 
 you will be booted off the game from connection failed. It happen often too. The game is well worth 
 the money. Just a little nag on the connection online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: epormada
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 10, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  Graphically, there is no other game up to this point (March 9, 2006) that even comes close to looking 
 as good as G. R. A. W. Stunning graphics are not all this game has to offer by any means. Not only 
 can you use squad mates to expose and combat the enemy, you have a host a vehicles at your command 
 as well. Everything from unmanned aerial drones to choppers and tanks. Although you do not directly 
 control the vehicles you do give them orders on where to go and where to shoot. Watching the action 
 pan out in front of your eyes and then moving in to clean up the stragglers is about as satisfying 
 as it gets. On several occasions you man the machine gun in the chopper as you fly over the entire 
 map to your drop zone, then battle your way on foot to your objective, which are my personal favorite 
 parts of the game. On-line multi-player, although not as graphically enhanced as single player, 
 is still a solid experience. It has co-op and versus matches to keep you busy long after the single 
 player campaign. If you were waiting for an awesome game until you buy a 360, wait no longer, cause 
 this is it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDGRifle
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 9, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy has yet again made a brilliant game in Ghost Recon Advanced War Fighter It is just plain 
 awsome in every way!!!! The storyline is Mexico is in Rebellion and it is up The The Ghosts to 
 stop It!!!! The OffLine and Online play is Phenominal this Game Is very entertaning and verrrry 
 Addicting. The game is also very complicated beacuse it is another 2 shot Death game which does 
 make it more realistic which is a great concept for a Game. On the very bright side is that each 
 time you beat a level you get achivment points, If you beat training you get 25 which is awsome. 
 The online play is also very Impressive. I give Advanced War Fighter 2 thumbs up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kessler44
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 9, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  The story is great. Buy it and find out. The single player works but the AI can be a little dumb 
 at times. The game is based off long distance fighting so you won't notice how great the graphics 
 are all the time. This game can be hard with just a few shots to kill and health does not get better 
 until stopping points in the level. The graphics are great almost the best on the 360. The multiplayer 
 is good but each map has only a few respawn points making killing there frequent. It is based off 
 a system where teamwork is good but many people do not cooperate well and Call of Duty might work 
 better with this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ewan110
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 9, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Advanced Warfighter puts you in the heart of the action and allows you to command a team of highly 
 trained soldiers. And i have to admit this game had me playing on it till the morning, it was superb 
 the graphics where breathtakingly stunning and the fire fights where jaw dropping. This game offers 
 a huge amount of detailed and stunning missions with detailed and realistic characters. The controls 
 in the game are simple and easy to use as well as being able to just pick it up and play it with 
 no problems at all.
  
  This game is a must have and is one of the best reasons to get a xbox360, in all this game is spectacular 
 and will easily over take splinter cell in a few days of its release . The only thing have against 
 th game is that it can fell somewhat robotic but however don't let this put you off the game it 
 is truly amazing...
  
  It IS a must have for any 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CubeJL
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 6, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter (or GRAW as it's affectionately known) is truly one of the first 
 solid reasons to own a 360.
  
  GRAW drops you behind the shoulders of Captain Scott Mitchell in all out sensory-overload experience. 
 Graphically, GRAW offers some of the most detailed explosions and physics ever seen in a tactical 
 shooter -- pieces of shrapnel belch outward, cascading across the pavement. Sun beams peak through 
 individual palm tree leaves and realistically light character models appropriately. Though, the 
 game certainly has its visual turnoffs: overly hazy horizons and overdone equatorial glare give 
 the game a somewhat muddy look. Perhaps the game would have looked a bit more authentic if the 
 smoke of war was used a bit more sparingly and more time was spent of accentuating building, vehicle, 
 and other environmental textures. Perhaps even more impressive than the game's visuals are its 
 sounds. The musical score is befitting a Hollywood military drama. Whether it's a mellow Spanish 
 guitar against regimented snares, or just a syncopated high hat, players might be reminded of Patriot 
 Games, The Hunt for Red October, or Tears of the Sun -- the game offers a perfect synthesis of electronic 
 break beats and driving, pulsating symphonic melodies. Moreover, GRAW puts together an extremely 
 convincing sounds effects package. Crisp un shots, the crackle of smoldering wreckage, and a bass 
 thumping assortment of explosions really help sell the fiction and sense of looming danger.
  
  GRAW does offer a fairly steep learning curve -- that is to say it is not the most intuitive 
 when it comes to controls. Having a multipurpose button for taking cover, jumping over objects, 
 picking up guns, and the like certainly seem like an Ubisoft mainstay (ala Splinter Cell) , but 
 in GRAW it tends to make controlling Mitchell feel somewhat robotic. In short, it might have been 
 nice to have a bit more autonomy over the character than having to select from a menu of desired 
 actions.
  
  Finally, GRAW controls well, offers an adequate challenge which should keep owners playing for 
 more than a few days, and has enough open-endedness to feel worth of a replay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holdenxyz
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 5, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  The campane is not that good it is exstremly hard but on line is the best. It is rilly easy to 
 learn the game but on line you might get killed online for a few hours. You might also have to 
 wait a little time for a game to start on line but in the end it is the best game on line. it is 
 better then halo and gears of war on line. The campane is bad i only got the the 5th levle and 
 i am rilly good at video games. It is rilly cool because there are a lot of guns from now and for 
 the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: menduco76
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 3, 2007 9:49 pm PT
Review:  As a third person shooter, this game gets the job done and then some. It offers great sound, and 
 wonderful graphics creating an extreamly detailed outdoor urban environment. The gameplay is very 
 good and easy enough to master, but not too easy that it gets boring quickly. The one problem I 
 have with this game is that i never cared for the multiplayer versions. The single player mode 
 has a completely different graphical style and feel than all the other modes. Even though the graphics 
 in multiplayer look quite sharp, they pale in comparison to the single player campaign's graphics. 
 It felt like I was playing a different game at times, and I just couldnt get into the actual gameplay 
 involved. However I enjoyed the single player campaign so much that that hardly even bothers me 
 at all. In the end, this is one of the best games so far in the x360 lineup. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 3, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  This is what the xbox 360 community has been waiting for!
  
  now don't get me wrong, PDZ and NFS were great games but they were just like chips and dip before 
 the meal.
  
  the multi player has changed and for the better new maps, new guns
  and a new way of playing brings a whole new depth to single player
  and multi player.
  
  
 Single Player: One of the most involving single player story modes I have played in a long time. 
 not only are the graphics great but after you reach the 3rd mission you are sucked in even further, 
 with the non-stop action and bombardment of objectives the fun never stops for about 10-15 hours!
 
  
  Multi player: A little more fast paced this time around, with you cypher and cross-com finding 
 your opponent is a bit less frustrating than before.
  
  With an almost flawless aiming system and a great gun selection to help,
  you will find yourself 
 in battle after battle with your friend kickin' butt and takin' names in a matter of hours!
  
  Audio &amp; Video: the sound is amazing and right on the money at that.
  graphics are good 
 and high-def makes it all the better.
  
  I only have on problem with the graphics, some of the textures early in the game are a little bland 
 but other than that best graphics in a game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shiny5
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 2, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is good for people who have been playing HALO for a long time and are tired of not being 
 able to control the AI. This game is like HALO, but you can give orders and have 4 different weapons. 
 But my favourite option of all is giving an order to my buddies to move into position and attack 
 the enemies while I go around and flank them. I mean, this is an awesome game, but sometimes the 
 AI can be so damned frustrating. Like for instance, when you're hard pressed to attack an enemy, 
 but while your firing at them, the AI jump right in front of you, getting himself killed and you 
 being fired at while you have to try and get back in front of him. But doing so you abandon your 
 cover and get your self killed. I think the score, 9.2/10 is a suitable score for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtermin8er93
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 1, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Gears of War has got nothing on Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter. I give Gears of War a 10, but 
 I give Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter a 20 on a scale of 1-10. I mean the gameplay is awesome, 
 the graphics are sweet, and everything else about it is just perfect. The gameplay is the best 
 besides Need For Speed Carbon. But at times it can be hard. Gameplay gets a 9.9. Graphics are the 
 best I've seen ever. 10 out of 10. The sound is like your really with them in the army. Once again 
 10 out of 10. At the begining its real hard, but once you learn the controles it's sweet. Notice 
 I said sweet. This is probaly the most valued game in my collection. Another awesome game from 
 Tom Clancy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adpatsad
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 30, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game, but it had the chance to be a great game. The story is a bit confusing 
 and the action can get repetitive. Also the difficulty will at sometimes increase overwhelmingly 
 for a short time. So even though I am giving this game a just right for difficulty it is more between 
 just right and hard The cover system, while great when this game released, it now seems a bit worse 
 after playing gears of war or rainbow six vegas. Those however are about the only downsides to 
 this game. The graphics are great, the control and gameplay are also, and the sound, especially 
 when cranked up, is right up there with the best of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: role-player07
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 29, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game right from the start. The gamplay is decent. The graphics are superb, and the 
 maps are huge! It's fun playing four-player with your friends. The guns are pretty fun, but the 
 machine-gunner has a huge advantage over the marksman, because the stray bullets almost always 
 hit them before than can take cover, take aim and get one or two good shots on the machine-gunner. 
 Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is like all other Tom Clancy games, they're solid and fun to play! 
 If you have fourty dollars with you don't waste your money on other games, but buy this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blake935
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 27, 2007 5:02 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game I immediately became addicted to it, i just loved the fact that could 
 move the Ghost Team where I wanted. It gave me the option of either destroying the opponent strategically 
 or going in full force. the guns in this game are also awesome, there were so many choices such 
 as a sniper that pierces through thin walls or a sub-machine gun that could shoot grenades. Another 
 great aspect of the game is your goggles, the goggles allow you to see your enemies more clearly 
 at night or even in daylight. Also your Ghost Team is really obedient, if you tell them to destroy 
 the enemy they will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paradox823
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 24, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  Now if your planing to get a war game or just to shot somebody this is the game
  
  Gameplay: you start in the training level even this is fun. Later you start in the real missions
 
  In this game you can command your team, a tank, and the cyper. i love the cyper you can just fly 
 it over the enimies and get intel and when you get that you can take them out.
  The weapons are cool the graphics are good also
  
  Story: just shoot to kill that all you need 
 to know
  
  Online: fun but you got to play with a least 16 people to get a real match
  you can get a achevment but just killing a assain. you can also costomize your character and take 
 him in online modes
  
  G. R. A. W is worth playing and by now it should be a least 30 bucks so go cop that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theironmanmatt
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 22, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter is a great looking game, if you are a fan of Tom Clancy, then 
 this game will not disappoint you in anyway, it is a definite improvement over the last game.
 
  
  The good: A huge, vastly detailed city is your combat zone; astonishing visuals; Loads of different 
 multiplayer modes and possibilities; You can create your character to some extent; Very realistic 
 shooting; Excellent player models and animations; a great sounding game
  
  The bad: The game can be a bit too difficult at its attempt to be very realistic; there is no 3rd 
 person view in multiplayer and no 1st person view in Single player; not enough levels to pick from 
 in multiplayer
  
  Overall, this is an outstanding shooter and chances are, if you are a fan of shooters you will 
 enjoy this game a lot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunslinger_boy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 21, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter may have been out for nearly a year, but it is still highly enjoyable 
 and well thought out. *Due to not having XBL, this review is for the SP Campaign.
  
  Graphics: Even for being a year old, the graphics still hold their own. The details of the environments 
 all the way down to the threads on the soldiers uniforms are very well done. Even the bloom effects 
 are a great, and add more strategy to the use of scopes on the rifles.
  
  Gameplay: This is where the new options come into play. You have the CrossCom that lets you see 
 what your teammates see. This a neat gameplay hook, and is also very useful for planning ahead. 
 You even have a wall hug maneuver and wall peak that lets you use cover against any flat surface. 
 Without this, the game would be near impossible to beat. You can even call in airstrikes and order 
 tanks to specific points on a map to strike a target. These are very cool moments and happen often 
 within the campaign that should take you around 8-12 hours to finish. But I did notice some bugs 
 while playing. On the ninth mission, there is a bug that occurred on many disks that kept you from 
 getting a checkpoint flag to let you move on. The only way I was able to get rid of this was by 
 restarting the level over about 5 times. That was really annoying! Another glitch that I ran into 
 was crawling, trying to move from a car to a brick wall to avoid a sniper. While crawling, I somehow 
 floated upward and hovered while moving in a specific direction. When I let go of the analog stick, 
 I went back to the prone position. I tried moving again, and I floated upward again, this time 
 getting the sniper's bullet to kill me. This happened about 3 times in the campaign. I even had 
 one of my teammates get stuck in the road, unable to move at all in the final mission. Besides 
 these bugs, the game is still fun.
  
  Sound: Is great. Like all Clancy games, the guns sound very realistic and the enemy shouts sound 
 authentic, if repetitive. You can even hear distant bombings and shootouts if you listen close 
 enough. The only complaint is that a couple of voices sound to phony to sound like their respective 
 parts. All in all, this is a great new start to the popular Ghost Recon series. If Ubisoft would 
 fix these bugs, the game would be a mega hit, not like it isn't because it was a very strong seller. 
 The game is just fun, and the campaign is fun and challenging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robjkay
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately I was one of the unlucky ones who snagges the abysmal PC port of GRAW. It was shocking 
 and it really put me off the entire franchise.
  
  Yet nearly a year later after buying an X-Box 360 I saw it at my local EB for really cheap, so 
 I thought what the heck, and bought it. After all I'd read so many good reviews of the 360 version, 
 and after just finishing Rainbow Six: Vegas I was dying for some more Clancy action. Plus GRAW 
 2 won't be out till March so this will keep me going until then.
  
  GRAW is an amazing and very exciting game. Even in the first mission there is a sense of fear and 
 excitment. The enemies are cunning and the mission are realistic. The combat system is fantastic 
 - very robust and easy to master, and the command system is effective. When you can command a Black 
 Hawk chopper at your disposal to eliminate any large scale enemy positions, it's very effective. 
 Total US military annihilation. If only the US army were that effective in real life.
  
  The only drawback is the AI can be a little sketchy and you can find yourself babysitting your 
 team mates in some instances - but most of the time they do a good job of covering you and eliminating 
 enemy positions.
  
  Needless to say GRAW is still a worthy game and even after a year, it still holds up to the new 
 releases coming out on 360. An exciting and realistic shooter - worthy of any action fans collection.
 
  
  I definately recommend this title - and I'm steadfastly waiting for the second chapter in this 
 exciting franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaloHunter202
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  G. R. A. W. is my most favorite game I have on the 360 right now. Its confusing in the begging, but 
 then once you play for about 10-15 minutes, you will learn what to do. If you do not have this 
 game you need to get it, Im telling you, its worth the price it is now. You will not regret it. 
 The only way you will regret it is, if you do not like Ghost Recon games, but if you do like them, 
 you will be fine. I would rate this game a 10/10. Im sure if you love it the way i love it, you 
 will rate it the same too!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pixelpimp
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunately I was one of the unlucky ones who snagges the abysmal PC port of GRAW. It was shocking 
 and it really put me off the entire franchise.
  
  Yet nearly a year later after buying an X-Box 360 I saw it at my local EB for really cheap, so 
 I thought what the heck, and bought it. After all I'd read so many good reviews of the 360 version, 
 and after just finishing Rainbow Six: Vegas I was dying for some more Clancy action. Plus GRAW 
 2 won't be out till March so this will keep me going until then.
  
  GRAW is an amazing and very exciting game. Even in the first mission there is a sense of fear and 
 excitment. The enemies are cunning and the mission are realistic. The combat system is fantastic 
 - very robust and easy to master, and the command system is effective. When you can command a Black 
 Hawk chopper at your disposal to eliminate any large scale enemy positions, it's very effective. 
 Total US military annihilation. If only the US army were that effective in real life.
  
  The only drawback is the AI can be a little sketchy and you can find yourself babysitting your 
 team mates in some instances - but most of the time they do a good job of covering you and eliminating 
 enemy positions.
  
  Needless to say GRAW is still a worthy game and even after a year, it still holds up to the new 
 releases coming out on 360. An exciting and realistic shooter - worthy of any action fans collection.
 
  
  I definately recommend this title - and I'm steadfastly waiting for the second chapter in this 
 exciting franchise.
  
  Buy It! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdredd1381
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 20, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  The graphics on GRAW are great. I have never experienced any choppiness when playing, even when 
 you have 16 players in the game and everyone is involved. The sound is very good, you can hear 
 the footsteps of friend or foe when near and the varying degrees of gunshots in the distance are 
 very nice. The gameplay is fun and very addicting. I find myself on for several hours at a time 
 and don't get bored. The only real complaint about the game are the frequent drops by the server. 
 Other than that the game is great. It is a good buy. Plenty of people play online so you never 
 really have to wait too long to fill a room. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_boy286
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 20, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  G. R. A. W. is every thing you have come to know and love about Ghost Recon. The game is similer to 
 its other games on the PS2 and xbox. Now, the xbox360 took this game to the next level! To start 
 gameplay is better then the others. The graphics are next generation! These graphics will show 
 you wat the 360 can do! The game in it self is a load of fun. This game also has a great multiplayer. 
 Go on xbox live with this game or your relly missing out on what this game can do. Over i give 
 G. R. A. W. a 9.2/10
  
  Game play ---9/10 (game play is fun much better then the others)
  
  Graphics ----- 10/10 (graphics are wonderfull this really show what the 360 can do)
  
  Sound ------- 
 10/10 (the sound is good makes you feel right in the action)
  
  Replay value -- 10/10 (you will wanna play this over about 3 time before theres nothing to it) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-rpg-man
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 19, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Pros: A good edition to the Ghost Recon series. A tactical shooter that requires actual tactics. 
 Cool online play and achievements.
  Cons: Teammates are as dumb as rocks. All weapons and levels seem the same. Animation isn't as 
 smooth as it could be.
  
  Okay, I'll start off with some positive things. First of all, this game actually requires skill 
 and tactics to play. It's not another mindless shooter. Second, it has very fun X-box Live play, 
 and several amazing achievements, like the Assassin. This achievement requires you to look at other 
 players achievements, and kill someone who already has the Assassin one. The rest of the game could 
 use some fine-tuning. When reloading a gun, it seems that your characters just moves his hand over 
 the magazine, which could have been fixed. The graphics are sub-par, but the 360 has seen better. 
 Many levels have uneven lighting, forcing you to either manually lower or raise the brightness 
 frequently. Levels also have very similar goals: go to [insert area] , rescue [insert person, then 
 reach the extraction point. Weapons also seem the same. There are about 5 automatic weapons that 
 work the same, 3 snipers that work the same, a rocket launcher, and a useless handgun. Also, when 
 taking an enemies' weapon, you are forced to drop your main weapon. You don't get to chose to drop 
 the handgun or grenades. Anyway, I could go on, but I won't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lemur543
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 18, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  We were all excited for next-gen to finally happen, we waited out in lines for hours on end, we 
 bided on eBay; we scavenged the streets for open stores. But we should ask our selves; Was it 
 worth it? the answer is yes. G. R. A. W. is truly next-gen, with highly polished graphics, HD support 
 and phenomenal multiplayer on X-Box live.
  
  To start, visuals are the strong point of the game. Bullets wear away cover, causing plumes of 
 dust to jump from the rubble, and concrete wears away from the bullet-riddled structures. The cities 
 are enormous, and every bit of it is fantastically detailed. The game also has a cinematic presence. 
 (Possible Spoiler) In the VIP 2 IS DOWN mission, you must run to the huge American embassy, and 
 it just blows up in your faceliterally. It can be so alarming and loud that you will jump out 
 of your seat, especially for you surround sound users. After that you must sprint to see if the 
 Mexican president is all right, luckily he lived. You must protect him at all costs. Half way into 
 the chaotic battle, the sounds become muffled and the screen tints to a different color, sort of 
 sepia toned. Dramatic music comes on with screams from your allies warning you of your surroundings. 
 Its a really beautiful scene. Gameplay is compromised of taking cover using the unique and flexible 
 engine, using the 'cross-com' helmet technology which is actually in development by the U. S. army. 
 A. I. is weak, which isn't a first in the Ghost Recon series.
  
  Multiplayer is spectacular, with a great lobbying system, balanced classes, customizable characters, 
 and loads of achievements to unlock, this is a great game you should get with your 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackdog144
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 17, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game knowing that it was a fun game. From what ive heard is that its slow and boring 
 to. Well after i finished playing it i found out that only some parts are slow and boring, but 
 other wise there is nothing boring to this game what so ever. Now my game is a little scratched 
 because i bought it used so there was one glitch on this one level that made the screen pitch black 
 but i think thats because of my game disk. The AI is well stupid and not stupid. Some of the enemies 
 will run up on your position completely out in the open. And your squad or team can be stupid at 
 times. Otherwise this game has great graphics and great fun gameplay, i highly recommend it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brownthrilla
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 17, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  G. R. A. W is a great game! This game has awsome online and story mode. G. R. A. W is a tactical shooter 
 which means you have to use tatics to control your men. The story mode is playable but I recommend 
 playing with invincibility cheats. This game gets pretty frustrating after a while without cheats. 
 You still get points which makes it even better. Online is pretty good too. Online includes everything 
 from a team elimination mode to a co-op mode. This game is also for those who just want points 
 and also is very affordable. Overall this game is pretty good and I reccomend getting it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stealth360snipa
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  great singleplayer, awesome multiplayer. x x x x xx x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
 xx x x x x x x x x x x x x x xx x xxxxx x x x x x x x x xx x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
 x xx x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x xx x x x x x x x x 
 x x x x x xx x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dattylawnglaygz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 15, 2007 2:12 am PT
Review:  Man... the Tom Clancy series is clownin. I have purchased all the titles so far and I must say that 
 not one is bad. As for this one Advanced Warfighter, another masterpiece for the series. Everything 
 is clean. Graphics, gameplay, fun factor, sounds, AI and very challenging. Its the closest thing 
 to real warfare as I've seen. When I first played it, I was in awe of how well the game was made. 
 I hope they keep this effort up for the future games. If it isn't broke don't fix it. I can't wait 
 to see what they did for the next one, GRAW 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhondra
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 14, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best tactical action games I've played since way back when Counter Strike 
 first came out for the PC. I love it. And, I've just recently found the Co-op multiplayer. What 
 a blast. These maps are amazing. The check point system can be a bit frustrating, but it makes 
 completing it all the more satisfying. Hard is... uh, HARD! After playing many maps over and over, 
 I was very glad that they mixed up the AI and placement a little (they could have done even more, 
 but then I might not have finished... grin) . Even cars and trucks varied in color and stuff each 
 play. Thanks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manbot_AMP
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 14, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Pos: very intense fire fighting, increadible graphics on the 360, very well planed story mode with 
 lots of different objectives, can control tanks, choppers and APCs, Cons: Teamates dont always obey 
 orders getting in to dangerouse situations, complicated controls
  
  Ghost Recon: Advance Warfighter (GRAW) is an amazing game, with spectacular graphics and intense 
 fighting. This game takes you to Mexico, where rebels have overthrown the goverment and take control 
 of the city while the signing of a treaty was beeing signed. It is you're job to rescue &amp; escort 
 numerouse VIP's including the American &amp; Mexican President. The fighting is intense usually 
 lasting for several minutes, during these fire fights the player is forced to use cover and its 
 techniqual advantage to take the enemy. In certain situations player have also the oportunity to 
 control helicopters, tanks and APCs to their advantage, which makes fighting alote esier.
  
  Another cool feature is the avability of the drone. this small flying camera can do all you're 
 recon work, informing you of any enemy presence, however the drone is forced to go to lower heights 
 to scouts wich puts it in damnger of enemy fire.
  
  Through out the campaign Captain mitchell (the player) orders around a 3 men team, with simple 
 orders like regroup , go to &amp; shoot , ordering them around is a piece of cake. however they 
 have a tendensy to do what they like in certain situation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game from the Start, it was one of the only games that I was getting for my 360, Then 
 there was some flaws that they didn't kick out before they launched the game. I like the gameplay 
 alot, it has the over the shoulder view for shooting, and a mediocre cover system but thats it, 
 the rest is basic but fully fledged and functional, so I didn't care for it.
  
  Graphics. omg the graphics are the only reason that makes the game great, beside the multiplayer 
 and singleplayer, it has full 4X AA and Anistropic filtering, and really detailed city rendering, 
 nothing about the graphics are bad, yeah sure the occasional glitch here and there but that is 
 pretty much it.
  
  Sound is good, but I hear it everywhere, but I can't blame them so I can't punish them for that.
 
  
  This should come free with you new 360, if not, GO OUT AND GET IT, the multiplayer is fun, and 
 the gameplay is out of this world, you don't like it, then I will see you in a ditch. Just kidding. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s10fan2000
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  this game actually made me never wnat to play SOCOM again..... not really..... but its a damn good 
 game. one of the best that i have ever played. the controls are very simple and easy to understand. 
 i'm a newbie to the whole XBOX 360 scene and even i took only like 30 minutes fully understand 
 the controls. the visuals are some of the best that i have ever seen on any console anywhere. explosions 
 look real and the sense of urgency taht you will feel is remarkable. i was literally on the edge 
 of my seat the entire time i was playing this game. the weapon choice is great and yet it doesnt 
 overload you with guns that you may not even use anywhere in the game. the music and sound effects 
 are great. being a fan of hard rock, metal, and hardcore music, the cutscenes are quite enjoyable 
 for me. plus, the rock just adds to the imagery of the game. overall, this is probably one of the 
 best shooter games all around that i have ever played. definately worth more than the occasional 
 rent that you come across at Blockbuster. you should definately pick this up if you have been thinking 
 about it. actually..... whats there to think about when you see reviews like 9.8, 9.0, 9.2...... consecutively? 
 haha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: breezebreezy23
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 11, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  I was totally let down by Ghost Recon 2 because it was truly awful. When I heard about GRAW being 
 released I kinda went mmmmm whatever. But then I got my BOX and I decided to rent it. OMFG!! This 
 game is simply amazing!
  Graphics: 9-10 The effects look great, the environments are beatiful yet masterfully create an 
 atmosphere of gritty Mexico City. Explosions look just fantastic, possibly the best I've seen. 
 All of the character models look great and the details of their uniforms just blew me away. This 
 is truly a wonder that can only be enjoy to the fullest in HD.
  
  Sound: 10 Just doesn't get any better. The guns sound great, explosions are realistic and overall 
 just very well done. The voice-overs are also exceptional.
  
  Gameplay: 9 (singleplayer) 10+ (multiplayer) The gameplay is just a sight to truly behold. The controls 
 are intuitive and its a wonderful and enormously realistic game througout singleplayer. But multiplayer 
 is a whole new ball game. It is probably the best multiplayer for any XBOX 360 game out right now. 
 Theres a ton of gamemodes that cater to many different styles of gameplay.
  
  Value: 10 Just an awesome game that should be bought by any shooter fan looking a very solid singleplayer 
 and a hard core rockin' multiplayer.
  
  After a string of bad games, Ubisoft has really turned itself around with games like GRAW and Double 
 Agent. They really deserve a pat on the back for creating these really great games for the next 
 gen systems. GRAW is just a great game with a lot to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iiplayboy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 10, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game back last spring and let me tell you, up until Gears of War and Rainbow Six 
 Vegas, GRAW was the premiere XBOX live game. The single player was impressive and well-handled. 
 I liked the character models because they are animated and detailed, with advanced military clothing 
 and good motion capture, and you're equipped with perfectly re-created guns and lots with lots 
 of little details. From the textures of buildings to the city itself the environments are exceptionally 
 well done. The online portion is polished, impressive, and deep. If you can pick up GRAW for a 
 decent price before GRAW 2 comes out, then take my advice and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firestorm91
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 8, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Ubisoft continues it's Ghost Recon series by adding Advanced Warfighter to the set. This is by 
 far one of the best games on Xbox 360. The setting in Mexico city is simply amazing and it will 
 definately catch your interest. Basically everything in this game is excellent. This game kicks 
 up a notch on the realism, for instance, the glare of the sun can blind a part of your view, and 
 you will actually be killed if you get shot a number of short times. The sound is brilliant yet 
 amazing for a game like this. There's not much bad to say about this game.
  
  The gameplay for Advanced Warfighter is extremely fantastic. The controls could take some time 
 to get used to but once you do get used to them, this game goes downhill from there. The enemies 
 aren't overpowering but there can be a lot of them. Killing them is just simply fun, nothing beats 
 mowing down a couple dozen rebels with a vulcan cannon (gataling gun) . This is just fascinating. 
 You die fairly easy in this game, but this will tell you to use cover when fighting your enemies. 
 Your squadmates will not do this all the time, in fact, they don't do it very often. This usually 
 results in them getting killed. There are supply machines that occasionally appear in a mission; 
 this allows you to heal yourself and restock your ammunition. There are plenty of weapons to choose 
 from and they all have one use ---to kill enemies. You can call in air strikes, support, etc... 
 that will help you in your campaign mode. This is useful for when you need help with a mission. 
 I can't say much more about the gameplay except to say it's nearly perfect for this game. If anyone 
 wants a game with perfect graphics, this is the game. Advanced Warfighter offers extremely accurate 
 visuals that include detailed environments and detailed character models. These sights look great. 
 The city is just amazing to look at. The bright sun in the sky that's shining down on Mexico city 
 is just brilliantly well done by Ubisoft. The gun models look awesome alongside with the city and 
 shadows. The HUD looks very cool and it's known as the crosscom. The videos of soldiers giving 
 you objectives or orders look nice. Vehicles look great and so does the environment. Helicopter 
 rides are very entertaining somewhat due to the graphics. There's not much more to say about the 
 graphics except they are perfect for Advanced Warifighter.
  
  The sound in this game is one of the best I've ever heard. Mostly every gun has it's own unique 
 sound and that's not a common thing in most games. The voice dialouge is very well done and the 
 same goes for the helicopter rotors. The explosions sound very cool and if an explosion occurs 
 near you, you will go deaf-ish for a little bit. It's a cool way how Ubisoft did this because you 
 will know when you're being attacked. Other than that, everything else sounds excellent and it 
 awesome for this game.
  
  There is multiplater in this game and that is very cool. Playing online is fun, ranging from different 
 game modes to play from. The offline multiplayer is exciting too. Nothing is more fun than working 
 with your friends online to beat a cooperative campaign. This game is very fun with the multiplayer 
 feature. Overall, Advanced Warfighter is an awesome game for the Xbox 360 and you should get it 
 if you haven't alread. It's got great sound, perfect graphics, and it's one of the best for gameplay. 
 The multiplayer is awesome too, so go and give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psyrk
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8 - Very easy controls to master from the game's tutorial. Many levels to fight the spanish 
 rebels. You can switch any time from third to first person.
  Some controls kinda switched between multiplayer and single player, starting fom the way you stop 
 breathing to make your zooming more precise and when you try to hide behind cover. One thing that 
 got me confused was the player colors on multiplayer. Basically, in Halo 2 or almost any other 
 game, the blue fight the red and the red fight the blue. But in this game, you always play blue 
 on single player. But when you choose red on multiplayer, you have to fight blue and which gets 
 really confusing because you get used to the enemy being red.
  I love the idea of the robot drone that helps you spot the enemies, as well as the cooperative 
 missions, elimination and etc.
  Great multiplayer, I could play it for weeks. In my opinion, it's better than Gears of War multiplayer, 
 BUT Gears of War's campaign is better than Ghost Recon's.
  
  Graphics: 10 - This is the second game for the Xbox 360 that I officially played, while Gears of 
 War being the first. I gotta say, the people look semi-realistic, the HDR lighting is well made 
 and there are lots of colors for a shooter set in 2011 or something like that.
  The levels, even the multiplayer ones, look realistic an uses the same graphics engine as the campaign, 
 so if you go into a dark area, the outside will be much more bright than if you were outside and 
 looking at the sky.
  I can't say which has better graphics between Gears of War and Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, 
 but I'm not debating on that today.
  
  Sound: 9 - Great voice acting, but limited voice-overs in some levels. The gun sounds were incredible, 
 such as the helicopter machine gun, the rifle shots, and the best rocket sound effect I have EVER 
 heard. Seriously. If you fire a rocket at an object at close range, you will hear the KABOOM! , 
 but if you shoot it pretty far, you will hear BAM... BOOM! TSSS... . You have to hear it by yourself 
 because I can't really write sound effects down... But if you want to hear the best rocket launcher 
 sound effect ever, rent this game. Or better yet, buy it so you can play multiplayer and have mostly 
 all the awards.
  Other than that, the music is pretty awesome. There's a good song that plays in the menu screen 
 and in the credits that's kick-ass. Listen to it. Now!
  
  Value: 10 - You might beat campaign on easy and hard modes in less than 20 hours or so, but you'll 
 love multiplayer so much. What bugged me was the on-line download that costs 600 credit thingies. 
 Although it did provide more faces, weapons and levels, it still is'nt fair for people with no 
 credit cards or no money because they already use their money on other stuff on Xbox, such as games, 
 accessories and Xbox Live. But it still is fun without the update, cuz most players don't buy that, 
 and if you do have it, you can play the new maps only with the other people who have the Chapter 
 2 pack.
  
  In the end, it's a buy for any shooter fan, third or first person fan, or even a Ghost Recon fan 
 for sure. If you have an Xbox 360, you will have to buy this for sure. I recommend it to any people 
 who play shooters. You will frikin' love this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiltaJay
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 8, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  It's funny how some of these reviews I've read talk soo negative about this game. Remember, this 
 game was made for patient and strategic gamers, as this is no Call of Duty or Halo where all you 
 do is mindlessly run n gun. People complaining about the squad's AI being dumb would never be a 
 Corporate in real life military. Remember this is a game and computers will never behave like a 
 real life human, besides if you strategically place them properly they won't die on you, they are 
 there as support. The purpose of the game is for you to command and do most of the shooting, not 
 depend on the squad AI to finish the game for you. You need to be patient and coordinate you plans 
 just right. And just like in real life, you cannot order your team too close to enemy fire or they'll 
 be ripped in half. You have to move slow, keep your distance, find the best route and be very cautious. 
 Picture yourself in Iraq and tell me if you'll go running n gunning, if you do, you'll wind up 
 being another statistic, same with this game. The drones, helicopters are also there for support 
 not to rely on finishing a level. One thing about the enemy AI, although they don't have all the 
 fancy shmancy gear like you, they also come prepared, and they too have professional snipers, so 
 stick your head out for too long and you'll get sniped and rightfully so as it serves you right 
 underestimating these bad guys. My point with this review is, that GRAW is one of the most tactical 
 shooters ever made. Learn the controls properly, get used to them, be smart and plan your attack. 
 Don't mindlessly place your squad in dangerous spots because sometimes one of them will try to 
 be a hero and get killed, hey it happens in real life too doesn't it? I will not touch on anything 
 else cause you've all read it a thousand times already. All I have to say is, if you're patient 
 and know the meaning of true leadership and appreciate a very well and quality made game, then 
 you will have a blast with GRAW. Why is it that 90% throughout the game, my squad made it in one 
 piece? Go figure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jericoY2J
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 7, 2007 10:00 pm PT
Review:  well like this but some times it will have u pulling ur hair in frustration but it makes the accomplishment 
 much better. I ain't into any tactical shooters but this and R6: vegas are no doubt my favorite. 
 well yeah go pick it up. N N N N N
  N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N NN N N N N N N N N N N N 
 N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yandor
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  I wasted my money on the original Xbox version and was hesitant to buy GRAW for the 360, but talk 
 about apples and oranges! GRAW for the 360 is astounding. Intense, challenging, addictive and utterly 
 engaging, the gameplay is frantic, suspensful and always edge-of-your-seat. The single player campaign 
 is worth the price but it's the multiplayer that steals the show. Co-op play is the best in the 
 series, with seemingly infinite choices for you and your teammates to work through maps. Yes, the 
 dialog is a little cheesy at times, and despite the excellent use of the cross-cam, the 'video 
 feed' feels looped, but works well, moving the story along. The UAV is the best addition to Ghost 
 Recon ever! This is a must for fans of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fman12
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. The graphics aren't up to date with recent xbox 360 games but they are good. 
 The multiplayer is awesome. Also the depth of field is great. The story line is awesome. The fact 
 that you can control your team like you can is great. The weapon selection is cool and futuristic. 
 This is a must have for all first person shooter fanatics like my self. The online play is awesome. 
 Basically get this game or you won't know what great things your missing. The AI can be reallt 
 hard some times also. They get alot of head shots and this game is slow paced. If you run out in 
 the open theres no question that your going to die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elfstone2087
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 6, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  With Gears of War out, Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter does not seem like much. However, I remember 
 when my friends list was lit up with nothing but G. R. A. W. The Ghost Recon series has made its comeback 
 in full force in a new chapter of the series titled Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter. The single 
 player mode returns with a new story and many ways to approach it. Players will soon learn that 
 the multiplayer is where the action is at.
  
  This game looks beautiful. It was one of the first games to give his debut console a chance to 
 flex its muscles, churning out amazing graphics.
  
  It's not only the graphics that will make your eyes pop, but your ears will follow as well. The 
 sound is terrific. The atmosphere comes alive once again.
  
  After you've played through the campaign, which took me about 6-8 hours, you'll want to play the 
 multiplayer. After you've played that for a while, you may regret your decision of buying the game 
 Gears of War, among other games may seem all to appealing to you right now.
  
  There's also one more plus to your investment. Once you finish off Chapter one in the multiplayer, 
 you can download the new package that was released a while ago. It contains new maps, a few new 
 weapons, and Chapter two for you to play.
  
  I popped the game into my 360 the other day and discovered the wonder of Ghost Recon. It's a game 
 like no other and breathes a life of it's own. So, before you discard this game for Gears of War 
 or Call of Duty 3, take the time and check it out. You don't even have to buy it. Rent it at your 
 local Blockbuster or Hollywood video store. I don't think you'll regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Insania_aeger
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 17, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  Let's get two things out of the way before I start...
  1.) I was never a fan of any sort of the Ghost Recon series.
  2.) Now I am.
  
  Unlike many 
 of you, I've just recently received my XBOX360. I may not be as dedicated nor as wealthy as many 
 of you, so for me I cannot afford to purchase a single shallow title. So I picked up a copy of 
 both Burnout Revenge and Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter from Ubisoft. And while Burnout may be 
 thrilling, GRAW is by FAR the best title on the 360 in almost every aspect (better than Oblivion.) 
 The game sports many exceptional features, from its impressive graphics you'd expect from a 3 next-gen 
 title to polished gameplay, which was hardly delivered in any of the games prior. The game is also 
 extremely fun and feels like a hybrid of GTA, Halo, Brothers in Arms, and Counter-Strike. And it's 
 also addicting as hell.
  
  The story, although written by Tom Clancy, seems fairly blase and uninspired, but it's presented 
 and applied masterfully. Basically in the year 2011, Mexico, America, and Canada (for some reason) 
 have finally taken collaborative steps in combating the growing threats of illegal immigration 
 and drug smuggling across the border. Although most of Mexico agrees, a vast number of rebels strike 
 the meeting place and kidnap both the Mexican and American Presidents. Your recon's mission is 
 to escort both leaders to safety and cripple the rebellion before they siege control of the entire 
 city of Mexico City. You play as Scott Mitchell once again and are captain of your squad of Ghost 
 super-soldiers. There are about a dozen missions in total spanning roughly 10-15 hours (20 if on 
 hard mode) and they all play seamlessly, similar to Half-Life 2's style that there are no large 
 breaks in time.
  
  Graphically the game is appropiate and vivid, and was certainly THE best looking game on the 360 
 in its hayday (according to Gamespot.) The game was one of the first to showcase HDR lighting, 
 which is the effect of emulating the way your eye adjusts to sudden adjustments in the lighting 
 and uses Bloom to simulate ultra-brightness. There are hardly any jaggies and the game runs at 
 a somewhat constant 30fps, though it's far from Gears of War's consistancy. What really stands 
 out about the graphics is the scale the designers built. At the end of most missions, you are extracted 
 via helecopter and can see miles and miles of the city underneath you, and it still keeps it at 
 a decent framerate. Even better than the enviroments are he player models, which are extremely 
 highly detailed and also interact with HDR. The real tour de force that pushed me to award this 
 title the elusive '10' was the unrivaled animations. The interaction between the soldiers and their 
 world is fluid, believable, and state-of-the-art, and still respectible, nearly a year after its 
 release. Allies and enemies are winded by bullet fire, helicopters soar with grace, and APC push 
 through enemy lines.
  
  The sound is great, and is worth mentioning the realistic gun sounds and explosions. Also, the 
 cool theme song Tom Salta composed is some of gamings best.
  
  GRAW's gameplay is its greatest strength, no matter how you slice it. This is effectively a hybrid 
 of Brothers in Arms and Halo, the commanding system is evidence. It's far less complex yet more 
 direct, and generally more natural. You use the D-Pad (up issues a command to go somewhere and 
 down issues regroup.) This works not only with your squad but with controlling APC, Helicopters, 
 UAC drones ect. And when you issue a command, a tiny HUD camera, called the Crosscom , gives you 
 a perspective of the commandee. It's a cool idea, but it doesn't necessarily help all that much, 
 though it's definately cool to issue an appache to gun down a tank, then watching it unfold.
  
  GRAW isn't perfect though. Mostly the culprit its unimpressive AI, but also it's multiplayer, 
 which is great in its own league, but is totally separate to the campaign (you can't do some of 
 the cool actions and maneuvers, making it feel seperate from the rest of the game.) That's not 
 to say it's bad, it's actually a good reason to subscibe to XBOX Live, but a little disappointing, 
 considering how unique the campaign is.
  
  So to summerize, GRAW is, in all terms, a bona fide game, and an insentive to dish out a small 
 fortune for the system. And though it only appeals to people who aren't still only Halo and Gears 
 of War gamers, it's still a ton of fun, and should not be missed.
  
  Overall Score: 9.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spira_X
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 5, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  At first the game will seem daunting and complicated to play, but once you get used to playing 
 the game it won't mean anything. The graphics of this is in one word amazing. They put so much 
 effort into making the environment realistic and the result is a very beleiveable and at times 
 too realistic of an environment. They placed lots of detail on the weapons, characters and the 
 vehicles in the game as well. one thing you should know about this game is that it's a tactical 
 shooter. You can't charge enemies like you can in Halo. In fact you can't even shoot accurately 
 while on the move. With that said, you have to get used to using cover and you also have to scout 
 for enemies with your scout drone. Players must also learn to use teammates to lessen the danger 
 of going into battel......... they are expendable you're not. The AI of the enemies in the game 
 are also very good, which makes the game a little harder than most shooters even in normal difficulty. 
 Other than that, the objectives are straightforward since it shows up on you HUD. This game is 
 a must have for those gamers who love a good shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarPyhg
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 3, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  I'll put it simply &amp; quick...
  
  The Good:
  Superb Campaign Graphics
  Vast Explorable Multiplayer Maps
  Decent Physics &amp; Death Effects
  Nice Explosion Effects, 
 Even In MP
  Defending Can Be Pretty Intense &amp; Fun On Co-Op
  Pretty Realistic With 1-3 Shot Kills
  
  The Bad:
  Multiplayer &amp; Campaign Modes Are So 
 Different Even In Graphics That You Would Swear There Run By Two Totally Differing Game Engines.
 
  No Wall Hugging In MP.
  Campaign Rifles/Pistols &amp; Sniper Rifles Feel Pretty Inneffective And Uninteresting, Not To 
 Mention The Thin Selection of Them.
  Multiplayer Weapons All Sound, Fire &amp; Feel The Same.
  Campaign Friendly AI Is Not Only Inept 
 But Has An Even Harder Time Navigating Than The PC Team.
  The Campaign Has Very Few Enemies To Fight And No Alteration of Their Positions On Replaying.
 
  The Enemy AI In MP is Pretty Dumb And Is Only Compensated By Numbers.
  No Co-Op Campaign of The Singleplayer Game.
  
  Campaign:
  Graphics=10
  Sound=9
  Gameplay=7
 
  Stabability=8
  
  MP/Co-Op/Solo
  Graphics=8
  Sound=8
  Gameplay=8
  Stabability=9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mugen76
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 3, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I'm not going to deny that Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter for the Xbox 360 is a superb game. 
 But not for this gamer. I really wanted to like this game. I tried to like it every time I popped 
 in the game disc. I could not bring myself to like this game. It's way too frustrating and the 
 controls are way too complex to hold my interest.
  
  The first thing you'll notice in this game are the superb graphics. The graphical effects, from 
 lighting to smoke effects, and others really set this game apart from all other 360 games before 
 Gears of War. It really feels like you're there.
  
  The game developers really went the extra mile to see that you are immersed in the experience further 
 with the realistic sound effects. The music also makes the game feel more like a war movie.
  
  What really kills the game is the overly complicated controls. The amount of button combinations 
 you have to press really is too much, and your allies' AI is... how should I put this... umm... STUPID! 
 Half the time your allies are too stupid to take cover, and while we're on the subject, taking 
 cover is way too complicated. It should be reduced to a button press like in Gears of War or Rainbow 
 Six Vegas, but they had to overcomplicate the controls. Too bad, because gameplay is the crutch 
 of the game, and the entire scheme is overcomplicated, sinking the game along with it.
  
  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter gets a 2 out of 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimwheeler
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 2, 2007 2:55 am PT
Review:  Today, Tom Clancy is now better known for putting his name to computer games, than he is for writing 
 novels. Luckily the games that have taken his name have all been qulity pieces and ghost recon 
 is no exception.
  
  The plot of the game runs along the same line as Clancy's books, with geo-politial tensions, a 
 potential coup d'etat and the kidnapping of the US President. The story is fairly enjoyable and 
 as with all of the games that are from the Clancy franchise, they have a air of authenticity and 
 realism.
  
  Gameplay itself involves around one player controlled character and three members of your squad. 
 These teammates can be ordered to move to positions to try and flank the enemy, set to and aggressive 
 (meaning they will fire on any enemy in sight) or stealth (meaning they will fire only when engaged) , 
 or they can just follow and cover you. The AI of your squad-mates is not great sometimes, but for 
 the most part it is effective, with teammates rarely putting themselves in danger. At certain points 
 in the game you will also be allowed to gain indirect control over a number of vehicles including 
 the apache helicopter gunship and a M1-A2 Abrahms battle tank. These can serve as valuable cover 
 in open areas and their extra firepower is very welcome. There are also a number of gadgets like 
 heat and night vision, guns that can round corners and a unmanned reconnaissance vehicle that can 
 be used to scout for enemy positions.
  
  Graphically and aurally the game adds much to the atmosphere of realism. Each gun makes a distinct 
 sound when fired. Armored vehicles rumble by realistically. The heat haze in the distance and the 
 view of the city when flying by helicopter are particularly impressive. Although not pushing the 
 x-box 360 to its absolute limits, it still looks truly next generation 
  
  A special note must go the the fantastic multiplayer options in advanced warfighter. They are extremely 
 comprehensive. There are a number of missions to complete in co-op mode and an other number of 
 modes which involve capturing and defending areas of the map. There are also x-box live options 
 which I have not been fortunate enough to try.
  
  One word of warning though there are only two difficulty settings, Normal or hard. Even on normal 
 you and your teammates will only take a few hits before its game over. At times the game can be 
 a challenge.
  
  Advanced warfighter has to be one of the top five games for the x-box 360. Its combination of good 
 storyline, realism, the multiplayer options and compelling gameplay have led to a wonderful, if 
 challenging game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hijij_ep
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 31, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  it always impresses me to get a challenge in a game like this, the enemy A. I plays fantastic and 
 will try their hardest to defeat you with strength in numbers or tactically. However the only reason 
 i gave it a 8 and not 10 for game play is sometimes all of the features (cross com, ducking for 
 cover, tactical map, managing your troops, etc.) can be frustrating and down right angering because 
 their is sometimes just to much to do in one particular frame of time. The game however makes up 
 for this by giving you an ability to plan your assault before it begins by placing your team and 
 your vehicles in the place that you want them to be. Graphics are stunning with realistic lighting, 
 and the sound is simply sublime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperLinkX
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 30, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  I went to gamestop today (dec. 30) hoping to get a like used or refurbished 360 becuz my dad wasn't 
 willing to pay 300 for a new one. so i cal up EB games and they said ya we hav one! so i was like 
 KOOL!!! so meh and my dad got in the call and went to the roosevelt mall wer its located and theres 
 an EB games there and a gamestop there (yes weird) . so not paying attention my dad went to gamestop 
 and got in line so we ask them for one of there used or refurbished 360's and they say we dont 
 have any while i reilized wer in GS!!!! so my dad's like whatever and ready to buy the 300 dollor 
 one the employee says that if i buy the 400 dollor one then u'll be saving like 150 on memory that 
 u'll have to buy later and my dad was pissed but bought it anyway and this game came with it for 
 free!!!!! So instead of getting gears of war or ranbow six las vegas i got this not knowing it 
 would be so awsome!!!!! So theres my story on how i got destined to get this game!!! its great!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: judith40
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  GRAW is a great game, its has strong points in almost every level, no in every level!. Its campaing 
 is short, fun and addictive but where its really got it going on is in the multiplayer and the 
 online play. When i bought i played the storyline and was inpresed but not completely then i played 
 the online and i was totalay hooked up i mean the multiplater is perfect. In conclusion GRAW is 
 one of does games that makes the 360 look great and makes the PS3 look like a giant monkeys ass. 
 If you have an x box 360 buy GRAW and if you have a PS3 a pitty you fool. I PITTY THE FOOL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big-joe-cool
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 30, 2006 2:21 am PT
Review:  Even while my 360 was still in the mail (from eBay) I was dead-set on getting this game because 
 of all the reviews. I jumped the gun a bit and rented the original XBox version to get a taste, 
 unfortunately all I tasted was mediocrity. Not deterred the first thing I did when my 360 arrived 
 was buy GRAW and have never looked back.
  
  The game is thick with atmosphere and although, yes some innocent bystanders here and there would 
 have been nice, you really feel like you're there. The graphics are near flawless and only very 
 few glitches threaten to spoil this otherwise amazing game. I can't really comment on the sound 
 as I'm stuck with cruddy TV speakers, but the realism is definitely there.
  
  As for difficulty, a walk in the park best describes the game on 'Normal'. I completed it in under 
 5.5 hours and I wasn't even trying. The 'Hard' setting however transforms the game completely. 
 No more laying in the middle of the street mowing down waves of soldiers with a LMG, stay exposed 
 for even a few seconds and you'll soon find a hole in your head. Accurate weapons and tactics are 
 the order of the day here, this poses a huge problem with the helicopter turret levels however 
 as you're completely exposed to headhunting soldiers poring out of trucks and alleys faster than 
 you can kill them.
  
  Buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legionnaire501
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 29, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  at first when i played this game i was like, this gameplay sucks! but then, as i got into it, i 
 started to really enjoy it. the tactical side of the game is a little overwhelming for me, since 
 i'm not really a fan of those shooters but this game grew on me! don't be fooled by this game. 
 it is truly masterful if you give it more than 10 minutes of this game! also, you can't like turn 
 on your xbox, play it for like 5 minutes and turn it off. this game doesn't have that many save 
 points so, if you pick up the controller you are going to have to play it for about a halfan hour 
 at the least. great game over all! =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RX552VBK
Rating: 3.6
Date: Dec 29, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  I'm sorry, my fellow gamers, believe me I wanted to love this game. The next gen shooter I thought 
 would start a revolution. It didn't -- at least not for me. Like many other reviewers, who are in 
 the minority, I too felt Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter deserves near-zero rating. Why? A game 
 with this level of design shouldn't be this unfun a gaming experience. Let me start with the incompetent 
 AI that makes up the brains of your fellow G. R. A. W. members. With their programmed suicidal tendencies 
 (like running directly into enemy fire) make the game horrific to play. There were times I just 
 shot them myself and let them slowly expire so I can easily complete the mission.
  Another thing that bugs me about G. R. A. W. for a game that produces great environments to battle 
 in I couldn't help feeling so closed in. Any time you move off the battlefield your HUD becomes 
 snowy and you are warned that you risk ending the mission. For a next generation game the cities 
 and towns should have been far more open even without people (I'll except the idea that the entire 
 population was evacuated -- yeah right) . C'mon, show a few civilians running in and out of buildings! 
 There's no excuse from the developers I will except -- not these days. Something else I'd like to 
 mention in this review, it's something all FPS seem to suffer from -- maybe suffer is the wrong word. 
 How about plagued by? I hate the fact that in all shooters enemy soldiers (droids, monsters, etc) 
 have absolute perfect aim and can shoot you miles away, behind cover and through smoke screens, 
 etc. This design plague is something I wish game designers would stop doing; it's a cheat that 
 is done to lengthen an already simplistic game. If I have problems aiming perfectly (because I'm 
 a human being and under fire) then human enemies should make subtle mistakes -- like missing two 
 out of fifty shots. I have a brother who has served in Desert Storm 1 and 2 and has played this 
 and other shooters and it's something he first brought to my attention. Don't get me wrong. I don't 
 think I have to mention that no game can ever replicate the actual experience of being in a real 
 firefight -- this is a game -- not a real war. Still, I think with the power of the new generation 
 of consoles these little design cheats should be eliminated from shooters. The great idea of the 
 HUD system, which is a marvelous idea based on proposed design feature for real world future soldiers, 
 has a serious design flaw. It doesn't indicate enemies right in front of you -- until of course they're 
 right in front of you and can get a lock on you. The UAV helps somewhat but can easily be shot 
 down and leave you guessing... what's the point being equipped with all this advanced warfighter 
 technology when you're easily wasted for peeking around a corner?
  On the plus side G. R. A. W. is a wonderfully rendered game. Mexico City is grand looking (even though 
 you can't go far) , the shanty town is also excellent. The sound effects, music and voices are also 
 well produced; this also has the best explosion graphics I've seen in awhile. Unfortunately, these 
 minor thumbs up doesn't help a game that played on the XBOX360 should have been a far more moving 
 experience than being like climb K2 without a rope. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advance Warfighter is probably one of the most realistic and tactical shooter I ever 
 played. I mean the only tactic shooter I like is SWAT 4 and now GRAW is now the best tactical shooter 
 I ever played.
  
  Now GRAW puts you in a massive battlefield against terrorists and GRAW isn't a shooter like go 
 around shooting and be invincible. You gotta think, play it stealthy and strategic. In GRAW the 
 best experience I think to be quite honest is the single player mode because it gives an alright 
 story but man the gameplay is way different than the multiplayer but now I am not saying multiplayer 
 is not bad, its good but single player I think is more fun. For one thing you get to view in third 
 person and third person is better in this game and in single player you get more into the action 
 in ghost recon advance warfighter. Like fighting tanks, massive amount of troops and many more. 
 Now the one thing you need to get used to in this game is that it takes awhile to learn to play 
 this game but if your a ghost recon fan then I guess you woudn't have any problems learning the 
 game quick. Now the multiplayer is good, it kind of reminds me of counter strike. Like you can 
 have team elimination or coop elimination but one thing I don't like I'm not playing ghost recon 
 advance warfighter I mean the single player mode is way different than the multiplayer. The multiplayer 
 feels like your playing another game in my opinion. But it is fun and good multiplayer though.
 
  
  Now the graphics are gorgeous you can't deny these graphics they are totally superb. The sound 
 is very hardcore, I mean put this game on surround speakers full blast and you will see what I 
 am talking about, it feels like a battlefield in your house.
  
  Anyways GRAW is a must buy to anyone who owns a xbox 360. I mean I am not a tactical shooter guy 
 but this game is well done and it worth playing. I really recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hgsmjsje
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 24, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  tom clancey has really outdone himself this time. because ghost recon advanced warfighter blew me 
 away!! it is truly an advanced warfighter 1the controls are perfect the graphics are amazing and 
 the team commanding is awesome!!! you are captin scott mitchell in 2013 and your battling the mexicans. sometimes 
 it does get irratating because it so hard and frustrating. because keep dying and dying. the sound 
 sounds like actual warfare and this game is one of the best titles for the xbox 360!!! and i highly 
 recommend buying it!!! and also this game gets pretty long and annoying when in levels. and the general 
 is really annoying!! so anyway just buy this game anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 24, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is an excellent shooting game. Pretty long, took me about 20 hours 
 to finish, because many levels are difficult. This was the first game I bought for the 360. It 
 is definitely up there with halo 2 and half life. The graphics in this game really showed what 
 the 360 is capable of, and online was great too! There's really no downside to this game except 
 how you die so easily, but that is because this is a stealth game. I definitely recommend this 
 to anyone who owns a 360 if not wait for the 2nd Ghost Recon coming out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigwiiner
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 21, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is an excellent shooting game. Pretty long, took me about 20 hours 
 to finish, because many levels are difficult. This was the first game I bought for the 360. It 
 is definitely up there with halo 2 and half life. The graphics in this game really showed what 
 the 360 is capable of, and online was great too! There's really no downside to this game except 
 how you die so easily, but that is because this is a stealth game. I definitely recommend this 
 to anyone who owns a 360 if not wait for the 2nd Ghost Recon coming out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 20, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  now i haven't played evry single game in the g. r series i own number 2 but found it rather difficult 
 to get in to. but i but graw 2 weeks ago and love it the games learning curve isn't as steep and 
 drab and the graphics are stunning. but behind all that flash is a lot of substance the single player 
 will take anyone about 15 hours or more and it's
  fun though the a. i does need some work you can manage by yourself. now i don't have xbox live gold 
 so i did miss out on the biggest and the best part but i had fun with it anyway and it was still 
 worth the wait and the 39.99 i paid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: workmane
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 20, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  For me, the campaign mode was a lot of fun, until about the sixth mission when I got really sick 
 of doing the same thing. Taking cover and trying to make my way to the next checkpoint. While I 
 enjoy the game, I could not play it straight through. Have to play a few missions, come back a 
 couple weeks later and play a couple more... and so on. Maybe I have a short attention span, but 
 thats my take on it.
  
  The graphics are fantastic as is the sound.
  
  The other reviewers who say that the AI that your team has is terrible are understating it. Its 
 like these guys want to die, they are pretty much useless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tungsten88
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 20, 2006 1:01 am PT
Review:  GRAW was my first 360 game and will hold a special place right next to Gears of War. First off, 
 this game is not for everyone. If you like running into a room like a madman wielding a shotgun 
 in bullet time, this game is not for you. But, if you enjoy a slow, strategic approach to a headshot 
 from a 1/2 a mile away, buy this game.
  
  Gameplay- As stated before, this game is strategic with a lot of recon action involved and shooting 
 from a distance from ambush. The much vaunted cross-com works great and your support elements are 
 extremely useful, but not invincible. A few gripes I have are with the friendly AI which is extremely 
 stupid and can't use cover. I usually just leave them behind if I can't find a good place for them. 
 The enemy AI, however, is superb and will rush you if you try to take cover too long.
  
  Graphics- Look great on a HDTV. The environments are excellent, but the characters could have done 
 with some work. The guns are modeled well, bu the clip isn't taken out when reloading. That's it. 
 Otherwise this is one of the best-looking 360 games.
  
  Sound-Excellent. Gunfire sound crisp, enemies actaully speak Spanish and explosions sound great.
 
  
  Value- Between the achievements and the co-op and the multiplayer, you'll be here for a while. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 19, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  It's very rare that I read such glowing reviews about a game from almost every major videogame 
 website and/or written publication that I just end up disagreeing with. 'Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: 
 Advanced Warfighter' (can we PLEASE get Clancy to stop having to have his actual name in the titles 
 of these games?!!) is one of those rare games. I honestly don't have any idea why this game has 
 been scored so high from almost everyone. I spent more time yelling at my screen in frustration 
 than I did actually enjoying the game. In the end, I am just shocked and confused as to why everyone 
 is saying this game is so good.
  
  In the campaign part of the game you play as a leader of a 4-man Ghost team. The plot here is purely 
 by-the-numbers Clancy-esque about terrorists in Mexico. And if you have played any of the Rainbow 
 Six, Splinter Cell, or any other Ghost Recon game you will know what to expect here. Not that I 
 went into this game expecting anything different, but this is getting real old. Why is it every 
 single Tom Clancy game has essentially the same plot only with different main characters, but no 
 one seems to think this is a downfall?
  
  You then are sent on various missions throughout Mexico all while trying to keep your stupid team 
 alive and keep your butt out of harm's way, as well. This is where the first problem you will notice 
 will pop up. The A. I. of your squad-mates is atrocious. They are constantly leaving cover to fire 
 upon the enemy and generally don't hit anything they are aiming at anyways. In one mission, I had 
 to restart because my teammates got caught up on the enviroment and wouldn't move. Ugh. On the 
 flip side, the CPU A. I. is excellent to the point of annoyance. On one mission, where you are by 
 yourself, the CPU seems to know where you are instantly and can hit you from miles away with an 
 assault rifle when that would be virtually impossible in real life. And after your team dies (which 
 will happen quite frequently) , you can either drop a health pack on them (which brings them back 
 to life, but with minimal health) or you can just let them rot and do the mission yourself.
  
  There are two problems with that scenario. First off, if I am carrying a health pack to heal 
 my teammates....... WHY CAN'T I HEAL MYSELF?!! There are many missions where you get no health relief 
 and this being a 'tactical shooter', if you get hit with a couple bullets you are dead. It would 
 be nice to be able to heal myself when I am in the red, instead of having to waste it on a brain-dead 
 teammate who will eventually do something stupid, get themselves killed, and die anyways. And why 
 don't your teammates heal you? That's a good question!
  
  The other way to go would be to just do the mission yourself (which is essentially what you end 
 up doing even if your team is still up and breathing) . But doesn't that go against what the point 
 of this game is supposed to be? In most of the reviews I have read, people don't seem to have a 
 problem with this. I do. Teammate A. I. in a tactical game like this is essential. If it doesn't 
 work, the game doesn't work.
  
  And since I have already went over the fact that you will be dying a lot, I should bring up the 
 lack of checkpoints in the game. The game is only about (maybe not even) ten hours long. Most of 
 that is spent re-doing parts that you have already done because the developers were too stupid 
 or lazy to put in adequate checkpoints. In the previously mentioned 'solo sniper misson', I got 
 hit a few times at the beginning and went into 'red health' (where at that point if someone were 
 to even fart on you, you would die) . I got to a checkpoint and it saved my health status. I then 
 had to play the rest of the long mission basically without the ability to be hit whatsoever &amp; 
 having to reload my checkpoint over and over when I was hit. That was boring, frustrating, and 
 flat-out ridiculous. Sure I could restart the mission from the beginning, by why should I have 
 to?
  
  Another overrated aspect about this game is the graphics. Sure they are nice, but they are not 
 even close to being as good as most reviews are telling you. The lighting is excellent and characters 
 all look great and move realistically. And the times where you are manning the machine gun on the 
 chopper while overlooking the city looks fantastic. But other than that, it definately won't blow 
 you away and I have seen much better on the 360 from titles that came out before this one. I think 
 it was nice that they re-created Mexico in such a way that it makes you feel like you are actually 
 there....... except for the fact that there are no civilians anywhere to be found. Are you telling 
 me that everyone in Mexico fled the city in anticipation of the terrorist attack? I don't think 
 so. Overall it's a nice looking game, but the visuals may be the most overly hyped thing about 
 this title.
  
  The audio, on the other hand, is very good. The voice work is all excellent and it sounds very 
 good for a shooter. The music cuts in at the right times and guns all sound authentic. The game 
 is only a bit better while playing over Xbox Live. Once again, it's fun but nothing that we haven't 
 seen before. And that is the theme I felt throughout this game. This is supposed to be a 'next-gen' 
 game. And a highly rated one, at that. This felt like I was playing a overrated regular Xbox title 
 that had slightly prettier graphics. There is nothing here that you haven't seen before in other 
 games or even in the other Tom Clancy games.
  
  So now that I have ripped the game a new one, you might be asking yourself why did he even bother 
 to give the game a 'good' score if he hated it so much? . Well it does have SOME good points.
 
  
  A couple of the campaign missions are actually fun to play. Mostly because the game doesn't require 
 your teammates to be that smart in those particular missions. I really liked calling in an attack 
 chopper to blow up stuff that I coudn't get to or didn't have the firepower to handle myself. The 
 very brief sequences when you get to actually use that big machine gun on the chopper while flying 
 around the city is very fun. I think the best part of the game is your character's 'Advanced \Warfighter 
 HUD'. This is a thing that other games should blatently rip off and should do so yesterday. It's 
 very handy and makes the game playable, because without it you wouldn't stand a chance. And here's 
 to having more sniper guns that shoot through walls in more videogames! The other weapons at your 
 disposal are all fun to use, as well. The game does have a great presentation and has a very polished 
 feel to it. And like I mentioned earlier, if it's your thing, the multi-player is fun depending 
 on your tastes.
  
  I have always found the Tom Clancy games to be a bit overrated, but this one really takes the cake. 
 It's not a terrible game, by any means, but it certainly is undeserving of all the hype it received. 
 G. R. A. W. makes a huge mistake in not making your teammates relevant in battle and are essentially 
 useless. In a tactical squad-based shooter, this usally means that the game is also useless. Apparently, 
 I am in the minority in this belief though. My best recommendation would be to rent this first. 
 Maybe the things that I found wrong with the title won't bug you too much and you will have fun 
 with it. Even if you do, though, the game isn't very long and if you don't like playing over Xbox 
 Live the game won't last long. Of course, that might be a good thing....... at least in my opinion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay_k3
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 19, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  My first game for the 360 was Ghost Recon. I was amazed at the graphics and the game itself. The 
 graphics display great scenery especially an aerial view. The levels can be intense and its guaranteed 
 that you will play for hours. The game offers you to command your own team and various vehicles 
 in the game. You are able to give strategic commands to abram tanks and apaches. The multiplayer, 
 which is much different compared to the compaign version is fun with friends in your living room 
 or on xbox live. Overall the game is above standards in all aspects. This game will keep you busy 
 for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter for the Xbox 360 is a great title to own. It's stunning 
 visuals, mostly excellent gameplay (especially the multi-player) look and feel next-gen. Granted 
 not many people can explain what next-gen is, but this game is perhaps one of the best examples 
 to showcase what next generation gaming is all about.
  
  The story is the usual Tom Clancy style terrorists hold someone hostage and threaten to destroy 
 civilisation using advanced equipment , something along the lines of that. The story has a few 
 twists and turns, but nothing particularly groundbreaking. It's virtually non-existent to be totally 
 honest. The banter between your main character and the debriefing is kept short and sweet and acted 
 out nicely. The gameplay plays noticeably different then the other Ghost Recon titles and it's 
 all the better for it. The crucial difference is you only play as one character throughout the 
 single player campaign and, surprisingly, it's better to play in the third person perspective. 
 Though there is an option to play in first person and playing the game in this perspective is somewhat 
 shallow.
  
  The game plays just like most recent shooters and fans of the genre can easily get to the grips 
 with the controls. Players that are new to the franchise, fear not, as there's an excellent tutorial 
 mission before you start the actual campaign that covers just about everything in the game! Everything 
 is kept simple and for most of the time, minimal. Shooting, aiming and all of that is easy to execute. 
 The only thing I don't like about the control is the weapon inventory, in particular, choosing 
 your grenades. In th e heat of the battle it does get confusing and it's a bit of a kerfuffle. 
 Ordering your men is easy but this is where the game falls. Though your men are competent enough 
 to listen to your commands they don't always carry them out the way that you want them too. They 
 mostly stand out in the open and can get killed easily and quickly. They don't usually shoot the 
 bad guys either, it's more of a hit and miss sort of a thing. For most of the single player campaign, 
 you might as well be on your lonesome. The enemy AI, for most of the time, is disappointing too. 
 The campaign is good, but it won't last with only 11 missions to complete (though in respect, they 
 are quite challenging even on the easiest settings) .
  
  The multi-player side of the game is far, far better. In fact, this is the main bulk of the game. 
 It excels in this mode and makes up for the short-comings that the single-player campaign made. 
 There's the usual team-deathmatch, capture the flag etc. The maps are plentiful and designed really 
 well. The amount of tactics that is available is deep and plentiful. Each time you play multi-player 
 on Live it always manages to feel different with each match. Great!
  
  The graphics are simply amazing. The draw distance in New Mexico is staggering! The environments 
 have great attention to detail, as does the weapons, character models, and vehicles. When this 
 was released it was considered to be the best looking games on the 360, and is still one of the 
 best looking games available for the system.
  
  The sound is great, the music swells up in intense action and the occasional emotional scene. The 
 voice acting is soild, spoiled by some dreadful lines. The sound effects are crisp and feel right. 
 From creeping around cover, shouting orders to throwing grenades. Of course, the game sounds impressive 
 in 5.1 surround sound.
  
  This game will last you. The single player campaign is really there to train you for Xbox Live, 
 so the multi-player is what will make you keep coming back for more! Don't get me wrong, the single 
 player campaign is great fun and soild, however, it's not as engaging as the multi-player. Unfortunately, 
 the AI lets the single player campaign down.
  
  Overall I thoroughly recommend this game to anyone who is interested in tactical shooters or a 
 fantastic multi-player mode. The gameplay in general is exciting and excellent, though, at times 
 it does tend to make you feel like you played this all before and the AI does let it down. The 
 game's graphics is excellent and makes the game feel next-gen. If you own an Xbox 360 then buy 
 this game. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lemur911
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 19, 2006 12:58 am PT
Review:  G. R. A. W. review
  
  We were all excited for next-gen to finally happen, we waited out in lines for hours on end, we 
 bided on eBay; we scavenged the streets for open stores. But we should ask our selves; Was it 
 worth it? the answer is yes. G. R. A. W. is truly next-gen, with highly polished graphics, HD support 
 and phenomenal multiplayer on X-Box live.
  
  To start, visuals are the strong point of the game. Bullets wear away cover, causing plumes of 
 dust to jump from the rubble, and concrete wears away from the bullet-riddled structures. The cities 
 are enormous, and every bit of it is fantastically detailed. The game also has a cinematic presence. 
 (Possible Spoiler) In the VIP 2 IS DOWN mission, you must run to the huge American embassy, and 
 it just blows up in your faceliterally. It can be so alarming and loud that you will jump out 
 of your seat, especially for you surround sound users. After that you must sprint to see if the 
 Mexican president is all right, luckily he lived. You must protect him at all costs. Half way into 
 the chaotic battle, the sounds become muffled and the screen tints to a different color, sort of 
 sepia toned. Dramatic music comes on with screams from your allies warning you of your surroundings. 
 Its a really beautiful scene. Gameplay is compromised of taking cover using the unique and flexible 
 engine, using the 'cross-com' helmet technology which is actually in development by the U. S. army. 
 A. I. is weak, which isn't a first in the Ghost Recon series.
  
  Multiplayer is spectacular, with a great lobbying system, balanced classes, customizable characters, 
 and loads of achievements to unlock, this is THE game you should get with your 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ballforeva
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 18, 2006 12:48 am PT
Review:  I bought this game a long time ago, few months ago, and I didnt start playing it until very recently, 
 being last week. I was occupied with other marvelous games, but when I played Ghost Recon, I really 
 wish I had a time machine.
  
  Tom Clancy, a genius author, has his books made into virtual entertainment, a feat that not everybody 
 can achieve. Ghost Recon makes you think ahead, coming up with multiple strategies in order to 
 tackle the enemy, reduce casualty as much as possible, and successfully complete the objectives 
 of the mission. If you are not used to thried person tactical shooters, then the controls might 
 be a tad complex. Once you get the hang of it, you will not be able to put it down. You get to 
 command a team of your own to watch your back while you are busy blowing up stuff, placement is 
 very important here, if you put the team in a wide open area, where they are vulnerable, you will 
 have to waste time reviving them, and thus exposing yourself to danger at the same time. Your team 
 also acts as a hit and run, where you can quickly disperse your team, kill the enemy, and quickly 
 come back without putting yourself at risk. Don't get too excited about this though, it's designed 
 in a way that even when your team is helping you out in the front, you will be busy fighting off 
 anything in the back. It's all about teamwork, and flawless cooperation. You will get your share 
 of blasting heads off, just keep in mind that you may get your own head blasted off too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocknroll627
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 17, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter was my first tactical shooter that I played, and I must say, if 
 all tactical shooters are this good, I may keep getting them. In the game, you take control of 
 Captain Mitchel, a ghost squad leader. You start out in a surprisingly good tutorial explaining 
 the controls of the game. The story takes place in Mexico City where terrorists do some stuff, 
 America butts in, yadda, yadda, yadda. Through most of the game, you have 3 guys with you to control. 
 Before the mission, you get to choose the class of the soldiers with you and the guns you wish 
 to use. In some points during the game, you control tanks and helicopters. The command controls 
 are quite simple, and you catch onto them quickley. Really the whole control scheme is easy to 
 learn. Cover, cover, cover... that's all you need to survive. Sometimes, however, your squad members 
 will run out in the battlefield and die. You have to run out and heal them if you want them to 
 stay alive. The game does get quite difficult. You get into large gunfights with masses of people 
 around you... espicially toward the end. You have to sit back and plan your strategies before attacking. 
 That was my problem when i started playing.
  
  The graphics and sound on this game are just amazing. The player models, environment, and bullet 
 trails all look amazing. The sounds of the guns, the people yelling... it all sounds great.
  
  I myself don't have Xbox Live, so I haven't played multiplayer yet. The single player takes 
 about 8 or so hours to beat, and then you can go on hard mode for the achievement points. I really 
 liked this game, and it welcomed me to the world of tactical shooters. I'm sure anyone would like 
 it just as much as I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5oniicc
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  The serios problem is that the game creators didn't put good controls in the game and they should 
 of put an easyer game mode , the medium is hard and frustrating , and the hard une ... you don't 
 wana talk about it, its super hard you can't bread in there and your team doesn't get any better.
 
  The game is good and all but it has some bugs and thats why I give this score.
  So I end my review for Tom Clancy ghost recon advenced warfighter.
  I give 9.0.
  This is a 
 good game and suggest you buy it , but if they could lower the prices it would be radical. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360-0wnage
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 16, 2006 5:49 am PT
Review:  Great game well worth playing if u have a 360 i got it and its amzing plenty to do 9.1 and great 
 for multipayer i played this for half an hour then got addicted to it :) :) its a must bye if u 
 like the modern shoot em up i think its better then vegas so im giving this gr8 game 9.1
  
  THIS GAME IS AMAZING ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! its a must buy griaffics are gd and the 
 sound it so relistic and the online play is fun wiv ur m8s 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iman2050
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 15, 2006 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Very good game shooter and action lots of guns nice story and good gameplay. the story is cool 
 and lots of action and enimes to kill nice GUNS and nice laser vision. i put it on so i could kill 
 some eniemes and never took it off try not to get used to it it ruins the action. Also excellent 
 use of the map system. I also love using the tanks and helicopters to kill from a far distince 
 which is cool. All in all The game is rally good and i think anybody who loves a shooting game 
 then they should check this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hack40
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 13, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Full Auto and this were my first 360 games. I tried this game out and though I didn't liked it 
 at first... I was soon putting my liking into this game. It was because of the very fun multiplayer 
 I would play with siblings. The graphics in this game are beautiful. One of the best graphics ever. 
 The visuals are great and well done and the areas are very detailed. The action-packed thrills 
 in this game are a great experience with the 360 and a great way to thank Ubisoft. I may not be 
 a extreme FPS fan but I do like FPS. Just not a big one. I'm more of a Platformer and Action/Adventure 
 fan. The sound in this game is great but not perfect but superb in most ways. So, a 9 for the graphics. 
 The graphics are perfect so a 10 for the graphics. I wouldn't give the gameplay a 10 due to the 
 fact I'm not big on the story in this game. But it seems quite good. The last word for this game 
 is that it's fantastic and all. I may not be big on FPS but FPS are very good. Gameplay- The multiplayer 
 is addicting and fun but I'm not big on the story in this game. Graphics- Perfect. Very well detailed 
 and among the most gorgeous game I have ever laid my eyes on Sound- The sound effects are great 
 but I don't know why it should get a 10. A 9. Entertainment- It's addicting, fun, and innovative 
 a lot. OVERALL= Clancy game fans will love it. And so will most FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxXeroxX
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 10, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  This game is probably the best GR out there. The graphics are quite amazing. Everything has beautiful 
 graphics. The sound is pretty great. The controls are pretty easy to get use to. You can control 
 your squad and their AI is pretty decent. Overall I recommend buying this game if you're into these 
 kinds of games.
  
  Missions sometimes get a little hard, especially with CO-OP. Overall I recommend buying this game 
 if you're into these kinds of games.
  
  The first mission is a training mode so you won't start off by not knowing what to do. It tells 
 you in well explained details what to do and where to go. Get it. Get it. Get it. Get it. Get it. Get 
 it. Get it. Get it. Get it. Get it. Get it. Get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giflow
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 9, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  This game shines in the multipalyer, very fun. Im looking foward to the sequel, i wish they could 
 of kept the graphics for the single player for the multiplayer ,but i know that takes madd memory 
 and would of affected the game in a bad way if they did that. This is kinda of a late reveiw ,but 
 if you dont have xbox live and are looking for a great multiplayer game this is it .Every thing 
 is top notch about this game ,just they limit tou in multiplayer, like for example no cover, and 
 also i think the ending is way too easy ,but its nowhere near as short as Gears of war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellfire1504
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 8, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  It can only be described as nothing less than amazing. Another thing if you ever have lots of people 
 over or something you really need to rent this game if you don't own it. It is probably the most 
 successful game of all the Tom Clancy games or at least of the Ghost Recons. I especially admire 
 the look-around technology in the guns on the single player. this game also has some of the best 
 graphics and I don't think any glitches. I also was very attached to the controls, and really convenient. 
 I found this game highly addictive and would suggest it to any X BOX 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellsSatansMC
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 8, 2006 3:33 am PT
Review:  It's hard to sum up Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter in a small statement but I will try. First 
 off the landscape is amazing. Mexico City feels expansive and unending with buildings and barrios 
 as far as the eye can see. While there is an absence of civilians when you roam the city, it can 
 easily be explained by the day's events forcing them to hide inside or vacate the city. The weapons 
 are great; they are futuristic without feeling sci-fi. The sound is great each shot sounds realistic 
 and distinct with slide movement and brass ejections. Guns shots, grenade blasts, and missile shots 
 all sound amazing! There are scenes with massive explosions that can actually scare the devil out 
 of you!
  My only complaint of GRAW, is that when controlling more that one unit (ie - Ghost Recon and an 
 Apache Helicopter) the standard D-pad which cycles between the units can be a little sloppy. For 
 example, when you are in the heat of battle and are scrolling to the 'copter to order them to take 
 out an entrenched enemy, you might actually send you teammates over that way, putting them right 
 in front to the enemy.
  All in all, this game is superior! I will admit that I was NOT a fan of tactical TPSs on PS, PS2. 
 But, I must admit that I will be giving tactical TPSs a serious chance on the 360 and hope that 
 this is just a taste of things to come! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmaxpower
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 7, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  I am sorry , to all fans of this game but having a distinct fondness for this type of game , I 
 was more then a little disappointed.
  
  1. Your team members are about as easy to control as an articulated truck.
  they keep getting 
 themselves in trouble, i have played many game's where the control of other team mates was far 
 better. desert storm for example , you can actually switch control between each team member and 
 position them according to how you would like to carry out your mission , this lead to far more 
 tactical maneuvers then ghost recon which was basically run and hide behind a corner peer out and 
 shoot. And don't forget to hide those monkeys of team mates.
  
  2. the whole advanced warfighter bit , the ability of your digital display to pick out enemy's 
 is quite cool and a welcome addition, but i felt they again felt flat with the team mate part I 
 never felt the use to see what ever my team mates where seeing probabily because they where off 
 hidding behind a wall some place, ooh yeahh shooting around the corners was quite cool.
  
  Controlling vehicles was also done before in halo you could even get into the majority of them.
 
  
  My final point is it is quite easy , enough said this game is try to be half tactical half halo 
 and ends up in that cold grey space in between.
  
  Sorry kids you can rant on about the graphics all you want but this is the xbox 360 the graphic's 
 are to be expected the game is not good 6/10 for me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheche321
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  this the best game in years i have played great sound great graphics great gameplay really enjoyed 
 the fact the story was realistic and it was a good interduction to the 360 for me it came with 
 my 360 i love it i will bye every sequal if there this good well this is and out standing game 
 over all the sound is impressing when you put the game on hard it is near impossible let alone 
 medium has great command base game play i simply love it it has a small problem tho i often find 
 my friends having trouble with the controlls it takes a while to get used too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobthomas101
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 4, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Personally i do not own this game, however, i have played hours verses my friends in the multiplayer. 
 IT IS AMAZING. if u have friends, which i hope you do, buy this game, simply to play it with them. 
 It is by far the best modern shooter that is out for XBOX 360. I did play a small amount of the 
 first player and it was resonible. However it was 3rd person unlike the multiplayer. I personally 
 think that 3rd person shooters are sh*t, just like Gears of War, but that is my prejeduce. Although, 
 if you like both then this is the best game you can buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamezilla57
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 3, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  This game was a great experience for me. GRAW was my second game I bought for the 360 and it's 
 one of my most enjoyed games so far. Let's just skip the other stuff and get to the good part, 
 the gameplay. This game is a mash-up of some of the best things about 3rd person shooters. GRAW 
 mixes duck and cover shooting with all out war! When I first played GRAW, I was shocked at how 
 great and easy to control the game was. You can control your squad by using the directional pad, 
 just run up to a wall to duck behind it, peak outside the wall and shoot, etc. Everything is spot 
 on and the controls are pretty easy to get use to after about 45 minutes to and hour of playing 
 the game. The absolute best part about GRAW is the sound! You hear bullets whizzing by you, explotions 
 are loud and obnoxious (just like real life) , and GRAW's sound just pulls you even more into this 
 wonderful experience. The graphics are great, although not perfect, they still are very easy on 
 the eyes. The explosions are spot on and the environments are luscious and beuatiful. The only 
 problem I could find is that some of the textures were sort of next gen looking, but that's still 
 not enought to bring this game down. The online multiplayer is superb and while it didn't really 
 keep me hooked for months, it's still something I'll come back to once in a while. Bottom line, 
 this game is a must have for all 360 owners.... period. The singplayer is awesome and the multiplayer 
 is great too and I suggest it to anyone who is either tired of Gears of War or looking for a great 
 3rd person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 4, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  GRAW is a superb game on most levels. It was one of the first great games for the Xbox 360, and 
 is still a great game.
  
  The single player experience is the best part in opinion. The cover system is good, and the tactical 
 maneuvering of your squad is fun. The only downside is that squad AI is pretty poor, probably to 
 require more skill from the player. But, all in all, they help.
  
  The game is hard. On the normal difficulty, you'll probably be doing levels several times before 
 finding the perfect strategy. Also, GRAW takes the term story to a new level, weaving a very good 
 story rife with politics and big cinematic events.
  
  Online multiplayer is lackluster however. It's no better than any other mulitplayer game. Many 
 times, I've had trouble finding good sized games, and when I got in, I was disappointed to find 
 that the cover system was missing. It's not horrible, but it doesn't compare favorably to Halo 
 2, Call of Duty 3, or Gears of War. On top of that, to compete with many people, you need to buy 
 the downloadable content, which was the last straw for me.
  
  Overall though the game is very good, and will provide a good length single player game to pass 
 the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFox-Elite
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 3, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is an adrenaline soaked masterpeice, worth every penny you pay.
 
  
  Using a variety of weapons and cutting edge technology, Scott Mitchell and the Ghosts prepare to 
 prevent a world caught in Nuclear warfare.
  
  Everything from surgical bombing, holding the hill, and mowing down enemies in a Black Hawk chopper, 
 this game will have you more addicted than Big Boss and his Cuban cigars, and trust me, thats hard 
 to acheive!
  
  The game isn't a run out and headshot somebody type, it requires accuracy, but how you go about 
 achieving that accuracy is down to you,
  both in the story mode and multiplayer, the Ghosts are given a drone to sniff out and register 
 on your Cross-Com eyepice, the positions of any hostilities, again, the way you achieve accuracy 
 is up to you, you can use you own eyes or the reliability of your fellow Ghosts if absolutely neccesary.
 
  
  Visuals so good they're blindingly beautiful, will have you seeking out the enemy in a real breathing 
 world where enemies will do all they can to tactically eliminate you, making the gameplay depending 
 on your difficulty setting; close to real life.
  Sounds are very detailed too, every gun does have its unique sound, no, you don't hear BANG! you 
 will hear different types if BANG! s just to be precise. The multiplayer is best done with friends 
 or other players, but still overall absolutely exceptional, the quality may be a little less or 
 it may be a little different compared to the story mode, and again its down to &gt; You&lt;
  
  The way the enemy reacts is down to you, shape the battlefield into a level playing field for 
 yourself with a variety of weapons and classes.
  Grenadiers, Marksmen, Riflemen And Auto-Riflemen will all be needed in different ways and for different 
 enemies; making the gameplay widely varied and interesting to play.
  
  If you have a suitable PC or an XBOX-360...
  You Don't Want This Game... No Soldier! You Need 
 This Game!
  Get Out There And Play It! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liverpoolraj
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 2, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  This game stands out from all of the others. Not only has it got graphics to make you feel in the 
 game it is the most realistic gameplay i have seen in a shooter. 1 or 2 shots and you're dead that 
 is what makes it amazing. Just looking everywhere for someone to shoot you can be a nerveous experience. 
 It puts you into the game straight away making you feel if you die the world will end. I cant tell 
 you how many times I zoomed in at every last space of each level just incase a 'badguy' could see 
 me. This game is just as good with your friends and it is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youngmurk911
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 30, 2006 9:39 pm PT
Review:  This is the best ghost recon i've ever played, as a matter of fact it doesn't even play like the 
 past ghost recons. its a refreshing new gameplay. if you are new to the ghost recon series this 
 is not a bad place to start trust me. even if your are not into tactical shooters this one will 
 reel you in, guaranteed. the gameplay is fluid there is no flaws what so ever, the graphics are 
 just great. if GAMESPOT says at its time of its realease its the best looking game on the 360 its 
 not much more to day about that. i don't really know how long the game is but tom clancy is not 
 known for making very short games, plus the game is only about 30 to 40 dollars. so if you don't 
 have this and you own a 360 its a MUST HAVE to put in the collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desertspartan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 6, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancys Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter, or G. R. A. W, is the third (proper) game in the Ghost 
 Recon series. It takes all the good points from previous Ghost Recon games and also includes many 
 new exciting features. The most innovative of these is the Cross-com. This is a window in the corner 
 of the screen which shows other team mates, vehicles or aerial views. Besides these new innovations 
 the games graphics, gameplay and sound are all brilliant.
  
  G. R. A. W is set in the Mexican city of. Mexico City in the year 2013. The Canadian Prime Minister 
 and the US and Mexican Presidents are due to sign a deal agreeing to crack down on illegal immigrants, 
 terrorism and drug running. As they are about to shake hand, shots are heard from outside. Within 
 a few minutes Mexican rebels have captured the building, killing the Canadian Prime Minister in 
 the process, but taking the Mexican and US Presidents hostage. Someone call the Ghosts! The ghosts 
 are highly trained, elite super-soldiers. They have great armour, a massive amount of firepower 
 and just about every US army resource at their fingertips, or rather at your fingertips. You'll 
 need to use all of these resources to win. To say game is challenging is an understatement!
  
  Before I start on all the technical game stuff I just want to talk about how good G. R. A. W looks 
 on a HD TV in 720p with progressive scan. Even on a standard def TV the game looks great. The character 
 models looks great, the environments, the weapons, not to mention a great frame-rate! Everything 
 looks brilliant! Besides the graphics, the gameplay and sound and physics are great. Every bullet 
 ricochet, every Mexican terrorist cry, every explosion, every shot all crystal clear and very l 
 lifelike. The gameplay is so smooth and well broken up by either cut-scenes or Helicopter action. 
 The movement, commands, every shot seems so well put together, so well managed, its fantastic. 
 The physics are amazing - as you shoot at your enemies bits of the walls break of, bullet holes 
 are made in the walls. As well as this the AI is amazing and almost too good. Your enemies will 
 try and flush you out with grenades, flank your position, set up a diversion, seek cover and will 
 even shoot extremely accurately (which is a bit strange considering there gun-touting rebels) . 
 This is the feature that probably makes the game so hard and very realistic.
  
  Despite this game being excellent in every area, it is very, very difficult! Take six shoots and 
 youll be dead - thats on normal (there is no easy) . On hard youll be one shot kill! You cant 
 play this game as if it were Halo as youll get shot to pieces. In this game dont be the hero. 
 Use cover to kill your enemies one by one. If you get into a good spree of kills without losing 
 any life, dont get cocky! A sniper could be just round the corner, ready to blow your head off. 
 Oh, and dont go near enemy tanks!
  
  GRAW is great online. Although its as unforgiving and frustrating as the single player game, there 
 is a massive arsenal of weapons, multiple, well designed maps and a real sense of military combat, 
 as in the single player campaign. There are quite a few modes: Eliminator which is the same as 
 deathmatch or Slayer, CTF, Territories and more, but youll keep you playing this online for quite 
 a while after youve finished the campaign. Of course all of these modes have team variants. Saying 
 all this means it takes you a while to get into it. I did very badly in the first few games I played, 
 so dont expect to be a pro as soon as you start playing.
  
  GRAWs gameplay is very good. A lot of the action is third person e. g running down a street. However 
 when your shooting you go into this weird first-person type view, similar to Splinter Cell games. 
 You can also zoom with weapons that have scopes. A new feature which is basic (but very useful) 
 is having your back against a wall, looking round a corner and shooting oncoming enemies. This 
 is very helpful as you have a constant source of cover and if you are being shot at you can hide 
 behind a wall, wait for the shooting to stop, then attack shoot them in the face. Cool! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cedmln
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 29, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  Lets get with the good, the bad, and the awsome!
  
  The good:
  
  Good single player and online modes, graphics are top notch, great sound, awsome atmosphere, enemy 
 and ally A. I. nearly perfected, seemly large environments, and just plain awsome.
  
  The bad:
  
  You are playing a story, but it doesn't feel like it. Its more like you are playing 
 a movie instead of watching, but you don't notice when playing. This is a hard game as its a simulator, 
 so you need good skill if you wanna get through this game in one day, as it is beatable in about 
 ten hours, which isn't bad because you should feel somewhat satisfied in the end. You'r ally's 
 A. I. doesn't always work properly, which may sometimes lead you into a troublesome situation. Thats 
 about all you will need to worry about.
  
  Tilt:
  
  I liked it. When I first played this game (months ago) , I was more confused and frustrated than 
 anything, but yesturday I decided to give it another try and this time it was better.
  
  The game itself is fun and pretty cool if you know what you're doing. I like the graphics which 
 are some of the best I have played, even if I don't have an HD TV.
  
  I did have problems with it, but its problems aren't anything worth crying over.
  
  This is 
 a tactical shooter simulator, so if you know how these types of games work and don't really like 
 the level of realism, then you might want to stay clear of this one because a simulator is a simulator, 
 but if you love it, then give this game a try because its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CansOfPLEASURE
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 28, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  I have to tell you the truth. At first, I didn't think this game was gonna be too great. But my 
 friend told me it was awesome and said I should go buy it. The next day I bought it, came home, 
 played it, and my friend was right. This game is amazing. Gameplay - The gameplay is very fun. 
 The heads-up display is one of the coolest and nicely put together. The campaign is awesome. The 
 A. I. are pretty tough, especially in big numbers. The campaign should take you from 13 - 16 hours, 
 maybe a little longer, depending on the difficulty you are playing on. The missions are very fun. 
 In some missions you can control a Blackhawk helicoptor, in others a tank. The multiplayer is great. 
 There are many great maps and gametypes that will keep you playing long after you beat the campaign. 
 Graphics - Incredible. One of the best games, graphics wise, on the Xbox 360. The enviorments look 
 amazing. The explosions are one of the coolest things to look at in the game. When you're in the 
 Blackhawk helicoptor, hundreds of feet above the cities, it looks amazing. And listening to the 
 awesome Rock music on the Blackhawk stereo makes the view even more enjoyable. Sound - Great sound. 
 The guns sound realistic, the explosions sound amazing. The sounds are pretty much exactly as they 
 would sound in reality. Value - The value is high. Even after you beat the campaign, you'll wanna 
 play it again, whether it be on the normal or hard difficulty. The multiplayer will also make you 
 keep playing it over, and over. Reviewer's Tilt - My tilt is pretty high. I bought the game back 
 in March 2006 when it was released. And I'm still playing it to date. I don't play the multiplayer 
 that much. But I still play the campaign alot. Overall, Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is an incredible 
 game. It's the best Ghost Recon game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMuffin_man
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 28, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- Its works pretty well with the duck and cover sytem. Its does get a little rpetive at 
 time but it still works. All and all its has solid gameplay graphics- Help the games gameplay a 
 bunch. The graphics are excellent in this game. Youll see what the 360 can really do with this 
 game. Exspecially if you have a hdtv
  
  sound- The sound is very good not the best in the world but it works.
  
  value- it has pretty 
 good value. But the online lobby sytem is pretty bad. And the multiplayer lacks lots of features 
 from single player
  
  tilt - this is a great game. And if your into tatical shooters you should deffinatly check this 
 game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lvin5992
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 27, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  To begin with this game totally lives up to the hype that it has been surrounded by in its life 
 time. Even though this game has been out since March of this year it still has many people playing 
 on Live and they are all pretty good competitors. Offline the missions vary in all types of ways, 
 one time you might be in the sunny streets of Mexico or you could about to make your way shrouded 
 in darkness to a mansion.
  Graphics: Does not even have to be talked about, they are amazing and breathtaking.
  Sound: One 
 of the real high points of this game that separate it from the Xbox version. One memorable thing 
 is the sound of the explosions, it sounds like you are actually there and if you are near the explosion 
 Sam's hearing is actually effected.
  Gameplay: Tom Clancy's realistic army gameplay really shine in this game, all of the commands are 
 actually used by soldiers adding even more realism.
  
  All in all this game is one of the reason some people are happy with buying this game. Please buy 
 this one because its completely worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neXtgenisis
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 26, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  The Good: Advanced Warfighter has impressive multiplayer, as well as a well written plot in both 
 the single player, and cop-opp modes. The Bad: Advanced Warfighter suffers from bad server connection 
 in the multiplayer, causing a lot of glitching and match dropping. Advanced Warfighter is a very 
 good quality game. You would expect a game to be good, when it was on top of the most played online 
 game list for 2 months. The game has a lot to offer. The single player mode is realistic and challenging. 
 The command of your troops throughout the game is well put together and useful in dangerous tactical 
 threats. The new feature known as the Cross-Con is a new technalogical system that detects enemies 
 and threats, and highlights them in red. This gives you a great advantage while facing multiple 
 tangos, or hostiles. The plot of the game basically starts off in the country of Mexico. Mexican 
 revolutionists rebelling against the Mexican government. Later events lead to the capture of the 
 Prime Minister of Mexico, and even the President of the United States. I found the plot enjoyable 
 and beleivable. Except for the whole thing about the America President getting captured by a bunch 
 of revolutionists in Mexico. I found the entire single player campaign to be quite enjoyable. Once 
 you master stealth and the execution of enemy hostiles around you, beating the game on hardcore 
 is easier than expected. The weapons in Advanced Warfighter are detailed and practical. The weapons 
 in the match the needs of anyone who plays. Some weapons fire powerfully, but suffer in accuracy. 
 Some weapons are heavy some are light. The possibilities are endless, and there are a ton of weapons. 
 The most amazing part of this game is probably the multiplayer. The multiplayer has a ton of ddiferent 
 rounds to choose from, including last man standing and respawn deathmatches (the favorite among 
 players) . The ranking system in GRAW makes sense. In order to get to a new level in ranked matches, 
 you have to kill a lot, and die a little. It gets hard playing with vets on levels 20 and 15. The 
 highest available level is 25. Now that GRAW is updated the matches are fair, and impossible to 
 stack, A big plus. GRAW did wonders for the Ghost Recon sereis, and in my opinion, is a great addition 
 to a shooter fan`s collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Player5KJ
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 25, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  The achievements are wild get 10,000 kills thats a lot for just 25 gamerscore i dont have it but 
 theres alot of fun in that game but its still not as good as multiplayer but the first person sucks 
 so dont do that. but 9.5 is a good score for this game i would say so this game is a must buy game 
 so get k or u might not like TOM CLANCEY. k thats what i have to say about this game. so kill these 
 mexicanois in this game k pumpkin. this game is a great ass game k. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Army_Veteran
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 25, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  When I first purchased this game I only had my 360 for a week or so, I didnt know what to expect, 
 so I popes it in and played online. All I could say is wow, the graphics are great, and the game 
 play was great. It was a little difficult to get use to this game at first; I only played PS2 games, 
 so I only played it for a little while and played other games. Well I finally got to this game 
 and played the single player, I could say it will throw you for a loop, it is addictive and it 
 has an additional hard level that I can go play this game again and beat, so I am getting a little 
 more replay out of this game. If you dont have it, you should go pick it up, it is only $39 bucks 
 now or cheaper, and it is worth every cent. The graphics are good, game play is good, controls 
 fit like a glove, and I would say its a good game, I am happy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 23, 2006 10:23 pm PT
Review:  GRAW shows how immersive a game can be on the 360. It makes you feel like you are right in the 
 fight. Though the difficulty of the game can be quite hard and frustrating you always manage to 
 get throw it and on to the next place. The multiplayer of GRAW is were it really stands out allowing 
 16 players to connect and own one another with a variety of unique and fun weapons. The game is 
 so realistic that you sometimes feel the adreniline pumping through youre veins as you camp behind 
 a corner. GRAW's graphics are very good and gives the good effect of a battlefeil setting. overall 
 GRAW is a very well made tactical shooter that any realistic shooter junkie shouldnt miss out on. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent360
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 23, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Ghost recon advanced war fighter is the 3 game to hit the series and wow it hit it hard though 
 delayed several times It sure was worth the wait becuase Ghost recon advanced war fighter is probaly 
 the best game on any system acctept for gears of war. the campaign is defentatly worth your wile 
 it takes about 4 hours to beat it on normal and 6 on hard... the muiltiplayer is pure fun as well 
 but its not as great as i hoped it would be on live maybe thats becuase the people on ti are asses 
 but thats not the game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brobnado777
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 22, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game for the PS2 before I bought my 360 and it sucked. The PS2 version has terrible 
 graphics with a really crappy AI system. The first game i bought for my 360 was GRAW and I love 
 it. The campaign is amazing! The squad based fighting and amazing cover really makes you feel like 
 your running through downtown Mexico city. One problem with the city thoughis that its barren. 
 Its a huge city and there are no civilians. They talk about killing civilians but there are none. 
 The game though makes up for it with its great campaign. The multiplayer in this game is amazing. 
 Great game buy it. Its amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oscarmayer936
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 22, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  scott michell retuems in the best ghost recon game yet. G. R. A. W. this game has a wonderful action 
 packed camaign mode and 2 player mode. The live for it is a little weak but is still fun. The graphics 
 are amazing and are some of the best ive seen yet on the xbox 360 console. I love all tom clancy 
 games but this one was especially good. the new squad camera was a great added feature that enabled 
 you to look through the eyes of your squad members. They also add a mission in a helicopter, its 
 so fun to mow everyone down in the giant gatling gun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaosBringer577
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 20, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter is the heavily anticipated next-gen sequel to the popular Ghost 
 Recon 2. Featuring true next-gen capabilities, such as an incredible HUD, GRAW leads the Xbox 360 
 with impressive visuals, simple controls, and stellar gameplay. Popularly heralded as the first 
 true next-generation game for the Xbox 360, GRAW was developed by Ubisoft and Red Storm Entertainment.
 
  
  **Graphics**
  
  When you first look at GRAW on your TV, the first thing you'll notice is how absolutely stunning 
 the game looks. From the second you boot up your training mission in the campaign, you're instantly 
 impressed by the gorgeous texturing and incredible lighting effects that lay before you. This is 
 definitely something we have come to expect as next-gen . Impressive particle effects, phenomenal 
 environments, and awe-inspiring special effects, GRAW definitely looks the part. Using the Xbox 
 360 very efficiently, GRAW manages to take all these elements and package it into an astoundingly 
 smooth frame rate. With all the polygons this game pushes, it still maintains a 30-40 FPS frame 
 rate throughout the majority of the game. Explosions don't slow down the game at all, multiple 
 enemies on screen leave no trace of slowdown, and practically no texture pop-in to be seen in this 
 astonishing recreation of Mexico City. The draw distance is mind-boggling, allowing you to see 
 ridiculously far into the horizon, and the fog of war is very well done. Smoke hazes your vision 
 as you peer across the landscape, heat mirages send waves swirling off the pavement, and the very 
 sun itself seems to beat down on you with unprecedented realism. Something definitely worth mentioning 
 that you will subconsciously notice during the game is the saturation and contrast the developers 
 have implemented into the game while prowling throughout Mexico City. HDR (High-Dynamic Range) 
 lighting allows you to experience life-like, staggeringly realistic lighting effects. Moving from 
 dark areas to sunlit areas results in a temporary blinding effect which bleaches the environment 
 with a yellowish tint, simulating the human eye adjusting to the change of light. Subtle effects 
 like this really add a lot to the exemplary experience GRAW offers to Xbox 360 gamers. If you're 
 looking for gorgeous graphics, Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter will please.
  
  **Sound**
  
  If there's one thing that Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter does better than its amazing graphics, 
 its definitely got to be its audio. Surround sound is used to the very fullest extent in GRAW, 
 and it is undoubtedly one of the greatest aspects of this game. Bullets whiz by your head with 
 a very distinct whistle, explosions detonate with resounding force, and the metallic clicks and 
 clinks of reloading are dead on. Every audio aspect of GRAW was obviously very well thought out, 
 as each texture in the game has a different sound when struck. Some bullet impacts are muffled, 
 others reverberate from the surface they strike. The sound effects aren't the only star of this 
 show. The voice-acting is also generally well done. Sure, some parts sound a little over the top, 
 or some sound a bit too forced, but overall, each character plays a very immersive role in your 
 time in Mexico City. Each character delivers their lines with emotion and authenticity, and the 
 military theme is ever present in the dialogue spoken. Tons of special forces slang is used here, 
 i. e. Weapons cold, sir. or: We're going in hot. It definitely adds to the experience to hear your 
 Ghosts doing their thing so realistically. Cross-Com effects are also very electronic-sounding 
 and fitting for their respective roles in the HUD. All in all, GRAW just sounds amazing.
  
  **Controls**
  
  Now what would all this be if it handled terribly? Well, you don't have to 
 worry about it. GRAW feels very smooth, and definitely has ease of control. You won't find aiming 
 to be difficult at all, rather the opposite. Aiming is now more efficient than ever with the new 
 pinpoint accuracy feature. By pulling the left trigger, you can tighten up your aim by slowing 
 down, and getting a small zoom boost to take engage in those medium-range combat situations. Of 
 course, by pushing in the right thumbstick you'll get your scoped zoom, but you'll find yourself 
 using pinpoint aiming much more often. Movement in GRAW is also something that is easing to deal 
 with. Camera views can be changed in-game to suit your liking, controller configurations are pretty 
 nice (although a lack of a SouthPaw configuration is likely to frustrate lefties) , and overall, 
 there's just a ton of customization that one can have to suit your playing style. Entering cover 
 is simple, just run into a wall and your character automatically presses himself up against the 
 barrier (whatever it is) . Diving is easy as well, just hold in the left thumbstick while running. 
 But the one thing that GRAW does so well with its controls is the way it handles all the complex 
 features of the Cross-Com with such efficiency. Changing controllable units is as easy as pressing 
 right on the D-Pad. Ordering them to a position as a simple as tapping up on the D-Pad. Ubisoft 
 was really thinking about making the HUD a univerally controllable aspect of the game, and they 
 succeeded. Sure, sometimes you'll accidentally mess up with the D-Pad, but that's because of the 
 controller design, not the game.
  
  **SinglePlayer**
  
  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter's singeplayer campaign mode is, without a doubt, jaw-dropping. 
 GRAW benefits from the sheer power of the Xbox 360, and it shows. The environments are so realistic, 
 and the draw distance is so far, you'd think they took a picture of the city and stuck in the game. 
 It's that good. And the seamless transition from helicopter to ground is amazing. No change in 
 graphical quality. No lag while landing, it's all so very well done. For those who don't know about 
 it, GRAW leads you through Mexico City during a treaty arrangement between Canada, Mexico, and 
 the U. S. When the Canadian prime minister is killed, and Mexican rebels fill the streets, Captain 
 Scott Mitchell and his elite special forces team, The Ghosts, is sent in to remedy the situation. 
 You control 3 Ghosts in your squad, who follow your orders relatively well, and throughout the 
 missions, you get control of a UAV drone, a M1A1 Bradley tank, and UH-60 and Apache helicopters. 
 The missions are objective-based (duh) , and the objectives vary from mission to mission, keeping 
 the action fresh throughout the entire, thrill ride experience. GRAW's singleplayer mode spans 
 throughout about 12 missions, and will last you about 12 hours, depending on what difficulty you're 
 on. Overall, GRAW's singleplayer is stunning, and an absolute blast to play.
  
  **Multiplayer**
  
  GRAW's multiplayer experience is something that absolutely needs to be played. 
 The vast amount of customizable options is incredible, and ensures you won't play the same game 
 twice that often. There is hardly any lag to speak of, if any, and the game holds up incredibly 
 well online. The animations are sweet, guns sound great, and the environments are gorgeous as well. 
 One thing you will notice though is that the multiplayer, while still looks amazing, is a step 
 down from the singleplayer game. Also, there is no cover/lean feature in multiplayer or Co-op. 
 This small hinderance to the gameplay is understandable, and easily forgiven, because of the awesome 
 elements of the singleplayer still present in multiplayer. Drones are an essential part of some 
 multiplayer games, and helicopters are great fun to use. GRAW also allows you to customize a soldier 
 of your own, select your class, appearance, etc. You get to really shape the way your soldier will 
 look and operate, whether he's a sniper, rifleman, or gunner, you can choose whatever you want 
 to fit your style. The lobby system is nice, but the lack of a join in progress feature makes people 
 wait far too long sometimes. Still, it doesn't hamper the multiplayer at all, as you can always 
 find a game. Simply put, GRAW's multiplayer will have you coming back for LOTS more.
  
  **Presentation**
  
  Something that GRAW does exceptionally well is its execution of the futre 
 warfare style. Ubisoft's main marketing campaign was all about the Cross-Com, and it totally came 
 through. Every aspect of the HUD is next-gen and integral to the GRAW experience, and really adds 
 to the overall presentation of the game. In addition to the intelligent HUD, Ghost Recon Advanced 
 Warfighter features some great menu browsing. Easy, well-themed menus make navigation through the 
 game simple and effective. To sum it all up, GRAW presents its Advanced Warfighter theme with a 
 certain finesse that makes it the incredible game that it is.
  
  **Conclusion**
  
  GRAW pulls off everything that FPS's of the future have been trying to do for so long nearly flawlessly, 
 and it really shows. For everyone that was wondering when the killer app for the Xbox 360 was going 
 to arrive, look no further. GRAW has everything you would ever want in a next-generation game, 
 outstanding graphics, intense sound, awesome multiplayer, and a stellar presentation. All these 
 elements of the game package GRAW into one of the modern masterpieces of our time. If you've got 
 a 360, you really owe it to yourself to pick this one up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rishabh123
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 20, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  i just played this game for three hours straight and i thought it was amazing!!!!!!!!
  The graphics are awesome. The gameplay, especially multiplayer is very powerful. The sound is pretty 
 good too, and its really fun! its even worth getting a 360 for!!!! Trust me, if ur a ghot recon 
 fan, or even if ur not, you should get this game. it rules!!!!!!!!! WARNING: this game is very addicting. 
 i got in trouble for playign it for soo long and yea... overall its an awesome game that you should 
 get its worth teh 
  Also, its very fast-paced and if you liek playing shooting games with your friends, then you should 
 get it! SO WHAT R U WAITING FOR???? GO TO EB GAMES AND BUY  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincenzothepimp
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  First of all, this game is made by Tom Clancy. When you see is name in one of his game you know 
 immediately that this game is great. So even before you play, you just know this game will be totally 
 amazing as a first person shooter. Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is, for me, one of the greatest 
 game ever made by this unique and talented game programmer. The graphics are so good that you even 
 thing that you are the soldier who's killing every single enemies. The sound effect are really 
 bad ( in the positive sens) . The only problem with the sound, is that, when your guy who telling 
 you what you got to do and were you got to go, he always speak to you in inappropriate moment, 
 when you are fighting. So, sometimes, you don't really understand clearly what is saying to you 
 so your gonna be lost and screwed. The game is really but really real, because you die easily (like 
 in life, isn't?) . That's a great aspect of the game because that make you work hard to finish a 
 level, even if that level is not hard! Great things in the game that make this game awesome: 1- 
 When you'r aiming, or not, a guy, you see that guy with a red halo. 2- When you'r aiming, or not, 
 a guy, you see the distance between you and the guy. 3- When you'r aiming, or not, a guy, you see 
 the life of that guy. 4- The graphics are totally awesome, so real, amazing. 5- Really but really 
 real, you die easily, is the same for your enemies 6- Totally amasing sound effects. 7- It's really 
 fun and the gameplay is so great. The bad things.... NOTHING NOTHING NOTHING NOTHING NOTHING NOTHING 
 So my score is 9.7, I wonder why...? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irate_Hobbit
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 18, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Something Ubisoft has been keen on latey is using a different studio to do one part of a game. 
 This always ends up with one part being better in some ways and worse in others. I'm sure they 
 save alot of money doing this and make more by pumping games out faster. The multiplayer, as fun 
 as it is, is a polished up version of the GR2 games on the last gen systems. It really isn't much 
 different. Yes, they added an aerial probe which shows enemy positions but it doesn't operate nearly 
 as well as it does in the campaign. The co-op multiplayer is the same. Though half of of GRAW is 
 truly next-gen, the whole of it is great fun to play.
  
  The single player aspect is the first really nextgen looking game on the 360. The cities and landscapes 
 look great. Although your teams AI is incompetant. The campaign is fun but you typical Ubi paint-by-numbers 
 Clancy plot. Its worth playing twice through. You can get away with renting this one if you don't 
 play online. The single player is fast paced, easy to learn, and as I said is just an upgraded 
 version of GR2 in play, its worth playing. Though at time of this review, there are better choices 
 for online games. As a 360 owner and a fan of any shooter, you should definitely check out GRAW. 
 With the announcement of GRAW 2 and the quality of some multiplayer games on XBL now and in the 
 near future, they will have to make a better showing next time around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroithardcore
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 17, 2006 2:56 am PT
Review:  I bought this game to tide me over until I finally got Gears of war, But ive gotta say, this by 
 no means is a tide over game at all. The controls were pretty esy to get used to, the graphics 
 are just gorgeous, with all the lighting effects. The cities scale really has a big feel to it, 
 as you drive/fly from location to location. The only problem i have with the game so far is the 
 A. I., but if you read almost everybodies review they go off on it constantly and im not going to 
 do that. I'll say just dont count on them, because they love to go out and get killed. There are 
 alot of gadgets at your disposal, and I love ordering airstrikes from a helicopter on unsuspecting 
 baddies! There is also a cypher camera that you can send ahead of you in some missions to scope 
 out the terrain, and locate any people that may be out of sight, which is really helpful until 
 they see it and start busting shots at it.
  
  If youve ever played a Tom Clancy game than you know what youre in for, except this one is a step 
 above the rest in the graphics department, and the weapons are a little different, but if youre 
 looking for a true next gen Tom Clancy game than this is the one to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kithooton
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 16, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon is a game where you got to know what you are doing with the controller, and have some 
 sort of knowledge about flanking and fire at target to reduce minimum heath damage.
  
  Controller issues: it took me about a good 30mins, to really have full control on what i was doing, 
 controlling you, a team of three, a drone and maybe a tank and a helicopter at the same time to 
 take out the enemy is pretty hard at times, but its so fun when you got the hang of it
  
  The Game is great, Graphics and the colours are amazing (even better on a HDTV or a PC 19 monitor) , 
 Sound is there and the story line is good as always from any Tom Clancy's game series, GRAW, Splinter 
 Cell and Rainbow Six are so worth having if you love real tactics shoot-ups, where you got to think 
 before you pull the trigger.
  
  Multiplayer: Its as Good as it Gets for the xbox360, no connection issues or frame rate issues. 
 Great quick game playing for rank games or non-ranked. only issue is that people don't always want 
 to team up with you, but if you have a clang or you play two player on 1 xbox360 on the net, its 
 great fun
  
  Its a must buy, Now even Cheaper &pound;30
  Thumbs up Kithooton 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigkaratedude77
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 15, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  this game is really fun and looks good to. The single player is above average and takes around 
 10-12 hours to beat but the real fun comes from the online which is a blast over xbox live. The 
 sound quality is nice and it sounds like your in the dam war. The graphics are insane even on a 
 standard tv and everything looks nice even from far away. The only problem i have for this game 
 is somethings the online lobbys get screwed up and like i said the single player is alright. This 
 is still one of my favorite 360 games and i have racet up so many hours playing it over live. If 
 you have live buy it now if you don't then i would just rent the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcfitness1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 15, 2006 8:03 am PT
Review:  I was hooked on ghost recon since the day the first one came out for the xbox. I remember playing 
 it every night on-live for hours and hours. I played the other versions but tey just didn't do 
 it for me like the first one did. When the 360 came out with GR I was so excited I went out and 
 got it right away. At first I was totally impressed with the next gen graphics and visuals but, 
 not the frame rates. I was really hoping the developers would hit 60 frames per second but from 
 what i could see looks like they could only get 30. Oh well, with all that said, it still is a 
 great game for single and multi player, but the reason I don't play it as much is because of the 
 herky jerkyness of the controls and lower frame rates.
  
  Go COD2!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusgerbil
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 14, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  When I got Ghost Recon, I saw how gamespot gave it a great rating and I said, hey this looks like 
 a good shooting game for me to get. I started playing the one player mode, and it was great. I 
 loved the sounds and other things that made it feel like you were really in mexico city fighting. 
 The graphics are amazing. The controls are pretty good, but sometimes it feel like its too hard 
 to switch from grenades to gun and from firing modes and stuff. After I played the one player for 
 a little bit, my brothers and I played the local multiplayer. It was ok, but the fact that grenadier 
 guns are overpowered and its pretty much a batle to see who can fire first killed it all. I wonder 
 if its better on xbox live, but I heard that xbox live can crash your computer, so I'm not getting 
 it. Overall, ghost recon is a great one player experience with realistic sounds and a compelling 
 story, but the multiplayer (at least local) doesn't do very good with the whole 'lets make this 
 a realistic shooting game'. 4 player multiplayer isn't meant for you to die in 2 hits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmdrmonkey
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 12, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  Well, I recently finished the single player portion of GRAW, which I purchased back in March. Overall 
 it didn't have a very long singleplayer campaign. I just found it so frustrating in portions that 
 I had given up on it and hadn't touched it for awhile. It's a great game, I particularly like the 
 Blackhawk minigunner portions, it has a great selection of weapons, the outdoor environments are 
 quite large, there are some really frantic portions of the singleplayer, and it's pretty good in 
 multiplayer. The controls are fairly good, and it's nice that you can play in either third or first 
 person persepctive, each of which gives the game a slightly different feel. First person is better 
 for pulling off more precise shots, and third person gives you more situational awareness. Like 
 other recent shooters, making good use of cover is a critical part of the game. Something particuarly 
 cool is that you can get a gun with camera mounted on it so you can see around corners. The graphics 
 are good, but not as consistently good as some of the reviews would have you believe. I just really 
 hated the AI. It seems like it's either mind numbingly stupid (your squadmates) or like it's so 
 good that it's cheating (enemy AI) . But then again there are parts where the enemy AI is really 
 really dumb as well. in what should be a squad based tactical shooter, you end up doing most of 
 the work yourself. I initally tried to manage my squadmades, but after awhile decided they were 
 useless and just dumped them in a safe corner somewhere or let them run in and die to create a 
 distraction for myself. It's not just the AI though; some of the save points are really badly placed 
 so you end up having to repeat portions of the game ad nauseum. Another important point is that 
 they created a vast Mexico City cityscape, and yet it's populated by noone. There are no civilians 
 in the game. Just you and the enemy. Kind of puts a damper on the realism. The story is cheesy 
 and you probably won't care much about it. Good thing the game is fun when you can get a game going 
 in multiplayer. I particularly enjoy co-op in GRAW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameFreak5577
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2006 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is the BOMB!!! I love that game, i tell you, it is worth Buying. 
 You will love it, i tried it for Xbox, and PS2 but it is nothing close to the Graphics, and everything 
 else for the Xbox 360!! I believe the price has dropped so now you can get it even cheaper than 
 before!! I don't have the 360 yet, but iv'e played this game at my cuz house, and it fun. The Difficulty 
 is just right, i hate games that are 1, 2, 3, easy just to beat, i love a challenge, and things 
 that take me a while to beat!! But besides that, get this game, it is worth it, trust me!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmcjdking
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 11, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  I love this game.
  
  I really, really love this game. This is probably my most played 360 game. Very fun, can be strategic, 
 can be run and gun. It can be however you want to play it. Be the sniper, be the grenadier, be 
 the rifleman, be the fire support... be it all!
  
  But it's just plain fun.
  
  This is a MUST BUY. I don't need to tell you anything about this game other than to buy it if you 
 have any sort of affinity to fast paced shooters. The embassy scene was one of the best gaming 
 moments since Medal of Honor: Frontline!
  
  Truly Remarkable! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikcarius
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 11, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  I sleep when i play...
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor 
 or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: askiker
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 10, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  I really cannot believe that GRAW recieved such a high rating! Cant anybody see beyond the good 
 graphics? The gameplay isnt horrible, but it is definitely not good. Ok the only good parts of 
 this game are the graphics (which they are alright, but not perfect. There are quite a bit of glitches 
 in the graphics where they blocky and shift, but overall they look nice. Not fantastic. Nice. The 
 sound is pretty good from footsteps to gear shaking as you run, and of course all of the weapons 
 firing and explosions, makes for some decent surround sound. Now onto all of the bad. For starters, 
 everything is so linear now - not like in GR for xbox where you had an entire map to plot flanking 
 points with separate groups of teammates... who were actually useful and were able to kill.
  
  Also what is the deal with all of the enemies instantly knowing your position? This defeats 
 the purpose of tactical planning if wherever you go, the enemy knows your exact position even if 
 youre 300 yds away crawling at night! It is so unrealistic, its abhorrent. Now the teammates (which 
 you can only have 3) can only follow very basic instructions like go there or stop and they are 
 ridiculously stupid about it too. Whenever they get fired upon, they jump out of the cover and 
 stand in the open, take a couple pathetic shots that almost never hit their target, and eventually 
 get gunned down in a sad display of embarassing AI. Also, you cannot split them up.... How are you 
 supposed to be tactical at all if you cannot have separate groups? This makes the tactical map 
 practically pointless. No waypoints, and only one pathetic 3 man squad to control - what a non-tactical 
 game! The Cooperative Campaign mode, which was famous for being authentic in GR for xbox, is a 
 total flop. It is both not the original missions, and it is timed. What a waste of a game mode. 
 I was a huge fan GR for the xbox - it was great. It had that sense of realism and tactical strategy 
 that required quite a bit of decisiveness and cunning to accomplish missions that sometimes had 
 you stuck in a bad situation... but at least you could count on outsmarting your enemy and depending 
 on your teammates to actually save you, and help accomplish the mission. In all I am disgusted 
 with this game. It doesnt matter how 'pretty' it is if the gameplay isnt there. I took it back 
 after owning the game for 3.5 hrs and realising how much garbage it is. No wonder there are tons 
 of used versions of this available at Electronics Boutique and Ebay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r4v3gl0ry
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 9, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  This is the first ghost recon game I have ever played, and seriously, I was looking forward to 
 it. But, (although I still love tactical shooters) it was a bit TOO tactical. Come on, who wants 
 to control an entire sqaud of soldiers while playing the main character at the same time? Unlike 
 Gears of War, the enemies don't welcome you very well. You hide behind a car and try to snipe someone 
 who is MILES away. You shoot, but miss a little. And immediately, from MILES MILES away, with godsight, 
 he shoots back and ur about to die. The controls were wierd too. I mean, I get the whole run duck 
 cover roll over thing, but GRAW has totally wierd controls. I thought the graphics were great, 
 and the sound was average. But if ur not rolling and ducking and jumping EVERY single second of 
 ur life, then u ought to be dead. Seriously now, let's not get too carried away. The game's action 
 is boring along with the too tactical statement I made. And, Gears of War soliders have a good 
 excuse to run slow, because of their armor, but lightweight people like the soldiers in GRAW should 
 run faster, and not like old hobos. If you like things quiet and slow, please, I beg of you, buy 
 it. But if u like a tactical shooter that has enough boringness and has enough action, please play 
 something like gears of war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheOneDubb
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  A quasi concise review
  
  Ghost Recon is by far the best game available on the 360 BG (Before Gears of War) . Its Live play 
 has its flaws but is second to none for the 360 to date. With a wide variety of weapons, missions, 
 and options, Ghost Recon will drawn you in and refuse to release you from its addictive hands. 
 With multiple modes of online play such as Siege, Hamburger Hill, CTF, Solo Elimination, and Team 
 Elimination to name just a very few, the variety will ensure a long shelf life and great replay 
 value. Ghost Recons Live play is, and very well should be, its focal selling point. However, this 
 can be seen as somewhat of a detriment to the single player campaign mode which is great in its 
 own right although greatly overshadowed by the online play. Similar to previous instalments of 
 the Ghost Recon series, you go through missions completing objectives and blasting every enemy 
 you come in to contact with. Ubisoft attempts to mix things up with different level designs and 
 what not but a play through on default and Hard modes should satisfy your single player needs. 
 Anything beyond that the single player missions become redundant thanks to the predictable AI wherein 
 all enemy positions are memorized. To further the mission based experience play online co-op missions 
 such as the Shipping Port with friends or complete strangers who have a habit of getting into your 
 line of fire. There is an available update which will give you extra multi player levels such as 
 the Shipping Port but this will cost duckets. The added content for $15 some odd bones is another 
 debate within itself and not part of my review.
  
  If you enjoy tactical shooters or have been a fan of the Clancy series this is a must own or if 
 you have a 360 this game is worthy of being added to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amroe333
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 8, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  GRAW has to be the best game for the 360 yet. While the storyline is nothing impressive, the campaign 
 mode is exceptionally well done and the multiplayer is nothing short of a masterpiece. The graphics 
 are breathtaking with good sound to back it up. The storyline is really generic, with a few plot 
 twists to mix it up. The entire game takes place in Mexico with the clich&eacute; d madman with 
 nukes plot. The single player campaign is only slightly hindered by the storyline. You play the 
 game as Captain Scott Mitchell of the ghost recon squad. The missions all take place in Mexico 
 City or somewhere on the outskirts. During the game you can command three different squad mates. 
 The commands are pretty basic, but the squad can be useful at times. The game also has a great 
 array of different weaponry on both the American and Mexican sides. From snipers to rocket launchers 
 its all there except for a shotgun. The multiplayer is what makes the game truly great. Every 
 mode you can think of is available ranging from death match to defend the base. The game even has 
 a campaign mode. The weaponry for multiplayer even has a few extra guns for each class.
  In summary, GRAW is a solid game that should be a bought and played by anyone who likes shooters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rageonme
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 8, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a pretty sweet game. I purchased it mainly for the multiplayer 
 action on xbox live. I have worked through a little bit of the campaign mode. It has a lot to offer 
 in the xbox live mode. I like how the live teams involve more techinal stratagy than live games 
 like halo. The one downfall I have experienced playing this game live is the crappy headset that 
 come with the x360 doesnt always work. I will be able to hear people in the game lobby but once 
 the action starts i am unable to talk to a few people on my team. The match making options could 
 use some improvement, inviting friends to a match has some bugs in it. Overall i would reccomend 
 gettting this game, play live is a ton of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomrr711
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 7, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  The launch of the Xbox 360 was a fairly successful one. The consoles sold; so did the games, but 
 there was one more major hurdle that Microsoft had to jump to make it into the golden pastures 
 of console acceptance. That hurdle is the after- Christmas lull. To do this, Microsoft had to launch 
 a game that would catalyze the systems popularity throughout this period. This game came from the 
 kind Sirs at Ubisoft, and the game was called: Tom Clancys Ghost Recon: Advanced War fighter and 
 it was a good catalyst indeed.
  GRAW launched in March (10th) and people didnt really know what to expect because of the failures 
 of previous games in the series but all it took was for people to sit down in front of their screens 
 and play the game, to realize that it was far better than any of the previous games in the series. 
 The story of GRAW is not really as simple as many other shooters out there for any console or PC. 
 It goes something like this: You play as Scott Mitchell, part of a small team of light weight soldiers 
 for the U. S military called the Ghosts. At the beginning of the game, you are in Mexico City and 
 the year is 2013. You and your squad are on a security entourage for the American, Mexican and 
 Canadian Presidents who are partaking in a summit. Unfortunately, the meeting of the three presidents 
 is interrupted by terrorists and both the American and Mexican Leaders flee the scene and go missing; 
 the Canadian Leader gets killed. From there on in, your job as squad leader of the Ghosts is to 
 locate both of the missing Presidents and eradicate all terrorist resistance. Obviously, the plot 
 becomes a lot more complex as the game progresses, climaxing with the finale after around 10 to 
 12 hours compiled into around 10 long missions. When you see the game for the first time, one of 
 the two major yes factors for the game is the way it looks. For a near launch game, it looked way 
 more impressive than anything else on offer. The textures on the environments and the character 
 models were great looking, and just the amount of detail oneverything was fantastic. The great 
 thing about the environments on the game was that they were modeled on real places in Mexico City. 
 The only fault that could possibly picked up on with the city, is that there are no civilians in 
 there. Youd think that with one of the largest cities in the world, there would be at least a 
 couple of people walking the streets but obviously not Separating GRAW from the other shooters 
 on the market is its style. You play the game in third person, well over the shoulder, to be more 
 precise, a little like you play Resident Evil 4. This makes the characters in the game seem more 
 convincing and also more human like, because you can see Scott crouch, get into cover and go prone 
 without having to come out of the current camera view, which makes the game playing experience 
 all the more immersive. Another really great and impressive thing about GRAW is the shear amount 
 of weapons in the game. You always have the pistol to use, which is there as back up if you ever 
 run out of ammo, which shouldnt ever be a problem. As well as the pistol, there are a large variety 
 of: automatics, semi-automatics, rifles, sniper rifles and grenade launchers that you can use throughout 
 the campaign. As the title of the game suggests, the Ghosts are recon soldiers, the purposes of 
 which are to sneak up on enemies and move about without being detected. To do all of this successfully, 
 Scott has control of something called the cross com. This floats around in the sky and you, the 
 game player, are able to control the movement of this handy device. This allows you to detect the 
 movement of any enemy in a pretty large circumference of the cross com. Because of this, youll 
 be doing a lot of your shooting from large distances so scopes away!
  The second feature of Advanced War fighter that makes it great is the co-op and multiplayer functionality. 
 Unlike most other games, the co-operative play in Ghost Recon takes place over 4 completely separate 
 missions that have no relevance to the main game campaign but they can be fun if you play them 
 with others over Xbox Live. The real fun though, is to be had over Xbox Live Multiplayer. With 
 a 16 player maximum room, 10 or 15 maps exclusively made for the online multiplayer, character 
 customization, leader boards and many, many modes of play, ranging from the basic death match or 
 team death match, to the not so basic team battle, it is obvious to say that even after completing 
 the single player campaign and the co-op campaign, there is much, much more fun to be had from 
 this game. To give you an example of this, I bought this game at launch, and I still play the multiplayer 
 from time to time, and today is about six months later on since that launch.
  All in all, the game is just an awesome package for &pound;50.00, with a lengthy campaign containing 
 satisfying game play and polished visuals way ahead of anything else at the time. The Xbox Live 
 functionality is the best of the best with its many modes and maps, it will keep you going, if 
 youre anything like me, for months on end. With originality, flare and sophistication, Tom Clancys 
 Ghost Recon: Advanced War fighter is one of the best looking shooters out there, so go out and 
 grab it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craiger_8
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 7, 2009 7:44 pm PT
Review:  game sucked the man part. was so bad i actually thought about going on a murderous rampage. i raged 
 so hard i thought my head was gonna explode like a period coming out of a 2 month old. But serially, 
 there is nothing worse than a game that sucks. if i could get back the 35 minutes i spent playing 
 this game i would be soooo happy. i mean, sucknizzle the titnizzle of a niggizzle, its that bad. 
 if i did get this time back i would **** brax in a cup and make a video out of it and become famous. 
 i would totally make like 15 dollars an hour off of it. how bout them bears too eh. rix grassman 
 is the ultimate futbaal playa in de wald. hes better than that tnuc tom brady and ballin wife. 
 my closing comments are that this game is a thing that should look up to the sky by those people 
 over there. ffffffffffuuuuuuuuuu 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrrobinet
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 6, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  This is possibly the best game for the 360 thus far. Its one of the first true Next-gen experiences. 
 The graphics are very good. You almost feel like your in Mexico. From the lighting effects to the 
 bullit holes this game will make yourheart race.
  
  The controls are done very nicly. Its quick to learn and a blast to play. They have slightly redone 
 the over the shoulder cam and applied a nice cover system to the gameplay. I highly recomend this 
 game for any fan of the series or any one who has a military itch to scratch. I give it 9 /10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowbladeX
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2006 2:55 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter takes into the streets of Mexico, where an uprising is taking 
 place. as a trusty ghost, you must put a stop to this. from first glance Ghost Recon instantly 
 can take your breath away. it is one of the most magnificent games out on Xbox360. straight off 
 the games graphics are astounding and so realistic. the gameplay itsled is marvelous. the controls 
 are easy to master and use. also the fighr sequences are the most real you will ever see. you could 
 be shooting down some enemies, when you will be flanked and fired upon from behind. you have to 
 be on your toes in this game, for you never play the same way twice. the enmies move completely 
 independtly and you have to pay close attention to which way they go. the music and sound in the 
 game is right on and top-notch. its almost impossible to find any flaws with this game. the multiplayer 
 is fantastic as well, offering to play together through the campaign or to play challenging missions, 
 or simply battle each other. Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter is a must for Xbox360 owners! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capitancahonas
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2006 2:20 am PT
Review:  If you own a 360 then you must buy this game. Even if you are not neccassarily a fan of these types 
 of games, you will find the breathtaking draw distances, realistic lighting and imaculately rendered 
 character models and environment a real thrill to experience.
  
  Considering that this was quite an early release for the system, it puts to shame some more recent 
 titles that have claimed to be next gen . In looks, sounds and gameplay Recon remains one of the 
 best titles on offer for the 360.
  There are minor gripes, but nothing so as to detract from the overall quality of yet another great 
 Clancy licensed game. The multi-player game is just as compelling, and the whole Ghost gameworld 
 is excellently realised and entirely consistant with earlier releases in the series. It would have 
 been nice to have voice commands availiable to direct your team around-a la recon 2- but this again 
 does in no way lessen your immersion in the action.
  
  An instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dukejjredick4
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 4, 2006 5:55 am PT
Review:  well this game is between just right and hard. so i will let the readers decide on the diffculty 
 of this game. the good things about is, the graphic is very very good for an xbox 360 game up to 
 date. this game plays a very realitic gameplay, like when an enemy die, they really slowly drop 
 to the ground. lots of weapon choices to choose from so you can never really run out of options. 
 the statics menu keeps track of everything ranging from how many wounds you have, how many head 
 shots you got the enemy to how far you traveled during the mission. the bad things might be there 
 might be some glitch at times but then those glitch will just a little extra of your time to fix 
 it. for example: on one of the story level, towards the end of the story line, when you are on 
 teh roof, on the very last part if you didn't get the checkpoint, you will have to restart the 
 roof mission again so this might take a little time to finish the mission. the story mode might 
 be a little short for some players. also sometimes when you shoot at an enemy , the bullets might 
 go through, they won't die at first but then if you fire several more shots then they will die. 
 i would recommand this game to user who will have lots of patients to snipe, also to people who 
 look for realitic gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twardo101
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 2, 2006 10:25 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are great, the shooting is fun, there are some cool weapons, and the campaign is highly 
 immersive. This is a great game i would reccomend getting if you are even slightly into tactical 
 shooters, but its multiplayer really lets it down. On multiplayer you can't stick up against walls, 
 making the camera gun pointless, and the whole experience less exciting than the singleplayer. 
 Also there is lag, I have a 1500 dwnload and 512 upload connection yet when i fire at something 
 it takes just under a second to make dust/water/blood. Otherwise, this game is great, but unlike 
 many die-hard fans i would really like to see my gun in first person mode, i know this is a third 
 person game really, but if there is no sticking to walls for cover then there is no point to third 
 person and with no gun in first person, it just seems fake and un-realistic compared to the likes 
 of COD (completly different game i know, but you get my point) . Seeing your gun and it bouncing 
 when you move would have added realism and intensity to the game, unfortunately it was not to be. 
 The difficulty settings are good, while it is near impossible to complete the hellicopter missions 
 on hard normal is fulfilling and intense non the less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JYGFluffy212
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 30, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  G. R. A. W is one of the Best tactical warfare games on the market as we speak. This game has it all 
 strategy, shooting, great mutliplayer games and soo much more. where do i start. Campaign mode 
 is great especially when you team up with someone as in one of your friends and you guys play co 
 op. Its great to play along with other people and even against them. If there is going to be a 
 G. R. A. W i wonder what that one is going to be like cause how do you top this? This game is a must 
 buy and so far there hasnt been a tactical warfare game like this one, but i think one shoould 
 be coming soon... Rainbow Six Vegas maybe!? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godnos
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 30, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  ghost recon is one of my favourite games because of its realism, how each enemy adapts to the environment 
 to create the feeling you are on a battlefield. the best thing though is ghost recons multiplayer 
 because you can just sit in one position and just pick enemies off with a sniper or you can go 
 in all guns blazing and kill them all. just one more thing the graphics, do i need to say more 
 apart from that they are absolutly awesome.
  i personally think that this is the best 3rd/1st person shooter out at the moment.
  there are 
 only two main problems 1) you cant use cover on multiplayer e. g. get up against a wall etc
  2) not enough maps on multiplayer.
  overall it is a very goood game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Abandon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 29, 2006 9:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is by-far the best Ghost Recon Game hands down. The graphis are masterful and the game 
 play is asome to, a pretty long single player and now u can download another campoin from xbox 
 live. The Mutiplayer alone is wroth the price of this game. If u have xbox this one probley one 
 of the funnest games u can play on it. The audio is good, voices are great and back it up with 
 masterful graphis and u r getting ur moneys worth out of this game. Not a fan of xbox live, will 
 the game offers a great single player to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geodisicdome
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 29, 2006 6:05 am PT
Review:  i picked up ghost recon: advanced warfighter along with my 360 a few weeks ago. i haven't finished 
 the campain yet but i have put a lot of time into the game.
  
  the graphics are fantastic and really feel 'next gen' enough for me
  the levels are big and very 
 realistic, the setting of mexico city is perfect for this kind of game.....
  the weapons all feel good and sound fantastic.....
  
  if you're into shooting stuff, as i know 
 i am... check out this game. if you don't like shooting things, this really isn't for you....... 
 go and watch the simpsons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewpock1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 28, 2006 9:35 pm PT
Review:  this game is the gretest war game ive played in a long time. full control over the soilder and 
 surroundings has never been better. gameplay is great and is challenging at times. of course the 
 graphics r top notch. especially on hd tv. but we should all know that these reviews r very individual 
 so dont go by what i have said and make a descicion off of it. anyways graw is a fantastic game 
 that will not let u go. youll want to get full gamerscore off this game for sure. ive beat 5 missions 
 so far and am still having a great time. hopefully i can get through it so i can get on with co-op. 
 great game go buy it for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewoutdekker
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 27, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  I really don't like shooters on a console, but this game makes an exception! I mostly play racing 
 games on my xbox 360 (PGR3, MotoGP 2006) , but after downloading a demo of Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon 
 Advanced Warfighter i was sold!
  
  The game has an easy to use command structure (for your teammates) and the accuracy of pointing 
 your gun at the enemy is quite easy. It doesn't beat a keyboard/mouse combination butI found this 
 the most easy to learn part of the game.
  
  The leaning and peeking around corners is fantastic and keeps you covered.
  
  Really try this 
 one out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gallagher06
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 25, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Great game, iv been playin it since the first week it had been released and i havnt looked back
 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Gameplay is awsome, although it does have a few flaws here and there. For most people that are 
 impatient, the lobbys killed it for them, for people who just like to run n gun and have a good 
 time, the realism killed it for them. There are just so many things to dislike u may wonder how 
 so many people have been obsessed playin this game since its release and the answer is its a great 
 game, it takes team work to take down the opposing team, and patience (o yes patience, not only 
 in the lobbys but waiting for your enemy to poke out their head just far enough to blow a hole 
 through it) , it also takes many hours of practice getting your trigger finger ready to go on a 
 massive killing spree through the enemys spawn.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The Graphics are amazing, possibly the some of the best we've seen to date. You can tell the people 
 over at Ubisoft really wanted to give u that real authentic feeling that your on a tropical beach 
 (with snipers ready to pick u off on the other side) or in shell-shaken forest. I have no complaints 
 on the graphics, ubisoft really did a superb job on this area of the game.
  
  SOUND:
  Sound, whats not to love about hearing bullets whizz by your head and hit the rock right next to 
 you, or shootin the M60 and be blown away by every bullet that leaves the chamber and havin the 
 shells clink as they hit the ground. Although the sound is close to perfect it does have a few 
 things wrong with it, but the thing that annoyed me the most was the M4, for some reason sometimes 
 it doesnt stop makin the firing sound when u let off the trigger and its gotten me killed more 
 than once.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  THE GOOD:
  Very authentic war game, almost perfect.
  
  THE BAD: Although its hard to find thing wrong with this game, there are some flaws. First off 
 its not for everyone, its a game that requires team work, patience and a quick trigger finger. 
 Second, the update kinda messed some things up imo, however it improved in other people eyes.
 
  
  Final Thoughts: Great game, not for everyone, it takes some time gettin used to but when u crack 
 throught the hard shell that is bein a newb it turns out to be a very amazing game and well worth 
 the money dished out on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebeardof
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 23, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  I cant say iv played all of the ghost recons in fact iv only played two of them including this 
 one but i can say that this is one of the best games i have played in a very long time. the single 
 player is an intense experience that is very exciting and at some points very difficult especially 
 if playing on the harder difficulty. i dont have live so i cant really say how the online is but 
 iv played many local games with my friends and i have to say they are really fun also, once you 
 get you and 3 of your friends and play defence on old town it gets really fun really quickly, and 
 its hard too. i really like the sounds of this game, the guns, to me at least, sound all different 
 and unique. i absolutly love how in multiplayer the bots with just say random things, like scream 
 at you or say something mexican. i also really liked how it added some battle music in the bigger 
 battles to get you a little pumped, which deffinatly made them better. the single players character 
 models and animations are absolutly spectacular, they do get a little down graded for the multiplayer 
 but the animations are still very good. so with its highly addictive multiplayer and challenging 
 single player this game is a must buy for anyone who thinks they will enjoy this type of game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: runemaster190
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced War Fighter is a great 3rd person shooter and more.... Plus its not based 
 on World War II which is great, since there are thousands of war world II games already out...
 
  
  In G. R. A. W you take the role of Scot Mitchel a captain of an elite group called ghosts and mexican 
 rebels are trying to take power over the world... You of course have to stop the Mexican rebels 
 and save the world.... During which you, capture generals, destroy buildings, recover wounded soilders, 
 and even control tanks and helicopters! Plus the new interface makes this game an enjoyable experience 
 of future war fare.
  
  The story takes place in 2012, and Mexican rebels are trying to hack into other countries nuclear 
 bombs and take over the world! You, Scot Mitchel plays an important role in this great 3rd person 
 shooter.... The graphics is a major role in this game, in my opinion its the best looking game 
 to date... From when you destroy buildings, to when you kill enemies this game looks great, even 
 if you dont have a HD TV, it still looks like a true next-gen game.... Its showing how powerful 
 the 360 really is.
  
  The sound is another great feature that this game has.... The music is really great, you feel very 
 heroic once you destroy an important enemy base and you hear this kind of music, you just have 
 to experience it yourself to know what im talking about. Besides the music everything else sounds 
 realistic, from when you shoot enemies, to just running around. Again this game gains alot of points 
 for the sound.
  
  This game is another must have for any gamer.... I havent even covered the online yet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: To_Ashes
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is addicting as is fun. You start off in a futuristic Ghost Recon. Ubisoft has done it 
 again with Ghost Recon: Advance Warfighter. The game has a few new features but it sure does lack 
 some features also. As like, it has a Multiplayer Mode (Online, VIA Splitscreen, And System Link) . 
 But I find most of the stuff in this game the same old Ghost Recon. The Single Player will find 
 some peoples attention but will feel like you been doing the same thing over and over after a while. 
 Its really all about the massiveness online. With so many players its a must not miss... Same with 
 System Link... Split Screen is the same old... The graphics are amazing. As every explosion fills 
 the air with light. The multiplayer graphics are not even close to comparing the singleplayer but 
 it is still amazing for multiplayer... Overall Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter is a game not miss 
 out on if your a Tatical FPS fan. But if you are not a Tatical FPS fan... I would say rent before 
 buy... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hello465
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2006 6:46 am PT
Review:  A game full of sniping hunting explosions and warfare one of the best of all first person warfare 
 games ever the graphics leaves nothing to the imaghination everything you want is right there infront 
 of you all you need it eyes to see this is the best warfare game in years and should have more 
 awards than it did it has to be the best ghost recon and all the versions stand alone and all look 
 brilliant and so they should Ubisoft have done an amazing job with this like they always do with 
 all there games no one can not like this game the whole concept is like a crystal in a cesspit 
 f-ing amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quitris
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2006 5:50 am PT
Review:  This game is only good if your good at shooting people because about 5 shots and your dead bye 
 bye see you later restart again and again same on co-op that can get alittle annoying if you can't 
 find a save point but apart from that its a well worked game like real life stunning graphics.
 
  
  Other things people may wanna buy this for is if your into army games and war games look no further 
 best looknig war game so far well if you want a war game go for call of duty or something if your 
 picky but this is better if your looking for longer game play good graphics and co-op play call 
 of duty has good graphics but no co-op at all UBISOFT RULE!
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonster
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 21, 2006 5:44 am PT
Review:  La pima volta che ho provato Tom Clancy ho capito subito della qualita' del gioco. La prima cosa 
 che ho notato era l' icredibile effetto luce Abbagliante che determina un aspetto fondamentale 
 . Il single player e` abbastanza facile anche nella modalita' dificcile. Purtroppo difetto trovato, 
 era la AI degli amici. Di una demenza pazzesca. Per quanto riguarda il multiplayer... c'e' poco 
 da dire... ASSURDO BELLISSIMO... tutto ruota in maniera pefetta. Co OP, e' un fattore importantissimo, 
 ho sempre sognato di avere 15 amici cn me a lottare contro un nemico. Dettarci strategie, mosse.... un 
 sogno divenuto realta'!
  Per quanto riaguarda il sonoro, l' unica cosa che posso dire e'... dove siamo arrivati... Ho provato 
 con il lancia razzi a sparare ad un palazzo lonatano dalla mia postazione. Una volta colpito il 
 rumore del botto giunge a noi dopo 1 o 2 secondi, dando al gioco un estremo senso di realismo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firedragonghost
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2006 8:22 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best xbox 360 games that came out right away. This is a game you would probally 
 play forever and never quit playing it even if u do beat the story line only because its fun. The 
 lvls in this game are kind of hard but it takes awhile to get used to them and then you get the 
 hang of it. I would say this would be better if u played it online because it is so much fun. You 
 can have teams and fight in all tons of maps with tons of different weapons. There rlly isnt much 
 to say about this game but its got good story line, good maps, good weapons, well it just has good 
 everything. So if u want to find a fun game for the 360 i would suggest this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eganj04c
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 19, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  when i first stated playing this game it felt like i was actually in mexico. the graphics are out 
 of this world. the campaign mode is a none stop action extravaganza. online is the best ive seen. 
 unfortunatly u cant jump in and out of games. the campaign mode drops you right into the action 
 with non stop action. the AI (artificial intelligence) is outstanding but at sometimes stupid. 
 Your team will move out into the open where they then get shot and you can heal them. The cross 
 com affect is cool apart from when it goes all fuzzy (only in a couple of missions) . Xbox live 
 allows you to play up to 16 man which i believe is just right. All in all a great experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Michael5076
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 18, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  graw has got to be one of the best games for the 360 right now. As soon as i bout it was i addicted 
 to it. The campaign is great and the online play is even better with many diffrent types of games 
 to play.. The co-op online play never gets old and the new maps are awesome!!! This game has the 
 smartest cpus ive ever seen for any game. they will actully sneak up on you. one minute you will 
 be scoping them then you take your eye off and u look back and their gone... the next thing you 
 kno he has sneaked around and is shooting you in the back!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paperbagman04
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 18, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  This is a great game no doubt about it.... Possibly the game with the best graphics thus far.... 
 Exspecially if you have hdtv. Now this game is just plain fun..... The single player lasting about 
 10 hours.... Is a duck and cover type a game.... Its fun..... But It can get pretty hard at times.... 
 Once your done with single player you can go on to multiplayer wich is great... But the graphics 
 are somewhat of a downgrade but still look great... And youll notics in multiplayer theres a lot 
 of disconnecting and lobby sytem is terrible.... Also some might find the single layer to get a 
 tad repetive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: air0123
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 15, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Very well done game, overall very very good, loved all of it. Has a couple area's for improvment, 
 but nothing to serious. The controlls took me a few missions to get totally comfortable with, but 
 after that it was really nothing short of amazing. The detail in the game was superb. I thought 
 as one of the first big titles the 360 put out, they did very well with it. I think that the next 
 installment of the series will be even more amazing as it really utilizies the 360's power. Not 
 that this installment didn't utilize the 360, but i didn't think that it did to the fulliest extent 
 that it could of. If you like war games, where you need to be the leader and get people in the 
 right spot to have them really help you, then this is a game for you. If you want a war game that 
 you can just run and duck and you think your team can't help you then this isn't the game for you. 
 I have never been one for online multiplayer so I can't say anything there. I am mostly a single 
 player, co-op kind of guy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: V4LENT1NE
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  GRAW was released and met praise, it was finally a noticable step forward into the next generation 
 and was one 360 game that actually felt finished. The graphics in GRAW are superd, from the HDR 
 lighting making extremely realistic contrasts to the beautiful level design which does nothing 
 but add to the realism of the GRAW series. The character models look fantastic and extremely well 
 detailed, and move fluid and realistic like you have come to expect from a Tom Clancy franchised 
 game. The level design and mission structure are on top form, you wont be constantly doing the 
 same things over and over again, you could be defending and escorting th epresident in one and 
 taking down a chopper in another, the single player is quite simply fantastic. The graphics are 
 amazing but not perfect though, the game can suffer from quite a hefty bit of screen tearing which 
 at times can jar the action and take you out of the moment, the framerate is pretty good but it 
 can feel a little bogged down, when the screen is busy you can at times notice significant framerate 
 drops however they have tried to cover some of this up in the single player especially the the 
 motion blur effects. The A. I in the game however may be the games biggest letdown, sometimes your 
 teammates will stand in extremely stupid open positions and sometimes plain just dont go where 
 you want them to which can get alittle frustrating. I would have liked to have seen the developers 
 work a bit more on your team mate A. I but its dot a game destroying fault. I guess its time to 
 discuss the online, which is again fantastic in some areas but just plain wrong in others, the 
 action is fanatstic and always highly tense, the levels are varied and fun and offer tons of multiplayer 
 fun, however there are two major problems, the first is stacking, this happens in the online a 
 lot, the host will stack the teams to his advantage and it really can zap all the fun out of the 
 game and make it rediculously uneven. Spawn killing is also terrible, this can basically render 
 a match pointless and end the game instantly, if the other team gets near your spawn point he can 
 simply lie on the ground and wait for you to spawn, with the time I have spent with the online 
 this can at times become extremely frustrating. There is also online Co-op missions which can be 
 extremely fun and offer a varied and fulfilling experience. That pretty much raps up my time and 
 summary on Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, all in all its and fantastic game that shouldnt be 
 missed by tactical shooter fans and shooter fans in general, while not for everyone it still has 
 the poewer to bring new legions of fans to the table even with its flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Night_Frost
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 12, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  After a disappointing second installment, the series seemed to almost fall flat until GRAW was 
 announced, than everything took a step forward to achieve greatness no other game in its genre 
 can achieve.
  
  The story this time around, the elite special forces until is now in the third largest city in 
 the world, Mexico city, you're simply just minding your own business until a Coup collapses around 
 you and the rest of the US Army, basically, there's a new treaty between Canada, Mexico and America, 
 but some oppose this treaty and start a coup... and the Canadian Prime Minister is killed, a shame... anyway, 
 its your job to save the Mexican and American Presidents before they meet the same fate as the 
 Canadian PM.
  
  First thing you'll notice when your first play the training mode is that this game is so good looking, 
 you'll feel like your in the game itself, almost cinematic quality, in fact the game plays about 
 almost like Ridley Scott's Black Hawk Down, the battles can get chaotic as some missions have you 
 holding position, character detail is at its best, character movement is realistic at best and 
 enemies don't have this robotic movement, they move like real soldiers. New stuff is the CrossCom, 
 basically you got one screen that shows your teammates and you get a second screen that pops up, 
 this serves as your mission update, also moves the story along as news vids come in.
  
  Voice acting is very well done, each all feel like actual soldiers and use the same military talk 
 as used in real life (They even refer nuclear missile codes as a football) , weapons have this almight 
 feel, new weapons are the MC-R Rifle and Zeus missile launcher, you also get two very powerful 
 sniper rifles, G36K rifles and MG21 Machine guns are accupied by the enemies, all have their own 
 unique uses and most all, have this powerful feel to them. Music is dramatic at times and intense 
 at some points, during the 'cinematics' you even hear the Spanish Heavy Metal band, Ill Nino being 
 played as you fly to your objective.
  
  The cover system is a hand tool to help you survive the most intest firefights, learning everything 
 can be achieved in just the training alone, everything else about Ghost Recon is still preserved 
 in this great title. Multiplayer is fast pace and still keeps that old Ghost Recon feel, no superman 
 health as only two shots can easily take you down.
  
  In the end, GRAW is probably the must-have title of this year, which buy now fans and those who 
 have a 360 may already have this, if your a fan of military shooters or just want a new shooter 
 to play, worry not as GRAW will cure that itch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junk213
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 12, 2006 12:11 am PT
Review:  Despite the crap from the other ghost recon games this game, rocks!! It is one of the best games 
 to come out for the 360. It's a game that combines amazing graphics and great gameplay. The single 
 player is good, its set in the year 2013, durong a war with terrorists in Mexico city. A lot of 
 the missions are problably choosen from the Tom Clancey radom streotype mission generator. Of course 
 you have to save the president and do other things along the lines of that. My favorite thing about 
 this game is the ultra addicting mutiplay. There are the basic game types like death matches team 
 death matches. There is also a couple of co-op missions that are really fun, territory, one of my 
 personal favorite game types is hamburger hill. If that doesnt make any sense let me explain, during 
 vietnam one general really wanted tpo capture this one hill so he kept on trying to take it. There 
 was so many dead bodys they nicknaed it hambuger hill So if you have a 360 and you dant have this 
 game, go to eb or gamesop game kiss your 60 bucksgood bye, you won't miss them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcanine_88
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 1, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  I've played my fair share of shooters on consoles, and I got to say that Ghost Recon: Advanced 
 Warfighter for the 360 blows all of them away. Everything about it is just so flat out great that 
 it's crazy. I'll start off with what's bad about the game. And I'm going to let the hammer down 
 on this game.
  1: It shares the same name as the PS2 and XBox GRAW games (they are total crap) . That's it, really 
 that's about all that's bad about the game. See, told you I was letting the hammer down.
  
  Now, what's good about the game (I'll keep it to 5 reasons) .
  1: The graphics in the game are 
 really really good. Graphics isn't everything in games, but this game looks great.
  
  2: The weapons on the game is also great. You got 35+ to pick from (you won't find all of them 
 in campaign, but in multiplayer it has them all) . If you want to be a sniper then you can pick 
 form 6 rifles. you want a heavy weapon (M-60 type) , you can pick from 4.
  
  3: The AI in the game also isn't stupid. They'll try to hide themselves, they'll work in groups, 
 they'll move around and so on. They don't just stand around in the same spot over and over again.
 
  
  4: Campaign on the game is really great. You got 11 levels (10 if you don't want to count the training 
 level) in the campaign. They are all fairly long (not too long, not too short) challenging levels. 
 They aren't a walk in the park.
  
  5: Multiplayer. This is where the game comes out and takes the cake. It's great great great great 
 on so many levels. Not only does it have different types of modes but you can customize it all. 
 You want pistols only then set it that way, you want some weapon removed from the list, then removed 
 it. You want choppers in the level then get it. You want drones then set it up that way. Control 
 Zone, Capture the Flag, Death Match, Co-op, and that's just the tip of the modes. You got a ton 
 of them in there. Make your own character, change the face, the head gear, the camo and so on. 
 If GRAW was just that multiplayer stuff then it'd still be well worth the $60 price tag. GRAW for 
 the 360 is the best shooter out there IMO. If you got a 360 and if you like shooters (even on the 
 smallest level) then you need to pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjxbox
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 11, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Now just to let you know, I'm not normally into shooting games, or games like ghost recon or hitman 
 that require sneaking around sometimes but I love this game!
  
  I'm renting this game at the moment, and its really good. At the moment I have just got the mexican 
 prime minister safe and now i'm trying to help clear up the rebels in the country!
  
  Graphics: Graphics are outstanding, the scenery and people look really realistic. The shadows are 
 also really good. The guns look good too, I don't know that much about them but they look real.
 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is really good, and can be difficult. As I said I don't normally play games 
 like this so I expected it to be hard, but it wasn't as difficult as I thought it would be (for 
 the first few levels) but it gets harder. The AI are realistic and move about and hide etc. When 
 you look through the scope on you're sniper rifle it moves around a bit, but you can make yourself 
 hold you're breath to keep the gun still to get a better shot. Also with most guns you can choose 
 between different modes (single fire, rapid fire etc)
  
  Sound: The sounds are amazing, enemies talk, the voice acting is good. The gunshot / explosion 
 sounds are also really good, especially if you've got some good speakers with some bass! I'd say 
 definatley rent this game, or buy it if you've got the money - its worth it!
  
  Its difficult choosing a 9 or a 10 on those options so I put them all at 9, but some would be more 
 of a 9.5
  
  9.3/10 from me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TyThug
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 11, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  This game is great if you like games that are realisic this isnt the kind of game that you shoot 
 somebody 30 times and they die you shoot them once or twice and they die. They have plenty on weapons 
 from automatic machine guns to sniper rifles so you choose which best goes with your style of play. 
 The Campian is good with twist and turns. Sometimes you by your self but most of the time you have 
 3 other soldiers that help you fight. The AI is good and you commands that you can give them are 
 good you can tell them to go recon which is quit and go to kill. In Multiplayer you can choose 
 a class and thats cool becuase they have quite a few and they are
  greander, Rifler, MarksMan, and Automadic machine gun man. They also have this eye peiece where you 
 can see what your conrads are doing during or out of battle. The graphics are top noch you cant 
 get much better right now in all if you even remotely like realisc games or tactial shooters you 
 should do your self a favor and check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khamyre
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 9, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is everything and more than I hoped for when I first got this game. 
 I have only played the single player campaign mode so far but have been very impressed with all 
 facets of the game, from the mindblowing graphics to the well placed music and exceptional sound 
 effects.
  
  This is not a Call of duty 2 type shooter as run and gun will simply not work here. You must use 
 cover and think strategically about where you want to go and what is the best way to get there. 
 The enemy AI is good for the most part and can be quite unforgiving if you are not constantly keeping 
 aware of your surroundings.
  
  The missions are quite varied and to get the most out of the game you really must use the skills 
 you learn during the tutorial at the beginning of the game.
  
  Overall a great buy for the 360 and highly recommended for anyone who likes the thinking man's 
 shooter as opposed to the run and gun style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: breckcowboy25
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 8, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  I dont like writing reviews. I just like giving scores. So as of now I'm just going to put letters 
 down to take up the space I need......... d da ee f aifd oa iojl kj lkad. This is a really good 
 game though. kdflajdf e wi ouid alf; dj lkjle ewwwww n n, m , m ,m klj kfdn bv v xc xe we ewr woi 
 uou po pewpw ew e ew d adsf ajlkj lkj lkj'lajd'lka jlje; lwkj ;j jlk jlkhdklfhadf a e e af jxncxmln 
 l lkjlda d a d e elaowwio nf da ; lk dad dada fd faoi po klk dafd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fagsi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 7, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  The second wave of Xbox 360 titles is already beginning to show what Microsoft's next-gen console 
 is capable of. Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, Dead Rising, Saints Row, Just Cause and Elder Scrolls 
 IV: Oblivion are some of the games in particular that are bringing next-gen graphics and gameplay 
 to an audience yet to be truly convinced by the machine. Set in the sprawling metropolis of Mexico 
 City in 2013, Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter develops upon Ubisoft's well-established military 
 shooter like never before to create an experience like no other on the Xbox 360 to date.
  
  First off, GRAW is one title that we've really been looking forward to over the past twelve months. 
 Early footage of the game really left a lasting impression as to what the various development teams 
 across the Ubisoft Empire were trying to achieve, and despite having to wait a little over three 
 months since it missed its original Xbox 360 launch window, our anticipation levels haven't subsided.
 
  
  Following the theft of a Railguard IX intelligence device from a downed spy plane over Nicaragua, 
 Ghost Leader Captain Scott Mitchell finds himself in Mexico City hunting down the location of the 
 device. At the same time the US President, Canadian Prime Minister, and the Mexican President are 
 in the Mexican capital to sign a join security agreement. It goes without saying that it doesn't 
 take long before all hell breaks loose, with a rogue element in the Mexican armed forces attempting 
 a coup d'etat. Reunited with the rest of the ghost team, it's up to the player (as Mitchell) to 
 deal with events as they unfold over the course of three days.
  
  At its most basic level, Advanced Warfighter follows a similar structure to its predecessors; players 
 control a four-man group of special op soldiers through a series of missions that rely on strategic 
 thinking in order to survive. Such a description is however far from conveying how much of a leap 
 GRAW is for the franchise, and not only because it appears on a next-gen console. The entire single-player 
 campaign takes place in Mexico City, enabling the developers to focus on creating perhaps the most 
 realistic representation of a living city in a videogame to date. It never feels like a set, with 
 Ubisoft's multinational teams of studios building every type of district you can think of from 
 glass lined skyscrapers to plazas, low-risers, and slums. There's an immerse level of detail to 
 the game that helps to bring the city and the situation to life, although the coup has meant that 
 the 20 million plus inhabitants of Mexico City stay in doors throughout the game.
  
  Despite the city setting, the developers have been rather crafty in ensuring that the player doesn't 
 go wandering where they shouldn't. Each of the game's dozen missions (including the training mission) 
 is broken up into sub-missions with their own objectives. These take place in areas that can be 
 over 250 metres by 250 metres in size, which is more than enough when confronted by a barrage of 
 bullets and artillery shells. Reaching the edges of these areas however causes static to display 
 on the HUD, and a warning appears that Mitchell is leaving the battlefield, and his duties. That's 
 not to say that the level design is linear, far from it. There are a multitude of routes through 
 the gameworld thanks to alleyways, sideroads, and destroyed vehicles that ensure players can snake 
 their way through the battlefield rather than just being guided through the game.
  
  The ghosts themselves are kitted out with the Integrated Warfighter System (a complete armed forces 
 technology currently in development by the US military) , which has enabled the developers to introduce 
 several new features into the series, not least the CrossCom. Incorporated into the ghost's monocle, 
 the CrossCom allows intelligence updates, news feeds, and footage from the other ghosts, to be 
 displayed. In addition, the HUD also identifies ghost team members and differentiates them from 
 enemies and friendly vehicles. In terms of the game, it means that players will never find themselves 
 visiting a command centre during the course of events; there're out in the field until the situation 
 ends, which only increases the already high sense of immersion created by the game. By not having 
 a physical command centre, ammo drops and US ghost trucks are used to add ghost members to the 
 mission and top up the ever decreasing bullet levels. With the intensity of missions generally 
 reaching a peak towards their end, such drops are vital if players are to avoid finding themselves 
 facing a barrage of enemy fire with their health at a low ebb. When occasions like that do arise, 
 GRAW can easily change from being a challenging and immersive experience to one that's quite frustrating. 
 The use of ghost trucks also means that the missions flow neatly into one another, especially when 
 loading sequences are short and sparse, allowing players to take in the full extent of the Mexican 
 coup without ever being pulled from the game.
  
  Prototype weaponry such as the MRC-LW rifle, which is equipped with a camera so that soldiers can 
 see around corners without risk, also make their debut in the game together with a raft of other 
 semi-automatic rifles from the present day. Certain missions also call for the heavy use of a sniper 
 rifle, and once again there's a choice between a few, as well as a bazooka. The other ghosts carry 
 their own specialist weaponry depending on the role they play (Grenadier, Automatic Rifleman, and 
 Marksman.)
  
  From the instance that the story unfolds high above Mexico City in the ghost's Black Hawk helicopter, 
 it's hard not be impressed by the visuals on offer in Advanced Warfighter. By setting the game 
 over three days the developers have been free to show off their abilities to create missions that 
 take place from the early morning, the heat of midday, dusk, and through the night. Blooming effects 
 spill light over the rooftops whilst HDR adds a high level of realism to the bright sun overhead, 
 and with the city increasingly looking like a war zone, the amount of smoke and its representation 
 is nothing short of impressive. Character models and their animations are exceptionally natural 
 and flow realistically, with extra visual details such as dust plumes caused by bullets hitting 
 a surface, the sight of tracer fire whizzing past Mitchell's head, and tyres that deflate when 
 shot bring another level of depth and immersion all adding an immense sense of depth. With that 
 being the case it's slightly disheartening to see the appearance of certain visual details that 
 we thought would be left in the current-generation such as stencilled shadows, and some low quality 
 textures on objects including wood, rusted metal, and tree trunks. Shattering glass is a given 
 in active areas of gameworld, whilst others in buildings on the periphery merely crack; of course 
 it doesn't affect the gameplay but it does raise the odd eyebrow when such things like that are 
 noticed.
  
  With AI that makes GRAW challenging from the beginning of the game, enemies are very unforgiving 
 throughout the events in Mexico City. Not content with just standing there and getting shot by 
 the ghosts, enemies in the game are more than adept at self-preservation. Hiding behind cover and 
 actually trying to flank players really helps to create a sense that these soldiers are real. It 
 can be argued that the AI of the ghosts themselves is perhaps not quite as sophisticated since 
 they seem to enjoy getting in the path of a bullet, but at the same time they too reflect an intelligence 
 that's a requirement to surviving the mission. Players can order the other ghosts to take up certain 
 positions by using the crosshair if it's within sight, or use the virtual map to order them to 
 positions elsewhere in the area. They can also be told to take an aggressive Assault stance, which 
 will make the ghosts fire on any enemy once visual contact is made, or a Recon stance telling them 
 to hold fire until shot at. As with its predecessors intelligent use of these commands is nothing 
 short of crucial in order to successfully complete a mission, and thankfully the new system is 
 fluid and responsive enough that it never detracts from the game. Controlling Mitchell himself 
 is a very fluid and natural experience with covering positions, rolls, and diving for cover highlights 
 in a system that allows players to easily take on the role. It would have been easy for the control 
 system to get bogged down and confusing, but the development teams have evidently worked hard to 
 ensure that the experience is about as intuitive as it could be.
  
  Although the rest of the ghost team accompanies the player as they make their way through the events 
 in Mexico, there are missions where Mitchell is alone in the urban jungle. Such missions can be 
 more challenging, especially during the night, where night-vision goggles are a must. In addition 
 to the ghost team however, Mitchell also has access to UAV drones, which can fly over an area and 
 detect enemy placements, and on occasion, tactical control over Abrams tanks and Apache helicopters. 
 A few sub-missions also take place at the mounted gun in the Blackhawk helicopter. Flying around 
 the streets of Mexico at low altitudes, mowing down packs of enemies and vehicles, they help break 
 up the gameplay enabling players to just aim and fire without having to concentrate on tactics. 
 Such missions also help players to take in the sheer scale of Mexico City below, which retains 
 its realistic qualities from the air.
  
  Just as impressive as the gameplay and the visuals is the audio of Advanced Warfighter, which surrounds 
 the player with layers of sound from the overwhelming explosion of a building through the to more 
 subtle sound of flies buzzing around Mitchell's head in the heat of the sun. As with the visuals, 
 there's a real tangible sense of immersion created by the sound developers that won't fail to impressive 
 gamers. Key sequences also feature emotive music, which really conveys the backs to the wall state 
 that players will find themselves in, and the seriousness of their situation.
  
  Amongst the superb experience of the single-player campaign, there's only one real disappointment, 
 and that it's length. Having reached the final objective and looked at the stats, the GRAW experience 
 in Mexico lasted around nine and a half hours. Obviously that excludes the number of times that 
 the ghost team died and had to restart from the previous checkpoint (which given the ferocity of 
 the enemies in the game occurred on more than a number of occasions) which stretched the playtime 
 out a bit, but to complete the core gameplay in under ten hours was a bit surprising. Extending 
 the gameplay of the campaign are the Xbox 360 achievements that require players to go through the 
 Mexico experience in the self-described 'ultra-realistic' Hard difficulty, which ramps up the opposition's 
 skills beyond that of any normal human.
  
  Beyond the single-player campaign lay multiplayer options that could make GRAW a very addictive 
 experience in the coming months. A four mission co-operative campaign for up to sixteen players 
 tells the story of a second ghost team in Nicaragua as they track down more members of the Mexico 
 City coup, whilst solo, team, and co-operative gametypes set across ten maps look set to provide 
 Xbox 360 gamers with the sort of online experience that they've craved for in the last few months. 
 Addictive and compelling, not to mention tense, the online gameplay draws players in, in a way 
 that is rarely seen in shooters today. It's not even that the game features many new gametypes, 
 in fact most rely on well-established modes such as Elimination (Deathmatch) and Hamburger Hill 
 (King of the Hill) , but it's been so well executed that none of that matters.
  
  Varying in size and environment from beaches and fishing villages to junkyards through to a shipdeck 
 and temple, there are maps that cater for any size party from two to sixteen. All have been incredibly 
 well designed so that games of cat and mouse through alleyways, or stand offs across a shoreline 
 will no doubt have a very popular lifespan. It's worth noting that certain aspects of the single-player 
 campaign have been removed, most notable the covering action and the ability to slide on one knee 
 but most (including the UAV drones) are present. Not much of a problem, however the lack of those 
 two abilities do raise questions as to their omission. What is perhaps more noticeable is how different 
 the two modes (single and multiplayer) feel from one another. They're both intense experiences 
 that gamers will love, but the multiplayer does feel far less dependent on tactics - even in the 
 team games.
  
  As with the single-player game, the multiplayer modes have also enabled the developer teams to 
 include present day weaponry together with some of the more futuristic munitions of the campaign. 
 Continuing with the intensity of the single-player campaign, GRAW multiplayer can be both high 
 tempo and more calculated; there's a wide variety in sub-gametypes (with Ubisoft estimating around 
 1300) to keep gamers amused in the coming months, and with the co-operative campaign described 
 as Chapter 1 we can expect updates to appear in the coming months. Providing gamers with one of 
 the first true next-generation experiences, Ghost Recon Advanced Warfigher is one title that shows 
 the potential of Xbox 360. It's perhaps the first killer app titles for the system thanks to its 
 strong gameplay, astounding graphics and sound, and a solid multiplayer experience that provides 
 players with a high level of immersion. The single-player campaign could do with being a little 
 bit longer, but perhaps that's just greed on my part - this is a scorching title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth_brett
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 6, 2006 11:43 pm PT
Review:  G. R. A. W. was the very first game that I had heard was a must-buy for the XBOX 360 system. Everybody 
 raved about the game and proclaimed it was the future of the next-gen. Well, I will say it is an 
 impressive game in some respects. But overall, I can't say I love this game. Graphically, it is 
 a marvel to behold when you first experience it. The animations are fluid and the details and backgrounds 
 are definitely sharp. Soundwise the game is also very good. The explosions jolt you silly and the 
 bullets piercing metal and wood around you makes it seem like you are in the midst of the action. 
 Alhough I think the music is best when it is turned off. I do not like lame, corporate, wannabe 
 hard rock one bit and this game has that. Gameplay is good, but I did not think it was any better 
 than most new FPS out there now. I did like how you can order your team in many different ways. 
 The online play is fun, but it somehow seems lacking to me. Oh well, overall I think most warfare 
 FPS fans will indeed love this game. But me, personally I didn't think it was worth buying at all. 
 I wish I had rented it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrAzYgAmEr24
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 5, 2006 7:33 am PT
Review:  This game is the best I have played on the 360 to date. The campaign mode is immersing and makes 
 you feel as if you are really smack in the middle of combat. The game play itself is amazing everything 
 from how you order your team to how you take cover make the game shine in the aspect of how it 
 actually plays. Now one of the best if not the best feature in this game is the on line multi player. 
 There are a good amount of maps and playing with actual players by your side and being able to 
 communicate with most of them (assuming that you and the people you are playing with have a headset) 
 really makes multi player a game of strategy and skill. I highly recommend this game to anyone 
 who is looking for a good shooter with a great multi player, great campaign, and good replay value. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicken_123_pie
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 5, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  OK. It took me upwards of 45min. to complete each level. Call me a noob if you will. I loved this 
 game from the word go. I just could not stop playing. At the end of each mission, I was wanting 
 more. I got through the whole game on Normal in a little over 7hrs. Inevitablely it took me a bit 
 more when I got around to doing it on hard. Once I knew what to do though it was just as fun and 
 action packed as ever. Now that I have completed the game and got all achievements bar 5 I just 
 continually play online. Definitely the best online game for the 360. Best game in the series, 
 I hope Tom Clancy keeps up the good work on this series. Although he's got SC and R6, I'm sure 
 we can expect to see another even better more action packed GR game by mid 08. Am I hoping too 
 much? Probably. I would just like to see more of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grubman
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 3, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Well this is the first game I got for the 360, and boy, it's my favorite game too. Well the graphics 
 is very realistic. This game is the only game where the graphics amazed me. The city looks so realistic, 
 character models are great, the muzzle-flash and explosions looks very cool and real. I didn't 
 see any errors in graphics. There are no loose pixels and stuff. It's crisp and clear.
  
  The gameplay is fun and simple. Like a regular shooter, you shoot stuff. But the missions aren't 
 bland. There is not much boring escort missions, there are missions when you raid a castle, or 
 rescue a teammate, or something similar to that. The thing that really makes this game unique is 
 unit control. You can actually effectively control your units, and the units can help you a lot 
 . Taking cover is realistic, and is very helpful. It doesn't give you this feeling of frustration, 
 you can actually take cover and have a great chance to live.
  
  I never tried the multiplayer, but it looks great. But co-op is the most disappointing feature 
 of the game. The co-op missions use the Ghost Recon 2 engine, making the gameplay as not as good 
 as the campaign's. Also, if you play split screen, you are always forced into the FPS mode. I like 
 the 3rd person view. This game has the best sound in any game in the world. You can hear footsteps, 
 the explosions sound like explosions, the gunfire is realistic, and the vehicle sounds are great 
 too.
  
  I love this game. It's my favorite game of all TIME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FirstStrike77
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 2, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Right now, if I may say so myselfm this is the best singleplayer shooter out for the 360. The graphics 
 are great, and it's alot of fun. However, this isn't a run and gun shooter, so you WILL have to 
 take cover. It'll last you a while, and give you a good taste of next gen. The enemy AI isn't great, 
 but it won't ruin your time. If your looking for a multiplayer game though, I'd suggest Call of 
 Duty 2. Most of the tactical features are lost in multiplayer, and there isn't a large level of 
 skill needed in multiplayer either. THere's my cut and dry review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noelyk8
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 2, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  I would like to preference this by saying I only rented both these games and only played multi 
 player. G. R. A. W.
  
  Strength: Commrodery- I made a lot of friends.
  
  Weakness: Extra Maps- A lot of severs were using the maps you have to purchase so it severely limited 
 were I could play including friend requests. (If you buy this game purchase the extra maps!)
  
  Strength: Team Work- I say it's a strength only in comparison to BF2: MC. Some games a few people 
 talk and coordinate. If you find these people add them to your friends list.
  
  Weakness: Spawn Camping- Or camping in general. I personally don't find it fun. But the best players 
 seem to do it. (I'm talking to you FedWitness)
  
  Weakness: Repetitive Map Play- It always comes back to playing the NOWHERE map. (And surprise surprise 
 the host is always at the top of the hill) Weakness: Shaky Servers- EA has better servers
  
  notes: Don't play on Saturday nights (full of smacktards) ... Until you learn each map and the 
 formula to winning it, expect to die allot!
  
  BF2: MC
  
  Strength: Variety- This is the best thing about this game. The different load outs and vehicles 
 make even playing the same map over and over fun.
  
  Weakness: No commrodery/Team Work- The only people talking are either talking smack and/or whining.
 
  
  Strength: Open Ended Game Play- Unlike G. R. A. W. there seems to be only a loose formula to winning 
 each map.
  
  Weakness: Repetitive Map Play- I don't know if there is a random map option for hosts. It would 
 be nice.
  
  Note: I plan on buying this game when it comes down in price.
  
  I hope this was helpful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZENOALPHA
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 2, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  This game takes me back to certain combat situations i had to endure with my unit. As an operative, 
 it is not easy. However, I do validate the fact that this game is a very good shooter, but I cannot 
 admit with pure certainty that it is completely tactical. There is something missing here, without 
 a doubt. In a situation where a nation finds itself at war, there should be more units operating 
 in any given area. In GRAW it feels as though the Ghosts are the only unit deployed and worst yet, 
 it feels as though they are the only soldiers involved in combat. From my recollection, war is 
 overwhelming. Combat should be continuous, if not at least reflective of the condition at hand. 
 Mistakes should be rewarded with loss. In short, GRAW presents an idea and a gaming experience 
 that is very grand in scale. But to be frank, the attempt at making something so grand has also 
 left too many gaps to fill. My problem is that these gaps will never be addressed because the game 
 will then be less appealing to the masses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StrangeMeeting
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 30, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advance Warfighter on the 360 is a good game. I believe it is a little overhyped, but 
 it is still a good game. The graphics are pretty nice looking, in fact they could be the best looking 
 of the system. Mexico City looks great.
  
  The gameplay is fairly fun. This is a more tactical type of game so don't expect too much action 
 at times. Your backup's AI sometime does suck ass sometimes and has been notorious for this game.
 
  
  The reply value is what is kind of weak with this game. After you best it, which takes about 7 
 hours, there is nothing too special in it to warrant some reply value. Xbox live is fun with this 
 game, but not great. The sound is fairly cool, but there is some quite annoying heavy metal music 
 at some of the games interludes which get old fast. They picked these tracks that are simply for 
 the times for a very small audience. How crappy.
  
  All in all a good game, but I just don't know if it is worth owning. Only buy great games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garrett20
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 30, 2006 12:51 am PT
Review:  OK, so the single player is one of the best games I have ever seen. The graphics are the best to 
 this date. There is not one game that is close to realism as this game. I saw a man die in a movie 
 called Black Hawk Down and I think a death I saw in this game almost looked realer. It was Amazing. 
 Then as excited as I was I had some friends over to play co-op. Wow it sucked. It makes you play 
 in first person and you also lose your ability to put your back to walls. In single player, when 
 you zoom in to snipe some one, your cross hairs will shake until you hold your breath. In multiplayer, 
 your cross hairs don't shake, they stay perfectly still. Multiplayer is a completely different 
 game. It is very disappointing in that aspect but since single player is so beyond any thing else 
 that is out there, this game is worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: auti_13
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 27, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  This game have good graphics good gameplay, good music and all that but something that I really 
 dont like is that after you finished the game it turned boring to play it again but it can be good 
 if you play it in xbox live so I really dont recommend this game who wants to play the 360 a lot 
 of time .
  The story of the game is good but I dont really like it because I am Mexicanand I am proud of that.
 
  
  so I think that can be good that you rent it, pass it and play a little more before you get boring. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: remixmasta
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  THis game is awesome and it is all that everyone says it is if you try and beat it with any other 
 3 person shooter than you might as well fail or quit most people say that this game is perfect 
 thats becasue it is but when you are looking for a no brainer and fast paced action packed game 
 look towards the battlefield seris but all i can say is that this game keeps you on your toes and 
 keeps you thinking on where to go and how you should get there also it is so realistic like when 
 you see the graphics and tactics you wont belive your still at home in front of a damn tv screen 
 trust me this is a must play for all you tom clancy fans i swear 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmogoon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 27, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  In terms of single-player gameplay, Ghost Recon is difficult to fault.
  
  Huge, detailed urban environments produce the perfect settings for the drastic political scenarios 
 which arise in the single-player missions.
  The graphics throughout the game definitely do justice to the Mexican metropolis which they embody 
 and never let down.
  Your instructions for your mission goals via your H. U. D. are consistently to-the-point and accurate, 
 meaning you always know exactly whats going on.
  The system for controlling your teammates is intuitive and your men always do what you say.
  
 The rest of the controls for shooting, peeking from behind walls and other general tactical maneuvers 
 are actually pretty easy to get used to and are responsive.
  The storyline is interesting enough with frequent updates to your status once again through your 
 personal heads-up-display.
  
  Multiplayer on xbox live has a range of different game options, however finding games straight 
 away has proved difficult for me, but the online gameplay itself is once again captivating and 
 addictive.
  
  The real highlight of Ghost Recon 3 is definitely its well thought out, creative single player 
 which is backed by a solid storyline and excellent graphics.
  One of the best games i've ever played 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Woozy_Gem
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 22, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  This game has really good graphics and all, but after you defeat the game, it gets, well, boring. 
 Sometimes at an angle, all of the color turns brown and sepia-ish. I don't like how the multiplayer 
 part of GRAW has different grpahics, and less controls. GRAW multiplayer reminds me of ghost recon 
 2. The campaign is great, but gets really dull. The graphics are some of the best I have seen though. 
 It's a little hard at first, but once you get used to it, it will be pretty easy. I havedefeated 
 on hard and normal ( on hard it is a one hit kill for you) . Otherwise, it is an okay game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaziechameleon
Rating: 6.2
Date: Sep 20, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: the game has decent graphics, and a large selection of weapons, and a cool HUD, good 
 control scheme. some good animations.
  
  THE BAD: boring single player, horrible AI, in both single player and coop, horrible singleplayer 
 level design, horrible AI, false reflections (the reflections aren't of the game world take a look 
 they are pixelated images) on buildings during chopper flights, no reload animations. flying belly 
 crawl glitch. bad AI, far to simple multiplayer. lack luster weapon design. aiming glitches i which 
 your explosives kill you (grenade, rocket launcher, grenade launcher) some major clippiing problems. 
 some bad cover detection, horrible AI.
  
  THE BLOB (this is a stream of thought about the game, you can skip to the end for the break down)
 
  
  Ok i don't know if you got it but this game has really bad AI, shooters aren't always know for 
 their AI, a great example is doom3, quite a fun game, but alas GRAW isn't doom3. it's a tactical 
 shooter! how tactical is a game in witch your teammates refuse to take cover and keep getting shot 
 in the head, so you rush over and save them like a medic, except you aren't a medic, so this makes 
 little sense. anyways. you AI teammates aren't always useless, sometimes they are unnaturally leathal 
 for no reason, they won't take cover but they won't get shot either, they'll cut a path of destruction 
 for you and you can follow. really this is the worst excuse for a tactical shooter since lockdown. 
 your tactical options in single player are quite slim, the levels usually have one path that is 
 actually feesable, sometimes you get 2-3 choices, but it about a minute or two all the different 
 paths tie together agian so the feeling of being in a huge sprawling city is lost. this is basically 
 a rail shooter, you walk siad path and shoot siad badguys for siad reason, made me think of call 
 of duty, except the combat in call of duty was fun, the third person cover system feels good about 
 50 percent of the time, other times it feels cheap or it won't work at all. yes there are objects 
 you can't cling to so then you are a glutin for punishment. sometimes when your teammates are dead 
 you are left preforming a long range shootout with a sniper, sounds fun, unless you have a short 
 range assualt rifle, then it takes a matter of minutes to dispatch the sniper. during that time 
 all you do is lean out unload a magazine (using burst or single shot for some accuracy) and reload. 
 rinse and repeat till the sniper bites it. in combat the enemy AI doesn't flank unless it is scripted, 
 so if you get flanked and die, you better not let it happen agian or your just plain stupid because 
 it happens the same way every time. there is a mission in witch you defend the mexican president 
 from hordes of rebel soldiers. ha, in this 5 minute mission i kept failing because the mexican 
 president would get feisty and run out from behind his cover only to die, why, it was a easy shooting 
 gallery challenge except that 75 percent of the time he would do this, or my teammates would leave 
 their cover and die and i'd get flanked. this mission was so boring and stupid, and yet took me 
 over a hour to beet on normal difficulty, and only because of glitches, aaaaaaaaahhhhhhhhhhhh. 
 the AI isn't any better in coop, if the AI kills you sometimes 4-5 will gather around the spot 
 you died, ignoring the battle, they'll stare at the ground it's simple enough to walk up to one 
 of these groups and nade them. five kills without a shot fired. oh yeah and i almost forgot to 
 mention the most anoying problem besides the AI, this game doesn't have full reload animations, 
 if you reload your guy just moves his hand around and then your clip is refilled, he doesn't actually 
 touch the clip or cock the gun though. it's funny the first time i thought it was a simple glitch. 
 my avatar was hugged up agianst cover, the camera had him taking up half the screen and i reloaded 
 only to see his hand wave around like a retard wtf. graphically this looks the same as Half life 
 episode one, but the enviroments are steril, an example, why are there barrels just standing in 
 the middle of the street, sure it's convenient for cover but they do not belong. this game is the 
 appitamy of a stupid console shooter, i loved halo 1 and 2, realizing they were a step forward 
 for consoles every where, as was farcry instincts. heck look and RS3. but this game feels like 
 a gameplay retardation. i beat the hole single player if only for the live points. but after playing 
 the multiplayer and coop, i can't touch this game ever agian. ew. i think the thing that makes 
 me maddest is that this game has to be the fact that they charge 60 freaking dollars for a next 
 gen title that requires so much extra work and money to meat todays gamers expectations. um, the 
 reloading animation has only been standard since half life atleast, that is almost ten years. the 
 worst thing is that game spot recomended this game as the first true next gen game. heck no, oblivion 
 was. i'll wait for gears
  
  BREAK DOWN
  
  GAMEPLAY: we've seen this type of gameplay before, but it was better done, and cheaper. this is 
 the gameplay of the last generation.
  
  5
  
  GRAPHICS: not a bad graphics engine, to bad it is used to little effect, with steril enviroments 
 and inconsistent lighting, yeah they have HDR, but not full real time lighting effects, with night 
 and dust levels, especially the night levels, i found quite a few graphical inconsistancies. also 
 the cop out on the building reflections annoyed the heck out of me.
  
  8
  
  SOUND: probably the strongest part of the game, the weapons and their dynamic sounds where fantastic. 
 along with strong voice acting.
  
  9
  
  VALUE: for 60 dollars i'd expect to get real next gen gaming instean i get a very pretty left over 
 of last generation. this was a GR 2.5. one point for each mode, single, multi, coop.
  
  3
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT: i feel cheated out of money and 20 hours of my life. i could trade this 
 game in but then i wouldn't be able to warn people about the game when they see it on my shelf. 
 the real reason i'm giving this a 7 is to keep the score higher.
  
  7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FuzzyBunny55
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 5, 2006 5:46 am PT
Review:  G. R. A. W is one of those games that is really hard to review. There is so much about the game that 
 is just absolutely amazing. However, there are a few, almost minor, things about the game that 
 nearly ruin it entirely. So the questions is, when trying to recommend it to someone else should 
 I focus on all the great things about the game, or the bad things about it? I'll do my best to 
 give you a fair impression of the good and bad qualities of this game.
  
  Almost right off the bat, G. R. A. W. completely immerses you inside of the game world. There are 
 not cutscenes, no FMV sequences. Every bit of the game takes place in the 3rd person perspective 
 that it is played in. All of the story elements are relayed to the player through a video window 
 in the HUD. Mexico City is about as real as a city gets inside of a game. Buildings are rendered 
 for miles into the distance. Heat shimmers off of surfaces and affects your view. Pollution clouds 
 taller buildings. Transitions between levels all take place in real time, interupted by only a 
 brief loading screen. When you are transported to a new location in the city, you actually fly 
 to that location. These are some of the most stunning visuals in the game, with the entire city 
 layed out below in fantastic detail.
  
  The game controls almost perfectly. Controlling your character, you actually feel like he is the 
 elite soldier the game tells you he is. Taking out enemies from behind cover, calling in airstrikes, 
 diving across enemy fire, it all controls incredibly fluidly. Animations are smooth, and all of 
 the characters movement look incredibly realistic. Levels are huge and varied. In fact they're 
 so massive that you'll often end up passing by buildings or skyscrapers that were so distant at 
 the beginning of the level that you thought they were only scenery. Levels are laid out well so 
 that enemies are challenging but not impossible to overcome. Furthermore most levels make good 
 use of height, proving that most of the buildings are there for more than just looks.
  
  I can't comment too much on the online play, since I didn't get too deep into it. I did play a 
 few rounds though, and overall I wasn't all that impressed. The visuals are dialed down significantly 
 in the online play. So much of what makes the single player so impressive is stripped out that 
 it almost looks like and entirely different game. Presumeably this is the make the load easier 
 on your bandwidth. However, I still ran into a lot of problems with lag.
  
  My biggest gripe with the game though is not the online play but the AI in the single player. For 
 me, this nearly ruined the game. To put it simply, the AI for your squadmates is abysmal. Babysitting 
 your teamates becomes an excercise in frustration. The step out into enemy fire. They ignore orders. 
 Rocket launchers will shoot other teamates in the back. They'll get stuck trying to get around 
 corners. G. R. A. W. has some of the worst AI I have seen since the PSone era. What makes it even 
 more confusing though, is that enemies don't seem to have the same problems with their AI. If enemies 
 can competently take cover when under fire, why can't allies?
  
  In conclusion, it's hard to know how to recommend G. R. A. W. If you can overlook the AI difficulties, 
 you'll find an incredibly smooth and polished game. However, if you're the kind of person who gets 
 frustrated easily, you'll be breaking controllers by the second level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insomniacgamer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 18, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is an astounding game graphicly as well as in the gameplay. First 
 of all this game is just plain fun I mean c'mon how often do you get to shoot a guy through a wall! 
 This game is extremely immersive as you fight your way or sneak your way through each mission. 
 The gameplay is awesome the graphics tight and the controls are easy so you can just pick up and 
 play. I reccomend this game for your collection if your a fan of the series or if you just like 
 futuristic shooters and thats why I give this game a 9.1 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isthisnametakn
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 21, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Aside from Halo, Halo2, Halo PC, and soon to be Halo 2 PC, there aren't a whole lot of games that 
 I play. As you can see my life is consumed by Halo. I... am a halo deciple. I worship the game. 
 I eat it, drink it, sleep it, and breathe it. It is what allows me to wake up in the morning. In 
 fact, the only reason I don't will myself to death right now, is so that I can play more Halo. 
 You may be wondering why I would start my review for GRAW on this note, and rightfully so. I just 
 want you to get a good idea of how much my life revolves around that game, because for the past 
 two weeks I can't remember playing it once. For the few of you who have read this far, you ought 
 to know where I'm going with this. I haven't been playing Halo for two weeks because of GRAW. Breathe 
 now. Yes, I know it's shocking too but it's true. Now the game hits you so fast that it's kind 
 of hard to take it all in a once so I'm going to do my best to pick it apart and cover every aspect. 
 I'll probably fail because the game is just that huge. Anayways, here's my take on Ghost Recon: 
 Advanced Warfighter. (Bechya can't read it all.)
  
  Gameplay: 9
  GRAW is a tactical squad based shooter that takes place in near future Mexico. You can choose to 
 be in either first person or third person mode. While I'm a big first person fan, third person 
 tends to work best since it allows you to see around corners and gives you better peripheril vision. 
 Plus, you can't see your gun in first person. I'm a huge legacy fan so I was pretty ticked off 
 when I found out that they were forcing me to use dual analogue controls. Why they couldn't put 
 that option in is beyond me. Actually, the controls in general were a bit complicated. That's why 
 squad based shooter usually don't sit too well with me, but for a sixty dollar game, I forced myslef 
 and it all eventually became second nature. Moving on now! The city was AWSOME! I loved the urban 
 shoot outs. And the detail was amazing. I was mezmorized by the uncanny lighting effects. Literally. 
 I'd spend minutes just looking around and would sometimes forget about the mission even. I know 
 I'm kinda creeping into the graphics attribute but they just impacted the gameplay so much that 
 I had to at least mention it. The weapon system was rather rigid. the only weapon you could switch 
 was your main which ment you couldn't hold two rifles. That was kind of a bummer, and you can't 
 just pick up extra ammo by walking over someone; you have to swap weapons. That acually is more 
 realistic, but I can't count the number of times I was like a duck a carnival shooting galary running 
 over a gun over and over trying to pick it up and failing. That caused a lota set-backs. I like 
 checkpoints, because I suck; and this game didn't have many. So I had to go through the same places 
 quite a bit and that got redundant. This game is very realistic in that you often times have no 
 idea that snipers are around the corner. Many a time I would be running from one block to the next 
 and BAM! So in that since there's a lot of going back simply because you can't find what roof a 
 marksmen is on. Online was great. I was owning in this one match so bad. I had racked up about 
 thirty-six kills or something like that. It's like they couldn't do anything against me. It's like 
 they wouldn't. And then, near the end of the game someone said, Get the **** sucker he's killing 
 all his teamates! Turns out, I only got two kills on the enemy. I thought that anyone who showed 
 up red was an enemy and that blue was always the ally. You know, like in Star Wars Battlefront. 
 Turns out that's not the case in GRAW. Dang this is taking longer than I thought.
  Still with me?
  
  Graphics: 10
  This game probably has the best graphis of any game I've 
 ever played. Like I said, the lighting effects are the crowning point of this game... sometimes 
 a little too much. Every now and then the light becomes too realistic and can actually make things 
 hard to see. Overall though, the graphics are probably the highlight of GRAW
  
  Hangin' in ?
  
  Sound: 10
  I'm not sure that I can rant a whole lot about the sound. The 
 music was great. Not as good as Halo's but it was still pretty good. There wasn't enough of it 
 though. The sound effects were up to par. While I can't say that this attribute was as immersive 
 as the graphics, it's still worthy of a ten simply because it was flawless.
  
  Sorry, I know I'm skipping things but I can't feel myfingersand... I think my thumbjustfelloff. 
 : )
  
  Value: 10
  This game is surpassed by only one (take a guess at witch one) . It's got the best mix of single 
 and mulitplayer of any game that I've play, except one (can you guess which one?) . While I gues 
 you can't really say this about any game, I'm going to anayway. There really is something for everyone 
 in this game provided that shooting games interest you.
  
  Almost there.
  
  Tilt: 9
  After all I've said I still can't say this game is perfect, nor can I say that I've had more fun 
 with this game than any other game. However, that doesn't chang the fact that this an amazing game. 
 If you have any system that supports this game, I urge you to try it.
  
  Thanks for staying with me all the way. Sorry for the ridiculously long review, I just couldn't 
 make the summary any shorter. Later 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leo_rpgman
Rating: 5.9
Date: Sep 16, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  The game was mediocre, multiplayer wasnt cool it was horrible, it was to short, and only one hard 
 mission, quite easy game no challenge in it. In my opinion rent it before buying it, it is a hedius 
 game you wont want to play it after you finished it, multiplayer campaign isnt cool and multiplayer 
 1 vs 1 is horrible to.
  
  Without insulting other players dont take as a bad thing but seriously try to review games better, 
 probably u are mediocre gamers that can&acute; t play challenges so you liked this game, it was 
 overrated if it hadnt been one of the first games for 360 it would have much more less score. Mediocre 
 Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaron_anvil
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 16, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  Online this game is so fun, you cant just run round shooting at anything that moves coz ul get 
 owned! you actually have to think and plan, just stealth your way through the map sniping etc. 
 makes the game so much better than other shooters like call of duty 2 etc. this is definately the 
 game to buy for the 360!!!!! just got a hd tv and it makes ghost look next level! FO SHO! single 
 player is good too but a bit easy unless ya stick it on hard when it becomes a bit more challenging! 
 basically buy this game if ya connected to xbox live and start rinising fools! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TerminalEcho
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 13, 2006 9:55 pm PT
Review:  After so many solid hours of both campaign play and multi-player play, you can get a fantastic 
 idea of just how great this game is. On the other side, you can also get a good idea after playing 
 for only five minutes. The polish on this game is widespread, and it covers about every angle that 
 the game can throw at you.
  To start from the beggining, anyone who says that this isn't one of the top 5 or 10 graphically 
 impressive games of all time, needs to change the channel, because they must not be looking at 
 same game I'm looking at. Every little aspect of detail was both well thought out, and then well 
 executed by Ubi-Soft. The player models, the lighting, the shadows, the sky, all of this is so 
 well done it still blows my mind to this day that video games have come this far. It doesn't matter 
 if it's night or day out, the game looks simply astounding in any light.
  There's not slouching in the gameplay aspect either, as the game handles about as well if not better, 
 then any other shooter to come to the market as of thus far. The weapons look real, and they have 
 the feel and sound of the real thing as well. The peeking system that allows you to hide and pop 
 up only for a split second to fire off a short burst, is heavily used in this game as about every 
 firefight requires you to find some cover and plot your approach from there. The camera system 
 used on your HUD is also useful in planning an approach, but it does have it's drawbacks, and it's 
 very hard to make out enemies on such a small screen. The enemy AI is smart, and they also will 
 find cover, and come at you in numbers. To say the game is not challenging, especially on the hard 
 difficulty, would be a horrible misrepresentation of the gameplay. It's meant to be challanging, 
 and it succeeds on most missions.
  The modes are deep, and you have two campaigns to chose from. There is the main campaign that most 
 people play that goes through the small cutscenes that put you in the chopper before a mission 
 gathering intel. Then there's also the secondary campaign which will take longer to get through, 
 but I think it was mostly meant to be played in multi-player, as the objectives are very simple, 
 but take a long time to carry out. Either way, the single-player missions by themselves will keep 
 you busy for quite some time, and if they don't... Then hop on-line because there is much fun to 
 be had there as well. This really is a game that doesn't get boring after many hours of on-line 
 play. While I don't say the play is worthy of Halo 2, it still will keep you occupied for many 
 hours at a time.
  Overall the single player missions are better drawn out due to the controls, but the multi-player 
 campaign is fun also, and the on-line play rocks. If you're a fan of Clancy games, or just shooters 
 in general, this game should float your boat, and I have to bow down to Ubi-Soft for bringing us 
 this one, as they really have created a work of art. Other than some minor AI flaws, the game has 
 absolutely no glaring holes, and it is easily worthy of being nominated for one of my games of 
 the year. Buy it, and buy it now... You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m0thr4
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 12, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  Well, the graphics are great and do a good job of capturing the feel of a war-torn city, but where 
 are the civilians? Mexico City has a population of nearly 9 million people, but there are none 
 to be seen, whatsoever. If you ever watch urban war zones on the news, there are always some civilians, 
 trying to go about their daily business (and often getting caught up in the crossfire) . When you're 
 in the middle of a firefight, this oversight doesn't really matter, but there are some periods 
 in the game where you are wandering though unocccupied territory. Another disappointment is the 
 way that although some scenery is vulnerable to your fire, this only highlights the areas that 
 aren't. I can see why this is - the areas in GR: AW are so massive that there's simply no room to 
 make every piece of glass in every building able to be shattered. But when the graphics already 
 look this good, you start to expect things to behave as they would in real life.
  
  The sound is absolutely perfect. No complaints there. The enemies' voice samples get a bit repetitive 
 after a while (if you happen to speak Spanish) but everything fits together well to immerse you 
 in your environment (a powerful 5.1 surround system is obligatory though) .
  
  The single-player game is rather buggy. Quite often, I found my character would stick to the spot, 
 unable to move, in the middle of a gun battle. Other times, my character would be able to move, 
 but his arms and legs weren't animated. Near the end of one of the later missions in the game, 
 a bug prevented me from completing it, so I have to restart the (very long) mission all over again. 
 The difficulty level in the single-player game is unfortunately inconsistent. Rather than starting 
 easy and gradually getting harder as you progress, you'll find that in any single mission there 
 are ridiculously easy bits and perversely hard bits. Once you play the game on the hard setting, 
 this becomes even more pronounced, with the first level being extremely easy, but the first mission 
 of the second level (the helicopter/chaingun section) is ludicrously hard, such that one shot can 
 kill you instantly, forcing you to replay that section of the mission. If you persist enough times, 
 you'll get past it, but it's not really what I would call "fun". I wouldn't mind if the controls 
 were well calibrated, but unfortunately, they're not, when compared to other Xbox 360 shooters. 
 Quite often, you start to move your sights to a target, but then it speeds up and you miss your 
 mark. There's a kind of momentum in there that makes the whole process of aiming more difficult 
 than itt should be. Another problem in the single-player game comes when you try to control your 
 teammates. You can direct them on the ground no problem, but once you're up onto the first floor 
 of a building, or a motorway flyover, the targetting system gets all confused and directs them 
 to a spot on the ground floor.
  
  The multiplayer game includes numerous ways to play against large groups of people, as well as 
 a co-operative game. I'm not a big fan of multi-player games, as I don't know many people who have 
 Xbox 360s and I'm not really into playing against people I haven't met. The co-operative mode is 
 very poor indeed, and not a patch on the co-operative mode in Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory on the 
 Xbox. In GR: AW co-op, you lose one of the most important control features you get in the single-player 
 game: that is, the ability to stick to and peer around walls. You also get no control of vehicles, 
 other troops or that hovering thing that picks out your enemies. This then makes the game extremely 
 hard, and once you or your teammate are dead, there's no re-spawning, unless you want to sacrifice 
 getting the relevant online acheivements. If you do "cheat" and switch on the respawn feature, 
 you'll suddenly see right through these "co-op" missions. All they are in fact are multiplayer 
 deathmatch with enemy bots and some rather vague spots on the map that you've got to get to. There's 
 also a time limit on the co-op levels... why? It completely removes any prospect of using a slow 
 and considered approach to the mission.
  
  Overall, I was massively disappointed with this game. The bugs and inconsistent difficulty spoiled 
 the single-player game and the co-op mission was a wasted opportunity and a complete let-down when 
 you consider what other Tom Clancy games have achieved in that area. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: --Magnum91 --
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 11, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  When I bought my 360, GRAW was one of the main reasons for doing so. I was not disapointed. A great 
 campaign combines with outstanding Live play to make this an instant classic on the 360.
  
  You play as Cpt. Scott Mitchell, who first shows up in the not-so-great GR2. Scott is a leader 
 of a super elite group of soldiers; the Ghosts. I won't give too many spoilers, but the basic storyline 
 is there is a rebel uprising in Mexico, and you are sent it to help.
  
  Campaign mode is alot of fun, especially on hard mode, where one bullet will kill you. However, 
 the term "tactical shooter" should be used lightly. I found that the friendly AI was too stupid 
 to really be of much help. For example, if you tell your squad to attack a certain rebel, they 
 will all run into the open, guns a-blazing, without even thinking about going behind cover. I often 
 find myself telling teammates to go to an area just so they don't get themselves killed and make 
 me come heal them. They can really be a liability at times.
  
  There are only a few commands, as well. "Attack", "Regroup" and "Go to" are all you can tell your 
 squadmates. Ever heard of "suppressing fire", Ubi?
  
  Besides the crappy AI, the campaign is still enjoyable. Mexico City is huge, and really great looking. 
 There are a good variety of levels, which shows off the 360s abilities.
  
  If you really want to get tactical, Live is the way to go. If you can get a few guys working together, 
 the Co-op campaign (separate from the SP campaign) is a blast. Plus you get Achievements for them, 
 which never hurts.
  
  Besides Co-op, there are Team and Solo games. Team games are obviously red team vs. blue team, 
 and solo is a free-for-all. I don't like Solo games much, because they feel like a run-n-gun deathmatch, 
 something the Ghost Recon series neither should be, nor is, good at.
  
  Spawn camping rears it's ugly head again in GRAW. It's incredibly frustrating when you are killed 
 half a second after you spawn, without any hope of killing your nub assailants. This is where the 
 friends list come in...
  
  GRAW is a great combination SP and Live play, which, despite a few hitches, is one of the best 
 games available for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: METALgearJES
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 11, 2006 1:11 am PT
Review:  You want the best shooter on the Xbox 360? Well here you go. You want next-gen graphics? Well here 
 it is. You want multi-player........... Well the point is this game has it all. This game alone 
 can justify your $400 purchase of an Xbox 360.
  The game play is want sets this game apart from all the shooters. It is a tactical shooter so running 
 and gunning is not wise. The game requires patience both online and off. However, this game flows 
 better than the other Ghost Recon games. I guess you can say it feels more like an action movie 
 now compared to the previous installments. The graphics for this game are awesome. Mexico City 
 never looked so good. The sound for this game is also right on the money. The single player game 
 is a lot better this time around. The missions contain more variety. The helicopter missions are 
 a breath of fresh air after those intense on-foot missions. The multi-player never disappoints 
 when it comes to Ubisoft and Tom Clancy games on Xbox Live. You have your deathmatch and co-op 
 games along with other game types that always keep the game fresh. From the great single and mutli-player 
 game, GRAW is a must have on the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cejay0813
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 10, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  This is the best tactical shooter I've played to date. Pros: **Third-person instead of a first-person 
 perspective.** -Although I never had any gripes about this feature, I liked the fact that i could 
 see my soldier like in SOCOM. Really made the "tactical" feel come out for me. If you're not feeling 
 this option the game allows you to change it to first person, which is cool too. **Graphics and 
 sound are superb, especially on a big HDTV** -Im still kinda new to the next-gen thing so the graphics 
 still blow me away for the 360. Especially if you got the surround sound and the big screen. Can't 
 get enough of the explosions and gunfire. You may find yourself randomly throwing grenades under 
 cars just to see'em fly (or maybe its just me) **Nice Cover System** -Self explanatory. The last 
 time I played a game that let me take cover is in Winback :) **No Loading times** - The only loading 
 times you'll get is when you're messing around at the main menu. As far as in game loading, there 
 isn't any except for after you complete a mission, and even that is short.] **Excellent gun-play** 
 **Highly addictive multiplayer** -The multiplayer component is another game to me. Co-op and Elimination 
 take a lot of time out of the day Cons: **AI IS RIDICULOUS** -Imagine a team full of Jester's from 
 SOCOM. Squadmates will run out in the open and stand there waiting until someone shoots them. Don't 
 know how many times I yelled, "is this guy serious!!" They'll kill someone though so they're not 
 a total loss **Not very in-depth on squad command** -Meaning you really don't have total control 
 over your squad (maybe that's why they're so stupid) . It dwells along the lines of Full Spectrum 
 Warrior. You can tell them where to take cover and who to shoot but that's about it. **Glitchy 
 animations** -I've noticed sometimes when you're taking cover or firing from cover, the guy's arms 
 get kind of crazy, but no biggie. Doesn't happen a lot at all. **Not a lot of Multiplayer maps** 
 -Not a total loss, if they keep adding more and more.
  
  THIS IS A MUST OWN, NOT A RENT FIRST **CLASSIC** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yellosnolvr
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 9, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, what a great name. But name of the game isn't what makes it great. It's 
 the gameplay, graphics, and the deathly realistic sound effects.
  First off, the graphics. The hot Mexico sun creates bright reflections and the amazing heat waves. 
 Playing this feels like you are Captain Scott Mitchell and you are sweating your cute little butt 
 off. But that's not all. Great face graphics are a hit. Dirt, sweat, facial expressions, they are 
 all included in almost every face unless they wearing face protection. But, for the voice over...... 
 the mouth moves like it was a PS2 game. It looks like the mouth is speaking a foreign language 
 or not moving at all while the guy is talking. ICK!
  For the sound effects, well, I'll put it this way. I haven't seen such a masterpiece created by 
 the sound department of any developer of any game. You'll find out in any of the gameplay movies 
 when something blows up. Or if you happen to rent it, in the training mission, when you blow up 
 the bradley tank. I got a major case of the goosebumps when I blew that thing up. Wwwhhheeeewww!!! 
 Truly amazing. It's just the best dam (n) SFX I've ever heard. Period. Bottom Line.
  Gameplay. Nothing like your teammates yelling when they've spotted reinforcements. Or when you 
 have to heal your teammates. But, you know what? You have to use your high-tech equiptment to move 
 through the game. And some of this stuff, folks, is almost unbelievable.
  The multiplayer, if you don't have xbox live, you're left out in the dust. The MP is extremely 
 intense and provides un-measurable realisticness. You have to rely on your brain and real-life 
 tactics if you wish to survive. The servers are nice and smooth so there will not be any noticeable 
 lags. GRAW is a great game that overshadows it's gloomy past. That may make you avoid this game. 
 But don't believe it's past.
  So overall, GRAW is the best in the series and provide essential qualities that other games just 
 can't get a hold of.
  -Final 9.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marolia
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 4, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  This game is fun but not as i thought. the gameplay is O. K half of the time u play alone and not 
 much with your teammates. The graphic is awesome .The only problem in this game is that u fight 
 alone sometimes and sometimes u fight with your teammates and that sucks sometimes. The hard stuff 
 u have to do alone and the easy stuff we play with the teammates . As for the mutiplayer it was 
 awesome. It is great fun playing with your friends online.. Soo this game is worth buying and worth 
 playing it too. Rent it first to play this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: defogger
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 3, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  I have always been into tactical shooters. So I went out and rented GRAW to see what it is like, 
 and this is what I thought. I put the game in my 360 and started the training and thought it was 
 cool. Controls were easy but not always responsive. Then I got to the combat. The squad members 
 and the friendly A. I is absolutly awful. Teammates run into your line of fire and then bark at 
 you for shooting them. They run into hordes of enemies and never fire a shot. Instead, they get 
 shot to the ground and I or my other teammates can't reach him. Now to the visuals. The graphics 
 are SOOOOOOOOO glitchy. Objects spontaneously load in front of you and some character shadows are 
 N64 quality. As far as weapons are concerned, it's very limited. It would have been nice to see 
 some shotguns and there is only one pistol. However, the weapons are authentic and are really used 
 by special forces. Sound effects are very sharp and intense. And explosions look very cool. The 
 game is really long and it actually doesn't get too repetative. Plus you get an achievement for 
 every mission! But the action itself is challenging which is a good thing, but overly challenging. 
 I mean the mexicans shoot you from a mile away when you in prone, and sometimes grenades spawn 
 out of absolutly nowhere and kill you. Overall it's a great tactical shooter which could have been 
 a bit more polished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adompe
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 3, 2006 12:15 am PT
Review:  When the 360 came out, there's was much touting from MS about the 360 being multi-processor. Why 
 would I need 3 processors, you might ask? How will game developers leverage that hardware? Well, 
 take a look at Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter and you'll see why and how. This game looks absolutley 
 gorgeous on an HD set. And with 5.1 channel surround sound, the gunfire and blasts will truly knock 
 you back in you seat. The game controls seem complicated at first, but a good tutorial gets you 
 used to the player movement and controls. If you put the game down for a few days/weeks, of course, 
 you may need a refresher on all the controls/buttons. But unless your TV explodes, I can't see 
 you putting this one down. Along with the great control scheme, graphics and sound, the missions 
 are somewhat linear; if you try to leave the comabt area, you will be prompted in your HUD by an 
 ominous voice, "What are you doing? You're leaving the field of combat!" The infrared, bazooka/rocekt 
 launcher/grenades/sniper rifle - all awesome firepower at your disposal. And the game definitely 
 turns up the tension in some missions. Not much experience with multi-player, as my lame friends 
 don't have this game (don't be lame like my friends) . Seriously, great first/third person shooter. 
 It's my first Ghost Recon game in the series, and it did NOT disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paddles136
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 3, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  If you like tactical shooters this is a great game; however, if you are not a tactician then be 
 prepared to die over and over again. If you dont creep from cover to cover you will not make it. 
 The missions are very linear. You are here go over there and don't get killed on the way. It is 
 very hard to see the enemies at the ranges they will be shooting you, if you switch to thermal 
 you lose all detail and the great graphics are just green blobs. Your squad is competent, but you 
 have to be as carefull with them as you have to be yourself. The "cross comm" or HUD is often cluttered 
 with too much information. The enemies do show up as red diamonds when you have seen them, but 
 while you maneuver to get a shot an enemy you havent seen yet kills you before you can react.
 
  
  Overal a good tactical shooter if you like that stuff, if not pass on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mv232
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 1, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay and control of GRAW is absolutely amazing. The realism of your actions really makes 
 you think twice before popping your head around a corner. I've played many first person shooters 
 in my day and I've never felt as challenged as when I first started with GRAW. However, instead 
 of this game being one that is impossible to get the hang of, after just an hour or two of messing 
 around, anyone can tear through this game. The multiplayer is amazing too. Don't get me wrong, 
 it's no Halo. But hunting your friends is always fun especially in such a realistic environment. 
 All around, I give this game a 9.4 for the graphics, realism, and warfare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rustedMECH
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 1, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Ubi-soft's new installment to the ghost recon experience comes out with a BANG! I've played other 
 ghost recon games like island thunder and ghost recon 2 , but i really couldn't care less about 
 these games and ghost recon all together. However when i played GRAW for the first time, i was 
 definitely surprised. This military game has an INSANE campaign that leaves u on the brink of your 
 seat and a solid multiplayer experience. The GRAW campaign is certainly worth all the work, and 
 is somewhat difficult. You mainly sneak around, find cover, conserve your ammo, and hold a squad's 
 life in your hands. The squad is very important to take care of because they can serve as diversions 
 for you to flank an enemy, or even giving you a chance to re-locate yourself on the battlefield. 
 The commands are easy to get used to. It mainly consists of pointing and clicking. The squad will 
 take care of their positioning in your demanded location. This game definitely has you sometimes 
 hanging off your seat with realistic sounds of modern warfare.
  
  GRAW's multiplayer is worth a look at. It consists of normal average game variants, such as team 
 death match, capture the flag, every man for himself etc. The arsenal is very wide online with 
 all different types of guns to suit your rifleman, marksman, auto-rifleman, and grenadier that 
 you choose. Taking your friends to the battlefield is the best way to go online. You can also make 
 a lot of friends just playin solo too. If you're very competitive there are ranked matches and 
 for those who just want to have fun, they have player matches that do not effect your rank.
  
  Over all GRAW should be a part of your library with an awesome campaign and a solid multiplayer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bczican015
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 30, 2006 9:35 pm PT
Review:  With the soldier of the Future hitting the Battlefeild, Technology is the soldiers greatest weapon. 
 With the year 2013 nearing its end, a new conflict arose in Mexico, that threatens the world. As 
 usual, so its up to the Ghost Team to counter this threat... in Ghost Recon Advanced Warfigher.
 
  
  This game has some of the best features in any shooter on any platform. Customizeable player looks, 
 Gametypes, amazing graphics, and sound. This game is definatly a technology familier game.
  
  GRAW takes place mostly in cities and towns across Mexico. With constant action the game easily 
 flows from one area to another, to keep throwing the player into a fight. The game allows the player 
 to alternate between desired weapons, kits, and teammates. Although all the teammates are really 
 the same, its good to have a specialized teammate kit with you when tackling certain obstacles.
 
  GRAW has an astounding multiplayer mode. The maps, gametypes, options, system all works well. 
 The technology driving it all top notch. The multiplayer mode can be player vs. player, or player 
 vs. npc. In the Firefight gametype the player can assemble a team and go up against a very large 
 amount of enemy npcs. Also boasting an online co-op mode, and several other main gametypes, this 
 games multiplayer rivals Halo.
  
  The games graphics are literally the best on the market today. The Player Textures, Weapons, Explosions, 
 Vehicles, And the City itself look absolutely perfect. With only a few "Duh, why didnt they do 
 that?" flaws, such as no civilians, at all. This game holds its own in the graphics department.
 
  
  GRAW has a variety of weapons to use, as well as multiple grenades, and enemy and friendly voices 
 to sound. So the sound in the game matchs everything. Other then a few instances of sound lagover, 
 this game responds to every step, shot, explosion, and action in the game.
  
  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is one of the best shooters on the market today. And will continue 
 to be for some time. Although there are better shooters on the market, this game offers more stratagy 
 to the fighting. Not just praying that your getting a headshot.
  GRAW will continue to woe players for a long time, esspecially with the release of Episode 2, which 
 is promising new gametypes, maps, and missions. This game will deliver an unnoticed shot to the 
 head of rebellious players until about 2014. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 30, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  After playing Ghost Recon Advanced WarFighter on the Xbox 360 I seen that Ubisoft clearly spent 
 all its time on this version over the PS2 and Xbox versions, which really angered me before I was 
 able to build up enough funds to buy the 360. Ghost Recon introduced me to Tactical Shooting combat 
 on the PS2, and now again on the Xbox 360. Except this time around its a jaw dropping action packed 
 experience as GRAW does a superb job at utilizing the power of the Xbox 360 in creating a life-like 
 feel. Haven't even played the single player campaign very much, as what I always loved about the 
 original Ghost Recon playing CO-OP with a friend is the greatest. Although I thought it could have 
 been better to make it so the campaign could be played all the way through together, the 4 seperate 
 levels have more than satifyed my need. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: --Wolf --
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 30, 2006 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter was the very first game I played for the Xbox 360. It was better 
 than what I expected. It just delivers so many innovative ideas into one action packed game.
  
  Offline mode provides a great experience on it's own. You play as the team leader of a unit 
 called the Ghosts. You and your team are sent into Mexico City to eliminate any Mexican rebels 
 and to save the Mexican and US Presidents.
  
  Online mode offers even more than offline. The first thing you will notice about online is that 
 some features and abilities are removed such as the sprint, the sliding crouch and some other minor 
 features. Depending on how you look at it this can either be a good thing or a bad thing. But with 
 that said there is always something fun happening on Xbox Live; whether it be team capture the 
 flag or a game of elimination. Online mode is definitely not a let down but instead, a highlight.
 
  
  The gameplay in G. R. A. W is incredible. The movement of your character (Aside from online, as mentioned 
 above) is just amazing. There are so many features that make the gameplay one of a kind. The HUD 
 also adds to the immerse gameplay, letting you control just about anything the way you want.
  
  Graphics are superb. The first thing you will notice is the lighting, especially when you fly 
 over Mexico City for the first time in the helicopter. The detail in the textures is fantastic. 
 Combined with the great lighting, model textures and deep detail on the environment; the graphics 
 of G. R. A. W are one of the best to date.
  
  But what's good gameplay and graphics without good sound? Well fear not as the sound included is 
 almost as good as the graphics. Footsteps, gun shots and the enviroment around you all add in the 
 make the game complete. With the ability to play online against your friends and the surprisingly 
 long single player campaign, there is so much value to this game. Overall this game was a very 
 good first impression for me into the Xbox 360 world. Even if you have been playing 360 games for 
 a long time, this game will most likely leave a bigger indent.
  
  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a very good looking, fun packed game; online and offline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pokketz
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 29, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Picture a perfect world, a world where Canada, the United States and Mexico enter into a peace 
 treaty, the North American Joint Security Agreement (NAJSA) . It is being hailed as a new era in 
 diplomacy. Now picture the not-so-perfect counterpart to this story, where during the gathering 
 in Mexico City to announce the signing of the treaty, the Canadian Prime Minister is assassinated. 
 Simultaneously, the US President disappears. This is where Captain Scott Mitchell and his elite 
 team of tactical agents (appropriately named Ghosts) come in. Prior to the tragedy, the Ghosts 
 are in Ciudad de Mexico on a routine covert mission to retrieve some stolen US hardware from Nicaraguan 
 rebels. This places them in right in the middle of all the action, and they are quickly assigned 
 the task of bringing the President back to safety.
  What entails is a jam-packed, fast-paced, action-filled tactical ride all crammed into one disc. 
 You start the first mission on a moving helicopter, which is obviously there for you to really 
 see how much detail went into the game. Being able to see all of Mexico City rendered in real-time 
 from inside a helicopter is nothing short of breathtaking. Once you land, youll be instantly propelled 
 into a world of chaos, with soldiers lurking around almost every corner and army vehicles on every 
 block.
  
  And what would such a robust world be without spectacular visuals, included full HDR lighting? 
 For those of you that dont know what HDR (high dynamic range) lighting is, it basically simulates 
 the way your iris would interpret real lighting, so if youre under a dark tunnel and run out suddenly, 
 youll meet a blinding splash of sunlight. Apart from the lighting, the game boasts detailed character 
 models, smooth animations, and a (mostly) steady frame rate, which is surprising, considering the 
 last iteration wasnt exactly a graphical wonder. The first wave of Xbox 360 games are nothing 
 compared to this; Ghost Recon really marks the new era that is the next gen.
  
  The game play cant really be called too innovative, but its the first time all of these features 
 have come together so well. Controls are extremely easy if youve played a Ghost Recon game on 
 Xbox before, but even if you havent, paying attention in the tutorial really helps. Apart from 
 the normal controls youd find in a third person shooter, there are interesting mechanics, including 
 leaning, picture-in-picture camera views that let you see what your teammates see, and simple tactical 
 commands mapped to the d-pad. All of these aspects work very well, and really make the game a treat 
 to play.
  
  Its a shame that a lot of these features and graphical effects didnt make it to the multiplayer. 
 The graphics downgrade is acceptable, because most gamers would naturally choose smooth game play 
 over suffered frame rates, but the missing game play features are inexcusable. Things like not 
 being able to lean against walls and different zoom functions dont make sense, and really make 
 it feel like it couldve used just a little more development to make it perfect. Thats not saying 
 that the multiplayer isnt good though, in fact, its still surprisingly fun, despite its minor 
 downfalls. The many different modes will keep you busy for a while, including capture the flag, 
 domination, and other wild varieties of play.
  
  Of course, any great game is not without its flaws. The most glaring problem is the sub-par AI, 
 which at times will take a direct shot and keep walking like nothing happened. Even your team AI 
 can be pretty stupid at times; instead of taking cover at the sound of bullets, some times theyll 
 just run right into the action and get pinned instantly. Some might even say that playing single 
 player too much might make you a bit out of practice once you decide to take on real people. In 
 turn, dumber enemies might actually be a good thing, because if the AI were any smarter, youd 
 have a tough time getting through this game at all. The Campaign continually offers challenging 
 yet rewarding situations, including epic battles, varied levels, and extremely stunning visuals.
 
  
  Once youve played GRAW to death, theres a Chapter 2 available on the marketplace, which offers 
 new co-op missions, guns and maps. Disappointingly, the new maps are just re-lit versions of 
 the old maps. The problem with content like this is that the people that decide not to drop 1200 
 points for the content might be at a disadvantage in multiplayer, because of the new, stronger 
 guns.
  
  All in all, if youre looking for a stimulating, epic, graphical wonder with minor, overlookable 
 flaws, then this is your game. Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is already a mega blockbuster and 
 definitely deserves a spot in any Xbox 360 owners library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdrillnfill
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 28, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  I knew this game was going to be good the day the first gameplay video came out. A different camera 
 angle that added many new features that has never been seen before. Stunning graphics and sound. 
 Solid A. I. however sometimes your "crew" tends to take cover out in the open only to die quickly. 
 What I thought we really cool is the semi destructible environment. Cars, trucks, gas/oil cans 
 all come into play. It was just nice to know that I could blow up any car at any time and not just 
 ones that had and "explosive" label on it. Very addicting and a must have for any 360 owner. Multiplayer 
 is good but spoofed by spawn kills (dorks that memorize spawn points and just camp and kill, thats 
 the fun out of it.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mayham88
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  This review is a review of online play. I have not played the levels because I feel it is more 
 fun to play online. First off the game is great. Gameplay is great, graphics are great and most 
 importantly there is very little lag online. The maps are huge in this game. Thats great, so many 
 ways to go and do things. The online play I feel is a bit too easy for me. When I play Halo 2, 
 its hard to play online if I have not played online for a while because I have lost my jist to 
 it. But for Graw, I feel that you can play just as good now and just as good five months later 
 without playing in between. Thats my only complaint.
  
  Overall this is great game. I recomend it to anyone out there. I was a socom fan for so long, but 
 I got so sick of the long menus and loading screens and most importantly the lag. In this game, 
 theres barely none of that. This is a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGreenToad
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 26, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon is an amazing game. It involves strategy, wits and reflexes.
  There is great fun to be had with this game.
  
  Gameplay- The single player mode is very good, 
 and will last you for a good amount of time. The camera takes a 3rd person view and you need
  to take out enemies lodged in strategic positions. The game is very realistic with lots of small 
 things. One of the greatest parts of this game is the cover system. You can take cover behind anything 
 and everything.
  You will be doing this very often and leaning over the side to shoot enemies. If you shoot while 
 running you won't hit anything. You need to be
  generally still and how the L button to aim better stopping any run and gun situation. The tactics 
 really take effect quickly. The local multi-
  player isn't very good but when you play online with many people the game gets great. Although 
 the cover system is compromised a little, the tactics get even more extreme as you play real people 
 and coordinate your
  class with your team. You could be a gunner or a marksman etc: The online play also had great maps 
 which utilize strategy. There are many
  gametypes but the best of them are played on teams.
  
  Graphics- When I saw this game I was 
 astounded. The graphics on this game are the best out there. End of story. Sound: The sound on 
 this game is great. The sound effects are very real.
  The only problem is the music is a little lacking.
  
  Value: This game can really last you. 
 The single player mode can take a while to beat on hard mode because one shot will kill you. Online 
 play is great and is great to play alone or with friends.
  
  Tilt- All and all this is a great game. If you want a shooter that is probably the best on the 
 360 buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dracosoul
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  This is the ultimate first person shooter, the 1 player mode is about an 8/10, but the multiplayer 
 is definitely 10/10. It's good to get together with your friends list and go out and have a good 
 time, there's always some mode or map to play and doesn't seem to get boring. It's definitely worth 
 picking up even today, 5 months after it's been released. Hopefully they continue to update it 
 with new maps, etc. If you don't have XBOX Live though, I probably wouldn't recommend it for the 
 price just for it's single player mode, but that's your call. If you were addicted to Rainbow Six 
 series on XBOX then there's absolutely no reason why you won't be addicted to this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gman2491
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 24, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  i think it is one of the best games of our time and the online is amazing the single player is 
 just good the way your men listen to your commands and they atually fight not just stand there 
 doin nothing. the only bad thing is when you are online and you get lag it gets very annoyin tryin 
 to kill them and one player can get abit borin after abit of you play to long or if it gets to 
 hard to get annoyed and dont feel like playin anymore but the other modes are better because you 
 get determined to do it in all modes it is a great game w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w 
 w w w h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h o o o o o o o o o o o o 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmyhan2000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 23, 2006 10:17 pm PT
Review:  At first this game is very hard because you have to get used to the new cover fire feature, but 
 once you've mastered that you just cant stop playing. i thought the single player on easy was a 
 bit too easy i did it first go without getting killed. Hard mode is a different story though, you 
 really have to think each level through and formulate a decent plan to pass the level.
  all this is good and jolly but i thought the coop mode was a let down, it was like a time shift 
 back to ghost recon 2. the new features that are availible in the main story have been taken out 
 of the multiplayer mode, i can understand that in the PVP games but in coop its just lame to take 
 it out. also the coop missions are way too short, too easy to complete and they dont acctually 
 have a very good story line. If you could play through the main campaign on coop mode, like you 
 can on GRAW on the other platforms, this game would be a whole lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warstomp
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 23, 2006 1:01 am PT
Review:  It is almost the perfect game. It starts out centered around a coup e de tat in Mexico while canada 
 and USA are meeting with canada on become a more union like or one big country. When you get to 
 like the 3rd mission you say damn i have not had this much fun with a storyline in a long long 
 LONG time. I said the same thing. I got it and could not stop playing.
  
  The gamplay is amazing the story is great it really makes you feel like your in a true war. You 
 feel like you need cover its a real war boys and girls. No more running and gunning you use cover. 
 You get tanks that look spactacular when shooting. One of my most memorable experiences was when 
 i first ordered my apache to shoot at a target tank. I had night vision on the night map and it 
 looked so damn good. You must have this game. Those Black hawk helicopter experiences are amazing 
 it looks like a real city. You see tracers from guns ohh yea man its awesome.
  
  The graphics a spactacular they are just great. Words can't explain them. you feel like you truly 
 are in mexico city.
  
  Sound amazing the voice overs a great. The sound for guns weapons grenades tank shots everything 
 its just great. You feel like your in a real war everything adds up to the experience.
  
  It was definantly worth the price for when i got it on release day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SWdarkJedi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 21, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter for the X-Box 360 is probably the best game for the 
 console next to Elder Scrolls Oblivian. GRAW was by far the best game in the series. It had a jam 
 packed campaign mode and a great and compelling story. The controls were easy to learn, so you 
 could command you squad to their best ability. The squad themselves were very responsive. The AI 
 in general, was excellent. But what surprised me about this impressive game was the multiplayer. 
 There is just so much to do. There is a co-op and versus mode for up to 4 players, and not to mention 
 the X-Box Live version. The multiplayer alone will keep you playing for hours. 
  
  All in all if you are looking for a great campaign, GRAW has it. If you are looking to jump right 
 into X-Box Live and have a great multiplayer game, GRAW has it. The campaign for an average player 
 will take 4 to 5 hours. I completed campaign mode is 4 hours and 5 min. But I am still enjoying 
 this game to the fullest on X-Box Live.
  
  Tam Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter was one of the best games I have ever played. I give 
 it a... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fox101101
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 21, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is only respected by people who play it. I owned the xbox version and I knew this version 
 was 10x better and I still bought it! I am not at all regretting the decision either. The game does 
 have amazing visuals, you feel like you are there fighting the battles. The gameplay is very very 
 very intense. Often scary and you find yourself pinned down and doubting if your going to live 
 or not. The game reminds me a lot of black hawk down. The feeling of it just makes you feel so 
 vunerable in such a large city, you really do have to pay attention. The game is sick, a must for 
 xbox360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjhink3
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 20, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Where could I start with such a downright eye-popping, jaw-dropping game like this? Okay first 
 off the campaign mode is just the right difficulty and just as fun as the multiplayer which is 
 also a stay-up-all-nighter kind of mode. You will most definitely love this game once you get used 
 to the style and gameplay of it. At first the only thing that I thought was cool was the graphics 
 and then I later on found out that the gameplay was just as amazing. The campaign is fast paced 
 and a bit strategic, the multiplayer is addictive online as well as against the computer. The achievements 
 on the 360 are sweet and not impossible (I. E. beating the game's different levels on veteran instead 
 of being the absolute #1 on all gametype's leaderboard) . Another great feature about the online 
 play is that you can customize your fighter as other Tom Clancy's would allow but more in-depth 
 and there is a new downloadable map pack featuring different outfits, weapons, and more called 
 "Chapter 2". Overall I would say it's the video game buyer's best choice out if they don't already 
 own it. This definitely is not a game to rent since the multiplayer is insane, if you're a classic 
 style gamer that is too great with advanced controls then this is not the game for you, but if 
 you're a person like me who likes to master his different games then this is your buy. Thanks for 
 reading... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendofYaslint
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 20, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  It's hard for me to think of any flaws this game has. The graphics are top notch. The sound is 
 amazing. The campaign is almost perfect. The online and offline multiplayer are as good as it gets. 
 The weapons are on par with the best shooters of all time. Basically, GRAW is one of the best shooters 
 ever made for a console. 
  
  What ubi did with this game is really amazing. The gameplay is tweaked just right to mix the perfect 
 blend of realism and action into one thrilling experience. Whether you are taking part in the deeply 
 sophisticated campaign missions or the intense online battles, GRAW is a most own game for any 
 serious shooter fan. 
  
  The third person "over the shoulder" camera couldn't have been done better. It easily draws you 
 into the experience as much if not more the the classic first person perspective. The lighting, 
 sound effects, graphics, and physics are some of the best ever seen in the video game market. 
 
  
  If you like military shooters at all, or just action shooters at all, you must buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Themilkman418
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 20, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  GRAW is everything it is suppose to be and more, a fun, tactical game with a good single player 
 and a great online.
  
  The single player is done very well with a tutorial stage (which you even get achievement points 
 in) that shows you the basics while showing you the amazing graphics/physics at the same time. 
 
  
  The missions are also done very well, with the first couple really showing you the intensity that 
 GRAW gives the gamer. Simple things like the camera moving in P. O. V to the motion of your walking 
 really makes you feel like your in the game. 
  
  My only complaint about the single player is it is very hard and can be discouraging but the good 
 news about that is when you do feel angry, just switch to multiplayer mode!
  
  The multiplayer in GRAW is great, the voice communication makes everything that much smoother and 
 the options of what type of multiplayer game you want to play is also marvelous.
  
  Wither you want to play team vs team or maybe get you and a couple friends online to play a "campaign" 
 mission in which you and your friends battle against the AI to reach a certain objective.
  
  GRAW is a most own if you have xbox live (gold) and you should try it out if you just have 
 an xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 6.9
Date: Aug 20, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Pros: 
  Good looking post-modern micro tech war feel
  Graphics are pretty amazing ...
  
  Cons: 
  ... except the screen is overrun with shapes and annoying sub-menus
  There are 
 no civillians in the cities
  Complicated mission layout
  No gun on first person view
  
  Bad Glitch Areas:
  Lots, especially on multiplayer. Includes going through cacti, getting on 
 top of the treasury by crouching into the wall and jumping into a bin takes you to another building 
 ...
  
  Overview:
  Though the game is a sizeable improvement over it's current-gen counterparts, the game itself lacks 
 depth and originality. For one thing, despite it being a tactical shooter, the game is TOO tactical 
 and extremely difficult! The screen is filled with many annoying shapes, HUDs and sub-menus so 
 you cannot admire the games good use of 360 technology graphics. Shooting weapons isn't fun and 
 constantly retrying wears thin after a while, as in after 10 minutes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: okayhawk
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 20, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  this game has both good gameplay and good multiplayer for anyone that has xbox live this is a pretty 
 good game to play on xbox 360 live and i canot waitl ubisoft adds another titlre to greatest games 
 they have created i would mostly prefered another ghost recon that would pass this games and is 
 freaking good, awewsome this game is pure military but i think they just needle a little more time 
 in order to fix everything and needle to spend some more time talking to military guys so the could 
 put more comand to the soldier and make a greater A. i a diffiulty so that the enemy can have use 
 any miltary tactics there is but dont get me wrong tha A. I is good but they should have make it 
 better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msb2009
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 19, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  All I have to say is Wow. I rented this game for my PS2 and I was ok with it, I played it, it was 
 good. I really didn't want to buy it, but play it. The next few days my friend bought it for 360 
 and said it stunk. He tried to take it back, but he couldn't, so he gave it to me. I had to smack 
 my friend in the face for saying this game stunk. The graphics are amazing, the gameplay is one 
 of the funniest games I ever had played. I had almost played this game more than Halo 2, and let 
 me tell you, I have never played a game for so long. Getting this game for free was cool, and the 
 Xbox live on it is cool. This is a game that you may want to rent first. But let me warn you- it's 
 incredally addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bretteo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 19, 2006 7:16 am PT
Review:  Tom clanceys ghost recon advanced warfighter is a brilliant shootem up with exellent graphics and 
 brilliand sound.
  
  You can go online and play with people you dont know against people you dont know, or even people 
 you do know its great fun but some of the levels are a bit too big. 
  
  There is a very good range of weopans and levels to play and grenades are the best part.
  
 
  The game at first is quite hard but as you get hold of the controls it becomes alot easier.
  
  Advanced warfighter is definatly best in the series, i reccomend it to people who liked the 
 previouse Tom Clancy games and shoot-em up fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CH4RL3Z
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 19, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  Ok here is the thing G. R. A. W dizzles. After a while this game will not get repetitive online that 
 is. Multiplayer is just completely awsome even though their are spawn campers, thats mostly in ranked 
 games so stop goin into ranked games after your a level 2 people will respect you a little bit 
 more. The singleplayer is just one of the best features of the game, but after you beat it on hard 
 mode and normal it will get repetitive
  Achivements: are decently easy just time consuming witch makes the game better im goin for 10,000 
 kills online right now.
  
  ~CH4RL3Z~
  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BurningPhoenix7
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 17, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon: Advance Warfighter is one of the best game out for the Xbox 360 right now. With breathtaking 
 graphics that turly show off the power of the 360. The graphics in this game and jaw dropping. 
 The view you have of Mexico City is incirible. You can see for miles around you. 
  
  The game takes places in Mexico City in the year 2013. The Ghost are running a mission in the city 
 when some the Mexcian military try to overthrow the goverment. Now it is up to the Ghost to battle 
 though the city and elimate this theart. You will not only command your high-tech equipped men 
 in this mission, but tanks and heilocopters as well as you shooted anything that gets in your way.
 
  
  The multiplayer in the game is also incirble. WIth all of your normal macths, such as deathmacth, 
 team deathmacth, and terrioties thier is other for everyone. Thier is also a seprate co-op campigian 
 that you can play online with up to 16 of your firends.
  
  This is one of the best games the 360 has out for it right now. If you do not have it, you are 
 really missing out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icarus405
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 17, 2006 5:29 am PT
Review:  Since the release of the Xbox 360, the small number of games and the very small number of great 
 games has made 360 owners wonder, if the 360 really is a Next Generation Console. But with the 
 release of Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, we can be sure that the next generation 
 of gaming is truly here and GRAW proves that in everything it has to show...
  The Story of GRAW has been written by Tom Clancy, who has done a great job in bringing us another 
 thrilling near future story, but this time, GRAW touches the Splinter Cell Universe a bit too, 
 with the introduction of the UAV, which is a small flying recon machine, that is probably familiar 
 to people who have played Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Chaos Theory. Allthough there are a few more 
 things in GRAW from the Splinter Cell universe, the story is still unique and the gameplay is very 
 different from that of Splinter Cell.
  The Gameplay brings you the most realistic urban warfare battles to date. The realism is just outstanding. 
 The levels are huge and so is the amount of things that can happen to the environment. For instance, 
 if you throw a grenade under a car in the park, the car explodes with an outstanding bang. From 
 the blast, trees will shake and nearby car sirens will go off and enemies who were not in the area 
 will hear the echo of the explosion and come to investigate. That is something that you don't experience 
 in every game. The gameplay itself consists mostly of planning your route from point A to point 
 B, but things might not allways go smoothly. Enemies will react quickly when fired upon and objectives 
 might be changed or aborted, if something goes wrong. The game requires wise tactical decisions 
 from start to finish, so you will only get hurt or killed if you are careless or if you made a 
 mistake in your planning. The squad commanding controls are quite easy though, so it should be 
 easy to control your teammates, since the controls are very similar to those of Brothers In Arms. 
 Your squad members might make a couple of mistakes from time to time, but that isn't much of a 
 problem, since they never die. If they lose enough health, they will fall to the ground, unable 
 to fight and then you have to go and give them emergency treatment or order a teammate to do it. 
 The bad thing is that after healing, your teammates can sustain only one hit, before needing medical 
 attention again, so you have to be more careful from then on. It is weird though, that your teammates 
 can not help you and you only get back a part of your health, when using an Ammo Box... Ammo boxes 
 are hard to find in the game. You will be given a few hundred rounds every time you get a weapon, 
 but once you discover the accuracy of automatic fire, you will lose your ammo very quickly. Ammo 
 boxes will give you all your ammo back, but as i said before, they are quite rare. That means that 
 sometimes you will have to pick up your enemies weapons. But they have got some pretty good weapons, 
 so ammo is allmost never an issue, but health is. There are quite a few missions in GRAW and they 
 are all filled with action. Sometimes there are a few quiet spots, but it is mostly long range 
 battle in urban environments, peeking around corners, wondering where the enemy is. The game also 
 has only one loading time per mission (which is exceptinaly short) , so the action allmost never 
 stops...
  The Graphics in GRAW are truly amazing, not only does the game have very sharp textures, but it 
 also has huge environments, an insanely long draw distance and ultra realistic lighting. It is 
 amazing, that the developers managed to put so much detail into such a short loading time.
  The Sound in GRAW is very well done. All environments have realistic background noises, that fit 
 perfectly into the deserted streets of Mexico City. Explosions sound distant and deafening, bullets 
 make different noises depending on what they hit and all enemies can be heard from a distance, 
 because sounds tend to echo between buildings. Music can't be heard very often, but the music is 
 allways perfectly fitted with the situation, adding to the allready great atmosphere.
  GRAW's controls were designed for maximum comfort. Everything is within reach and makes sense. 
 Hugging walls is done just by running against a wall and peeking around corners by moving to the 
 side of a wall. Controlling your team is also very easy. The D-Pad controls movement and unit selection 
 and the Right Bumper switches between Assault and Recon mode.
  There isn't much replay value in GRAW's Single Player. There are just two difficulty modes and 
 you get Gamer Points just by finishing levels. The Multiplayer portion of the game will certainly 
 keep you busy though.
  Overall, GRAW is a game that should be played by any Shooter or Tactical Shooter fan. Also, anyone 
 who likes realism in games should certainly take a look at this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bern20
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 16, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  First off the let me start by saying that the graphics are amazing especially if you have an HD 
 TV. Even on a regular TV it looks awesome. The single player game is great. The missions are somewhat 
 challenging and the achievemnts will keep you coming for more. 
  
  The multiplayer is the best part of the game. Its fast paced. It is no SOCOM but it still is awesome. 
 It is definately worth the money so what are you waiting for go out and get it! There are a variety 
 of game modes to keep you coming for more. There is some lag depending on the host connection just 
 connect to a good host and there will be no problem. The ranking system is cool that will also 
 definately will have you coming for more, just make sure your team is always winning. Overall its 
 one of the best in the series. You wont be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hot_and_Spicy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 16, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is just what I thought it would be. A great game with excellent single player. The single 
 player mode was quite challenging on hard mode, and i enjoyed it. The ghost AI is lousy however. 
 They can do some of the dummest things. But all around, great single player to keep me entertained 
 for about 10 hours.
  
  Now the multiplayer is what gets ya. Awesome fun there. Just exploring everything can be fun because 
 of the richly filled detailed maps. Man is it mind blowing. This is yet another killer app for 
 the 360. The only problem with online is that sometimes in parties, all the good people are stacked 
 on one team, and just pwn noobs like me. All in all, an excellent game to have in your 360 library. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crypto-236
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  To start off, the graphics are perfect. The best I've seen on a 360 game. There's no lag whatsoever, 
 multiplayer or single player. The single player campaign offers a great amount of levels and a 
 great storyline, and it's just plain fun to play. From commanding your squad to a battalion of 
 tanks, the single player campaign is still very hard to play. You must rely on your teammates for 
 aid in battle but at the cost of protecting them yourself. The gameplay is sort of like Brothers 
 in Arms, but hundreds of years in the future. You can also heal your teammates if they fall, but 
 don't expect a peaceful healing session. You either have to wait for the enemies to be killed, 
 or heal them under fire. Your choice. There are many high tech weapons to wield, adding to the 
 realism. It's very easy to get yourself killed, so watch your back at all times. Xbox Live is also 
 great, except for joining a game. Ever since the Chapter 2 download content came out, I haven't 
 been able to join many games, since everyone had basically downloaded it. I won't because it's 
 $15! Sort of a ripoff for a few new weapons and maps. Anyway, this game is definitely a must-buy 
 and is very fun when it comes to online play, if you can get into a game! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimzeus
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 15, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Everyone know's why the game is good, so I'll focus on what I didn't like, and the list is long....
 
  
  I've spent considerable time with this game in single player mode and local multi-player. The graphics 
 are very nice and weapons and enemy behavior seems fairly accurate, but I was really expecting 
 much more out of the 360 in terms of realism. Outside of the absolutely gorgeous graphics, there 
 is very little about the presentation to suspend disbelief enough to create a realistic gaming 
 experience here.
  
  First, the game has not jump options. Because your character has no ability to be airborne in any 
 way, jumping down off small ledges is also impossible. Now, I play paintball, so when balls come 
 flying my way, I'm diving off small ledges and throwing my body around any way I can. Not here. 
 This drawback is punishing on maps like The Mines and even The Coffee Plantation as you are constantly 
 held back on 10" ledges, unable to cross them and being forced to walk completely around them, 
 which really doesn't help when you are under enemy fire. You'll be looking at that ledge and wonder 
 what exactly these guys were thinking.
  
  A. I. seems to really like to flank you from the sides and rear, and this part is realistic, but 
 the speed that they move to attain these flanking positions is highly unrealistic. In real combat 
 (or even paintball) , nobody runs with all that gear at 100% full a$$ out speed without making so 
 much freakin' noise that they completely give away their position and intentions. Well... you will 
 not hear a sound... Not one cracking stick or any other such indication that troops carrying 50 
 pounds of weight are running at 15 mph through the woods and climbing up your a$$. This is a major 
 issue and hurts the game realism. In real life, these guys would sould like a bunch of jackasses 
 flying thorough the woods making a bunch of noise like that. 
  
  The other thing that hurts the realism here, is that enemy fire is virtually 100% dead on balls 
 accurate, even in a snapshot, and even at great distance. Combine that with the fact that the enemy 
 seems to have an almost magical ability to pinpoint your location... even in the dark... and you 
 have a game where covert approaches to your mission objectives can be downright frustrating.
  
  Since there is no wind or weather system here, every day is perfectly still. You won't see 
 garbage rolling around in the wind by the docks (like in Grand Theft Auto) or leaves flying around 
 in the wind in the Jungle missions. Even as helicopters hover, there will be no visible disturbances 
 on the ground. 
  
  And finally, we come to the covert mission. I'm playing with a pal (a female pal BTW :-) ) and 
 we're working our way through that new Shipping Doc night mission. So, she's heaing off to snipe 
 right... and I tell her that sitting under one of those light poles isn't so good of an idea. So, 
 she says, "shoot it out". Guess what? You can shoot the lights all day and they never go out. 360 
 and no realtime lights there it seems. 
  
  Down at the docs.. you can grenade oil tanks all day and no explosions, and yet a mission calls 
 to blow up a certain tank and guess what? Big explosion.
  
  Anyway, this is a good first 360 effort I suppose but it wasn't enough of an improvement over what 
 I saw on XBOX in terms of gameplay and realism.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastmartin151
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  one of the best first person shooters i have played, has a great storyline. only thing is this 
 is a game you really have to concentrate with, because this game is very hard. but its really enjoyable 
 to play. gives you a real sense of achievement. plus has some of the best graphics ive seen on 
 a console. not a game for a quick pick up and play but if you get tuned into it the hours will 
 fly by. enemy a. i. is also the most impressive ive played against yet.
  Originally scheduled as an Xbox 360 launch title, Tom Clancys Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 
 (GRAW) was pushed back twice in order to ensure the game was up to par and not rushed to meet the 
 November console launch date. Having had a chance to play the game a few months back it was evident 
 that Ubisoft had made a wise decision in doing so. The game in its final form is a finely polished 
 realization of what the Ghost Recon franchise is all about, as well as a good indication that developers 
 have only began to touch the potential of what the Xbox 360 is capable of. Ghost Recon Advanced 
 Warfighter serves up a hefty helping of tactical combat in a variety of interesting and complex 
 environments that every living, breathing shooter fan definitely must experience. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6878456
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 15, 2006 3:46 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advance Warfighter is a tatical shooter based on future millitary warfare. 
 In the single player Campain you are Capitan Scott Mitchel. You are part of a group of soilders 
 called the ghost's they are fit so fight in any battle situation the single player has a good story 
 line that will keep you into the game for a while. But if you get tired of that you can switch to 
 the multiplayer witch focus on the tridtnal ghost recon multiplayer and it is better................ The 
 custmization is really good but i wish you could custmize th body as much as you can the face. I 
 really recomend this game for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spankman
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 14, 2006 10:25 pm PT
Review:  I never really got into the Ghost Recon series, although I love the Splinter Cell games. I know 
 that any Tom Clancy game has a good chance of excellency. Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is nothing 
 short of that reputation. 
  
  I'll start with the gameplay. The majority is really good. But there's a lot of ground to cover 
 when I say gameplay. There's the fancy HUD, the AI, the controls, and so on. 
  
  The innovative enemy tracking HUD is all it's been hyped up to be. It doesn't make things too easy, 
 but I can't say it's not a thorn in your opponent's side. Any enemy that you look at long enough 
 will be highlighted with a red diamond, and the same happens on his HUD. Careful use of the drone 
 (a hovering machine that shows enemy locations on your as another red diamond HUD if you fly it 
 over them) can get you through the single player campaign with no sweat. But in multiplayer, where 
 most people are worried about it, it has its weaknesses. First of all, if you have a drone, so 
 does the other team. Second, it can be shot down in as few as three bullets depending on your weapon. 
 But I digress - there's more to the HUD than just the drone. In the top left corner of the screen 
 is the CrossCom. This is a little square that shows you what a teammate sees. Whether it's a fellow 
 soldier, a friendly tank or helicopter, or the trusty drone. Switching views in the CrossCom is 
 as easy as hitting a button on the D-Pad, and so is giving commands to whoever you are watching. 
 Now for the flaws in the HUD.
  
  My main problem with the HUD is within the CrossCom. When in single player you can't give a command 
 to a single soldier unless there is only one soldier still alive. When you select your squad in 
 the CrossCom, you do not know who's view you see, and any commands you give will be applied to 
 every member who is not dead or dieing. Many people also don't like the HUD because of the enemy 
 tracking feature and the drone because it makes things too easy for the person using the drone. 
 There's a word for these people - sore losers. The only reason they don't like the drone is because 
 they can't use it effectively. Whenever they realize a drone is pointing them out, they complain 
 and make sure the next game will have no drones in it. Another multiplayer problem is the waypoint 
 system. If you select a teammate on your CrossCom and hit up on the D-Pad, it will put an orange 
 arrow where you were pointing. Supposedly, you and the person selected can see this. But I'm pretty 
 sure (not completely because this system is not intuitive and hard for me to understand) that if 
 you switch people on your CrossCom, the arrow goes away for both of you. Or maybe if one of you 
 dies... I'm not sure! It's just that bad.
  
  The next part of gameplay is the AI. There isn't much to say, it's not that bad. Most of it is 
 good. Programming AI for a game this complicated isn't simple, but there's quite a lot of room 
 for improvement. The squad members are simply stupid. They run in front of you when you shoot, 
 they often don't respond to commands on the first try, or they do them wrong. The drone also isn't 
 too bright. If you tell it to move 50 feet west, let's say, it will first move 20 feet east, and 
 then go 70 feet west. It will do this very slowly. VERY. I'm assuming this is so that it covers 
 more area, and gives you more opportunities to see enemies, but if you think about it, you wouldn't 
 move the drone away from enemies. I'm moving the drone west because I already cleared out the east! 
 
  
  Controls in GRAW were excellent. I felt everything was easy to learn, and very smooth. Even though 
 the things I may be controlling, such as teammates and drones, have the AI of the ghosts in Pacman, 
 telling them what to do is still very easy. When telling a teammate to shoot something in single 
 player, all you have to do is aim at that thing until it has a red diamond on it, and then hit 
 up on the D-Pad and the selected teammate will shoot it. Same with moving - just aim where you 
 want something to go in your view or on your 3D map, and they will go there. 
  
  Here comes the next chapter in my exciting review! The weapon system. I have mostly bad things 
 to say about the weapons, but keep in mind that even though I have a lot of bad things to say, 
 they are small and not that significant, and overall the weapon system is adequate. To try to keep 
 up the realism, GRAW makes you take your sweet time between changing weapons and reloading. In 
 games such as Call of Duty 2, Perfect Dark Zero, Halo 2, and other shooters of that nature, you 
 can switch weapons at the touch of a button, and often throw a grenade with your gun still out. 
 But in GRAW, grenades are a separate weapon. And just like any other weapon, it takes forever to 
 equip/unequip it, and takes forever to use. I literally mean grenades are a seperate weapon. In 
 some games, you may throw a grenade at your feet before dieing to kill anybody near your corpse. 
 But you wouldn't shoot a gun at the ground before dieing would you? That's what I mean by grenades 
 are weapons. You don't just throw them rapidly to scare people or flush them out unless you have 
 backup with some heavy weaponry. If you throw a grenade in GRAW, it better kill your target, or 
 he'll come up and shoot you while you helplessly try to change weapons. You can't cancel changing 
 weapons either. And if you run out of ammo on your primary weapon and want to switch to your pistol 
 instead of reloading, TS. The pistol is treated as a weapon like a grenade is. It can't just be 
 whipped out quickly for one use. If you're using the pistol, then you better kill the opponent 
 in one clip. My last complaint is the only flaw in the weapon system that is unrealistic. If you 
 start reloading in one position, crouched for example, changing positions will cancel the reload, 
 no matter how close to finishing you were. I've never seen any other game that did this. It's possible 
 that past Ghost Recons have done it, but I never played those.
  
  I think I'm done with gameplay now. Don't worry, the other sections aren't nearly as long. 
  
 
  Graphics in this game were beautiful. You are in a helicopter listening to a mission briefing between 
 most levels, and you can look out the helicopter to Mexico City. It looks incredible. Everything 
 in GRAW was just great as far as graphics.
  
  See? Told you the other categories were a lot shorter :P 
  
  The sound in this game was excellent 
 except for one thing. Every time you gave a command to a teammate, you'd always get the exact same 
 response from them. EVERY TIME! And you even get a response when your teammates don't do anything 
 because their AI is lousy. That gets annoying so fast. 
  
  I'd say this game is pretty worth its price because if you want all of the achievements, you have 
 to play the campaign on both difficulties, and it doesn't matter which you do first. Also, there 
 is a 10,000 kills achievement. That takes a while. 500 headshots does too. And there is an achievement 
 for being at the top of the overall leaderboard (I think that means in the top 100) , the top of 
 the teams leaderboard, and the top of the free for all leaderboard. There's also an achievement 
 for hosting 1,000 matches. So, if you want the most out of this game for your gamerscore, you'll 
 be playing for a little while.
  
  To sum everything up, I give Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter an 8.9 out of 10. Remember 8.9 is 
 great. 9.5 is incredible. 10.0 is a dream come true. So, although GRAW has its share of flaws, 
 I'd have to say that it's a game worth playing for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerBD89
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 14, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  The use of your team and the tactics are great, cool vehickles and equipment, although I would 
 of preferred using some of the older weapons the new ones were oright. The biggest downfall to 
 this game is the helicopter flying missions especially the one where you have to fly in your UH60 
 blackhawk to destroy 2 enemy Mi-17's, this is way to far fetched even in the year 2010 or what-ever 
 year it is based in. The night vision on the game isn't real helpful, well it actually isn't really 
 true night vision its more like thermal vision (detects body heat) . would have been cool if they 
 game used vehickles in multiplayer mode, like the M1A2 abrams for support. Bottom line its a great 
 game some stuff is a little cheesy but its still worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenballer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 14, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Campaign Mode: You are a elite command captain named Scott Mitchell. you have been given the task 
 meeting up with a comrade named Ramirez who gathering information about a possible rebel uprising 
 to take over NAJSA this is where your journey begins. In this mode you have two difficulties normal 
 and hard. The normal mode is just right for a average player giving you about 3 shots until your 
 dead or 1 head shot. In the hard mode is for a seasoned veteran. 1 shot and that is your life. 
 In the campaign mode you have a squad to command in most missions this is where the game loses 
 points most of the your comrades do what told but sometimes they don't. An example of this is when 
 you tell them to take cover behind a wall and they don't and you have to give the command more 
 than once. Also there a a few glitches in the game that are quite annoying but nothing to troublesome. 
 The campaign mode is about 3-7 days your first run through. As it took me 4 days on normal and 
 another 6 on hard.
  
  Graphics. The environments for this game are superb. Clearly some of the best graphics on the 360.
 
  
  Multi-player- The Multi-player on-line is good but sometimes you get booted because of the server. 
 Up 16 people sharpshooter modes are very fun. The main difference in the multi-player and campaign 
 mode is you cant hug a wall. Even though you cant do that The maps for multi-player are very good 
 .
  
  Sound- The voice acting was very well done in every aspect of this game especially in the campaign 
 mode. You feel as you would say the same thing in the combat situations as Scott Mitchell does. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 14, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon games in the past has'nt been very good in my eyes, but Advanced Warfighter is not 
 only the best in the series, but the Best War Stratagy
  
  GOOD: One of the best Next Gen graphics; all new gameplay makes combat more realistic; easy controls; 
 easy to comand your alies
  
  BAD: A. I on your alies aint to bright; pretty hard in some places
  
  GAMEPLAY-
  the game 
 is a third person stratagy shooter, you just dont go in the middle of fire and blast away your 
 enermies, this takes the real side of war games as you use tatics and and control comands to move 
 your alies, as you take cover and use each weapon wisly.
  
  GRAPHICS-
  The best graphics i've seen so far on an Xbox 360, realistic exsplotions and backgrounds, real 
 life movements and chrecture desgns. the only probblem is if you look through a mirror or a window, 
 it shows you a reflection, but not the relection you s'posse to see, like a relection of a road, 
 but if you turn around, theres a wall behind you
  
  SOUND-
  Fantasic sound effects and awesome background music and great voice acting, this game makes you, 
 not only look like your in the game, but also sounds like your in the game!
  
  WHY SHOULD I BUY THIS GAME?
  GRAW is a wonderful game for your collection, but get the PS2 version, 
 get the 360 version, this is a game to remember! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DustinB
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 13, 2006 10:48 pm PT
Review:  
  The Good: 
  - Great presentation, really nice graphics, very believable urban environment. 
  - Weapons all 
 feel very different, weapon selection important. 
  - Squad and other support units (tanks, choppers) add a fun element to game-play. 
  - Levels 
 are well designed and they all feel different and challenging. 
  - Great control. Cover system is easy to use and very powerful. Character feels like a real soldier. 
 Awesome. 
  
  The Bad: 
  - Squad AI sometimes very stupid, standing in the open and getting killed, etc. Can be frustrating. 
 You quickly learn to keep them out of most fights so they don't do something dumb and get shot. 
 
  - Game play is based around ambushes. You have no way of seeing the enemy coming, so you move forward, 
 you get shot, you die. You restart with the knowledge of where the enemy is positioned and then 
 you ambush him. Very repetative, no skill required (or possible) , just using "save-load" to beat 
 the levels. 
  - Story takes a few strange turns and sometimes feels more like a funny "James Bond" film instead 
 of Tom Clancy. 
  
  The Ugly: 
  - Hard-locked my Xbox 360 twice. 
  - If you are aggressive you can spot the game spawning NPCs. Sometimes they will spawn right on 
 top of you and you get no chance to react. 
  - I encountered a geometry problem on a truck in one of the last few levels where a single texture 
 was stretching across the entire screen, hiding enemies, etc. Very ugly. 
  - Enemy AI sometimes gets stuck and won't move or defend itself, forcing you to search the level 
 for the one stuck guy that will allow the game to continue once you kill him. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lezdeppelin1249
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 30, 2006 10:43 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Very nice story line to it, Great looking graphics, sound is beautifull, long challenging 
 missions, lots of acheivements to unlock, great ai skill, very fun multiplayer, lots of weapons 
 on multiplayer, realistic (the way i like it)
  
  The Bad: somtimes too hard to see in 1 player mode, multiplayer could of been more organized somtimes 
 youl get stuck because you doint know what to do (or is it just me?) it only happended twice, not 
 a game where you can play it over and over and still be great.
  
  Summry: This game is an awsom game specailly if your in to war!, very intence and exiting and realistic 
 too speacailly the heli missions. Don't rent BUY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jorge_Cervera
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 13, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy: Ghost Recon Advanced Warfigther
  
  Gameplay: Antes que nada el juego ha sido simplificado, el complejo men de mando de las dos primeras 
 entregas ha sido tirado a la basura para darle un toque mas Shooter a la franquicia, tu habilidad 
 de mando sobre tu escuadrn es sencilla pero profunda a la vez, pues depende del entorno y el ngulo 
 de tiro para que tu escuadrn elite sobreviva a la envestida insurgente. Es fcil desplazar a tus 
 tres soldados por el campo de batalla y el entorno en si permite constantemente emboscar a los 
 enemigos.
  
  Adems de controlar a tu escuadrn, podrs dar rdenes a tanques y helicpteros para acabar con 
 los vehculos que te irn saliendo durante esta aventura de mas de 15 horas de juego, sin embargo 
 ciertas misiones requieren de sincronizar a estas tres fuerzas a la vez y si bien los mens y el 
 control nunca estn en tu contra, es comn mandar a tus soldados a una muerte segura cuando atacan 
 de frente una metralleta mientras que vez a tu helicptero caer por que le ordenaste destruir una 
 batera antiarea.
  
  Otras misiones requieren en ciertos momentos de un solo hombre, lo cual cambia la tctica por completo 
 y es donde entra en juego el Sipher, una nave de reconocimiento que revela la posicin de los 
 enemigos en el campo de batalla y la cual es muy til para descubrir las posiciones francotiradoras.
 
  
  Cabe de mencionar que la mayora del combate es a larga distancia y que esto implica estar la mayor 
 parte del tiempo con la mira francotiradora, la cual es acompaada de una visin tanto trmica 
 como nocturna que facilita la ubicacin del enemigo.
  
  Vasta con la misin de la toma del Zcalo para presenciar el sistema de juego en todo su esplendor, 
 pues los enemigos no son visibles a simple vista y el peligro de ser herido por un proyectil es 
 inminente mientras tratas de encontrarlos con la mira, mientras ordenas a tus hombres tomar una 
 esquina. 
  
  Por ultimo, es obvio pensar que la dificultad del juego esta en entredicho por las facilidades 
 y el equipo con el que cuentas pero no es as, la inteligencia artificial tiene una respetable 
 puntera en el modo normal y una letal en difcil, que le da reto al juego sin volverlo frustrante, 
 adems, las misiones cambian constantemente, en la ya mencionada toma del Zcalo por ejemplo, se 
 te pedir escoltar al presidente de Mxico, sin embargo una emboscada dificulta la tarea mientras 
 tratas de acabar con un batalln completo acompaado de vehculos todo terreno y tanques, sobre 
 decir que la situacin es difcil de sobre llevar pero gratificante una vez terminada.
  
  Calificacin: 10
  
  Produccin y Presentacin: Mencione que el juego se lleva a cabo en Mxico 
 DF? No? Pues as es y cranme que cada centmetro cuadrado de esta ciudad ha sido puesto aqu. 
 No hay nada como despejar el Zcalo de insurgentes o tener una batalla de antologa en el ngel 
 de la Independencia y terminar por recuperar el Castillo de Chapultepec para apreciar el detalle 
 puesto en lo escenarios.
  
  Calificacin: 9
  
  Grficos y Sonido: Lanzas una granada hacia un vehiculo enemigo, este explota, ves el escombro, 
 la onda de choque, el movimiento de los arbustos y el mismo fuego mientras tus odos son embalsamados 
 por el estruendoso estallido, eso es GRAW, un espectculo en todo su esplendor que justifica 
 la compra de un Xbox 360 y que sin mucha batalla por parte de otros juegos, es el mas vistoso que 
 el sistema puede ofrecer. 
  
  Calificacin: 10
  
  Multiplayer: Una vez terminada la impresionante campaa de GRAW y con todas las maas aprendidas, 
 es hora de ponerlas en prctica con otros jugadores, con mapas para todos los gustos y modos de 
 juegos a granel, esta porcin del juego le da la longevidad suficiente para durar unos cuantos 
 meses ms, aun que es importante decir que solo ser posible si cuentas con Xbox Live Gold o 
 con otros tres controles, si no, solo te quedara enfrentar una I. A que tarde o temprano terminaras 
 por domar.
  
  Calificacin: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knights435
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 12, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  first of all the games graphics aren't the best the high contrast blows. the gameplay is the same 
 throughout, hide behind a wall or vehicle and step out to shoot. your teamates are useless and 
 constantly get in the way not to mention they cant hit anything. the amount of enemies in each 
 board is lame and they are spread to make things easier. mutliplayer is fun but the weapons suck 
 and the new downloads are ridiculous and cost way too much for something that should have just 
 been included. the sound is the best part of the game but not enough to save it from being boring. 
 no replay value 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pRiVaTeRyAn92
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 10, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  To start off, the graphics are perfect. The best I've seen on a 360 game. There's no lag whatsoever, 
 multiplayer or single player. The single player campaign offers a great amount of levels and a 
 great storyline, and it's just plain fun to play. From commanding your squad to a battalion of 
 tanks, the single player campaign is still very hard to play. You must rely on your teammates for 
 aid in battle but at the cost of protecting them yourself. The gameplay is sort of like Brothers 
 in Arms, but hundreds of years in the future. You can also heal your teammates if they fall, but 
 don't expect a peaceful healing session. You either have to wait for the enemies to be killed, 
 or heal them under fire. Your choice. There are many high tech weapons to wield, adding to the 
 realism. It's very easy to get yourself killed, so watch your back at all times. Xbox Live is also 
 great, except for joining a game. Ever since the Chapter 2 download content came out, I haven't 
 been able to join many games, since everyone had basically downloaded it. I won't because it's 
 $15! Sort of a ripoff for a few new weapons and maps. Anyway, this game is definitely a must-buy 
 and is very fun when it comes to online play, if you can get into a game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonstrative1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 10, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  I'll just say right off the bat that I've never been a huge fan of squad-based shooters, so it 
 came as a surprise to me when I actually found myself having a good time playing this game!
  
  The visuals are superb, the gameplay is rock solid, and the Xbox Live play is done extremely 
 well. The only thing that gets my goat is the cost for the new levels ($75 for the "full" game? 
 I think not!) , but I've lived without them and done just fine. 
  
  If you're a fan of the genre or just looking to pick up a new 360 game, GRAW is definitely one 
 of the better choices out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jojopacho
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 10, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  Overall the game is great. Single Player is surprisngly good and fun for a good playthrough enemies 
 are smart eough to hide behind cover and there plenty of pretty explosions. Multiplayer is the 
 meat of the game however and its what will keep you coming back for more. Multiplayer has numerous 
 gametypes to indulge into even specified co-op missions that branch off the single plaer story. 
 My only real annoyance with the multiplayer is finding a half decent room. i find myself often 
 being booted for seemingly no reason and therefore i move to unranked player matches which tend 
 to be more my speed anyway. Overall great game and even better if you have some friends to guarentee 
 yourself a room to play ranked matches in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kavsta
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 10, 2006 12:57 am PT
Review:  What is there to say about Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter? other than this game is absolutely 
 amazing. When the game starts you thrown right into the tuturiol which makes sense because this 
 will play an important role in your survival on the battle field. On the upper right side of the 
 screen you'll meet budd the snappy black hawk pilot that tells you about the controls and your 
 objectives throughout the tuturiol and also the missions you'll be put in. This in one of the best 
 looking stages of Advanced Warfighter (mainly because its bright and you'll be able to see particle 
 effects) . Throughout the tutoriol you'll learn about your various weapons and the best course of 
 action to take when you are in a gun fight. At this point you'll also meet up with your squad for 
 the first time. You'll learn how to issue commands, how to take cover, and how to use the vehicles.
 
  
  When you are done with the tuturiol and you are an efficient killing machine you'll be instantly 
 thrown into the heat of battle. This is where things start to get a little intense so to speak. 
 After you are briefed by your helicopter pilot budd you'll be dropped off at the LZ (Landing Zone) 
 to start your mission. I won't get into all of what your objectives are c'mon this is a review 
 not a walkthrough. But this is where Ghost Recon shines like a bright light at night because you'll 
 soon find out that the enemies are relentless and can be smart (and can also be dumb) . They'll 
 flank you if you aren't careful and they are pretty good shooters so learn to keep yourself behind 
 cover. 
  
  The graphics for Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter are some of the best on the console with light 
 effects and the element of night missions makes the game complex and also very challenging at times 
 which adds an extra element of difficulty whether you are playing the game on normal or hard. But 
 to get the best feel of the game is to play it on hard mode. 
  
  Advanced Warfighter also boasts very good sound quality through your 5.1 setup it gives you a sense 
 of anticipation and also can be used as a warning signal as to when you'll probably be attacked. 
 
  
  With tight controls, good graphics, and amazing sound this is an extremely fun game and also very 
 very fulfilling to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrFeelgoodsTwin
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 9, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  the bomb i could die playing this game and i would have my life forfilled. this game i say that 
 every one should have. there is no reason why any one should not like this game. this is the number 
 one game for all shooters. nothing will beat it until the next GR comes out. So if you do not have 
 it, get it. The best game play becuase the most realistic shooting ever with afew shoots to the 
 cheast he is dead that is how it should be in real life that is how it is here. So every one who 
 reads this please just get the game and dont ask people if they like. there is no game as cool 
 as this. the downlaod content costs and arm anda leg. but it is wourth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aurelien48
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 8, 2006 11:17 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best!!! Easy to learn and when finish the compaign got to multiplayer!!! Look 
 real! the best tactical game ever!!!! Don't wait and go buy it !! the graphic look so good!!! the 
 sound its awsome too!! the gamply its the best for me in this game!! the value is good too !!!! 
 so ya this game is really good in multiplayer and in campaigne!!! there 's many differnt map adn 
 weapon and if u want more go to tthe xbpx 360 market place and buy the map cos they are worth it!!! 
 it only like 14.00 buck!!! if u didnt buy it and play online and u see no one !!! cos everyon r 
 playing wioth the new map! so go buy he game and the games and ill see u onlin!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doaNimbus
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 8, 2006 9:28 pm PT
Review:  A verry good game, by far the best in the Ghost Recon sires. A very innovative game with a good 
 story line. The game can get Extremely diffaculte at some times but if you get past those parts 
 it is a very good game. The best part of this game is the multiplayer. It is great, you can chat 
 with your friends, kill some noobs, it's just overall a good game.
  
  The bad parts are the menus, they have to load every time you click sompthing, it's just bad, and 
 there arent many expansons but the one they do have it not worth it, the really only good thing 
 about it is the scilenced sniper rifle, but the rest of it is a waste of microsoft points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hairyassapeman
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 8, 2006 12:59 am PT
Review:  G. R. A. W is great fun multiplayer, especially the Co-Op modes. Why more games don't have Co-Op, 
 especially split-screen, I don't know... GRAW is a great example of Co-Op play done well. 
  
  The single player campaign is rather disappointing. The difficulty of it can sometimes make 
 you wonder if it is even possible to complete missions, especially on the Hard difficulty setting. 
 The campaign is pretty short, and should only take you a few hours. (even less time if you don't 
 die repeatedly on certain levels) The story behind the campaign is forgettable and doesn't do a 
 good job of keeping your interest in what is happening in the game's world. Once you beat the campaign, 
 the only reason you're likely to play through it again is if you want to get all the achievements 
 for both normal and hard settings. The enemies are all in set locations and events are scripted 
 so every time you play, the map is exactly the same. This allows you to perfect a map by playing 
 several times and memorising where the enemy will appear. At the same time it's not so good for 
 people who prefer things to be different everytime they play. Overall I was pretty disappointed 
 with the single player mode. It's not too bad, but it's not anything special either. 
  
  When you first see the massive city you're about to fight through, it looks pretty amazing. Then 
 you start to realise there's no people or civilian traffic anywhere to be seen. It doesn't affect 
 the gameplay at all, but it takes away a little of the immersion factor. I agree with Gamespot's 
 comment that at the time of this game's release, it was either the best, or one of the best looking 
 games on 360. 
  
  If you're a fan of multiplayer first person shooters, especially the more realistic squad based 
 ones, this is an absolute must buy. If you don't have Xbox Live Gold, you can still enjoy the multiplayer 
 through splitscreen or system link. It's an absolute blast to get a friend, spouse, brother whatever 
 to play Co-op Elimination with you. Choose a map, set the enemy density to High, and see if you 
 can survive. 
  
  There are also 4 Co-Op campaign missions to play through. The only negative I've found with the 
 multiplayer so far is that it can get pretty repetitive. I played the "Nowhere, Treasury, and Rocky 
 Cove" maps in Elimination, repeatedly for a few hours and everytime the enemies would appear and 
 attack with basically 90% the same pattern everytime. Here's my detailed example. On the "Nowhere" 
 map, across the road to the right of where you spawn, there's a pass through the hills. Most of 
 the time, a group of the enemies will walk down the pass towards your spawn point. 
  Occasionally they will walk around the other side of the hill and NOT down the pass. Then very 
 rarely they won't even come down the hill or pass, at all. A slight variety, but not much. 
  (every time I played Rocky Cove, it played out exactly the same. )
  
  In closing, despite the 
 rather weak single player mode, GRAW is one of the top 360 games to date, and is a must have for 
 multiplayer minded gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woody4890
Rating: 4.8
Date: Aug 6, 2006 3:20 am PT
Review:  Before this game came out, everyone was anticipating it to be the best shooter on the Xbox 360. 
 Let me tell you quick. Its not. The single player game is a big let down. Insane difficulty and 
 repetitive play make you wonder why you bothered with yet another crap Ghost Recon game. The multiplayer 
 is good, and makes up for the rubbish one player, but its not enough. For people who dont own 
 Xbox Live Gold, this game is pointless and a waste of money. For people who do own Xbox Live Gold, 
 its still pretty pointless, but not so much a waste of money.
  
  Graphics- GR: AW is a really good looking game, almost life like! Dont be fooled by the great visuals 
 though, because it dosent make it a good game. Just a pretty one. The textures are nice, and there 
 seems to be no bad point with the visuals. 
  
  Gameplay- The single player game is a real waste of time, and you shouldnt even think about buying 
 it if you dont have live. Multiplayer wise, its an ok game, but rent first.
  
  Lifespan- If you have no friends, this game will be on your shelf in a day. The single player is 
 dull, repetitive and boring, so dont buy it for that. Multiplayer will keep you hooked for about 
 a month, but over all, rent first!
  
  Overall- A big, big let down. Rent this first if you have Live Gold, but otherwise, stay clear 
 and pretend this game was a ghost!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mocha360
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 11, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is pretty good the controls are sound and the opponent AI is very good, but the team 
 AI could use some improvements. You have over 10 chapters to play out which takes place in unique 
 enviroments but you seem trapped in some areas, The game isn't as opened ended as it should be. 
 The hud in the game shows the enemies with a red icon and your allies with a blue or green icon.
 
  
  Graphics:
  The game looks great, flat out, the enviroments look very detailed and the player modles look exellent, 
 the lighting is fantastic but can be hard to see at times, there are some glitches here and there 
 that stop it from looking perfect.
  
  Sound:
  The voice work is pretty good and the soundtrack is great the gun sounds sound good as well so 
 that helps the presentation alot.
  
  Value:
  The game is a good value, the single player campain does have over 10 chapters but there not all 
 that long and you should finish the game around 10 hours, the multiplayer portion is good you can 
 have up to 16 players online and you can also have co-op online with co-op specific missions as 
 well.
  
  Tilt:
  The game is fun for a while, like most "Ghost Recon" games there isn't much of a story, you just 
 go around doing your thing and it get's kind of repititious in some spots.
  
  Overall:
  Overall i did have a pretty good time with the game, the 10 chapters are fun for a while and you 
 can have some fun with the mutiplayer, it would have been good to see like 64 players or even 32 
 would have been nice but if your into these kind of games you should probobly just rent GRAW, it 
 is worth checking out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dadude1083
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 4, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  In the days of old, Ghost Recon was an extremely well put together PC first person shooter. Well 
 all that has changed now, with the release of Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter for the Xbox 360. 
 While this series is well known for its online, this one shines when it comes to single-player. 
 
  
  The campaign will take you roughly 7 hours to beat, but all the while great voice acting and superb 
 next-gen graphics have you drooling over the visuals. It starts you off with a basic tutorial, 
 but soon has you sniping enemies through walls, blowing up tanks, and healing your injured teammates 
 in no time. A couple of missions will have you gritting your teeth (escorting sucks) , and the fact 
 that it doesnt have the full 1000 achievement points, can get to you, but you cant let it stop 
 you from at least renting this game for the single-player.
  
  Now for the online. This is one of the most looked forward to games for its online play. Fans of 
 the original will be more excited then ever to go gear up their character and kick some tail in 
 the online. The guns are mostly balanced. The modes include your standard deathmatch, capture the 
 flag, and a really cool co-op that has you sweeping the levels clean of enemies (NPC) . While it 
 is mainly solid, with a lot of maps to choose from, some things could have been better. For instance, 
 the wall hugging that is in the single-player portion of the game is not here any longer. This 
 could have been good, or bad, but it would have been nice to see some options. Second, some guns 
 are almost worthless to have in the selection menu, as they have counterparts that blow them away 
 anyways. And last but not least, the Downloadable Content that is out for this already adds some 
 maps, relights some, adds weapons and faces for an earthshaking $15. Thats a lot of cash to put 
 down on top of the $60 that they charged you for the game itself. And the worse part of all, if 
 your friends all download the pack, you are sort of forced to follow and do the same. All in all 
 it is a very fun online experience that could have used some polishing, but will have you by the 
 horns right away.
  
  While Ghost Recon will be loved by almost anybody with a tactical sense, other may just want to 
 run through the single-player for the achievements.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LurkingAssasin
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 3, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Fantastic Single Player, great graphics, superb musical score, multi-player is just plain 
 fun and Cross-Com is a neat little tool.
  
  The Bad: Not very much relpay value for the single player, A. I. can be very smart or insanely stupid, 
 some achievments are impossible without cheating, character customization on multi-player is very 
 limited and very little content for the multi-player.
  
  First of all, the single player is great. They did some great work for it and put a lot thought 
 into it. The way thay set up the levels in Mexico city is very convencing. They don't have cut 
 scenes. Instead, you have chats on the situation with your Nar-Com, a little window on the top 
 right of your screen that shows high ranking officers telling you whats going down and giving you 
 your orders.
  A cover feature is used in the single-player, which is the only way to advance to other levels. 
 You can also dive and do a knee slide to get behind cover faster. These moves will save your life. 
 
  The single player is fun but your teammates will sometimes not go where you tell them to and can 
 sometimes be a pain. Also, when you beat the game, the SP just doesn't that much replay value.
 
  
  The graphics are great and the game runs smooth. But, ocasionally the texture on a building or 
 a shipping crate can be obscured. And the Rag Doll death animations get kinda wierd.
  
  The musical score is so good in this game it's as good as Halo's. I don't know if Tom Salta dreams 
 his music while sleeping or what not. The game also plays some Jimmy Hendrix type music ocasionally.
 
  
  Now, the multi-player. The multi-player is basically GR2 with enhanced graphics and the Cross-Com 
 HUD. The gameplay is a little different because you can now go into precision aim and getting shot 
 won't affect your accuracy. That also added a gamestart timer which gives you ten seconds to choose 
 your weapons so you don't have to be rushed when the game starts. Of course the host can increase 
 the time or turn it off. There are ranked matches and unranked matches. Ranked matches make you 
 join games in which you can't invite you friends. And then the unranked matches let you do anything 
 you wan't. A new thing they added to the MP is character customization. Sounds cool and all but 
 it only lets you customize the face and head gear. I've been playing the MP for a long time and 
 the main issue with it is it's content. You have very little weapons at your disposal and very 
 few maps to choose from.
  
  GRAW's achievments are pretty easy to get but some can get outragous and the points only go up 
 to 925.
  
  GRAW is a fantastic addition to the Ghost Recon series and should be in everybodies Xbox 360 collection.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamrig2000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 3, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  I bought this game due to the fantastic reviews it was given. Well I am here to write another fantastic 
 review for this game. The game starts of with a rescue mission which in typical fashion goes compleatly 
 wrong. Of course if you are new and like to know what you are doing then you will be thankful for 
 a training mission. The controls will take some getting used to but once you get the hang of them 
 they are intutive. The graphics are brilliant but the streets feel very deserted and do not have 
 a immersive feel to them and enemy charecter mondels are defenitly pre-generation but that is ok 
 due to the fact that you are shooting them most of the time! The storyline is not vry deep but 
 due to this being a war game that is ok. The multiplayer is another strong aspect of the game and 
 provides some good maps and alows you to create a charecter. Overall I would say buy it if you 
 like shooting games and/or war games. Please recomend this review and leave any feedback if you 
 want 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paco007mf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 3, 2006 12:57 am PT
Review:  This is not another xbox 360 game, it is a great one. 
  The multiplayer is simply on of the best I have ever seen with such a variety of kinds for play.
 
  It counts with a really big number and variety of weapons.
  The graphics use all the xbox 360 capacity.
  The difficult level is really a challenge.
  
 
  Believe me, I am from Mexico, the streets and monuments are very similar to the real ones.
  
  The only little weak point is the music, it is not the best i have ever heard.
  
  Simply, 
 if you are looking for a game for play all by yourself or multiplayer this is the best option.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bassplayer27800
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 2, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Well, I knew this game was good, but for some reason I had waited to buy it, and I finally bought 
 it. I am sorry I waited, it is a great game, probably my second favorite 360 right now.
  
  Gameplay-Gameplay is a little complicated, you might get a little confused at the begining, but 
 you will quickly learn. You can command vehicles, helicopters, and fellow soldiers. This game is 
 very realistic in my opinion. This game is very addictive and I just keep going back to it. There 
 are many achievments to keep you busy, some are easy, some are really hard.
  
  Graphics-Absolutely stunning graphics, this game looks amazing. I'll explode cars just to see the 
 exploisions cause it looks so cool. all the trees move with explosions, the textures look great, 
 the people look great. This is the best looking 360 game so far.
  
  Sound-The sound is also amazing, everything sounds perfect feet stomping, guns firing, bullets 
 hitting your target, just everything sounds perfect.
  
  Value-Yeah, 60$ is quite a bit of money, (70$ if you buy chapter 2) but it is worth it, this game 
 will keep you busy for a long time.
  
  Multiplayer-The multiplayer is great, tons of fun modes. And I really like the ranking system in 
 it. And the co-op is great also.
  
  Overall-Overall this is a must buy for 360 owners, and is one of the top 3 360 games out at this 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nepis
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 31, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is like three games in one. The offline, which is slow and methodical. It is all about 
 picking your next shot and staying behind cover along with controlling your squad and allies. Online 
 gaming can be seperated as well. Of course there is playing people in different modes, then there 
 is also online co-op. I've had the most fun with this game playing co-op elimination and mission 
 with friends online. Elimination is pretty straightforward and requires less skill than mission 
 play. Its just find em and blast away. Mission is different in the fact that the AI difficulty 
 is ramped up. These guys will make their shots count. It also changes the levels up a bit by adding 
 vehicles and different classes of enemies. I haven't even mentioned Chapter 2. It makes a great 
 game even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterandbeer
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  This games is constructed in a very good and proffesional way. The character graphics are good 
 but not extremely lifelike. But the enviroments are awesome and the graphics look pretty real. 
 The controls are awesome when you get used to them and it makes you feel professional. The team 
 controls are simple and easy. Even though sometimes the AI is stupid. The story isnt really good 
 but it made sense of what was going on in the enviroment. There is a large cool array of guns. 
 The multiplayer is fun but if you play at home with a friend it kind of sucks because it goes into 
 like a deep first person mode where all you see is the crosshair. There are lots of modes to choose 
 from and different ways to play those modes. Overall this game is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bilbohowareyou
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 30, 2006 11:45 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: definitly some of the best around, 360 or otherwise.
  Gameplay: 3rd person adds to the cinimatic feeling of this game, can take some getting used to 
 the style of the gameplay but pays off.
  Sound: awesome
  Value: replay value- check; good price- check: entertaining- check
  Additional comments: strong 
 recogmendation for 360 gamers add this game to their collection, although a must add a dishonourable 
 mention to the A. I i was left with the feeling that it could be inproved but its a very minior 
 vice. Difficulty adds to the realism. 
  
  I'll leave you with a famous quote im trying to get get out there, thx the bilbo,
  
  "think 
 global, act local" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: highvoltage16
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 30, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter is the lastest installment in the series. This game is great. 
 The single player graphics are insane, and the multiplayer is just plain fun. The game's single 
 player controls my take awhile for someone who is not familiar with, but with a little practice 
 you can truly master it. The multiplayer is where most of the fun is. Getting online and forming 
 small armies of death is like nothing you have experienced! If you are looking for a intense gaming 
 experience, fiiled with lots of action and bullets, then GR: AW is the game for. Hope to see you 
 online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CL14
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  this game is definitly one of a kind it captures that military shooter perfectly from the single 
 player to the multiplayer game modes it really is a game that reuires skill u have to be stealthy 
 is not like halo where u can just run out in the open and kill everybody it takes wit and stealth 
 just picture ur holding down a base then u run out of ammo u yell to ur teamates cover me as u 
 run out to the open to get ammo u pick up a machine gun u get cover behind a old truck some one 
 comes up in front of u and they drop ur teamate just saved ur life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazychris90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2006 4:43 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon series has been quite a hit for it's role in online activities and great 
 tactical missions. G. R. A. W. has changed the series by placing it's old style of gameplay to approach 
 a more realistic foundation and array of areas as well as the feel of accomplishing all those tactical 
 puzzles. Yes, Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a great game but it loses that X-factor from it's 
 slight loss of replay value and gameplay flaws.
  
  And again, it is great experience the first few times you play it but I will show you in more detail 
 while it's only "The first few times". The missions are pretty interesting as they can be a real 
 challenge for beginners and maybe still for people who are more used to it. But they aren't worth 
 playing again as they do stop you and make you say "Why am I playing this, it's boring me". Basically 
 saying you will get bored very frequently if you repeat the missions over and over again. The array 
 of weapons are interesting to use after a while these weapons may feel too similar to the others 
 usable on the game. Online play is a big thumbs up for those who want to challenge those all across 
 the planet, as it has the brilliant surroundings to battle in i. e deserts, towns etc. See there 
 are great points but see how many things seem to fade away later on in the game.
  
  Graphics seems to be a bit over-rated as the visuals aren't up to what I thought a 10/10 would 
 be. Apart from those psychodelic dents or the nice looking lighting there is something hiding there 
 that ruins the looks. The surroundings may look beutiful from the height of an helicopter but down 
 below the buildings look out of date and things like the walls don't seem to do that awesome effect 
 like on PDZ. OK the graphics aren't bad all I'm saying is they seem to be a bit Over-rated.
  
  The sound is one of the best features of G. R. A. W. (apart from online play) . The explosions, 
 the bullets in the distance, it all seems so realistic. The voice acting is pretty good for this 
 type of game, they sound cool. There isn't much to say about the sound but what I can tell you 
 it is awesome.
  
  On the whole G. R. A. W. is a brilliant game (apart from it's flaws and loss of replay value) and 
 it will be an experience you will never forget. Spend a good while on the first few missions before 
 you go off online. Oh that was just a tip. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geitsau
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 29, 2006 5:09 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 
  I'm not normally a big fan of shooting-games, especially not present-time shooting games, but this 
 game is really fun! The gameplay is sometimes a bit slow-paced, especially in single player mode. 
 The multiplayer mode is great though, I especially enjoy the co-operative maps. The maps in multiplayer 
 are very variated, and with a HUGE amount of weapons to choose from and a very tactical gameplay, 
 this is the part of the game I truly enjoy. I especially like the fact that in this game, it's 
 futile to just run and shoot. You really need to play tactical, and that's a huge plus in my opinion. 
 It's very challenging and actually requires you to use your brain, which is not required in most 
 shooters (great examples are Counter-Strike and Battlefield) . 
  
  Graphics:
  What can I say? The graphics in this game are outstanding!
  
  Sound:
  With a opening theme 
 and with very realistic sound effects, this game could easily have grabbed a 9 or even a 10. But 
 no, they had to ruin everything by inserting some of the cheesiest pop-rock songs I've ever heard 
 in between the levels. And the end theme... It's not even music, it's just NOISE! Although you 
 won't hear any of this in multiplayer, it's so ANNOYING that I have to lower to score to 7.
  
  Value:
  After you've completed the single-player campaign once on normal and once on hard, 
 you really don't want to play it again. It's the multiplayer that raises the value.
  
  Tilt:
  What was going on in the heads of the developers when they made the achievements in this 
 game? 10 000 kills? 500 headshots? 100 damn helicopters shot down? AND HOSTED 1000 MATCHES?? Play 
 for 8 hours straight? Seriously! We want to be able to get the achievements without playing for 
 an eternity!
  
  But I enjoyed the game itself, although the achievements sucked bad. And I still enjoy playing 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djord02
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 29, 2006 1:06 am PT
Review:  G. R. A. W is easily one of the best games on the Xbox 360. 
  
  What's Good:
  Get to da CHoppa!!!! The helicopter missions are so good you'll wish you could fly around in them 
 during multiplayer. How are the graphics? Well, amazing! The lighting, smoke and rain effects simply 
 have to be seen. The single player campaign in G. R. A. W. is good and mostly fun, but you need XBOX 
 live to fully appreciate this game. It is simply a blast to play online.
  
  What's Bad:
  The typical Ghost Recon controls and over the shoulder view. I really wish this series would go 
 the FPS route like Call of Duty. The game features so many great weapons, I'd love to look down 
 the barrel of the guns like in Call of Duty. Also, the controls are just kind of clunky. I wish 
 shooting and moving were as fluid as halo. It woudl be great to throw nades with the left trigger 
 button and to do away with holding down a button to cycle through weapons and firing modes. And 
 why does it take two years to turn these guys around?!
  
  What's Ugly:
  Playing against people who camp each of the spawn points in your base. 
  
  Overall: Buy it, 
 then meet me online.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trolley98
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 28, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  When I was searching for the next game to add to my Xbox 360 collection, I sought help from my 
 Friend, Luke. He recommended Ghost Recon Advace Warfighter. He said it was super awesome and worth 
 buying... but that's the last time i'm gonna listen to him. Ghost recon advanced warfighter was 
 a good game, but just wasn't good enough. It has excellent graphics and gameplay to keep you occupied 
 for hours.
  
  The multiplayer has got to be one of the best i have ever played. Many modes of play and super 
 fun
  
  Campaign has something left to be desired. While the AI has something to be desired, the gameplay 
 is pretty hard on Normal and I wouldn't recommend this game to someone whos new to this genre.
 
  
  The graphics are some of the best i've seen on the 360. With the mix of shadows and reflections 
 make up one hell of a setup.
  
  All-in-all, ghost recon advanced warfighter is good, but not good enough. I would recommend this 
 game to a veteran to the genre, not a noob. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: injuredclown92
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 27, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  The single player is just ok. It gets repetitive, all you do through the game is get dropped off, 
 and go through the level to find a presidend or try to find the suitcase. The game is slightly 
 hard. For being a human war machine you die pretty quickly.
  
  For the multiplay it is extremely hard to find a game. First you search to find a game, then when 
 you get in they kick you because you have a low rank, even though you can't help it because you 
 just started. So then you keep getting kicked. If you get into a game that is already started, 
 you have to wait till then finish which is usually 15 minutes or more. Then when the game ends, 
 they see you, and then kick you. If somehow you get into a game and they don't kick you then you 
 respawn, get killed, respawn, get killed, respawn, and get killed. Because people just wait at 
 the spawn points for people to respawn, then they kill them. If you get into a co-op game, you 
 start, then get killed be a CPU or a teammate more likely, then wait 30 minutes to start over. 
 And if they always kick you because you have a low rank, how can you get into a game to raise it? 
 So you're stuck with a low rank and constantly getting kicked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odamkevin
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 27, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  this game has great, next generation graphics. the gameplay is very solid and a constantly fun 
 online mode adds to the replay value. campaign takes a while to figure out, and initially seem 
 way to difficult. i reccomend this to be a solid early-buy for gamers just getting a 360. one of 
 the first great games of the 360's very bright future! this title shows off the xbox live marketplace 
 with new maps and weapons already available for gamers that need extra content. the online play 
 can keep you gaming all night with very solid maps and a large inventory of weapons to choose from. 
 switching weapons can be frustrating but a very sold game nonetheless. campaign can be a very fun 
 experience once you get past the growing pains of learning the game. very solid title for 360! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amraj
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 26, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  The game is a little hard but you get the hange of it.
  It is very addicting wance you start to play.
  i have fun playing maltiplayer with a friend. 
 
  the graphics are insane.
  I love playing every day.
  I say its better than battle field 2.
  I think this is the best shooting game out.
  
  The 
 game is a little hard but you get the hange of it.
  It is very addicting wance you start to play.
  i have fun playing maltiplayer with a friend. 
 
  the graphics are insane.
  I love playing every day.
  I say its better than battle field 2.
  I think this is the best shooting game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phanth0m
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2006 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Another game to come out in the Ghost Recon series from Tom Clancy. When you first play this game 
 on the single player your blown away when looking at it on HD for the first time, It's stunning, 
 beautiful, Pc like graphics will surely keep you interested for a short while. The singleplayer 
 is great, solid, fun to play yet challenging at the same time. Your basically an elite team of 
 the army called "Ghosts", and you must fight a rebelion Mexico. You get to choose from a quite 
 large selection of weapons in the single player that have somewhat different qualities to them 
 but it doesn't drastically change unless your changing the weapon type (rifle, assualt, demolition, 
 etc.) . The one problem is that the AI isn't the sharpest tool in the shed in which your team mates 
 will frequently stand in the middle of fire and get shot repeatadly. The multiplayer is also great 
 but for some reasons (Latency issues?) the graphics have been tuned down, their are also different 
 weapons to choose from. You have different types of gameplay for the multiplayer such as Deathmatch, 
 Missions, Capture the flag, Elimination, along with Co-op. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: epsilon72
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 25, 2006 10:54 pm PT
Review:  First of all, the campaign on this game is fairly decent, although a little more tactical control 
 over your squadies would've been better (essentially they can only "follow", "go there", and "attack 
 that target", with a cautious mode and an aggressive mode.
  
  The graphics are also very good; in my opinion this is the best looking game besides TES III: Oblivion. 
 I particularly enjoyed the atmospheric effects (smoke, sunlight, etc.) . It looks awesome in High 
 - Definition.
  
  So why did I give this game a not-so-good score? It's completely broken Xbox Live implementation. 
 
  
  This game gives the game hosts a ludicrous amount of power. They can kick players (even if it's 
 something as simple as not liking your name) , assign all high level players to their team and all 
 low level players to the opposing team, make uneven teams in their favor (if they're really cheap) , 
 etc. etc. (I even once had a host on the opposing side who made our camo color white on a very 
 dark map while his team's color was black.... you can guess which side won that match.) Oh, and 
 the only way to get ahead in the multiplayer is to constantly camp in one spot, as well as be a 
 sniper.
  
  Not to mention also that it usually can take anywhere from 10-15 minutes to find a suitable match, 
 and even then, the host's connection many times isn't good enough so players get booted due to 
 broken connections.
  
  RENT THIS GAME FIRST. If you really enjoy singleplayer tactical shooter campaigns, you might like 
 this one. If you're trying to find a new xbox live game to play, however, STEER CLEAR and pick 
 up a copy of Halo 2 if you don't already have one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360guy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 25, 2006 2:36 am PT
Review:  The game itself is a marvel amongst other 3rd person shooters and FPS's (in some cases) . The reality 
 of the thing is that it has great gameplay and the story though not intruiging can be quite fun. 
 In hard mode the enemy is quite brutal but, still lacking. You don't earn anything in the whole 
 game (except for the achievements) . Very realistic in both difficulty modes, the only non-realistic 
 things would be, 1. your teammates intelligence (it can be really stupid when they dont look for 
 cover automatically under fire, they when firing from cover expose themselves a lot) , 2. the lack 
 of mexican civilians (it would be nice to see civilians run from the fight or get mowed down by 
 gunfire!) , and 3. You can't see the gun in FPS mode unlike other versions of the game! (this really 
 isn't part of the unrealisticness but it would be cool to see a highly detailed weapon like the 
 SCAR-L in your hands!)
  
  The multiplayer is great in some aspects. Though some aspects of the multiplayer aren't new it 
 is fun playing massive multiplayer online in small maps like Desert gulch, warf, and no-where. 
 However in multiplayer if playing localy on one XBOX 360 the camera is always in FPS mode not 3rd 
 person which is annoying!
  
  The game is the best shooter so far on the Xbox 360 and the amount of time it takes to finish the 
 game in both difficulty modes depends on your play style and intelligence (took me a week to finish 
 both modes) . It takes a while to get used to the controls but maybe about 15 or so minutes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaMeS4418
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 24, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Wow. What a great game. GRAW has a interesting, well designed, and entertaining singleplayer. The 
 multiplayer with xbox live is even better. The third person view is very nice and better than a 
 lot of fps games that i play. hiding behind walls works great and makes the game very fun. The 
 controls are great letting you easily telling tanks, helicopters, and people what to do without 
 any trouble. While the AI in this game is extremely stupid at some times like when the run into 
 the middle of a firefight i just let them die. The game is also extremely difficult at times but 
 with so many good things these are but small blemishes on the game.
  
  GRAPHICS: Good xbox 360 does it again
  
  SOUND: Good but nothing i think is realy special
 
  
  VALUE: High great game
  
  REPLAYABILITY: HIGH especially if you have xbox live or a freind to play with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssjgoku80
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 24, 2006 6:14 am PT
Review:  I think that this has to be one of the best titles on the 360 to date. Take control of Cpt. Scott 
 Mitchell as he and his crew venture in to the heart of Mexico City. On the way you'll laugh, you'll 
 cry and you'll shoot up a couple of bad guys as they try to ruin your vacation. The rebels have 
 no chance with the Ghost's new HUD feature, they can run but they can't hide. Once that is over 
 venture online and continue the Campaign into Nicaragua or fight in intense multiplayer battles 
 sure to make you come back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo-IV
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 23, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Pros -
  Single player is very fun, and is worth going through 3 times at least.
  Amazing Graphics!
  Multiplayer is addictive and fun.
  Lighting in tropical maps in MP are amazing.
 
  
  Cons - 
  Multiplayer doesn't accept noobs to well.
  Game stutters in some situations.
  Lighting in single player is a little unrealistic for Mexico 
 city.
  AI can be really stupid, even kill themselves.
  People in Multiplayer only play one map - Nowhere.
  Some games can experience lag.
  
  Bottom 
 Line - Buy this game. It is worth the money. I would say it is the best game still for the 360 
 so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gAmEmAn69
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 22, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Ladies and gentlemen.... Welcome to the next generation of video games.... The release of Tom Clancy's 
 Ghost Recon: Advanced warfighter for the Xbox 360 gave us a vividly stunning example of what to 
 expect from a next generation title.... Gamers rejoiced in awe at the sublime and overwhelming textures 
 and explicitly detailed view of Mexico City. This installment of the Tom Clancy saga has literally 
 re-defined how we look and play an tactical combat game. Here is my elaborate take on sharing in 
 part of this revolutionary experience.
  
  Graphics/Gameplay:
  There is not enough space in this text box for me to implement my entire feelings of how superb 
 and magnificent the graphics were in this title. More than impressive graphical textures to match 
 the lighting and beautifully rendered Mexico City. The character models are up to scale and highly 
 detailed as every single weapon and artillery that they possess are presented cosmetically on the 
 actual character. Anything from grenades, to flash bangs, to that old faithful pistol, and to the 
 big papi assault rifle. Everything is shown with amazing detail and finish. However, in one minor 
 defective flaw that the developer failed to input into the game, to assist with the amazing level 
 of eye candy and detail was the failure to manufacture actual "clips" when a character proceeds 
 to reload. It isn't that dramatically flawed, but just looks rather humorous when you see a Ghost 
 reloading an "imaginary" clip on the battlefield. However besides that, the game is practically 
 flawless, and the gameplay is mindblowing, with fierce and intense firefights, and a newly designed 
 targeting system to make tackling terrorist scum all the more satisfying and enjoyable...... A diversity 
 of weapons, mixed with some memorable events that will have your hands glued to the controller, 
 and make your testis sweat with grief as you witness some of the most enormous, heart-pounding 
 explosions and marvel at the sight of Mexico City being viewed from your apache transport from 
 one sector of the city to the other. This is truly a war worth fighting for.
  
  Sound:
  The sound effects are uber realistic. From the explosions to the crackling in the cement when the 
 characters are in motion, The amount of realism put into this game is not without notice. The background 
 music is tuned to perfection as it sets the mood just for the appropriate scene. I'm telling you, 
 when that Embassy exploded and your ear drums are beginning to recover from the sonic boom that 
 originated from your tv, the saddened melody of that orchestrated tune in the back made you feel 
 what these soldiers had to endure in these troubled times.
  
  Control
  Tight.... Like my ass.... I mean the controls are solid and responsive. The crosshairs, and sensitivity 
 of the control sticks can be adjusted and manipulated to tweak the overall performance of the character. 
 Handling a Ghost is realistic, and intuitive, leaving the player feeling comfortable at all angles 
 while grasping their fully ergonomic 360 controller. 
  
  Replay:
  The amount of comeback that GRAW introduces is phenomenal. Not only does the single player campaign 
 offer challenge and enthrallment, but the multiplayer over Xbox Live is really another aspect of 
 where this game shines. The graphics are tuned down slighlty when connected over live, but that 
 doesn't stop the intense frag-on-frag mayhem that has been noticed in the overall aspect of the 
 game. Anybody with an Xbox Live account should be searching for a match now..... NOW GODDAMMIT NOW!!!
 
  
  Overall:
  Anybody with the slight interest in tactical war combat games should look into this title. As a 
 matter of fact, check that... Anybody with half of a descent brain AND an Xbox 360 should own this 
 game. Not rent... but OWN this game. For those of you out there who are unfortunate enough to just 
 own an Xbox or PS2, skip, and I mean LEAP over this game. GRAW should ONLY be experienced on the 
 360 for its overall Next Generation quality graphics, sound, quality and presentation. The current 
 generation installments fall horribly behind and include setbacks such as dated graphics, gruesomely 
 aligned textures, and not to mention a substandard and sub-par feel to a game that can be experienced 
 in beautifully rendered, and astoundingly incredible landscape that the Xbox 360 can offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delta_BITR
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 22, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  First off, let's begin with the single-player aspect of the game. You are Scott Mitchell, a leader 
 of a squad of elite commandos dubbed "Ghosts." You're main objectives mainly deal with you eliminating 
 threats fast and efficiently, and protecting VIPS who need to get somewhere else safely. For the 
 most part, your squad mates are very helpful and often make dire situations bearable and beatable. 
 The only problem that you have with them is that you mainly have to "hold their hand." If they're 
 not ordered to get out of the way of your gun or an enemy gun, they'll just stand right there and 
 shoot ineffectively until they die. The VIP AI could have been a little bit better too, but for 
 the most part they hide away from the action and don't "try" to get killed. The SP levels are all 
 very well designed and fluid, and I have not experienced any slow downs yet. The enemy AI is also 
 at the perfect level, being not too hard or not too easy to defeat. The story is actually one that 
 most people care about, and it is a nice bonus. Next their is the multiplayer aspect of the game. 
 Once again all of the levels are very nice and well designed (including the Ch. 2 content, which 
 in my opinion is actually a good deal) , and you can have a good match no matter the level in the 
 game. There is plenty of weapons to choose from to fight your battles, ranging from Rocket Launchers 
 and sub-machine guns to rifles and Sniper Rifles. There is never a dull moment in a match, and 
 you can keep yourself busy for a while trying to get all of the achievements. I would recommend 
 this title to anyone who wants a good shooter, and especially if you liked any of the other Ghost 
 Recons that have been created. Thanks for reading, and if you liked this review, please recommend 
 it. Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DancingSoda
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 22, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is no dissapointment :D, it's a definite buy if you are a fan of the franchise... I wasn't 
 happy with the regular GR Island Thunder... But this is so awesome, the variety of weapons to the 
 massive online multiplayer to the co-op multiplayer is just amazing... There are some parts where 
 I got stuck though and it was agrivating... I highly recommend this though :) , I have to admit though, 
 I DID use the invincible cheat one time to get passed a tank that was driving me crazy and was 
 taking forever... Piece of advice, when you're given a rocket launcher... DON'T get rid of it until 
 the end of the mission 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honk_sm
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 22, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  This reminds me of the first Ghost Recon games.... thankfully. I did not like where the franchise 
 went in Ghost Recon 2, so this was a welcome change. It really had the feel and immediacy of the 
 first games. They were the reason I bought my Xbox, and I can see that this one would sell more 
 360s as well.
  
  Single player is pretty tough. Not impossible, but a challenge. In fact, there are many people 
 out there that could not finish the campaign without cheats. 
  
  Graphics are pretty good. That's all I've got to say about that. 
  
  Sound is good.
  
  
 Okay, let's talk mulitplayer. It's great. I live multiplayer. You can just get online and play, 
 or you can be a hard-core gamer as well. It's cool. The mulitplayer is a very good reason to buy 
 this game. In fact buy it for the mutliplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmarines08
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 21, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Amazing game for the xbox 360. The single player is incredible with awsome graphics and intense 
 missions i beat it twice and still play it. The multiplayer is awsome with a number of weapons 
 to choose from and a bunch of game modes you cannot go wrong. Only problem was connecting to servers 
 can be a pain but when you do get into a good server with good people it will be hard to put this 
 game down. Also get the download for this game the new maps and the ability to change the time 
 of day in the old maps really makes for incredible battles. That is why I give this game a 9.7 
 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpaghettiDiner
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 21, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  I bought this about a week ago, I must say the graphics on this game are the best ive ever seen 
 on any game. Some 360 titles arent too sharpe but this one shows how good games can look on a 360. 
 The campaign took about 6 hours not too long of a game. Other then the fact that your allies are 
 complete retards and other glitches throughout the campaign its really fun and exciting. The multiplayer 
 is fun with multiple gametypes to play, including coop modes. Overall this game could have been 
 perfect if it not for crappy squad AI, and only 4 mission co-op. But still a good game and worth 
 buying!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterC2009
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 20, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  GRAW's trailer impressed me and made me want to get the game immediately. I got the game and was 
 impressed with its grapics, controls, etc. It takes a while to perfect the controls, but once you 
 get it down, you are quite good to go. The game proves to be challenging, and it has an uncanny 
 similarity to a "24" season. I love how they did this, and the game improves as you go. The Single 
 player is undoubtedly one of the best. 
  
  Now, the multiplayer. I was extremely unimpressed with the multiplayer and felt extremely disappointed. 
 The graphics seem less than it usually is, and it can take quite a long time sometime for a game 
 to get going. The fact is that you can practically see you enemies as they come at you, so it ruins 
 the whole point of a stealth crawl. Of course, you can crouch, but do you really want to walk around 
 crouched all the time? Also the grenade have too wide a range in my opinion, and if you cast it 
 into the air randomly, 2 out of 5 times you are likely to kill someone. When compared to Call of 
 duty 2 and Halo 2, the multiplayer just doesn't quite cut it for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daveld
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  For coming out so quickly I didn't have high hopes for the Ghost Recon. I though it was just another 
 one of those "Let's get it out quick" games that never make it or bring a great series down.
  
  I've never passed up a Ghost Recon game yet so I held my breath and bought it anyway. I must 
 say that I'm glad I did! It is absolutly amazing. Not only are the graphics great the gameplay 
 brings you right in. Their attention to detail when it comes to the city and haveing snipers on 
 roofs of other buildings as well as all of the different vehicles and better AI than ever before. 
 The only thing is the story is a little weak. I think that they could do a bit better but with 
 all the pros so far you don't even really notice.
  
  The best part of the whole thing is the music. It makes you feel like you're in a movie. There 
 are a few points in the game that the situation accompanied by the music give you the perfect atmosphere! 
 I can't put it down! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supa_natural888
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 19, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  The game play of Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is flat out amazing. The single player is fun 
 and very challenging even on normal difficulty. It is long and fun sometimes finding yourself pinned 
 down behind enemy lines. Some missions have you shooting as a door gunner on a helicopter and they 
 are great and have you wanting more. Being able to command troops, tanks, APCs and helicopters 
 adds fun to game play and to the tactical feel of the game. Multiplayer on this game is very addicting 
 and has you sitting for hours playing. There are many different modes to play with friends. The 
 co-op multiplayer is great allowing you to play with up to 16 people. The graphics are the best 
 that I have ever seen on a consul. The sound on the game is done well and the guns sound amazing. 
 The sounds in the environment are very realistic and helps add to the great feel of this game. 
 If you own a 360 you should have G. R. A. W. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyprus646
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 20, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is a most have for any 360 owner unlike its lack luster lil brother (check out my review 
 of the port for the xbox) this game does every thing right. From the graphics to the soundtrack 
 to the gameplay, In every department ubisoft worked extra hard to get the feeling of being a special 
 op soldier in mexico city. The interface at forst will take some getting used to in the begining 
 because your going to use every thing on the screen from how much ammo is left to the health status 
 of your 3 other companions. Speaking of them there A. I is done very well they cover you when your 
 healing a fallen teamate and there very easy to command all you hafe to press in the move to button. 
 Im a big in game soundtrack geek and this game is up there with COD each weapon sounds different 
 the explosion effects are like anything i have ever seen in a game there done so well i actually 
 thought my hand was burning. The music is also an A+ for this game with it fitting each mood (my 
 favorite so far being when you hafe to hold the american embassy from mexican rebels) All an all 
 this game gets my higeset recomendation 9.9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablo9601
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 19, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  Well i haven't bought the game yet... it looks superb! i hear people saying that the singleplayer 
 is great and that the multiplayer action brings alot of fun... there is one thing i'm very very 
 dissapointed with... the minmum pc specs... Ubisoft didn't consider thinking about people who don't 
 have such a powerfull comp as you can see you already need a high tech pc to be able to play this 
 game... and that's why i rated it 8.5... it just demands too much pc specs for what it isa game 
but for the people out there that at least have a pc with better specs then the minmum specs 
 then buy the game... if your system just meets the minimum system specs then don't... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeokor
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 19, 2006 3:52 am PT
Review:  The Canadian president is killed and the American and Mexican leaders are captured, this is where 
 you come in and lead your squad of elite ghosts in Mexico City and return them to safety using 
 tactics, advanced weaponry and new technology of 2012.
  
  The single player campaign is set across Mexico City and its boundaries in pursuit of the rebels 
 and the leaders. Its divided into some 10 plus parts each following directly from where the last 
 one left off. The locations are great eye-candy and very, very well designed: each objective has 
 several ways (depending on how you like to fight) to approach them and are very rewarding after 
 some intense gunfights. Every enemy uses the environment and surroundings to their advantage and 
 really show off the games AI. To top of the campaign, each section of each mission offer completely 
 different situations and never get boring.
  
  The game for me, despite what the critics say, was pretty easy. The normal mode gave me no challenge 
 whatsoever; although the hard did prove more intense and funner and is my difficulty of choice. 
 I happy played through chapter 1 (The campaign in the game) 3 times. Once on normal, twice on hard 
 (minus 2 missions second time through) . 
  
  Both audio and graphics are top-notch in this game. No complaints. The sun-beams, reflections and 
 character movement all add to the realism, not much more I can say here really as its the best 
 graphics I've had in a game. Brilliant.
  
  Now multiplayer: Just reread the third sentence of the previous paragraph... brilliant. There are 
 so many customable options here, from guns to face, camo to helmet. The maps are pretty amazing 
 too. My personal online favourites are Fishing Village and Wharf, both all the maps should be played 
 on. The game styles are also great fun and even if you don't have Xbox Live, get a friend round 
 and play some of them. Its the best part of this fantastic game.
  
  I have little to no complaints about this game at all. Fast, fun and varied single player campaign; 
 great online options with tons of replay value and graphics to match. A must-must-have, no doubt. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raidenseven
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 18, 2006 11:27 pm PT
Review:  gameplay- just plain fun, singleplayer story is fun to go through and get the achievment points 
 for it, and the multiplayer is pure fun, this games gameplay is amazing, once you beat the singleplayer 
 (which is really fun) the multiplayer is basicallly halo 2 for the 360 at this moment in time, 
 no other xbox 360 game is this much fun on live. only one problem with live and its that it uses 
 the lobby system which is fine, but it takes a good 2-3 minutes for it to load all the games available 
 and if you press a game that is closed or something you have to spend another 2-3 minutes looking 
 for a game, and the host has too much power in a ranked game, they can boot a player on the other 
 team if he is too good, and a thing i hate is how the host puts all the high level players on their 
 team. 
  
  graphics- amazing, just really realisitc, outstanding character models, buildings and environemnts 
 look fantastic, it just immerses you really well and i give props to ubisoft in the grapics department. 
 
  
  sound- what you would expect from a military shooter, all the guns sound good, environments sound 
 is great, i like it when you can hear your character moving through bushes and brustle, or hear 
 an enemy moving through the bushes it really adds to the gameplay. 
  
  value- you will spend a good amount of time on the single player and other than gears of war and 
 halo 3 i dont see another xbox live game being better than this. 
  
  tilit- totally worth getting this game, a must buy for 360 owners 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentDeath777
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  You are Scott Mitchell in the year 2013. You must stop Nicaraguan rebels, get back top secret hardware 
 and save the day. This game has such a deep story, I do not want to spoil key parts, so that is 
 all I can say without spoilers. I know this game as been out a long time, but here are my thoughts 
 anyway.
  
  The is amazing, when I got this game I have hardly stop playing it. Nothing so far has toped this 
 game. The graphics are as true to life as you can get. You really feel you are there and you respect 
 your squad. There are times when squad members will get in the way of your shooting. Sure that 
 can annoy anyone, but you might miss them on missions where you are solo. On the hard setting the 
 game does seem a little more buggy not as sharp as the normal setting. I have gotten to a stage 
 and it lost all the textures then froze and I had to restart from the beginning on hard. After 
 the one time, it didn't happen again. You will not have this trouble on normal as far as I know 
 .Still single player has a great story that pulls you in and will not let go until you finish. 
 The multi player is really well done too, not matter if your playing on LIVE or even two player 
 co-op missions. You can not really say how much fun that is. My best friend and me always try to 
 beat the co-op stages, even if takes all night. The co-op stages are a little hard since it is 
 only two of us against tons of enemy rebels. 
  
  There is just so much about "Ghost Recon : Advanced Warfighter" that is done right, you will wonder 
 why all games are not like this. You will enjoy the single player story as well spend lots of hours 
 in the multi player online and off. If your a Tom Clancy Fan, Ghost Recon Fan, or just love war 
 games, Advanced Warfighter is the best game you should get and not miss out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: your_mom91
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 18, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  When somebody thinks about Ghost Recon they think about long tactical missions that you cant actually 
 beat a mission within 2 hours without using cheat codes. With G. R. A. W. it is slightly different. 
 The missions are a lot more straightforward and are faster than its predecessors. The enemy AI 
 is actually pretty good, (they actually tried to (unsuccessfully) flank me when I was protecting 
 a VIP) but just like any other game the AI is still just as bad as my grandmother trying to play 
 WoW. The multiplayer is pretty much why you should play the game. The weapons and options are completely 
 customizable in multiplayer games but the only hassle is getting into a game. The game fails to 
 actually let you play in a game that already started and it forces you to sit and wait 15-20 minutes 
 to play that game unless you get out of the game, search for games again, and be lucky enough to 
 get in before the game actually. Overall once you actually get into a game you will not be disappointed. 
 The graphics and gameplay are both amazing and keeps you wanting to play no matter how long it 
 takes to find a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Money-Mo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 18, 2006 12:20 am PT
Review:  This game is worth playing for any fan of this series -or everyone-.
  
  ~Pros.
  1) Sweet graphics
  2) Solid controls
  3) Good story line
  4) Cool selection of weapons
 
  5) Amazing environments
  6) Good enemy A. I.
  7) Well thought out missions
  8) Great effects -such as dust and debris-
  
  ~Cons.
  1) May get a bit repetitive 
  2) 
 Game seemed a bit short
  3) Possible you will get PO'd; for your squad not following commands, and for tough missions
 
  4) May not be any CO-op missions ( I never found any )
  
  Overall: This game is more than just looks, it's also a whole new generation of shooting experience. 
 Also, this game should be quite fun on Xbox Live -next to Halo- with all sorts of missions and 
 map for you and your friends -if you have any :P-. A must buy game! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: l0uciferr
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 17, 2006 4:00 pm PT
Review:  GRAW is basically the story of a couple of soliders out in mexico having a gay ol time Protecting 
 Diplomats, killing terrorists, manning chainguns and just plain blowing crap up. The controls are 
 perfect, the graphics are spactacular, the gameplay is sweet. I have been done with the single 
 player (Norm) for months I liked it so much i went back thru the hard campaign too, that is rare 
 for me. And the online is so awesome, like you can do you normal Deathmatch/Team Deathmatch, Flag, 
 Territories etc. But in GRAW you also have CO - OP Campaign modes up the wazzoo. This is a MUST 
 HAVE for 360 owners. You dont know what your missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shuiken_Blade
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 17, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  This review is not like the others where they say everything is "Great". Cause there are a few 
 minor problems with this game; like the stupid AI. Sometimes i would tell the AI on my team to 
 regroup with me to get behind cover. Instead they went out into the middle of the battlefield and 
 two of them got killed. 
  
  Another bad thing is that the game got repititive in the middle but then got good again. So that 
 wasnt a major problem.
  
  The rest of my review is good. I am not over exaggerating like other reviewers. This game is THAT 
 good in my opinion.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Different than the rest of the GR games. Not just about stealth anymore. Its more about fighting 
 a war on battlefields. Great multiplater.
  Graphics: 10
  The visuals are truly amazing in GRAW. The only thing that doesnt look that real is when you zoom 
 in on the scope of your weapon. The scope part doesnt look real. Youll see what i mean.
  
  Sound: 10
  Sound is also worth a 10 if you have Dolby Digital 5.1 surround like i do. If you 
 have just a regular sound setup, the sound is probably worth an 8.5.
  
  So once again, if you do not have this title, i suggest you pick it up or else everyone will make 
 fun of you. And this review is non-exaggerated in my opinion. I was thinking of the score as i 
 was playing the game. GRAW deserves to be in every 360 owner's home. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Isayama
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 16, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is worth playing for any fan of this series -or everyone-.
  
  ~Pros.
  1) Sweet graphics
  2) Solid controls
  3) Good story line
  4) Cool selection of weapons
 
  5) Amazing environments
  6) Good enemy A. I.
  7) Well thought out missions
  8) Great effects -such as dust and debris-
  
  ~Cons.
  1) May get a bit repetitive 
  2) 
 Game seemed a bit short
  3) Possible you will get PO'd; for your squad not following commands, and for tough missions
 
  4) May not be any CO-op missions ( I never found any )
  
  Overall: This game is more than just looks, it's also a whole new generation of shooting experience. 
 Also, this game should be quite fun on Xbox Live -next to Halo- with all sorts of missions and 
 map for you and your friends -if you have any :P-. A must buy game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themtman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 16, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  This is i believe is maybe the best game of the 360. It has a great single player and great mulitplayer 
 which everyone will enjoy. The single player first of all, the best graphics ever. The single player 
 is about 10-12 hours on normal mode and about 15 hours on hard mode. You will die but thats war 
 right. The single player has a great story and is very right for the series. The mulitplayer is 
 where this game does everything right. Its just plain fun and so many modes to play with is what 
 everyone wants. Everyone in the whole family will enjoy this game unless if u dont like to be frustrated 
 at some moments in the single player game. Its a BUY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: booomer69
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 15, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is all around fun. You can enjoy both the single player and multiplayer. Its one of the 
 best Xbox Live games out to date, in my opinion. Their is one thing that made me upset about the 
 game though, it was the achievements. I am one of those people who like getting achievements and 
 making my gamerscore high. This game offers challenging achievements which is good, but the points 
 for them are horrible. Their are some achievements in the game that a lot of people cannot get, 
 and if they do, its worth for a little amount. Again, this game is very fun, and I recommend it 
 to people who enjoy playing shooting games online. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaimzl
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 14, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  let me just say this first. if you want to play an online shooting game DO NOT BUY THIS.
  
  this game is hard but then again i did beat the game on hard mode
  
  really easy to get the 
 hang of if your patient enough to get through the training. (reccommend playing on HD tele because 
 its hard to see which button it tells you to press on a standard) .
  
  its a good 13-18 hours but i did play on hard 
  
  and out of all the other same games that 
 came out on the other consols this one is most deffinatly the best.
  
  i ran into a few technical issues with freezing at the mission select screen but other than that 
 it plays great 
  
  ENJOY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheIceDragon437
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 14, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I played the game through on both normal and hard difficulties and enjoyed it a lot. It is a very 
 good story with some pretty cool twists in it I would say. I can definitely say that i enjoyed 
 playing through the game twice. The graphics are amazing and the sound is great. Another cool thing 
 they bring into the game is the teamwork on singleplayer and how you have to order your team around. 
 There are some pretty nice weapons in there. And the whole training level is a nice way to figure 
 out how to play better. The multiplayer though is not exactly something i like to continue playing. 
 Just because it doesn't seem like there is many people playing it.
  
  Otherwise a perfectly good singleplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SunLord592
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 13, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  GRAW has a very well built singleplayer and you play as Scott Mitchel. As the squad leader of the 
 Ghosts. the game takes place in New Mexico. right from the start on the first mission you are in 
 a helicopter and u can see all of New Mexico. its just amazing. the game has the best visuals on 
 the 360 up to now. the tanks and modeling and motion capturing on the characters are very well 
 done. the single player is like 10 missions long and could take roughly 10 hours to beat. Unless 
 your really quick and master the wall huging u could complete this game even sooner. The Mulitplayer 
 for GRAW is a good game. but it lacks the visuals of the single player. seeing that it has been 
 made by a different development team. But still the game delivers a good strong MP game. theres 
 many mods as in seige, team deathmatch, deathmatch, and etc. the MP also features COOP mission 
 which can be completed for achievments point with 16 other people. The online can get repetitve 
 after a while which can lead you to totally stop playing. Overall the game is well amde and tis 
 a must buy for any Xbox 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kev_graw
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  What Can I Say The Best 3rd Person Shooter Ever Better Than All The Other Ghost Recon Games The 
 Graphics Are Simply Amazing The Attention To Detail Is Fantastic Just Brilliant But Frustrating 
 At Time Especially In Multiplayer As It Changes From 3rd Person To 1st None Of The Wall Hugging 
 (so to speak) Is Available And On Xbox Live The Players Take A Long Time To Say They Are Ready 
 To Play A Game So You My Sit There For 5-30mins + To Start A Game And The Id Tags Aren't Always 
 Visible So You Shoot Your Own Me But Overall A Perfect 11 Out Of 10 Exceptional 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Full89
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 13, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  This game is all around fun. You can enjoy both the single player and multiplayer. Its one of the 
 best Xbox Live games out to date, in my opinion. Their is one thing that made me upset about the 
 game though, it was the achievements. I am one of those people who like getting achievements and 
 making my gamerscore high. This game offers challenging achievements which is good, but the points 
 for them are horrible. Their are some achievements in the game that a lot of people cannot get, 
 and if they do, its worth for a little amount. Again, this game is very fun, and I recommend it 
 to people who enjoy playing shooting games online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockinaway
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 13, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  This game is good, I traded in Over G for it and loved the change.
  
  This game has good sound, graphics and gameplay. The missions are in depth and ask for some thought, 
 tactics and skill.
  
  If you love shooting games then this is the right games. The gaming changes and the graphics are 
 mind blowing! For example when you throw a grenade and a car blow up, it is really realistic. 
 
  
  The enemy may be anywhere so you need to be ready, but I give this a great review as it has earned 
 one!
  
  I have never played GR games before, but I may start buying more. The game is addictive and you 
 get immersed into the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SV_Killa06
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  All and all........ The online multiplayer isn't the only thing that grabs your attention the in-depth 
 campaign mode really grabs your attention. At times it can be so hard it will make you wanna quit. 
 But once you get your team skills down and the buttons you will be a master instantly. As far as 
 multiplayer it is awesome a must for any and everybody if you wanna grab this game!
  Gameplay: Great!
  Difficulty: Hard (for rooks)
  Learning Curve: Instant
  Classification: 
 I wish that I could have chosen more than one because this game is superb.
  Last but not least the sound quality....
  Lets just say everything has its own unique sound. 
 The guns, trees, nades, everything! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supergamer1289
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 13, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is great and is a must have for all 360 owners. The graphics are insane. My friends and 
 I were joking that the sky in the game looks more real the the sky above your head. The gamplay 
 is flawless. The intencity is heart wrenching. When you cross an open space you are constantly 
 looking around on the edge of your seat to see if the super smart AI have set up an ambush for 
 you. Yes, the AI of your enimies and you comrads is upgraded. Sometimes I feel that your men dont 
 take risks. They always stick together. Only sometimes do they split up. Apart from that they are 
 amazing. Your foes flank you but your men react and take up defencive positions. On some rare ocations 
 the frame rate sufers. Sound is great as well. The music is so amazing. When you are defending 
 the mexican president the music is just great. If you have ever seen the TV show "Band of Brothers" 
 thats what the music sounds like. It can range from great Rock and Roll to great sphyomies. The 
 cross com is very use full. It is good to see what you friends see and even better what your heli 
 sees. Hands down best game for 360. A must buy. But i warn you it gets hard! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terps
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 12, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon has a great single player campiagn that you can play on hard or easy. I definitely 
 like the storyline: you are in downtown mexico city trying to restore order as a rebellion is taking 
 place. It can get difficult and frustrating at times, but it is fun.
  
  The multiplayer is okay...
  When you first get it, it is fun, but after awhile it statrs to get 
 old and boring. I would say it is a good game to buy because single player will take up alot of 
 time and you can enjoy multiplayer for about a month. 
  
  The problem is after a month when you have beat the game and are getting bored of multiplayer you 
 stop playing the game. I played it alot when I first got it and now a never play it. If you are 
 into to tactical shooters though, this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colegallop
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 12, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. The on-line is not to fast but not to boring. the single player was better 
 then I thought it was going to be. You can also do co-op online which is a really nice feature 
 to the game. The game is difficult but not impossible. Playing on xbox live is nice but the searching 
 and waiting for a match to end is frustrating sometimes. I would recommend this game to an experienced 
 player ot a armature. The music and graphics are awsome and it's nice and easy to control. This 
 is another must buy game for 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X3oNR3g1z
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 12, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  This game gave me mixed reactions, some things i loved, others not so much, lets start with the 
 single player, the graphics and sound were amazing and the gameplay was good, but the story was 
 just to damn confusing and i didnt get into it, and the gameplay started feeling somewhat repetitive, 
 but overall it was good
  
  the multiplayer i hate to say was pretty bad. its just not fun, i mean the range of the levels 
 is just to big and its sometimes difficult to see people and the gameplay just isnt very fun at 
 all, overall its a decent game mainly for the ghost recon fans 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sh1nka
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jul 12, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Save your money for something good, like Oblivion.
  
  Let's start at the beginning.
  
  Firstly, and most annoyingly... this supposed "ghost squad" couldn't sneak in to a monastery of 
 blind and death monks without being found and killed. You, the player, seem to be the only person 
 on the squad with any intelligence; the other three seem more interested in just standing around 
 in the middle of the street getting bullets pounded into them if you take your eye off looking 
 after them for even a second. Also the title of the game refers to the team being known as "Ghosts" 
 meaning they are supposed to be sneaky... sneaky? You couldn't sneak any were on the linear levels 
 in this game... one route takes you through streets and streets of fights and the second you get 
 within about a 50 metre radius of anyone! your instantly spotted and shot, Oh, being shot is the 
 next one as well, while it make take anything up to 15 bullets to floor an enemy it will take only 
 one, pointed directly at your head, through a wall to kill you from a soldier you didn't even know 
 existed. 
  
  Also the one good thing I thought this game was different for was the ability to see enemies that 
 you have already identified with red diamonds, well for some reason, after around level 4 all of 
 mine disappeared, leaving me with only the objective marker. 
  
  The character graphic always seems to mess up as well, for example pretty much every other time 
 I attempt to crawl he stands up with his arms out like he's Jesus or something and hovers across 
 the floor. 
  
  Tanks won't shoot anything unless you tell them to, even if there being pounded on by another tank! 
 WTF!
  
  Maybe Ubisoft were just messing around when they made this game, maybe they thought it would be 
 a bit of a laugh to make a rubbish game then charge people $60 to play it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boni
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2006 10:32 pm PT
Review:  this game is definitely beatiful nice awesome graphics very very fun game.
  i like it now that how they made so you can see the person its fun when you tell your friends what 
 to do tell a choper to atack at the place where you think its tough to go at some places you will 
 have to do it by your self and its gonna be really tough witch will be so totally awesome.
  the thing that i like one of the most is the multi player (co-op) its fun to play with a friend 
 team up and beat the enemies.
  This game was the reason i got a xbox 360.
  i was gonna wait for halo 3 but this loked so awesome i plain on gettin oblivion next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sp-rt-n
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 11, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Your walking down a musty, urban mexican street, after a series of events have unfolded resulting 
 in the death of the canadian prime minister and the disappearance of the US and Mexican presidents 
 it's your mission as a member of the heralded Ghost Squadron to return them to safety and neutralize 
 any threat. Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a third, or first person shooter (whicher perspective 
 you choose) , which is set in Mexico in the near future of 2013. You play as a Ghost - an elite 
 member of a highly trained tactical military team and your job is to basically kill anything bad 
 and save the VIPs. In game, you can almost feel the intense atmosphere: bullets that whir by you 
 shake the screen, explosions rock you and the near by scenery (if a tree is hit, the leaves will 
 fall) . Enemy AI is impresive even in the most farcical situations. They know when to duck, when 
 to shoot, and when to cry for their mothers when they're getting peppered. Visuals ingame are jaw-dropping, 
 truly displaying the horsepower of the 360 with minimal (if a few) character glitches. The sound 
 is also unbelieveable; if a bullet ricochets off a wall behind you it will sound like a bullet 
 is hitting a wall behind you - also the sounds of people and wind is very accurately portrayed. 
 Overall, G. R. A. W. is a breath-taking game, with undying attention to detail, a difficulty system 
 that works well, and action that will leave you drooling for more. I wish more developers would 
 look at the progress Ubi-Soft have made and engage in a little "monkey see monkey do". Go out and 
 buy it. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanxixamx99
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 11, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  The Tom Clancy series has done it again with their newest game Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter.
 
  The game is basically a third person squad shooter set in the near future. All the weaponry and 
 technology in this game is based on actual militive projects and concepts so it provides a realism 
 that is completely genuine and a fictional setting that is practical.
  The game's plot is about how in the near future, the 3 countries of North America are ready to 
 create some sort of immigration agreement in Mexico City when rebels opposed to the idea take action 
 and bring terror on the city.
  This is where you the player come in, you take up the role of a squad of four soldiers to eliminate 
 this threat.
  Because the game is set in the near future, you are provided with futuristic weaponry and technology, 
 like weapons that can shoot around corners and the Crosscom.
  The Crosscom is basically a system that uses satelite systems to feed you information of the battlefield 
 through your visor such as enemy status and location, team mate status and location, and a three-dimensional 
 map for strategic purposes.
  The game has a very interesting campaign but in my opinion this is merely training for the real 
 challenge: multiplayer
  The multipayer for GRAW has its ups and downs but is a very rewarding experience, in fact the online 
 play was where i spent most of my time with this game.
  This game is a very enjoyable experience but i only gave it a 9 because although its ups (like 
 the stunning graphics and gameplay) outweigh its downs, it still isnt extremely satisfying in the 
 end unless you have Live, which can turn off a lot of people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayaz
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 11, 2006 4:09 am PT
Review:  I have really enjoyed this game. It is hard but not impossible, great fun on MP, (although I haven't 
 played it much online) . good level design, good animation, nice lighting. 
  
  You want to keep coming back for more. 
  
  The only slight downside in my opinion is the fact 
 that the game is very intense, which makes a quick pick up and play difficult. Many people will 
 see this as a positive thing and generally I think it is - but to do the game justice you need 
 to spend a good evening playing and getting into it. Which unfortunately is not something I often 
 get the chance to do.
  
  Overall this game is a must have in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelljon
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  GRAW is THE best 360 game to date. It's easy to start playing........ the menus are a snap to use. 
 The single player campaign is great, and there are a good mix of solo missions and team missions. 
 And the multi player is excellent......... extending the life of the game (like HALO 2) . So many 
 choices..... so many ways to change the game..... from classical death match to team based objectives. 
 The more you talk about the game, the more you appreciate the wonderful job Ubi soft did! It's 
 gonna be hard to top this one!!! The visuals are a sight to behold, and the way the character appears, 
 runs, dives, slides, pants.... are so realistic. Even the enemy animations are great. There's nothing 
 like watching them tumble to the ground as you snipe them as they run! Gunfire has never sounded 
 so good, the explosions are fantastic, and the empty shells falling to the ground is perfect. Even 
 the vehicles, eg. helicopter, tanks, etc., make you feel like you're actually there. Sure....... 
 your team may like to firefight in the middle of the street, getting mauled like Swiss cheese........ 
 but that does not take away from the best 360 game yet! And the weapons..... so many choices, so 
 little time! So much more to say about GRAW... but words cannot fully describe this game. If you 
 haven't gotten it yet....... what are you waiting for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StoneTheCrows
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  The whole reason I got into the Ghost Recon series way back in the day was for the intense multiplayer 
 action. Ubisoft has been able to uphold that addictive multiplayer throughout the years, and the 
 Ghost Recon series has seen a smooth transfer to the Xbox 360.
  
  This is the type of game which I casually play online. It's great for those who have a group of 
 friends who they regularly play with like myself. I make an effort to hop on G. R. A. W. at least 
 once a week, usually on weekends. And I've accumulated well over 100 hours of gameplay.
  
  Ubisoft also recently released a rather large and somewhat costly DLC pack which included numerous 
 maps, new weapons, and new uniforms among other things. The package was great; it totally revived 
 my interest in Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter.
  
  Anyways, to get to the point, I highly recommend this game to anyone who is interested in multiplayer 
 gaming. If you're looking for a great singleplayer game, steer clear of this one. Although G. R. A. W. 
 does offer a single player game, you'll probably end up beating it in a weekend even if you play 
 the game in an extremely casual manner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crunchy12489
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 10, 2006 12:06 am PT
Review:  So you want to know how G. R. A. W. plays and what it comes out to be? Read.
  
  Before we go on explaining details, I would have to say this game is definately worth the hype. 
 UbiSoft did a great job at this game.
  
  [Gameplay]
  
  It's really fast. Like, unbelievably fast. Not Unreal Tournament/Arcade fast, but I think it's 
 a little unreallisitc on this feature. Single player is very challenging and you rack up GPoints 
 quite easily except on hard mode. The online play is AMAZING. Well, amazing if you exclude the 
 stupid negatives it has.
  
  Pros: ONLINE PLAY (16 players, 4 on your machine) / Bullets do reallistic damage / Grenades have 
 a high radius of hitting / Left and Right leaning / Over 25+ weapons / Plenty of maps / So many 
 game modes, 3x the combinations with them including custom game types / Online Leaderboards / Single 
 player is quite long.
  
  Cons: No detailed information about your account's points to next rank / No "clan" support / You 
 will catch lag frequently if people do not mute their mic's in the game lobby before launching 
 / Little kids seem to screw everything up / $25 Dollar update for the new maps, 5 weapons, 2 game 
 types / So many online glitches / Spawn Killing is VERY VERY often / When someone shuts a server/game 
 down, everyone loses heavy rank points.
  
  [Sound]
  
  Pretty good. Most rifles sound the same, along with the sniper rifles who all sound the same. They 
 didn't really go into detail about each weapon, so. Can't hear shells hit the ground, nor can you 
 hear footsteps well. Online play, it's true that your last footstep is heard 2 seconds after you 
 stop, not matter how good the connection is. That's the only con I found in this game. But believe 
 me, so much running around, footsteps will be the last thing on your mind.
  
  [Graphics]
  
  Stunning? Beautiful? Sexy? What ever word that is the exact opposite of terrible fits this. 
 It's very nice in HDTV. Player models get kind of "edgy" and glitch around because of the new 25 
 dollar update. That's the only con of this. Singleplayer is a little more flashy because it's just 
 "you" and not other players to slow down the game. Singleplayer looks magnificent.
  
  [Bottom Line]
  
  I would rent first, because some people have different tastes in FPS's. Rent 
 first. This game isn't an obvious  This game lacks so many 
 online features! It really makes me mad that they can't fix the "mic lag" and give us more online 
 support features with $25 given to their asses! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 11, 2006 10:39 pm PT
Review:  I had given up on war games. I mean sure, I like Call Of Duty 2 and Battlefield, but they became 
 pretty redundant. GRAW regained my interest in war shooters just as PDZ got me back into the shooting 
 genre altogether. GRAW's graphics are right up there with games like Fight Night, Tiger Woods and 
 are better than COD 2 and PDZ. This is a MUST HAVE for any fan of shooting games. Just like any 
 other early launch for the 360, there is room for improvement. I had a difficult time reloading 
 and at a few points I got stuck between things and nothing I could do would get me out. Other than 
 a few minor obstacles, this game is an awesome experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HyperMetaDragon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 9, 2006 2:07 am PT
Review:  A few years back, Tom Clancy decided to create a series. A series like no other. A series involving 
 tactics, recon, and S. W. A. T.-like gameplay. The result? Ghost Recon.
  
  Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter for Xbox 360 is an incredible game. The graphics were spectacular, 
 for one processor. The audio was impressive. The Campaign was smart, open-ended, and funny. The 
 A. I. was brilliant. The replay factor was high. The online multiplayer was unbelievably customizable 
 and fascinating. And most importantly, the gameplay was excellent and realistic.
  
  GRAW's story is set in Mexico. The Ghosts' story starts when rebels try to highjack U. S. military 
 vehicles and when they commence their attack on VIPs (governments and ministers throughout North 
 America) . It is up to you and your fellow Ghosts to stop them.
  
  GRAW is a slow-paced, recon-shooter game that many have been waiting for. Although it is not for 
 everybody, many will feel right at home with the new installment in the series. GRAW delivers old-school 
 fun and old-school gameplay with multiple features from previous Ghost Recons, so no veteran should 
 feel alone. However, many new features have been added to enhance gameplay as well, such as the 
 Cross-Com, Narcom, Drones, etc, as well as the use of miniguns in choppers, C4, and much more.
 
  
  All-in-all, GRAW is a smash-hit for the Xbox 360, and no gamer should leave this gem out of their 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 9, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  You play as Scott Mitchell, captain of the Ghost forces stationed in Mexico, while the three presidents 
 of the North American countries are signing a mutual protection act of some sorts. Things go bad 
 at the signing when Mexican rebels led by a Carlos Oniveros storm the place, killing the Canadian 
 president & forcing the US & Mexican presidents to run for their lives basically. Anyway, its your 
 job to rescue said presidents and stop Ontiveros.. sounds easy until you find out Ontiveros has 
 the US President's "football" (Which is a brief case that has codes to nuclear ICBMs) .
  
  This game has it all. You run, climb, slide, dive, go prone, heal fallen teammates, take cover 
 and lean against any flat surface, press select and you have a full 360 degrees rotatable map of 
 the area, select a HUGE array of weapons (both with and without scopes) , pick up enemy weapons, 
 command not only fellow Ghost ground pounders but M1 Abrams tanks, Apache & Black Hawk helicopters, 
 and many more. Ontop of that, your enemies are outlined in red (and once spotted are noted on that 
 360 degreed map for future planning) , friendlies in green, and you also get night vision goggles.
 
  
  I never thought I would be saying this about a Tom Clancy game, but Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter 
 is one of the most action packed, combat heavy, intense tactical games I have played. You will 
 constantly be swarmed by wave after wave of enemy rebels and tanks... take this one stage where 
 the US Embassy gets bombed - you have to protect the Mexican president from seriously an army of 
 rebels with just you and the three Ghost members. It's a very hard game, but extremley fun. One 
 thing thats boo though is the fact that you really only get hit like three times until you die.. 
 meh.
  
  Graphics.... are quite possibly some of the best I have ever seen; they easily blow Halo 2 out of 
 the water and rank way up there with games like Perfect Dark Zero (blarff) . The lighting is magnificent 
 and enchanting, windows actually reflect the scenery, the cities look so real, and the characters 
 look life like - in fact they even move as fluid as a real human being. Simply put, you'll be breathless 
 and G. R. A. W. really flexes X-Box 360's video muscles.
  
  The music is a blend between real bands such as Ill Nino, and Ubisoft's own symphony/rock ballads. 
 Both really help set the atmosphere and fit in perfectly. Take, for instance, when Ontiveros shoots 
 this guy in a Black Hawk that has been helping you the entire game - the music gets REALLY sad 
 and depressing and actually fills you with rage and determination to take Carlos down. Amazing 
 once again.
  
  There is indeed an online and split screen mutliplayer. Both are pretty fun - you can play against 
 people in a free for all or teams, or play co-op in a made up campaign or play against bots. Its 
 pretty sweet and really helps you get the feel of the controls (though you can't command a team 
 in multiplayer like you do in the solo game) and shows you how the game is going to basically be. 
 One thing I didn't like about multiplayer is the fact that it's not in a third person view like 
 the entire game is, but rather takes a first person approach. Im a fan for FPS, but I liked this 
 game as a third person.. oh, the little things.
  
  The ending was typical Tom Clancy, and was rather short to get to (11 missions) - Mitchell retrieves 
 the football and kills Ontiveros thus securing the safety of the world from a nuclear strike. Ontop 
 of that the FBI or something arrests some retired high ranking official in the US for conspiring 
 with Ontiveros... eventually it starts getting all complicated with conspiracies so I didn't understand 
 it.
  
  Lets finish this review by saying this - if you own an X-Box 360, you better own this game. So 
 far, it's the best game for the system, and is one of the best games I have played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mxpaint
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 8, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  this is one of the greatest shooters i have ever played deffiently one of my favorite tom clancy 
 games. The graphics and controls are flawless, and the AI is challenging but not over powering 
 like in older ghost recons... my favorite part of the game is massive online co-op missions its 
 so much fun to play through all the levels u did in the campaign with 15 other comrads and more 
 guerillas to take down. I have played this game until 5 in the moarning and there are always people 
 to play with, so it has a fantastic multiplayer following. Its AWESOM AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME 
 AWESOME AWESOME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SWAT406
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 8, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  G. R. A. W. is one of the best game in the series ghost recons with its amazing graphics on single 
 player & multiplayer this is the best ghost recon game every made. Ghost Recon 3 Campaige is the 
 best for fighting battles and helping the US army and the Ghost. Campaige is the best way to get 
 the battle action i think. Ghost Recon 3 Multiplayer and now chapter 2 is the best part of the 
 multiplayer games with new maps, new weapons, new team battles and many more. Juat a brilliant 
 game worth the money one bit. You have to get this game Xbox 360 owners 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtnhl11
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 8, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Finnaly ubisoft makes an awesome ghost recon game. I currently play this game every single day 
 it is very fun. This game is very hard just like all the last ones so be warned about that before 
 you buy it. The gameplay is very good also this is the best shooter on the xbox 360 right now. 
 The best grahpics out of all the xbox 360 games is Graw. The games sound is very cool as well. 
 Its worth the 60 dollers. Overall go get the game right now what are you waiting for. The live 
 is very good but there is one error on it. They as in ubisoft make you pay extra money for the 
 complete experience so this is not good for our games but still the best game for shooter fans 
 out on the xbox 360 right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EikeofGaia
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 2, 2006 5:36 am PT
Review:  It seems 9.0+ reviews are a dime a dozen on Gamespot nowadays. I've been a fan of this website 
 for quite a while (a little longer than I'd like to admit) , and till recently I could look at any 
 game awarded a 9.0 rating or better and know without question I would love it. As far as I'm concerned, 
 a 9.2 should be reserved for a truly special game; something revolutionary, or at least damn good 
 at the conventions of its respective genre. The verbosely titled Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced 
 Warfighter is solid, that much is certain. But rest assured, it far from merits a 9.2 rating. 
 
  
  Honestly. At some point playing this game (on a 50" Pioneer Plasma TV, in 780p, and with a 5.1 
 Bose surround sound system) I just took one hard look at the cover, read the title, checked it 
 with the game that Gamespot reviewed, looked back at the cover, back at the computer, refreshed 
 the page, etc. This kind of raving review for this game is just... inexplicable. Just what is Gamespot 
 talking about? 
  
  Let's start at graphics, because that's what Gamespot seemed to love the most about this games. 
 I've got to be honest with you, I have no idea why. Even at 720p (it doesn't support 1080i) this 
 game is plagued with "jaggies." There is the occasional surface or reflection of light that will 
 make you do a double-take, but this IS the next generation, right? Aren't we supposed to be shocked 
 by the graphics? Rest assured, I was FAR from shocked by the overall quality of the images in AW. 
 I'm not overly savvy when it comes to why, technically speaking, one game looks better than another, 
 and I kind of wish I did so I could tell you just why AW doesn't look that great to me. Unlike 
 some, I'm not a dedicated console gamer. I'm an avid PC gamer as well. When I see a game like AW 
 up on my plasma, I'm impressed, but at the same time I check out PC games like Half-Life 2 and 
 Doom 3 (both of which were released in 2004) and wonder why anyone is impressed with 360 games. 
 It seems to me that PC games have early next-gen games trumped, and have for a while. This isn't 
 encouraging. 
  
  Unfortunately, I'm not paid to write reviews, so I really can't go on too long about any one game. 
 I'll merely sum up my opinions in a paragraph.
  
  The gameplay is decent, but nothing all that special. The movement is floaty (it sure would've 
 been to the game's benefit if the camera bounced slightly with your footsteps) and the shooting 
 is occasionally flawed. The sound is above average, the best part being the stellar gunshot tracks. 
 The one thing that kills me though is the price tag. The now customary $59.99 label is still unwavering 
 on every new copy of this game, and it's bothering me. Do yourself a favor and go pick up a game 
 like Half-Life 2, budget-priced in comparison and incredible in quality. That is, unless you're 
 starved for a decent FPS for Xbox 360.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BackyardJedi
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 7, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. if it had more levels it would be one of the best games ever. Scott Mitchell's 
 role in this game was very good. I reccomend this game 2 all war-lovers and tom clancy lovers. 
 it doesn't get a perfect 10 because it wasn't long enough, howeverit does get a perfect 10 on graphics 
 and gameplay. This game is so intense that it looks like one of those go-army commercials. If Splinter 
 Cell: DA has Quality like this it will get a perfect 10. Ubisoft is a great company, and G. R. A. W. 
 just happend to be one of their best games. If more games are made like this, Ubisoft will rake 
 in so much that they will be called the U. S. treasury. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDeragusX
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game the other night... I had heard so many great stories about it, and I figured, 
 "Hell, why not..." I pulled out $63, and bought the game. I took it home, figuring I wouldn't like 
 it because I'm not a big squad-tactic game fan. It wasn't just a pick-up and go game. It took some 
 time to memorize all the controls and stuff. Anyways, I was amazed at how cool it was! It's so 
 real looking, and I feel immersed in the game. It's unbelievable. The good news was, I didn't HAVE 
 to control my squad, nor did I have to use them. I like to just kill them off, and go stealth-like, 
 lmao. Multiplayer is by FAR the best part. I am a big fan of Live, and this game stepped up the 
 fun. So many different game modes, and people. It was quite the experience... In fact, I'm going 
 to go play it now. Peace Out...
  
  Gamertag: Deragus 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamtheleg
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 7, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  This game takes some time and getting used to after playing games such as Halo. I am used to mainly 
 blasting enemies wile ignoring cover. However I did play the original Ghost Recon a long time ago 
 and knew how it probably would be played, but it is a little different. Also, I could not but help 
 charging in with guns a blazing. I learned quickly however that this does not work out well at 
 all and I had to spend a lot of time learning how to use my team to get far in the game. This game 
 is a lot like Full Spectrul Warrior, except you get to shoot. It is very challenging for me and 
 I have yet to go far in the game, but I look forward to playing it some more after I get bored 
 of my other games.
  
  I have yet to play the multiplayer mostly because I try to beat the campaigne before i play multiplayer, 
 and also im not very good at this game. 
  
  The graphics in this game are shocking however and the gameplay is very smooth, however difficult 
 if you are not used to the game. The sound is great.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blade1205
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 7, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  This game looks and plays amazingly. The visuals are some ofthe best on 360 to date and the intiutive 
 squad mechanics and revamped AI add to the experience. Ths single player is very challenging and 
 is incredibly hard on hard mode but the story is very well written and it bears the Clancy name 
 well. If you do not own xboxlive then do not buy this game because the single player game is very 
 short about 8 hours. However if you do own xboxlive this game is a must because of its addictive 
 nature. The game is a realistic shooter which requires a lot of team work. In multiplayer about 
 two shots kill you so you have to be very careful. The 16 player coop is simply amazing and one 
 of the best coop experiences I have ever played. If you like shooters this one reigns supreme. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pm_mac555
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 7, 2006 6:10 am PT
Review:  This game just looks amazing, in my opinion the best looking 360 game to date. If you have played 
 any of the previous Xbox versions of Ghost Recon you will fall in love with this one. The environments 
 are outstanding full of detail and the game play is top notch, when you shoot them in the head 
 they go down. The story mode has great variety from shooting down helicopters to shooting from 
 them and the voice acting makes you fill like you are in the thick of the battle.
  
  I only noticed a few issues that might have made this game a perfect 10. The first thing I found 
 weird about the game was the lack of citizens in all of Mexico City. Wouldnt it be nice to be 
 in the middle of a crowded city with people running everywhere while the enemy is shooting at you? 
 The campaign mode can be short, I finished it in 9  hours and the multiplayer campaign mode is 
 missing all the bells and whistles that makes the single player such a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogokun
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  Advanced Warfighter proves itself to be much more than the best looking game on the Xbox 360, it 
 is also one of the best playing. And, while the campaign is undeniably short, it is an experience 
 that all shooter fans must have. 
  
  At times I have found myself staring at the screen, gazing upon the pinnacle of graphical excellence 
 and forgetting to play the game. My God, this is the best looking game of all time. Every leaf, 
 skyscraper, every highly detailed object has an equally highly detailed lighting effect, and when 
 you come to the rooftop in Mexico City and look at the horizon, you'll witness the intense beauty 
 of Advanced Warfighter. You'll see reflections on windows, concrete coming apart as it is shot 
 at, cars exploding (in what is the best explosion effect of all time; it must be seen to be believed) , 
 and it is all rendered with this outstanding real time lighting effect.
  
  I could go on with explaining the graphics to you, but on to the gameplay. It is the perfect mix 
 of action and tactical shooting. Its accomodating for those not used to the tactical experience 
 (like myself) and keeps the games action, well, actiony enough without ruining the distinct tactical 
 feel of the Ghost Recon series. There is much satisfaction in commanding your teammates, and while 
 they aren't the sharpest tools in the shed they will undoubtedly be of great help to you throughout 
 the game. Not only will you be able to command teammates, but there are also numerous support vehicles 
 at your command, such as helicopters and tanks. These are there mostly to help you with enemy vehicles, 
 though most of them can be used to take out some infantry, too. All of this commanding is done 
 with the 
  D-pad, which makes it suprisingly easy to control your support and teammates, and adds to the tactical 
 feel of the game. 
  
  The game is pretty short as far as single player goes, but there is online multiplayer which helps 
 extend the life of the game. Multiplayer is pretty fun; it has numerous modes of play including 
 a great co-op mode, with up to 16 players on you team. While alot of fun, the single player game 
 is certainly the highlight of the package, and I wish it were longer.
  
  Overall, Advanced Warfighter gives you an experience like no other. Its outstanding graphics, ingenious 
 gameplay, and great multiplayer make this a game I can easily recommend to just about anyone with 
 an Xbox 360.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LateSplinter
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 7, 2006 12:19 am PT
Review:  Its almost near perfect, if not for its rare but noticeable glitches. I loved all 12 hours playing 
 it; I wish it didnt end! With its great graphics and game-play, GRAW still has its imperfections. 
 The lip sinking was absolutely none existed, running the same clip for every mission. Even during 
 the cinematic the characters lip isnt in sink with the words. There is also some falling glitch 
 with npcs and some guns glitch when looking over corners, but over all the game is well polished. 
 The story seems a bit bland and I often couldn't hear my instructions, but the environment was 
 comepletely immersive which by far out wade the negatives. The glitching HUD Definitely added to 
 the realism and I loved every minute of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hurricane006
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 6, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  First off, the gameplay in Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is so much fun to play on whether with 
 live or on the single player. The A. I. is pretty smart on the normal setting and down right frustrating 
 to play against on hard; it will take cover, use supporting fire, and even call in backup. 
  
  Sencondly, the graphics on this game are amazing! The game's detailed city landscape that one 
 gets to see every once in a while span out for miles with every detailed building and street visible; 
 furthermore, when one is inside the levels, the incredible amount of detail on the pavement, cars, 
 guns, bad guys, good guys, helicopters, bullets, plants, windows, and particle effects are simply 
 aweinspiring.
  
  The sound in G. R. A. W. is second to none. When one lobs a grenade or shoots at a tank with an RPG, 
 the explosion is deafening (especially on good speakers) . Each individual gun has its one unique 
 sound from sharp cracks to silenced coughs of various guns.
  
  The game leaves plenty of replay value both in the campaign and in the online multiplayer that 
 the game provides. One could go back to each mission and play it over and over again simply because 
 there are so many ways to reach objectives. Online multiplayer offers plenty out there who have 
 live.
  
  All in all G. R. A. W. is simply put one of the best games out on the 360 to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KichiAbukara
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 6, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  This is a game everybody should have in their collection. From Ghost Recon fans to video game fans, 
 this is a wonderful game. I have always enjoyed the Ghost Recon series, and Tactical Shooters as 
 well, so it was natural for me to enjoy this game, but this game took the cake, it was more than 
 I imagined.
  
  |Story|
  
  The story is gripping and mind-blowing. From protecting the president to clearing the area, this 
 game has a great storyline which flows fluidly. Not much else to say here without spoiling some 
 key events in the game, which took me by surprise none-the-less!
  
  |Graphics|
  
  The graphics are beautiful in the Single Player. The terrain is richly detailed, the textures are 
 smooth, and the buildings look pretty nice as well. The multiplayer uses the old Ghost Recon engine 
 though, yet still looks pretty darn good!
  
  |Sound|
  
  From gunfire, to missiles, to you yelling to your squad, it is all grade A sound. It is clean and 
 they had pretty good voice-overs to the characters. When a missile is fired, it sounds as if there 
 is really a missile about to hit the side of your home. I love the rich sounds, and the music is 
 great as well.
  
  |Gameplay|
  
  I really enjoyed the Single Player campaign, and I enjoy this game on Live to this day. This is 
 a wonderful game and deserves to be picked up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squidder_doa
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 6, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing. It has everything, from top notch graphics, to amazing sounds and 
 fun gameplay.
  
  I began to play through the single player campaign and I knew that this game was something special. 
 The graphics are the best I have ever seen, with the lighting and character models adding to the 
 amazing atmosphere. The sound is great, the in-game music is good, changing to match the situation 
 you are in, for example, when protecting a npc or assaulting a large group of enemies, fast paced 
 music will take over. The game is very tactical, there is no way that a player can just run and 
 gun through the whole game. The game-play is very linear and flows nicely, with a range of different 
 weapons and maneuvers to stop the game-play getting old. The single player campaign, I found difficult, 
 but not too hard that you feel like packing it in. It takes awhile to get used to all the controls, 
 like selecting rate of fire and how to use your drones etc.
  
  The multi-player, in my opinion, is where the most fun is to be had. There are a wealth of different 
 gameplay modes to choose from, including a special co-op campaign. Playing co-op elimination is 
 my favourite, with a team of human players taking on the computer A. I. 
  
  If you are thinking of getting this game, and you like tactical shooters, Live! games, amazing 
 graphics, this might well be the game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigroy666
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 6, 2006 2:04 am PT
Review:  Ive always been a fan of the ghost recon series for quite a while. So I was excited when I got 
 this game, brought it home, put it in and bam...... disapointment. To me this game just doesnt look 
 next-gen, it does look alot better than current -gen games but I was expecting a little more visually.
 
  
  The game makes up for the visuals with gameplay. It is simply one of the best tactical shooters 
 Ive ever played, no run in gun allowed. The AI isnt brilliant but its good. I fumbled with the 
 controls a little bit at first but they are not too bad. As far as gameplay I feel like Im completley 
 immersed when playing this game It does an excellent job with the sight s and sounds and just the 
 feel of real tactical war.
  
  As far as visuals , yes the city is huge, with good lighting and shadowing effects, but the textures 
 just arn't that great, except on the soldiers they are. When you get up close to buildings and 
 fences and things like that, the textures just look, bland and pixelated. Thats just my opinion, 
 and I have a HDTV. Anyway that is my take, and yes it is an excellent game, Im hoping the sequel 
 will be just as good. But the visuals need to be next-gen.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trigga1230
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 5, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  The game delivers all of what you expected and maybe a little more for some. The game is all around 
 amazing. Any shooter fan needs a copy of this game in there library. The graphics are a killer. 
 You can even see the heat waves in the distance and the explosions are by far the best explosions 
 I have ever seen in any game. Just get your HDTV and crank up your surround sound system and...... KA-BOOM! 
 You will be stunned. Multiplayer is fun and will keep you occupied if you beat the campaign which, 
 in length, is average sized. You will most likely want to go back and beat it on hard just for 
 the expierence or points. Multiplayer will hold you over for a while, but after a long time I kind 
 of got tired of it. The deathmatchs seem kind of tedious. Most online play will offer only deathmatchs 
 and such but GRAW does something that a lot of games don't do which is online co-op. This is a 
 big hit. Co-op is what will hold you over for a long time and with the new chapter 2 update it 
 offers even more. If your a big shooter fan like me, then buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Patman185
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 5, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  In a video game world filled with WWII shooters, japenese rpgs, and Halo multiplayer, gamers need 
 a breath of fresh air. Ghost Recon fills the gamers lungs with the fresh air of mexico city where 
 the president of the USA has been captured, a high ranked canadain has been killed, and one confused 
 mexican president. There has been a rebellion in Mexico City and only the Ghosts of the USA can 
 stop them.
  
  The game puts the player in the role of Captian Scott Mitchell. A fearless man who shows no mercy 
 on the battlefield. He is in charge of the group of ghosts who are a special forces unit that can 
 do a whole lot of damage. Throughout the game you really dont feel in touch with Mitchell. He shows 
 little emotion and dosnt say a whole lot execpt "move out" or "back on me". The other soldiers 
 show more emotion and they put a lot of trust into their captian.
  
  Gameplay wise, it is near perfect. It is a tactical system that gives you easy controll over your 
 allies. All you have to do is point your crosshair into a direction, press up on the d-pad and 
 your soldiers are taken care of. You can also heal your downed comrades and have the chance to 
 save them before they die. The part that stinks is that when Mitchell is down, the game is over 
 and there is no chance that you will get healed. The hud is amazing. It is called a cross com display 
 and it lets Mitchell see his allies through a camera in the top left corner of the screen. The 
 cross com also points out enemies to you as they enter Mitchell vision. The guns work almost flawlessly. 
 You have to steady your aim like a real gunmen would have to get a good shot. Grenades work well 
 also with good blast range and smoke grenades provide good cover. 
  
  Graphics looked amazing. You could see the smokey polution of the city and the great looking explosions 
 that would occur when a car was shot too much. I didnt see many glitches if not any. The vehicles, 
 weapons, and people all looked like they were supposed to and with barley any flaws, this game 
 has best on the 360 so far.
  
  The sound is very well done also. It gives you that glorifing feeling when you take out a tank 
 and hear that loud boom. It has a decent soundtrack with some catchy tunes but it is no halo. Voice 
 acting was good but not great. Mitchell barley says anything inspiring like Master Cheif would, 
 and I found the rebells to be shouting the same thing at me over and over again. Nontheless the 
 explosions and weapons sound great to make up for the medicore voice acting.
  
  Multiplayer is what you will be hooked on hours after you finish the single player. The maps are 
 quite good and competing over live is tons of fun. There are some glitches however. I found myself 
 getting "disconnected" with the server for no reason whatsoever. The lag isnt too bad but is definitely 
 noticeable sometimes. Also if an enemy is directly behind you, it takes forever for you to turn 
 around. 
  
  Overall ubisoft did a pretty good job on GRAW. It is quite fun and I would recommend it to anyone 
 who likes shooters in general. While gamers wait for Gears of War and Halo 3, GRAW does a good 
 job at giving us gamers something to do over the summer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil709
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 5, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost let me talk to you about the graphics:
  The graphics are amazing. The people llok real, the trees look real, the building look real... 
 In a way, you might not be able to tell the difference between animation and real people in this 
 game.
  The story of this game is set in the future and that Canada, U. S. A, and Mexico decided to help 
 each other meaning the law in one country can be enforced in the other. 
  But suddenly, trouble struck! The Mexican army is rebelling. Worst of all, they had acquired 50 
 tanks from the U. S. A. 
  You are the captain of the Ghosts, Scott Mitchell, and you must end this rebellion.
  This storyline 
 is pretty strong if you ask me. It is believable and fun to think about.
  Basically, in the game, you have to be cautious and take cover, and make well-planned and aimed 
 attacks on enemy soldiers. Very fun but I guess it can be easy if you actually take your time with 
 this game. (Unlike me)
  You can play mutliplayer online, or at home with your friends. There are 4 missions you can do 
 in co-op. You'll have more fun with more than 2 people in multiplayer you can be sure of that.
 
  In conclusion, this is a pretty fun game and I suggest you buy it. It'll take up maybe a week 
 of your time to beat it. Maybe less if you play it 24/7 and no to mention the time you might spend 
 playing on XBOX Live.
  
  The Good: Realistic Graphics. Believable storyline. Very fun tactical shooter.
  
  The Bad: 
 No civilians or civilians travelling in automobiles.
  
  The Ugly: Definetly not the graphics ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AL3X561
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 5, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  At first I was skeptical, I thought maybe I dont like this the interface was a bit hard for me 
 to get used to. But after the first level I was hooked. It has enough substance throughout the 
 single player mode to justify the purchase. But Xbox Live will keep this game kicking past its 
 prime. This game is unbelievable on Xbox Live extremely fun! If you have Xbox Live this is a game 
 you need to go pick up its the best shooter on Xbox 360 to date. If you have ever played this game 
 before get it, its one of the best. If you have yet to pick up and play a Ghost Recon this is your 
 chance to do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bastila19
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 5, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a third person tactical shooter with some squad 
 elements mixed in and overall, is a beautiful game that, most of the time, is fun to play.
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay in GRAW is solid. The controller rumbles every time you shoot a bullet, 
 are close to an explosion, or get hit. The campaign is decent sized at around 10-12 hours. 
  
  On most of the missions, you will have a squad of three by your side. These three are smart 
 (most of the time) . You can give them commands like give them directions to cover. Another command 
 is to tell whether to go into assault mode where they shoot once they see an enemy or recon mode 
 where they are more tactile about when and when not to shoot. Also on most missions you will have 
 a UAV drone which is basically a small circular flying object with a camera. When you bring up 
 your tactical map, you can tell your drone where to go to check things out. Much like your squadmates, 
 you can give the drone commands. It can go into scout mode which keeps it higher in the air so 
 they are safe from enemy fire, or detect mode where it gets closer to the ground and and can show 
 you where enemies are but it is succeptible to enemy fire.
  
  Another important part of the gameplay is your heads up display (HUD) called the crosscom. While 
 your playing, whenever you have allies under your control, there will be a box in the upper left 
 hand corner of the screen showing you what your teammates are seeing through their eyes. In the 
 upper right hand corner, there will be a box that appears usually showing either a general from 
 the military giving you orders, or any other important NPC that is not part of your squad usually 
 giving you new objectives, or giving you news that progresses the story.
  
  One of the only complaints that I have is that sometimes, the realistic damage modeling can be 
 too punishing. One bullet takes you from green to yellow on your heartbeat monitor, another takes 
 you from yellow to orange, one more takes you from orange to red, and one more finishes you off. 
 That might have sounded like a lot but it's four bullets. I like realism as much as the next guy, 
 but it may be a little to realistic for it's own good. 
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are some of the best the system has to offer so far. The particle effects are good. 
 For instance when a grenade explodes to a pillar of fire when a car gets blown up. Everything looks 
 great. Your fellow ghosts look good too each wearing something different helping give them their 
 own personality. 
  
  But some character models don't look that great including the VIPs and the enemy models. You don't 
 really notice the how well the VIP looks when your trying to get him to the extraction point cause 
 you're trying to kill every rebel who gets in your way. But once you get them to safety, for instance, 
 at the end of a couple levels you and the American president get in the back of the transport vehicle. 
 And if you look over at him while he's talking, you'll notice that he doesn't move his mouth when 
 he talks and he doesn't look quite as good as the other characters. And the enemies get old after 
 awhile. They look pretty much the same up close, and they aren't spectacular looking. But these 
 things are very minor. 
  
  Mexico City looks really impressive when you're flying from a helicopter looking over the city 
 when the sun is rising. All of the buildings are very detailed. The on foot action looks great 
 to with shadows and lighting effects everywhere.
  
  And in my experience with the game, I didn't have the framerate hitch up on me at all.
  
  Sound
 
  The sound in GRAW is excellent. The weapon sounds are pretty well done. The voice acting is good 
 and the chatter from your enemies is in their native language and sounds good. The explosions sound 
 like they have force to them and GRAW even goes as far as when you're flying in the helicopter 
 and there isn't any action going on, you hear the pilot and co-pilot playing their music. The sound 
 is really well done.
  
  Value
  Like I said earlier, the campaign takes about 10-12 hours to complete. You might be saying, "Is 
 there anything else to do?" HECK YEAH! I've got one word for you... MULTIPLAYER. The multiplayer 
 in GRAW is awesome. There are a lot of different game modes with variants you can pick such as 
 number of respawns and enemy density. You get to customize your online personality with sunglasses, 
 hats, and camo. I'll leave the rest for you to find out but remember. It is very addictive and 
 very fun. The multiplayer alone prolongs the time you spend with the game. It prolongs it a very 
 long time.
  
  Conclusion 
  Overall, Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a great 3rd person shooter with good gameplay, 
 great graphics and sound, and a lot of lasting value with the multiplayer. But keep in mind, if 
 you run and gun in this game, you will be killed within seconds of running out in the open and 
 shooting at people you see. So if you like a solid 3rd person tactical shooter with some squad 
 elements mixed in, check out Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastershake1337
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 5, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  I got this game as soon as i had the money and man the graphics and sounds 
  are amazing. The weapons are great and there is a ton of selection, Xbox Live makes this games 
 replay value, Now they have released 4 new co-op missions and a few new weapons, hopefully more 
 to come. Single player is great to your allies are pretty smart and sometimes you can even tell 
 a helicopter where to shoot for those tricky situations. The only thing I didn't like about this 
 game was in Multi-player you can't peek around corners like in single player, but hey the game 
 is still great if you have a 360 you should definitely pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ray_735
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 5, 2006 3:15 am PT
Review:  This is Tom Clancys Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, I played this game, so Im going to tell you 
 how things work .
  First of all : the graphics motor of the game, lights and shadows are rightly produced during the 
 game, the main character is also well made.
  But if you try the game on the 360, with HD, you can nearly feel how war in the future is, thats 
 true.
  The weapons here are extraordinary, and my all time favourite, the sniper rifle, has the ability 
 for a beneath wall head shot! Thats amazing, the games environment is also good, so I rightly 
 recommend the game to all who love futuristic war fighting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delongman
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 4, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Personally I hate FPSs but so many people said that the game was good... So I bought it... Put it 
 into my X360 and hoped for the worst. That's not what I got in the end... 4 hours straight and 
 about 3 missions complete on the first day! I was always complaining about my accuracy and my quick 
 thinking but I found it with this game.
  I really appreciate the reality scheme and the great graphics! The gameplay is really magnificent 
 but the AI is somewhat stupid... I just wish that the guns were a bit more 2013-like with a bit 
 more technology. And why is it that it's always Americans shooting the crap out of other people... 
 They should have made it modernized Zulus vs Samurai combat-dudes? Well anyway that's jus me speculating...
 
  
  The online play is just magnificent and the competition is hot! I'm probably saying that coz it 
 was the first time I had played ANY game online!
  
  This is definitely a game to have in your collection!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iTcaL
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 4, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  If you're looking for a combat game with amazing graphics for your XBox 360, then definitely go 
 buy Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter. The game is fun in single, co-op and online modes!
  First, the graphics, because they are just so amazing. The character movements are smooth and realistic. 
 Characters tumble down stairs. Smoke billows. Leaves wave. The different types of area (beach, 
 city, snow) all have their own look and feel. My favorite part about the graphics are the explosions 
 as they look so real and amazing. However, I feel that the characters could have been a little 
 more detailed.
  The sound is fantastic. The noise around you adds to the feeling that you are really there. Guns 
 firing sound great and explosions sound even better. However, when the characters are talking, 
 the voices don't match with the character's lips. Sometimes you would hear them talking but their 
 mouthes wouldnt be moving.
  The regular single player campaign is a ton of fun even though it only took me 7 hours and 45 minutes 
 to beat. Normal mode seemed pretty easy, but hard mode was quite the challenge. Once you defeat 
 the single player campaign, it's time to take your skills into Xbox Live and play a Co-Op campaign 
 with many friends.
  The controls took a while to get used to, it does take patience. It's ok though because the first 
 level is a training level which teaches you all the basics. This game requires you to look over 
 the situation, find the angle that gives you the best protection and to pick away at the enemies 
 while staying safe. 
  
  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halothug4life
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 4, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  G. R. A. W is by far the best 360 game on the market. It does give HALO a run for its money. It is 
 halo with out the cheap gun-play and jumping around. the only thing that bugs me is the match making 
 system. It takes too long to match you up. Once it do match you up, you gotta worry about the servers 
 kicking you out a good match. Thats the only gripe i have with this game. 
  Heres a Message To All You Spawn Killers!! Stop Camping out and show some real skills. Just sitting 
 there waiting for a person to spawn shows that you really cant play, and you need to trade your 
 game in! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splintercell26
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  If you want a third-person shooter, or in fact any shooter, buy this. No questions asked. It is 
 amazing. Tom Clancy's greatest ever, hopefuly until Splinter Cell double agent, which wont dissapoint. 
 But at the moment this is the only game that challenges Halo 2!
  
  You are Scott Mitchell, teh best soilder that the US army has to offer. And if you can use the 
 controlls, man is he good.
  
  Along with great new and accurate weapons, the new CROSS-COM is introduced. This is your main weapon 
 on the battlefield. It gives you the edge over the enemy, as it highlights them.
  
  Multiplayer is great. Playing on the same xbox is good, because you can do co-op, teams or all-on-all. 
 Xbox live is good aswell as you have all your weapons, and a vast amount of maps.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: android19fan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 6, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  In the shoes of the leader of the elite Advanced Warfighters, you play as Scott Mitchell. Along 
 with three additional team-members, you must strategically work to fulfill the governments goals. 
 To do this u must use cover to the best of your ability, it is extremely vital. Basically all of 
 the game is set in mexico city, but lacks the presentation of what a polluted city it is, instead 
 making it seem glorious. This is one of my only complaints about this game, as it was arguably 
 the best game for the 360, before Oblivion. It was the first game to truly show the 360's power. 
 the multiplayer is a 'you hate it or u love it" kind of thing. With the recent Chapter 2 update, 
 though, haters might grow to love it. GRAW is a fantastic game, but it wasn't perfect . I give 
 it a 9.3 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hbarillas
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 3, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  As usual Tom clancys GRAW continues as the most realistic tactical tactical shooter game, its 
 the best multiplayer, amazing graphics, awesome scenarios, which let you have hours and hours of 
 fun and enjoyment. Its very easy to learn, and quite simple to maneuver, once you got the gameplay, 
 its just a matter of using your combat skills to conquer all scenarios, online game its also 
 very good, and very popular, besides all on line configuration its also easy to learn, the platform 
 its very stable, you almost feel as real time action, no delays, its practically having others 
 next to you fighting. I really recommend you to purchase this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scooooters
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 2, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  I am not usually one for games like this. I don't like having to spend hours and hours learning 
 intricate button combos and the like. I prefer to just sit down and get down and gritty with a 
 game. This game is one of those that would not normally be in my wheelhouse. But with the cheats, 
 I can actually enjoy this game. Otherwise you will spend all your time watching your team go down 
 because of bad decisions. Any idiot knows to take cover and wait fo the best shot... not this team. 
 Lets stand out in front of everyone and shoot. Then you have to hustle over to heal them and hope 
 you dont get taken down in the process. Once you are able to cheat (and those of you who don't 
 really need to realize that it's a game, not a job) , it a load of fun. I don't do mulitplayer because 
 it's not my thing, but when I did the co-op it was fun. All in all, not a bad game. And it is definately 
 beautiful to watch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JesusChris
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 2, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter is a very fun and exciting tactical shooter. The single-player 
 game is very good and has some replay value to it if you want to go through on both difficulties. 
 The most amazing thing about this game though is the multiplayer. It has many different types of 
 game types from deathmatch to hamburger hill. It also has one of the best online co-op features 
 out of any game. The only flaws with the game are that the Artificial Intelligence for your teammates 
 isn't as good as you would like it. This game is amazing and deserves to be bought by any person 
 that loves to play shooters and at least a rent if you don't really like shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: david123458
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 2, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a Tactical Shooter by Ubisoft. The game is a great 
 Tactical Shooter, and maybe one of the best ever. The game fun yet you cant just run right thou 
 it, even on normal its still not easy. the guns are great, you get alot of them, snipers pistols, 
 light machine guns, heavy machine guns, and grenades, smoke grenades and more. In the game you 
 play as Scott Mitchell, captain of the ghost tean. there are 4 of you in the team. you play in 
 Mexico City. And in this game you use alot of future technology, you have somethings called your 
 HUD. you can command tanks and Gunships, and others. the story is good, yet maybe not as long as 
 some hope, but the great online makes up for that, you have alot of different kinds of games to 
 play, you can play last man standing, or play on teams, you can set it where when you die you come 
 back to life, or not, ya put a time of it, and when the times up, whick ever team with the most 
 kills wins. Well GRAW is a great shooter, and just really fun. If you like shooters this is a must 
 have for any box 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neutralx2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancys Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is the third game in the Ghost Recon series. Each 
 of the games has improved over the original, and this one is no different. With new gameplay mechanics 
 like the Cross-Com, a much improved cover system, and breathtaking graphics, Advanced Warfighter 
 is a worthy sequel and a true next generation game.
  
  The story takes place in modern day Mexico City. In the game you play as a man by the name of Scott 
 Mitchell who is the captain of an elite light infantry unit called the Ghosts. You are there to 
 provide security during a meeting between the leaders of the United States, Canada, and Mexico. 
 It is during this time that some Mexican insurgents decide to attack the meeting in an attempt 
 to come to power. They kill the Canadian prime minister and the US and Mexican presidents disappear. 
 Your job, among other things, is to locate and rescue the US and Mexican presidents.
  
  You wont be fighting alone for most of the campaign. You will have three teammates which you can 
 order around for the majority of the missions. You can order them to attack, fall back to you, 
 and move into certain positions. While the way you command them is not exactly deep or provides 
 a lot of control, you can still be pretty effective with your squad. Your Cross-Com allows you 
 to see what one of your teammates sees, allowing you to get multiple perspectives of the battlefield. 
 Unfortunately, the squad AI can give you a bit of a headache sometimes. While they are usually 
 pretty good at shooting enemies, its not too uncommon to find your teammates exposing themselves 
 too much instead of properly using cover. For the most part they do try to use cover whenever possible 
 though.
  
  Besides your three teammates, some missions give you other assets to control. One of which is a 
 UAV which you can order around the level. The UAV can detect enemy troops and mark them on your 
 HUD. Since you can die pretty fast in this game, knowing where the enemies are and planning your 
 next move is essential, and having a working UAV helps greatly. Occasionally you will also have 
 a tank or helicopter gunship. The tank can not only be used to attack enemies but it can also be 
 used as cover while it moves. The helicopter is also pretty good and moving and striking targets 
 on the ground quickly. During a few sequences in the game, you will actually get to fly around 
 in the helicopter and use the machine gun on the side to take out huge groups of enemies. While 
 these sequences are not too challenging, they are a lot of fun.
  
  Because a single good shot can kill you in Advanced Warfighter, the game has a slower pace and 
 more tactical feel then other action games. That is not to say that the game is dull; it is filled 
 with fierce fire fights and big explosions, but it does require more thinking then some other games. 
 You always want to lean around corners before going walking out in the open, and always fight from 
 behind cover. Since the levels are pretty large (many city blocks for each level) , there are usually 
 multiple ways to get to each objective. Most of the time just taking a different route will end 
 up in a totally different experience. Enemies roam the map, also making sure the game never plays 
 exactly the same way twice.
  
  The amazing graphics are probably the first thing you will notice when you load up this game. The 
 amount of detail in objects and the size of the city are staggering. During the games many helicopter 
 rides, the city buildings and streets stretch out for mines in every direction. Sometimes you can 
 see areas filled with fire or smoke from all of the fighting that has been going on. These sequences 
 do a great job of making you feel that you are in a real city fighting in a real conflict. Mexico 
 City just looks absolutely beautiful. Advanced Warfighter is easily the best looking game on the 
 Xbox 360 console. The HDR lighting is used to great effect in all of the games missions, which 
 range from early morning, afternoon, and dusk. During some of the afternoon missions, the sunlight 
 can get so bright that it actually makes it hard to see. The character models are some of the best 
 that I have seen. They are all extremely detailed and look very realistic. They also animate in 
 a very believable way. The only negative thing you can say about the graphics is that things will 
 sometimes pop into view when leaning around the corners. This does not happen often, but can 
 take you out of the game for a moment when it does happen.
  
  The audio in the game is also great. All of the guns sound different and extremely clear. Explosions 
 and tank and rocket fire sound great as well. The game also muffles the sound when explosions go 
 off around you. The music in the game is also pretty good and comes in at the right moments. The 
 voice acting, while not amazing, is convincing.
  
  While the single player game is great, the multiplayer is whats going to keep people playing. 
 The game features three ways to play multiplayer: local play, system link, and over Xbox live. 
 There is a large selection of game types to choose from. First, there are the excellent co-op missions 
 which are a blast to play with your friends. Then there are the more standard game types you are 
 used to like capture the flag and deathmatch. Besides those default settings, the game allows you 
 to customize your game to play the way you want to. The multiplayer experience is extremely addictive 
 and plays very well. I definitely expect people to be hooked on this game for a very long time.
 
  
  Overall, Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a great game. Offering an intense single player campaign 
 and multiplayer matches which will remain fun for hours at time, Advanced Warfighter is a great 
 complete package and sets the bar pretty high for the inevitable sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kickballe1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 1, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Ok, if you like fast-paced games, giving your team and UAV Cyphers and tanks commands, get this game. Great 
 graphics, gameplay, sound, the whole 9 yards. A mix between Strategy and shooter. There is good weapons, such 
 as a gun that can zoom in and switch from semi-auto to full auto, smoke and frag grenades, a rinky 
 dink pistol, and SMG's and rifles with 40mm grenade launchers, and sniper rifles that can zoom in 
 15 times the normal view. You have night vision goggles, too. Did I mention you can get a bazooka 
 too? Well, you can. Oh, yeah, the good thing is that when an enemy is in vision, a red diamond comes 
 up around the enemy. On a 22'' screen, the diamond is 1 inch tall, very helpful. The bad thing about 
 the game is that you can get shot 3 times, then you die. Ya know what? There's no medkits. Yeah. No 
 medkits. That makes the game harder. The only time my health increased was when I was refilling my 
 ammo at an ammo box, there are 1 per level I belive, so anyway, it increased my health from red to 
 yellow. So, my take on this game is go to a place where they sell this game, take $60 and spend it 
 on this game. I recommend it to anyone and everyone, except for people that just play RPG's, or are 
 horrible at fast-paced games. So, I say buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timeh666
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 1, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  I love every ghost recon and this was no exception.
  the storyline, right from the every begining is really involving and you get hooked from the first 
 minute of play.
  At first this game is very hard because you have to get used to the new cover fire feature, but 
 once you've mastered that you just cant stop playing. 
  i thought the single player on easy was a bit too easy i did it first go without getting killed. 
 Hard mode is a different story though, you really have to think each level through and formulate 
 a decent plan to pass the level.
  all this is good and jolly but i thought the coop mode was a let down, it was like a time shift 
 back to ghost recon 2. the new features that are availible in the main story have been taken out 
 of the multiplayer mode, i can understand that in the PVP games but in coop its just lame to take 
 it out. also the coop missions are way too short, too easy to complete and they dont acctually 
 have a very good story line. If you could play through the main campaign on coop mode, like you 
 can on GRAW on the other platforms, this game would be a whole lot better.
  anyway this is still a fantasticly good game and i would recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigesmalls101
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 30, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  I was very excited to get this game. Once I got it I had trouble getting the hang of it because 
 there are so many controls and I is very difficult to get the hang of but the gameplay, sound and 
 graphics are worth buying it. It was very enjoyable and the multiplayer is awsome. The weapons 
 were sick and the environment was awsum it was jus weird cause you are in a huge city and there 
 are no civilians also they made it to bright the lighting makes it hard to see sometimes. But overall 
 it was a great game and is worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnKnownViper
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 29, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Good: This game looks hella good. The shadows are absolutely amazing. The gun and explosions have 
 a superb sound to them. Great tactical action unlike those lame run and gunners. Controlling tanks 
 and helicopters and various other things adds a great war like feel. Great selection of weapons. 
 Did I mention gorgeous graphics? Great co-op and online. Super fast load times and fun missions 
 and game play. Blowing up cars is so fun! you can blow off doors and blow tires and break windows 
 and of course blow the thing up. 
  
  Bad: No shotguns, cant jump, reflections on some windows (about 40%) dont match up to whats really 
 there and your own character doesnt reflect either. Only 2 or 3 kinds of handguns.
  
  Ugly: Artificial intelligence isnt anything to right home about. Only 4 co-op missions online. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBA_MavericK
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 29, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the most realistic and tactical shooter I've played to date. I will list why this 
 game excells in almost every category.
  
  Gameplay:
  Campaign:
  From the beginning of the campaign to the end, you are immersed in the 
  game. You never feel 
 like that you HAVE to do it a certain way, you are free to plan your own course and strategies. 
 The entire campaign feels like on great big mission. Hard mode really forces you to think before 
 you act, but it is advised that you do it on Normal first, to get a feel of where the enemies are. 
 They are deadly, they aim for the head, and they will kill you on sight. So running and gunning 
 won't cut it. You have to make use of your squad, cover, and flanking tactics if you want to make 
 it to the end cutscene. But beware, the enemy employs these tactics also, and they are much smarter 
 than your allies. The story is great, as it is based on something that is very likely to happen 
 in the future. Although a full scale rebellion isn't likely, NAPSA is. Overall, once you start 
 the campaign, you do not want to stop. 
  
  Multiplayer:
  Multiplayer is a blast. The different game types and strategies you can use goes on forever. The 
 best part of multiplayer, in my opinion, is the co-op. You and 3 friends is the best way to do 
 the missions. Of course, with 10 other people it would be too easy, so 3 makes it challenginly 
 fun. Remember, this is not part of the game, but it is a strategy that me and my friends came up 
 with and executed. Since we have 4 people, we seperate into two groups, or squads. One squad takes 
 one objective, the other takes the other one. When we have both completed it, we regroup to tackle 
 the final objective (s) . Very fun. The one thing that bothers me is getting into a match. There 
 is almost never a match that isn't in progress, and I am usually stuck searching and waiting for 
 20 minutes before i get into a match. Very frustrating. But when you finally do get into one, it 
 is crazy fun. Especially with friends instead of strangers. Overall, the mutiplayer is realistic, 
 gritty, and fun, but the wait times really hamper what could be a great Xbox Live game.
  
  Graphics:
  Now I know how Gamespot, Game Informer, etc. have been talking about how great the 
 graphics are. This is mostly true, but the weapon models need some serious work. When you're reloading, 
 the clip doesn't even come out. It just shows the animation of reloading, but the weapon is untouched. 
 That took away from the realism a little bit. The first person view is horrible. It's just basically 
 the battlefield and your cross-com. When you look at the first person shooting of the PC version, 
 you really feel like somethings missing in the 360 game. Im a big fan of fps, but when you can't 
 see the gun your firing, it makes it very dull, and the crosshair dissapearing affect really confuses 
 me when im in first person, as I dont know where my gun is pointing. Almost reminds me of Ghost 
 Recon for ps2. *shudders* But overall, the enviroments are amazing, and physics, realism, and shadows 
 are accurate. 
  
  Sound:
  As with the rest of the game, the sound is incredibly realstic. Have you ever heard a silenced 
 MP5 in real life? I have. And the ones in BF2MC and PDZ sound nothing like it. In G. R. A. W., however, 
 it sounds just like it does in real life, as with the other countless guns. There are some guns 
 that slack off a bit, for example the SA80, but in all they sound real. The soundtrack is great, 
 although this shouldn't even be included in 360 reviews, as there is a custom soundtrack feature. 
 This is up there with the best sounding 360 titles, and I can't wait to play it with 5.1 Dobly 
 Surround sound. 
  
  Value:
  This game is worth the $60. Don't expect a price drop anytime soon. The replay value of this game 
 is absolutley astounding.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt:
  This is the best game that I have played on 360 to date and this should set the bar for all other 
 shooters to come. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squall18
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 28, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is definitely a must buy for the 360! The story line sucks the 
 player in as well as the gameplay. The graphics are amazing too. Usually graphics don't matter 
 as long as the gameplay is good, but after purchasing this game, GRAPHICS DO! After training in 
 the game, the controls become very easy to handle. The game takes place in Mexico, which makes 
 for some really cool scenery, and mexican rebels which you have to eliminate. Great story line. 
 And like I said earlier, the story, game play, and the music all make this game an instant hit. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinkRemembered
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 28, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that I've never been a particularly huge fan of any of the Tom Clancy games, 
 not even the praised Splinter Cell franchise, but GRAW got me into the experience. If you have 
 an Xbox 360, if you enjoy squad-based tactical shooters, and if you love the Tom Clancy series 
 of games, you might as well check out Advanced Warfighter.
  
  Of course, the most important part of the game, the gameplay, comes first. The tactical shooter's 
 single player campaign is of a fair length, consisting of about ten missions, excluding the training 
 level. Each mission offers intense third-person combat as you take on Mexican rebels trying to 
 overthrow their government. You will need to use the environment to your advantage, as enemies 
 come equipped with skill and nice AI. Unless you learn quickly, you're going to die a lot before 
 you progress very far. The challenge is partly what makes the game interesting, beyond responsive 
 controls and a fairly smart team of allies to support you. In some missions you fly solo, and these 
 instances make you appreciate your allies even more. The level design is sometimes cool, and sometimes 
 confusing, as in some cases you might get lost, even with the helpful marker on your convoluted 
 HUD. Of course, once you figure out the heads-up display, it proves life-saving time and time again.
 
  
  Don't forget about the online multiplayer! Now, don't kill me, I, once again, did not get much 
 enjoyment out of, for example, Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory's online play. As with that, I find 
 GRAW's online department a little disappointing. The gameplay is dumbed down and becomes a more 
 basic shooter, though a superb list of features, maps, and modes, plus 16-player support, make 
 up for the flaws somewhat. The absolute most annoying thing, however, is that if you join a match 
 that is already in progress, you must wait until the round is over. This could take a long time, 
 especially considering that some games have no time limit. Other than these gripes, anybody can 
 enjoy GRAW's popular online play if it's shared with good players or with friends. 
  
  The graphics are top-notch, even for the Xbox 360. Realistic character movement and stunning lighting 
 effects immerse you in the world. Physics and virtually everything else are beyond realistic, and 
 it becomes purely beautiful when you're not busy shooting enemies and using a helicopter's machine 
 gun to plow through evil-do'ers. 
  
  The sound is certainly superb as well. Realistic sound effects and nice voice acting aboundm it 
 was also nice to take a break with captivating, dialogue-driven cutscenes that help the story evolve. 
 The cheesy metal soundtrack that chimes in every once in a while takes you out of the experience 
 occasionally, but this usually happens after a major victory has taken place.
  
  At $59.99 for the Xbox 360 version, it is pricier than the PC, Xbox, and PS2 version. However, 
 I have played the other three games, and none of them come even close to the level of quality that 
 is set by the 360 game, not even the PC one! Shocking! If you have any doubts, take a look at GameSpot's 
 reviews for the others. If I'm not mistaken, the PS2 version got a 4.4, the Xbox got a 5.9, and 
 the PC got a 7.8, all compared to the superb 9.2 obtained by the phenomenal Xbox 360 game.
  
  This game is certainly a worthy purchase for any 360 owner. With nice variety, fun gameplay, 
 and unmatched realism, Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfigher is a grand experince! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmc123456
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 28, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Graphics are pretty good, the gameplay is great and there tons of fun maps, firefights can get 
 pretty intense, controls are simple and easy, I've never really like the Ghost Recon Series that 
 much only Splinter Cell but this game makes me hope for a new Ghost Recon dont just rent this game 
 I'd buy it, for $60.00 it's worth it, the single player storyline Fantastic there's ton's of things 
 to do like blowing up cars and APCs to shooting throuhg walls with a 50. Caliber sniper rifle. 
 The games difficulty is just what you want from a game beatable but challenging, the games multiplayer 
 is great to play co-op with your friends on great maps like a urban setting of Old Town, take on 
 objectives or just bottom line obliterate rebel forces in elimination. You can also go head to 
 head teams with your friends. Exellent game it's got my vote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamez-elite
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 27, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter hit shelves early March of this year. During development the project 
 was seen as very daring and gutsy on the part of the team behind it. The game was to have sprawling 
 cityscapes with highly detailed features on everything in sight. Super polished surfaces and outstanding 
 lighting techniques are just a few highlights of what is achieved in this game. 
  The best looking 360 game to hit market to date. 
  
  While not extremely apparent at first, 
 the game does have quite a compelling story (and great gameplay to boot; something we look for 
 a lot in games nowadays.)
  You are Captain Scott Mitchell. You lead the Ghosts; a tactical unit of four, distinguished for 
 their skill and strategic prowess, even when they come up against impossible odds.
  
  At the beginning of the game you enter Mexico City via a helicopter (transport which frequents 
 the game) and are set down on a small road leading to an area of high rise buildings and expanding 
 cityscape. Your objective: Reach Ramirez. 
  You move forward, take down a few patrols and a twist of fate turns things for the worst. This 
 first section is a single mission for you (as Mitchell) alone and you must move into the city.
 
  The game has many sections that require both single agents and also parts where you and your team 
 of Ghosts must trudge through the sprawling city, dilapidated areas where you must work your way 
 from the cover of one tin house to the next and famous landmarks such as Angel Plaza.
  
  Your team of Ghosts can be given commands simply by pressing a direction on the d-pad or using 
 LB to switch from offensive to defensive stances. Also, with the aiming reticule over an enemy, 
 you can command your team to take them down while you concentrate on more pressing matters. Sometimes 
 the team AI can be a bit frustrating. Overall the AI in the game is pretty average but the enemy 
 will try to out-flank you and use cover to their advantage. Your team, on the other hand, doesnt 
 help out as much. Commands to them will usually solve this as you can get them to do what you want 
 but in a heated firefight they tend to hang back and provide cover fire.
  
  You also get other support such as the UAV scout, heavy armor and a helicopter. The tanks and APCs 
 as well as the helicopter can be commanded (in the same way as your Ghosts) to an area and can 
 take out specific targets you designate. 
  Another piece of high tech support equipment is the Ghosts combat gear itself. The helmet holds 
 the Ghosts HUD which contains an ammo readout, physical status, objective markers and enemy positions 
 marked by other team members.
  One revolutionary feature of the HUD is the picture in picture display at the top left of the 
 screen. This display can show what the other Ghosts are seeing, what the UAV has spotted and even 
 the occasional broadcast, showing how things are unfolding in other parts of the city or providing 
 you extra info youll need to complete your mission.
  
  If you decide to move on to the online side of the game, its pretty easy to make the transition. 
 The game plays pretty much the same. It has the same tactical air to it and has all the features 
 available to you in single player, (the only difference being that you cannot wall hug like you 
 would in single player.)
  
  With the recent release of additional content in the form of Chapter 2 the game is showing the 
 full extent of what the Marketplace can do. Chapter 2 adds new guns, new camo, new player faces 
 for multiplayer, new maps and even new multiplayer levels for people to play through with a friend. 
 Each of the different aspects of the new content has the same spectacular sheen that the original 
 game had and shows that even when bringing new content the developer take time and care when creating 
 new features.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: neilwb23
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 27, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to fanboy "OMG PS3 ARE T3h 1337!" arguments, one thing that crops up is that GRAW 
 isn't a 360 exclusive. Let me tell you now, it is, and boy, what an exclusive!
  
  The Graphics are absolutely stunning. I have never seen anything that looks so good. The soft shadow 
 rendering applies to every little crease in you're outfit and every little leaf on each plam tree, 
 and the HDR just makes the game seem so much more of a cutting edge title.
  
  The Gameplay is the biggest part of GRAWs shining qualties. The Single Player mode is easily one 
 of the best ever. Although it only really offers about 16 hours of gameplay, they'll be the best 
 16 hours of your life, unless you manage to have a 16 hour ogie with every front page girl in the 
 world. Basiclly, while signing a joint security agreement in Mexico, the Canadian Prime Minister 
 is killed (what to expect from an American game) and the Mexican and American presidents are missing 
 after a rebel group attacks them and tried to get hold of the 'football'-a suitcase that holds 
 launch codes for nuclear weapons.
  
  The controls are extremely easy. Left and Right the D-Pad change units, and up and down send orders. 
 Getting into cover is also incredibly easy, although there are a few weapon bugs while your in 
 cover. 
  
  You will never be closer to sh*tting yourself while being shot at for atleast 5 years. The cross-com 
 blurs as a bullet whizzes past, and you're usually being shot at by atleast 3 rebels spraying bullets 
 everywhere. The dust effects from the bullets add to the soil-factor as well. You'll be pinned 
 down, with a comerade wounded in the middle of a road with a stolen Bradley blowing the crap out 
 of you with dust obscuring your vision. Then you have to run to you're comerade......
  
  The explosions are awesome as well. This is also a reason why rumble is so great in games (hint, 
 hint, Sony) . As your big a*s anti-tank missile hits a tank, a massive ball of flame will rip apart 
 everything around it as you're cross-com shudders and dust flys everywhere.
  
  I've mentioned the cross com a fare few times now. This is easily the best feature in a war game 
 since political accuracy. In your top left view of the cross com, a real time image of one of your 
 comerades is broadcast to you. This means as they peak around a corner to check for enemies, you 
 can see what his point of view is like. The Cross Com also marks tagged enemies in real time so 
 you can always know if they are trying to flank you, etc. This can make the game a little bit easy 
 and get in the way of the stunning visuals however.
  
  The sound is also great. Gun shots are perfectly recorded, explosions sound spectacular, and the 
 voice acting is more realistic than previous Tom Clancy titles. The musical score also sets the 
 feel of war perfectly.
  
  The Multiplayer is probably the biggest part of the game. There are lots of major flaws I must 
 bring up. It is more like Ghost Recon 2 than AW. But the graphics are still in place, although 
 a little dumbed down. The Matchmaking is also pretty horrible. Ranked matches have you pitted against 
 much more skilfull players, there is no anti spawn camping, disconnection problems are rather rife, 
 the "In Progress" messages on the game menu are almost always wrong, and as the servers are player 
 controlled rather than company controlled, that online fee (as small as it is) may feel a little 
 wastefull. Beyond that, you will find a great multiplayer game.
  
  There is a seperate Co-op campaign that can be played through on your own, but is a lot more fun 
 with other people (not to mention a lot easier) . There are adversarial and co-op modes gallore 
 along with this. The cross com is included in the multiplayer as well. The game also feels a little 
 less competative than the likes of the Battlefield series, and hence it is instantly a lot more 
 fun.
  
  This is easily one of the best games I've ever bought, and you should feel the same as well. Although 
 there are some major problems in the multiplayer and the game isn't that replayable, these factors 
 are outweighed completely by the good, and aren't really the biggest problems in the world anyway. 
 If you're a points addict (who isn't?) , the game should supply between 15-20 hours of gameplay. 
 If you're not, you'll be playing through it again and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warthog259
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 27, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  This is a very good game for the xbox 360 and If you think that the 360 sucks i suggest u should 
 get this game because it is very amazing and you wont beilieve that any system can hold such cpu, and 
 graphics {so many computers and guns and levels Etc}
  
  Good: The graphics r the best better then doom 3 and prey graphics {because of the physics} the 
 physics are very realistic that it actually makes you feel that you are there. You have smart AI 
 that ubeelievable. Xbox live iisnt the only thing that makes this game fun so if you dont have 
 live then you should still get this game.
  
  bad: Sometimes the the sun gets annoying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GFreeman1998
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 27, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  I've never played a Ghost Recon game before. I played a demo of one of the earlier GR games, and 
 I think I fell asleep while playing it. GRAW, luckily enough, was far more interesting and fun; 
 however, the campaign is pretty weak in certain areas and the game occasionally comes off as rushed.
 
  
  The first thing you'll notice is that this game is beautiful. The next thing you'll notice is an 
 hour or so into the gameplay, where only your character model is beautiful. And by that time, you're 
 kind of sick of seeing it. Nothing really compares to your first GRAW session- the graphics will 
 leave your jaw on the floor, but all too quickly, it seems like the designers at Ubisoft gave up 
 on the environments. Also, the little details that make an action game good-looking aren't here- 
 explosions, while kind of pretty, just fade away and don't leave behind fires or pieces of whatever 
 is blown up. Cars will blow up, and then the explosion will fade away, and the car model will have 
 been replaced with a wrecked car model. Not nice. 
  
  In terms of sound... the game doesn't do a great job with that, either. I can't tell you that I 
 liked the voice acting, especially considering that the main character, Scott, appears to have 
 three different actors. If you listen to him, Scott has a Solid Snake overly-rough voice, a commanding 
 military officer (i. e., really loud) voice, and a polite voice for dealing with his bosses. There's 
 some music, but the orchestrated stuff is stereotypical military music and the licensed stuff offends 
 me as a guitarist. The cover of "All Along the Watchtower" is alright, but I really want Hendrix 
 back. Hell, Dylan can do it, too, it's his freakin' song, but why couldn't the song have been done 
 by Hendrix?
  
  Gameplay is a mixed bag. The game's opening levels are comprised of intense firefights that will 
 make you feel like a badass, and then there are a few missions at night that make the game suck. 
 There are no stealth missions, so the game gets a bit repetitive. GRAW is occasionally frustrating, 
 but this is only because your teammates' AI is a complete failure. They really don't need AI. Your 
 teammates need to be able to do a few things: shoot at targets that have been lit up on your HUD, 
 and go into the blue circles that you produce when ordering them to move. That's it. Somehow, your 
 team fails at this on a consistent basis. On one of the last levels, your squad goes into a building 
 and stays on the first floor while foes rain bullets down on you from above. I ordered my team 
 to hide behind cover, where they would be protected, and they would periodically shoot back at 
 the enemies. Three out of the dozen times I did this, my squad actually went behind cover. Every 
 other time, they completely ignored the order, or went behind cover and then ran out in front of 
 it. Eventually, I figured that I was in the way and went to the other side of the room. Without 
 me there, my squad was wiped out in a mere twenty-eight seconds. Embarrassing.
  
  There's a story in the campaign, but it isn't that good. It gets interesting in the later levels, 
 but not much. There's also a multiplayer mode, which I tried to play for two hours (I timed it 
 and stopped at 120 minutes) . I managed to get into one game, which lasted for seven seconds and 
 then shut down. So, I dunno, I guess that says something about the multiplayer.
  
  If you're a 360 owner, this should be in your collection, simply as a way to enjoy those first 
 few moments, and heck, maybe you're a military buff. But the game seems like a blatant advertisement 
 for the Army throughout, and it has its share of problems. With this in mind, GRAW is occasionally 
 annoying, and the graphics lose their sheen too quickly, but it's not that bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denbot
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 27, 2006 4:47 am PT
Review:  playing this is like playing ghost2 with a uav, its old n boring. o luk im playing online with 
 toned down graphics and still get slow downs, how poo is this game. only new thing in this game 
 is the uav n the maps are so boring. com, this game last about 10 min online is so so so so so so 
 boring, and that uav ruins the online sharpshooter as u cant hide any more, and control of the 
 uav is given to every 1 on the team so ur always fighting over it with soom noob trying to send 
 it in totaly the wrong direction. wot a let down 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slope2578
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 26, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  You have to play this game. It is tactical and perfect for those players that want it as close 
 to real life as possible. The graphics are great, especially on my big screen HDTV. My wife hates 
 video games, but actually enjoys watching me play GRAW. This game really shines in multiplayer. 
 The differences in player styles, weapons and class choice is amazing. You can tell the difference 
 between and the need for each class. My only complaint for this game is the Xboxlive menu. It takes 
 forever to get into a match, and you frequently get bumped out of the match. It frequently takes 
 me 20 minutes to get into a ranked match. The game lists are seldom right, stating it is still 
 in setup only to find that they are playing and you can't get in. You can't simply go back out 
 to the previous menu either, you have to start the whole process over, taking up another 10 minutes 
 of your time. It's hit or miss getting into a game and can be very frustrating. Once you get into 
 a good group though, you go match after match for hours if the group stays together. If they can 
 come up with a better menu system or server, it would be a perfect 10 in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rokkuman09
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 26, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Amazingly intense! One hit kills both ways alot of times even on the normal difficulty! Plus the 
 new way of getting cover is much cooler than previous games! Also unlike previous Ghost Recon games 
 the Caimpaign is the star of the show it even has a good story behind it (rare for Ghost Recon) . 
 There is a bad thing about the gameplay though! The multiplayer is not as good as the previous 
 games! You cant really lean around corners or anything so the gun with the camera has no use at 
 all in multiplayer! But other than that the multiplayer can be pretty good too!
  
  Graphics:
  Wow just wow! The graphics in GRAW are awesome! Everything is just so detailed the 
 screenshots don't do the game justice! You have to play it too see how amazing they really are! 
 But the graphics aren't near as good in multiplayer sadly!
  
  Sound:
  Sweet sound too! The sound is very realitic too all the real life weapons it replicates plus theres 
 alot of top notch voice acting!
  
  Value:
  Lots of value a long caimpaign! Solid multiplayer! A special CO OP caimpaign and downloadable content! 
 What more could you ask for from a console game?
  
  The final score is 9.6 superb!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 26, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  As I have stated before, FPS and tactical shooters are NOT my first choice of games, but I want 
 to give as many 360 titles a fair shot as I can. After all, every so often something does catch 
 my eye. GRAW looks good and plays steady, but to my untrained eye, the only thing that sets it 
 appart from previous titles are the graphics and a few new bells and whistles, nothing to exceptional.
 
  
  Gameplay - The controls aren't bad, not quite intuitive, but not bad for as much as they let you 
 do. Squad control is pretty simple, even if I am horrible at getting them to attack the target 
 I want. That however is likely a user error.
  
  Graphics - The graphics are nice... not oblivionesque, but nice.
  
  Sound - Your squad sounds 
 good and the explosions sound realistic enough, but there are only so many of them.
  
  Value - If you like tactical shooters, you already have it. If not... give it a rent, nothing spectacular 
 to the non-fanboy of the genre, but a good enough game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxpayne10
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 25, 2006 10:00 pm PT
Review:  The game is great and the graphics are jaw dropping. The game has a cool way of furthering the 
 bland story without showing a single cutscene, you will learn to like the rides in the helicoter 
 and APCs. The game has some of the best sharpshooting AI around which makes missions harder since 
 your allies are good at getting shot at. The most useful weapon in your aresenal is the smoke grenade 
 which stops enemies from you so you can make a break for it. Some firefights such as when you have 
 to protect a VIP while your friends try to get to your location feel truely epic like they were 
 taken from a movie. If toy have never played a tactical shooter this one will take serveral hours 
 to beat. The game is worth it, but it will get on your nerves how hard each mission is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unshaken
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 25, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  This game seriously delivers the best-of-the-best tactical and gameplay ever. This is a list of 
 the aspects in the game (there wil be spelling mistakes because I am trying to write it quickly) :
 
  
  Graphics: The best environment ever created in an FPS game that i've ever played. You can see the 
 bullets shoot from the gun and trace it back to it's owner. The explosions and particle density 
 makes the graphics of GRAW the most realistic ever.
  
  Envorinment: Though the environment cannot be totally manupulated like in Halo (1, 2, and don't 
 foget 3) it is not a major problem. But it can be a drawback because when you are being targeted 
 by enemies, your instincts would tell you to get indoors for cover, instead of hiding behind a 
 car. And yes, cars do blow up, so it is not safe to be behind a car when you are being targeted 
 by .50 cal gunners. But the major drawback is that you can't jump. So trying to move quickly over 
 obsticles is not going to happen. The game feels more realistic without the jumping because when 
 will you ever see a Delta Operator jumping around when in a battle? Like for example in Battlefield 
 2 (PC) , you will **** people (on the net or LAN) who go prone, and when you shoot them they unrealistically 
 jump up (within 0.5 seconds) and take off. That ruins the whole point of the game being realistic. 
 But GRAW does a good job keeping the game true to it's nature.
  
  Sound: If you think GRAW's sound can be any better, you are right. Yup. The sounds are realistic 
 enough, but the terrorists are pretty dumb shouting around like that in the middle of a battle. 
 And repetition is a problem. But it is farily done and better than any FPS game I own. Environment 
 sounds are pretty real like chirping birds and bush effects. Guns firing in different directions 
 and distances actually sound different, so this game will make you feel like you are in the middle 
 of a battle. You can actually get used to the sounds and visualize exactly where the enemies are, 
 or just use your radar.
  
  A. I: The AI in this game are not to be messed with. They know how to kill, but their exotic screams 
 and shouts will make you realise and feel their pain ;) .
  
  Player HUD: Good. They don't have a huge annoying status bar across the bottom of the screen. Though 
 in Single-Player they do have a live cam of your team mates in action which can distract your view.
 
  
  Single-Player: Rocks! The single player campaign will blow you away. The complexity of this game 
 will leave you wanting for more. It really feels like you have a technological advantage over your 
 enemies, thus it's title "Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter". All the cameras, night vision (very 
 realsitic) , and the rifle with a cam where you can stand behind a wall and shoot indirectly rocks!
 
  
  Multiplayer (Split-Screen + Internet) : Excellent. the best part about GRAW is probably the multiplayer 
 part of the game. Competition is always there. Battles rage on and on, and only one victor (or 
 team) will survive. This game will stay on the top for quite a bit of time, until Halo 3 comes 
 out!
  
  My Opinion (Should you buy it?) : Hell Yea! You are totally crazy if you think other wise. This 
 game is a revolutionizer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerx4002
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2006 6:15 am PT
Review:  ive just bought the game and completed it like yesterday and let me tell you right now that this 
 game is the most amazing thing ive played since gta: sa and to think that i thought the game was 
 going to suck at first but i was so wrong about that the gameplay is amazing you can hide or take 
 cover behind and object you can think of and thats good since in that game if you're in the open 
 for a second too long you get popped so that's really good because it gives it so much more realism 
 and the music in the game is the ISH i tell you it really captivates your mind and lets you do 
 what you gotta do its the bomb i tell you. this iz a must buy there aint no joke in that a must 
 buy like run to the store and get one immediately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: urikops
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 24, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Over All: 6 out of 10
  Its frustrating how lazy Ubisoft is getting. They seem more and more insitant on meeting deadline 
 then to making the customer happy. I was horribly upset when i noticed that reloading does not 
 pull the clip from the gun. WHAT!?! That is a simple algorithm, I know, I'm a software programmer. 
 Ok picky, I know. Consider this. When using the camera gun, often I find myself with rubber arms. 
 Also, sometimes when I mount a turret and then dismount, my arms remain attatched so I'm chained 
 down. Walking through allies? Lastly, i find myself shooting enemies through walls, not with a 
 sniper, but a pistol. Ridiculous. They could have made this game a couple years ago, it woul have 
 just had worse graphics. 
  
  Campaign: 8 out of 10
  Yes, a little **** but onto the good part of my review. Excelent game play, the back to the wall 
 brilliant although not original, the UAV and IFF tags were a nice touch. I was shocked that they 
 took out the voice recognition out of the game. It was ok in Ghost Recon 2, and the newer systems 
 are being improved all the time. Storyline leaves nothing to be desired, except for the highjacking 
 of the helicopter. How the hell did that happen? If you have not played this, that is not a spoiler. 
 Dialog is a little cheezy, but not too bad.
  
  Multiplayer: 9 out of 10
  Excelent, although they do not allow you to put your back to a wall. Several good games. Many that 
 people, sadly, never play. You can create custom game varients. Spawn camping seems to be a problem 
 and that is the only major problem with the Multiplayer. Gernades are a bit to powerful, but they 
 are often turned off, camera guns are the same way. The gameplay can lag but often once youre in 
 the game it isent to bad. Their is a terrible problem with lagging out of the game I think all 
 games need an optimatch similar to Halo 2. Its frustrating to see hosts take advantage of newvbs 
 by putting all the high levels on their team and all the low levels on the other. Also some put 
 camo that is useless or even handicaping to the other team. "The rich get richer." They need to 
 take that control away from hosts. The Coop missions are fulfilling, and have a good side story 
 plot. They are very fun and dont have the side affects of bad hosts. They recently released new 
 content. It has new maps, a new game mode, and a new chapter to the Coop. I have yet to play all 
 of the Coop all the way through, it is more of the same but looks promissing. The new game mode 
 includes an easier way to get the acheivment for Falcon. The new maps are the same as in game ones 
 accept they change the time of day, they do add a few new maps though. It needs some work but overall 
 is well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaDemon
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 24, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  I had an extremely good time with this game. When I first played it on a standard television I 
 thought the graphics were mind blowing. The other day I made the switch to HDTV and it really is 
 true how big a difference it makes. The singleplayer game starts off with a well done tutorial 
 that teaches you how to enjoy the game right off the bat. The game takes place in a huge city that 
 is easy to get lost in, yet a well implemented HUD and crosscom system keeps you on track. This 
 brings me to my main problem with the singleplayer, there are no civilians anywhere, which makes 
 the city seem empty and dull. The sound is also top-notch, with dramatic music kicking in at all 
 the right moments between the loud explosions and gunshots that are plentiful. The singleplayer 
 alone is worth the price tag.
  
  Next we have multiplayer, a fun yet flawed diversion. The only thing keeping this game from a higher 
 rating from me is the broken lobby system. It will often take you over a half hour just to play 
 one game, and if you purchase the Chapter 2 expansion you won't be able to play with people who 
 have not. Once you get past this, you will find a highly addictive game that allows you and 15 
 others to gleefully kill each other in a virtual battlefield, or even work together to complete 
 the 4 (8 with Chapter 2) coop missions. The graphics suffer slightly in multiplayer, as the game 
 clearly uses a different graphics engine in this mode. Although it isn't up to par with singleplayer, 
 it still looks fantastic.
  
  This game is a must buy if you own a 360. Don't take my word for it, what people are saying is 
 true. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfemanTRITON
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 24, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  I am not a big fan of first person shooters. You might be thinking, "This guy ain't a FPS fan? 
 Man, he's a loser." That may be, but once my friend bought this game and allowed me to play it, 
 I loved it. "Then why don't you marry it, loser?" Because I'm into girls, to answer your question.
 
  
  Gameplay: Astounding in single player campaign mode. The ability to control your ghosts in a massive 
 world. Only complaint I have in gameplay is mutliplayer. Still fun, but you can't put your back 
 up against a wall, control your ghosts or tanks or etc., and the multiplayer levels aren't as massive 
 as the single player. This forces me to give gameplay a 9.
  
  Graphics: Utterly amazing. The graphics blow me away. The Xbox 360 has crazy graphic capabilities. 
 Still waiting to see if PS3 or Wii top it. Back to the game, it has the best graphics of any game 
 produced yet. The details, the lighting is just amazing. You have to see for yourself because I 
 can't describe it any better than life-like.
  
  Sound: Sound effects and voiceovers are great. Just wish there was rock in the background.
  
 
  Value: I will pay $70 for this game. Instead it's $60. Great game and worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bouch097
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 23, 2006 7:26 am PT
Review:  My download actually went through last night. For those of you having trouble, this is what I did. 
 Around 1:30am last night (and after SEVERAL attempts and restarts) , I unplugged everything else 
 from my router, deleted the incomplete version from my hard drive, and started from scratch. When 
 I woke up at 5:30, it was done. So, I tooled around on it for an hour before I had to get take 
 care of some work stuff.
  
  Just a little quick first impression feedback for those of you waiting... 
  
  The new guns 
 kick ass for the most part. The SR25-SD is the biggest change. Pretty quiet, and decent power. 
 Obviously less than the M107, but will typically kill w/ one shot anywhere to the upper torso, 
 or two to the leg. Surprisingly, if you shoot someone in the nuts, he doesn't die. Also, 20/clip 
 is NICE. Personally, I think I would, but that's just me. The SCAR-H SV is pretty sweet as well. 
 At first trial, it seems to be pretty accurate, and now has a double zoom. Only downside is still 
 20/clip. I won't be using the AK-LMG though. Nothing beats the LMG48, and it only holds 75/clip 
 as opposed to 100 w/ the 48. If you like the M468-SD, but don't care for it's lack of power, and 
 as long as you don't mind being heard, the M468 is a nice addition. I don't play grenadiers, so 
 toy around w/ that one yourself.
  
  The re-lit maps may as well be a completely different map. Especially the night Nowhere, and morning 
 Old Town maps. Those little spots you love to go to to snipe in Nowhere are now fairly useless. 
 For example, from the blue side of the junkyard, you can only see about half-way up the road. Also, 
 there are some wicked shadows on this map now, which unfortunately, will provide great cover for 
 you campin' out bastards who love to hide in a spot all game and wait for people to run by. Also 
 unfortunately, the "rock glitch" is still very effective in the canyon coming out of the red spawn. 
 Morning Old Town is covered w/ a decent amount of fog, so both of these maps will likely become 
 much more of a run & gun situation. The re-lit Wharf and Fishing Village look purty, but I don't 
 think strategy will change much except for better visibility in Wharf.
  
  And finally, the new maps... Wear comfortable shoes, b/c most of them are MASSIVE. You spawn camping 
 complainers will like them b/c the spawns seem to be a bit more spread out than most previous maps, 
 and like I said before, there friggin' huge.
  
  Jungle Mines looks to be a lot of fun. The center of the map is a large wooden "fort" sort of thing, 
 which will likely be the center of attention. However, enemies can easily come from just about 
 any direction, and there are multiple levels of the fort, making it difficult to know where to 
 look. Good communication will definitely be key. Probably the smallest of the new maps, but enemies 
 could be anywhere.
  
  River Depot reminds me a lot of Training Grounds (I think that was the name) from the previous 
 GR, but w/ a little bit of fog and poor lighting. Lots of dirt roads, wooden shacks, and forest 
 to get lost in. MASSIVE map.
  
  Shipping Port is another huge map, and would probably be a lot of fun w/ snipers only turned on. 
 The only downside is that both sides will be easy to camp outside of b/c of very limited exits 
 from the spawns. They are very spread out, but both sides only have a couple of ways out to the 
 middle ground, as blue spawns on or next to a large boat, and red from the top of or behind a large 
 building. There are also lots of shipping crates to run around through, and there are a few large 
 cranes to snipe from around the blue spawn. Also, I smelled glitch on the stairways up the cranes, 
 and found a couple w/ ease. Dive into the crates or boxes under a couple of the cranes and you 
 warp up onto the stars 1-1/2 levels up depending on where you dive. The neat thing is that you 
 end up laying down on the stairs in a decent sniping spot. Without glitching, you can't lay down 
 on stairs.
  
  Coffee Plantation is centered around a large house in the center of the map. However, one spawn 
 (I think it was blue, of course) , seems to have an obvious advantage at being able to reach the 
 house first, so I wouldn't suggest stopping to smell the flowers you pass on your way up the hill. 
 But this is another large map, so there is plenty of room to run around (similar to Temple) .
  
  Game modes-Team Battle seems to be very similar to Domination, except each side has AI members 
 along their side. As expected, they are about as stupid as Paris Hilton and are pretty piss-poor 
 shots. I have not looked into Blind Siege yet.
  
  New Faces/paint/camo-Who cares? And no, they didn't add Hispanics or Asians as an option. Although 
 I still wonder, if you use one of the black guys, do you run faster?
  
  Anyway, I hope this helped to pass the time while you wait. If you get it downloaded and want to 
 join in the fun, feel free to look me up. GT=iBONEDyerBIATCH.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mecheye
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 22, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  When i saw the rating GRAW received, i decided i needed to give Ghost Recon another chance on the 
 360, and it was the best decision i ever made. The campaign is not told as the greatest story, 
 but the action is nonstop, and they throw different angles of war at all times, which makes it 
 different than so many other games. Also, it makes you feel like a professional war zone fighter, 
 like your actually conducting a crusade in a foreign place. It's fantastic! The graphics are phenomenal 
 at all times, and sound is wonderful, and the gameplay is smooth, and the controls original. There 
 is a custom combat mode that has plenty of fights with various options to keep you and all your 
 friends busy. Then there is the online world, which is just as intense, and the action is quick. 
 There are so many guns that give advantages and disadvantages, grenades, pistols, and team members. 
 Its the complete war package, and one of the must owns for this system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: norgewhop
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 13, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is so far the best looking game on the 360 to date... and It's a 
 shooter!!! The thought that has gone into this game is absolutely unbelieveable, why, the training 
 stage alone was the best fun I have had in ages, put it this way, I have completed the training 
 and one and a half missions, and I just keep redoing the first mission... trying to perfect it and 
 keep my squad alive because there are just so many functions, modes and positions that it feels 
 so real as you think of 5 things at once under preasure. Like I said the realism of being a squad 
 leader in the heat of the moment is executed with perfection and you start to think... these are 
 my men, protect them and let's get this over with instead of this will be a fun game... I wonder 
 how many points I will get but in the best way possible. I have done a few firsts with this game, 
 one, spent so much time on a couple of stages and kept repeating them... and two, I have never writen 
 a review of a game until I almost finish it (at least half) but this is seriously the best looking 
 and playing FPS on the 360 to date, and if I am just beginning... bring it on!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madnesscombat
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2006 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay is one of this games strong and weak points. The single player portion is great with very 
 well scripted scences and the AI makes you duck and cover because of the bullets spraying against 
 the walls. The Multiplayer portion is also great but could have been better. There are some features 
 missing on the online version which didn't seem right for a Ghost Recon game.
  
  Graphics will definitely make you happy you own a Xbox 360. Look at the sun, look at the huge bulidings, 
 look at the soft shadows, look at the textures, look at the models!! Everything is very well done 
 and high quality that takes advantage of the 360's power.
  
  Sound is great with the epic music score and the sound of explosions and realistic gun fire. It 
 is a downer that the music seqeunces didn't last that long, leaving something to be desired.
  
  Replay Value is great for the Multiplayer portion. You have new campaigns, online multiplayer, 
 Bot eliminations, capture the flag, etc. Very well done however it could have been more user friendly 
 to new comers.
  
  Overall this game is worth the purchase even if you don't have Xbox Live. Very well done game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgfanr
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 21, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off with the negative ...  with that 
 said, let's move on! Just kidding!!
  No seriously, there are a couple of things I'd add to this masterpiece. In close combat situations 
 (muti-player) there should be a malee attack. Otherwise your playing ring around the posey, but 
 this time with guns! Also they don't let you stick to surfaces in the muti-player games, as you 
 can see I play a lot of Muti-player . The campaign was done well. The squad could have been a little 
 smarter . I felt like I was babysitting at times! Don't get me wrong these things DO NOT hinder 
 this game AT ALL!
  
  This game has the feel of a cinematic modern war movie. They captured the the mood of the situations. 
 I felt like I was in a hostile Mexican environment with my couch! 
  But I think the heart of this game is the on-line play. You will find yourself shooting your friends 
 or players you just met for HOURS!
  
  I can't really say enough good things about this game. if you can only buy one game this year this 
 will definitely keep you busy until next year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pshaz90
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 21, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: G. R. A. W. is a pinnacle for the Xbox 360 graphics-wise. I am on a regular non HD television, 
 and I can see a huge difference from regular Xbox to 360. Everything looks crisp and clean. The 
 draw distance in the game is truly mind blowing, and the whole city and be viewed without sacraficing 
 any detail. Bullet effects, smoke, dust and other debris add to a sense of realism that is almost 
 startling. 
  
  Sound: Battle chatter, realistic gun fire, and other ambient noises add up to have great sound 
 but as usual, the soundtrack is atrocious. 
  
  Single Player: Let's face it, Ghost Recon games aren't known for their single player. The campaign 
 is fun, but introduces new controls that almost hold the player back from operating efficiently. 
 There are new squad commands, but it feels like a watered down Brothers In Arms control system, 
 and the squad AI are absolutely dumb. They seldom take cover, and sometimes even shoot you. There 
 is a new feature allowing the player to take cover behind many obstacles but this is more of a 
 hassle than an advantage in fierce gun battles. The campaign at times is very frustrating. At times, 
 you can be overwhelmed with too many things. Sometimes the HUD will be filled with so many objective 
 icons, camera views, life bars, different squads, and controlling a tank that you can barely see 
 whats actually going on. The game isn't too hard as long as you play it smart and at times its 
 better to actually leave your squad behind and just move in by yourself. A new addition is a quick 
 aim feature which is a toned down version of something like Call of Duty but much less effective. 
 
  
  Multiplayer: As with most Ghost Recon games in the series, the multiplayer is where the game shines. 
 After choosing between over 4 different classes, you can select a huge array of different weapons 
 ranging from an M4 Scoped to a PSG sniper rifle. There is a small character customization mode, 
 but its nothing big. The multiplayers are gorgeous, and the controls are taken directly from Summit 
 Strike. Ubisoft is smart and they know not to mess with something that worked fine. The co-op experience 
 is one of the best things you can do right now on Xbox live, and when 16 players are working together 
 as one unit, there is great fun to be had. Like in most Ghost Recon games, there are some issues 
 with the PVP aspect of play. Many hosts decide to put all the high ranking people on one team and 
 the low ranking people on the other creating very unenjoyable one sided game. I would also advice 
 to stick with LMS because the death match basically turns into a large spawn camping match. 
  
  The verdict: Get this game now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjcobb
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jun 21, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  This has let me down, it's Graphics fantastic, but it's impossible to control your guys under heavy 
 fire, really bad game play!!! The only good thing about this is multi-player, it played really 
 well, on it but my friends only come round once a fortnight so it's been sold. Shooting from helicopters 
 are impossible, flicking back and forth between your men and a robot under heavy fire is EXTREMELY 
 INCONVENIENT! I'm sorry to say but this is not a game I like. I only played it to the first level 
 and then I quit. You have have to re-do bits ALOT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antonius05
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 21, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  I must say this game looks amazing, awesome graphics and visual effects. Very good storyline.
 
  
  Its a good game to play on normal difficulty for anyone, but on hard difficulty, a pro at shooters 
 can understand what to do in the situation. 
  
  The multiplayer is awesome to play and you can also play online co-op with 16 other players. But 
 the disadvantage is waiting for the game to launch, it takes a while to have 10 to 16 people in 
 and ready for fight. But other than that, online is fun to play. 
  
  Now onto Achievements. Everyone can get all the normal diffculty Achievement easy, but may be hard 
 to get all the hard diffculty achievement. A few achievement are what i thought kinda stupid because 
 not everyone have time to play 8 hours online play straight, or be on the top leaderboard of all 
 three, solo, team, and champaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoetheMoe
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 20, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  I've played all the GR games for both xbox and the xbox360. Using the new 360 powers, I expected 
 this game to be hot stuff. Plus all the good feedback players have done for this game. I decided 
 to rent the game considering video game cost these days. I was sadly disappointed by the lack of 
 your teamates abilities. Like in recent GR games you are a leader of a squad of 4. The team controls 
 are pretty basic just point and click to tell them where to go. But often when shooting around 
 corners they will just stick their whole body out and get shot. Most missions while having teammates 
 you are mainly doing all the shooting yourself which is fun, or you are scrambling around and healing 
 your teammates. Certain levels you are by yourself and I enjoy these missions because no stupid 
 teammate AI. 
  
  I found out that this game is very over rated. I give it a 7.6 out of 10. This game isn't the best 
 GR made but I think it is still worth renting once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: United_We_Fall
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 20, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Well, i know that i'm kinda late on writing my review but i just couldnt stand not writing my own 
 review on this game as an owner of it. Before I start my review i'd like to congragulate the team, 
 staff of ubisoft, for their amazing, outstanding work on this game.... So, here goes... GRAW (as 
 a lot of u might have noticed: P) caught my attention from the moment that i entered its menu... 
 i know to many gamers graw's menu might not be the ultimate, most best-looking menu they have ever 
 seen but to me... hey it is (until now) ... and trust me, i have played a lot of games to say this... 
 its menu is amazing from the perspective that i could real easily find anything that i wanted and 
 not like halo's 2 menu that took me decaded to discover how to change my appearance :P... Anyways, 
 the menu's great... Moving on to the graphics... Well, of course, what can be said about the graphics 
 of this game has already been said by all gamespot's writers and other authors.. that is.. the 
 graphics are flawless and absolute... however u do need (in my opinion) to have a hd television 
 in ur room where ur playing the game...
  About the AI now... what can i say... i love it... yeah i know it's not the best one i've ever 
 seen but i mean come on... what kind of orders would u give to a computer to follow :P... (know 
 what i mean) ... the AI to me was great but hey dudes... no game can have no mistakes... we're people 
 and even our intelligence can go kuku.... 
  The sounds... Oh my God the sound effects... i've had times when i had goosebumps... (the volume 
 is pretty much at the maximum) the explosions, the voices, the music they're all fitted in the 
 one best game created until now....
  The storyline is great but kinda short... i know, what a shame!!! but hey... it's the quality we're 
 after, not the quantity right?!
  In conclusion, BUY THE GAME IF U OWN THE 360... its a shame not to have it in ur collection with 
 all ur games... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gemini581
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 20, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  words cannot describe this game... if you have not tried it, rent it, but be prepared to go buy 
 it the same day..... the best in the GR series, and of course by far the best looking.......
  
  Single player moves along very nicely, with some mini-gun time from the choppers thrown in 
 every so often, who doesn't love that!
  
  I enjoy the way you can control certain vehicles at certain times in the game, tanks, APC's, Apache's 
 etc
  
  multi-player is just as good as you have come to expect from the GR series
  
  Many weapons to choose from, maps are gorgeous, and spacious 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nahnsense
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 20, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Past iterations of Clancy's Ghost Recon series have been excercises in patience, planning and strategic 
 execution. Advanced Warfighter continues in that mode, with a sharp single-player campaign and 
 kick-ass (can I say that?) Xbox Live action.
  
  The single player campaign has some real high points that make it one of the most fun and immerssive 
 realistic first person shooters ever. The game's graphics are phenominal, a slight step above the 
 best games on Xbox. Shadowing, character models, gun models, environments, everything is top notch. 
 Bullet effects are especially cool. No complaints with anything in the graphics engine, although 
 I'm sure we'll see more impressive visuals as developers unlock more potential in the new generation 
 systems (side note: HD-TV and surround sound are essential, duh) . Character movement, especially 
 slides you can do if you dive while running, is very fluid and life-like. 
  
  The audio is probably the highest rated part of this game. Of course it's not the most important 
 part, but it may be better than any game ever. Or maybe not but very very good none the less (this 
 is all dealing with the single player campaing by the way, I'll let you know when I get to multiplayer) 
 
  
  Enemy AI is bright and especially tuff on the higher difficulty settings. They will often move 
 to supress and flank you and your team, and will shoot at you the first chance they get. The same 
 can't be said for friendly AI, which is stupid and pretty much useless except for using as bait. 
 Send them out, see where they get shot from, call them back, kick ass.
  
  Campaign is of medium length and varried. There are several levels where you're screen is fuzzy 
 do to some sort of jamming; those are annoying and should probably not have been included, but 
 oh well.
  
  Now the real reason to get this game is the multiplayer. It rivals Halo 2 in awsomeness (not a 
 word? I don't care) . There are a huge amounts of maps, weapons, outfits, options and game variants 
 available. I really can't stress enough how fun multiplayer is. That said there are several very 
 annoying hicups. The first thing you'll notice while playing online is that its really a different 
 game. The control scheme is more or less the same but being that the online component was made 
 seperately from the single-player, there are some major gameplay differences. First of, character 
 models are not quite as sharp. Not bad, but not as sharp. There is no knee-sliding like in the 
 single player mode and you can't press up against objects to take cover. One clutch add on is the 
 ability to change gun hands.
  
  By far the biggest complaint anyone you ask will have about this game is the frequency of "lag-outs". 
 Every player has to mute their mics and wait ten seconds once in the game starts or people will 
 drop. Sometimes people still drop. Its extremelly annoying to be in the middle of a heated battle 
 and the just get kicked from the game. Its less common in smaller games, but still common even 
 there. It's very important to find a host with a GREAT internet connection. Enjoy your GRAWing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pederw
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 20, 2006 7:10 am PT
Review:  Great game, the graphics are outstandig. Gameplay is smoother than ever. Online is awesome because 
 of the depth. Downloadable online content, New levels, weapins... If you have the 360 you have 
 to buy this game. I was planning to buy the ps3 but after trying this game I had 2 have it. the 
 graphics used on the 360 for this game would not change if used on the ps3. 
  
  Online - You can customize your guy for example, bandana with orange oakleys, SWAT helmet, military 
 hat, Paint Camo, light armour, heavy... The modes are the most ever. I didn't like the series on 
 the xbox but this game has taken a whole new level.
  
  Great Game, Enjoy. Peder 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan3669
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 19, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  I love this game beyond belief. This one is truely the best Ghost Recon yet and it has some of 
 the best graghics to date. The story is good until the end it gets a little silly but it is still 
 worth getting. The weapons seem realistic and not fake and the soud effects seem like you are really 
 there. when an explosion happens you feel your adrenelin rushing and it makes you more anxsious 
 to make it out alive. The music was very well done and it made me feel like i was watching a movie 
 that i was really in. The multiplayer was good but not as good as the single player but it was 
 fun to go and play with your friends on online co-op. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: govinator07
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  OMFG this has got to be one of the best games of all time and probably the best FPS (besides Halo) 
 and even maybe the best game on 360 to date (close with oblivion) . YOU R CAPT. MITCHELL!! AND YOU 
 R #1
  
  lets start out with the graphics on this game.....: this is not the best looking game on 360 but 
 man is it good graphics... it has all the essentials of good graphics such as self shadowing and 
 lighting and the reflections and sh*t like that... then u have the guns which have amazing graphics 
 to them and the bullet fire the same.... the buildings and the jungle have excellent graphics as 
 well as they also self shadow as you move to them and as other people move by... The game uses 
 the ragdoll feature so its pretty cool to watch people die in awesome graphics... the only part 
 about the graphics that throws me off is the night vision... it makes the screen all green and 
 everybody white, like a ghost and it gets bright and it hurts, and the people are really hard to 
 follow...
  
  the gameplay: the gameplay is very fun to do because there is so much to do.... you are captain 
 mitchell and u take command of your ghost squad as you can give many commands to them.... you can 
 tell them to move to a certain position if its the building right in front of you or its a car 
 placed 100 yrds away via your map..... then you can tell them to regroup at your position if you 
 need help or you just want them to follow you.... then you can do all these cool little moves that 
 most games do not have that make the game funner and more realistic, if you see a spot to hide 
 and you have to crouch behind it, but have to get there quick, you can run at the spot then quickly 
 hit the crouch button and he will slide like he was stealing a base and you will take cover, then 
 there is the low places that you have to get to fast, just simply do the same thing but hold the 
 crouch button and he will dive to take position....... as you get into the game they give you a 
 UAV Cypher to allow you to spot enemies accrossed the map so you can plan out your attack on the 
 unsuspecting enemies.... back to your squad you also have more options that to go hide or regroup..... 
 you can also tell them to go into recon mode which means that they will be as stealthy as possible 
 when sneaking on an enemy.... or you can switch to assault mode just by simply pressing the LB 
 button, um this is kinda self explanitory but pretty much means get some ammo and go in guns-a-blazin.... 
 as you get further into your mission your team will drop some ammo boxes down for you so you can 
 replenish your ammo and get new guns if you want... 
  
  during the game they will have a live feed (your cross-com) that will let you know whats going 
 on, wheather it be the news or your HQ, they always keep you up to date on what the mission is 
 and whats going on... the cross com becomes very useful as if you were being ambushed and your 
 teammate is hit and hurt then DIES.... it will show you on your cross com as if you were watching 
 him die.... then you can just go patch him up and he'll be as good as almost dead..... because 
 it doesnt give him full health it leaves in yellow so he has some health but is still vulnerable, 
 that is why you want to stay sharp and try not to get demolished by the enemies...... you still 
 have the typical ghost recon hiding behind wall and peeking out and shooting someone in the head..... 
 but scence this is ADVANCED WARFIGHTER if you have your team or you or the UAV spot someone it 
 will show up on ur screen as a red diamond so you know where they are.... because thier advanced.....
 
  
  A. I. : the AI in this game is really...... ummmm whats the word im lookin for again........ o ya 
 its excellent to the max..... not just your squad but the enemies too.... first is your squad.: 
 your squad will respond to whatever happens in the game.. wheather its tellin them to take cover 
 behind some shot up bus stop shelter or just having them shoot up the place..... they react to 
 it... if you tell them to go cover behind some building and you stay in someones spot... he will 
 find a new spot to hide... and if you tell them to hide somewhere or even to go somewhere, if they 
 see someone they will take him out, but if its a lot of people they will look for cover and wait 
 for orders..... then you got the computer AI which is also really awesome.... first off i would 
 like to say that they are not like other people in other games in that in G. R. A. W. the enemies 
 dont always know where your comin from *cough* PDZ *cough* so you CAN sneek up on them as they 
 are casually strollin the streets talkin to each other...... but if you already started a battle 
 with one, they will hear it and start comin, and dont think you can just take them out cuz they 
 also look for cover which gives the game an authentic feeling.....
  
  Multiplayer: this isnt one of the best multiplayers out there but it is pretty darn good to say 
 the least.... in the multiplayer you create a guy and how he looks... you are alone so you dont 
 have a squad to command... except the people that you are with (if they listen to you... just shoot 
 em in the head a couple times and they'll listen.... jkjk) in this you have many options on games 
 to play including- Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Co-Op Elimination (human v. Comp.) , Solo Elimination, 
 etc., etc..... and instead of giving you the gun that is best fit, they let you pick from all kinds/all 
 of the guns in the game.
  
  This is a must buy for all 360 owners out there and it is highly addictive... 
  *REMEMBER* YOU 
 R CAPT. MITCHELL & YOU R #1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja-Vox
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 19, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon has to be one of my favourite gaming franchises ever. Right up there next to Doom, 
 and the Elder Scrolls. If you played the original GR games on the PS2 or Gamecube, i'm afraid you 
 wont really know what i'm talking about. Those lucky enough to take it for a spin on the PC, on 
 the XBox, know exactly what kind of experience it offered. The only game which made you feel like 
 you really were at war; and since when has war been easy?
  
  Step aside Maste Chief, because there are no energy shields in Ghost Recon. Hit once? Well, you're 
 going to have to listen to the grunts and sighs of your soldier for the rest of the mission as 
 you limp your way through the level. Hit twice? Well, maybe it's time to have a little break from 
 the warzone. 
  
  GRAW hasn't moved too far from this traditional, brutal style of gameplay. And believe me, that's 
 a good thing. The major step forward here is one of visuals, rather than huge gameplay changes. 
 Mexico City is very much a different choice of location, in contrast to the open hills or bombed 
 out towns the games usually take place in. This time you feel as if you're in a real, living, vibrant 
 city which has been brought to it's knees by rebellion. And it's your job to sweep up.
  
  The opening level sees you flying above the skyline inside a military helicopter, looking out onto 
 the breath-taking vista of the largest city on earth. The real shock comes when you hop out of 
 the chopper and take a few steps foward, realising that it wasn't actually a cut-scene but a real 
 piece of gameplay. And things only get better from here. Lighting effects are wonderful, with the 
 sun reflecting off the concrete and blurring your scope if you move to quickly, or stare at the 
 sun. Shadows are cast to a near-real degree, and the whole world is reflected in the glass windows 
 of shops and abandoned buildings. GRAW is a pretty game to say the least.
  
  But enough of that. Let's talk about the gameplay. Well, it's solid, but not without it's flaws. 
 There are some major improvements over previous outings, such as the ability to command armoured 
 vehicles from trucks, to tanks, to freakin' APACHE HELICOPTERS. Sorry. Also, there's a lot more 
 variation and continuity to the levels. Now you always know what it is you're doing, why you're 
 doing it and what purpose it will serve in contrast to say, Ghost Recon 2, which often saw you 
 blasting your way through an enemy position, with no idea what connection it has to any storyline. 
 Now you have a start, a middle an end. Good stuff.
  
  Despite this, there are actually a few things which seem to have taken a step back. Or in the case 
 of the AI, a few steps back and then a jump, for good measure. Your comrades will often sit, completely 
 in the open, bullets bouncing around their feet as they aimlessly shoot at bad guys. You look at 
 them and sigh, "for god's sake, get out of open!" before hearing the inevitable "man, down!". This 
 becomes even more irritating when you are given a grade at the end of the level relating to how 
 many of your men were killed and wounded - it's hardly my fault if he decides to sit in the middle 
 of the road, is it? Commands have also become very basic. Massively basic in fact, with the only 
 real instuctions being "go there" or "come back". What happened to Bravo and Alpha teams, both 
 being sent to different parts of the map to fulfil their own roles? 
  
  The sound? Fantastic. Really, i dont think i've played a game more immersive. If you have surround 
 sound, you're really in for a treat. Particularly when vehicles, or abandoned cars explode. Or 
 grenades. Or when a grenade goes off, causing a car to explode. "Could you please turn down world 
 war three?" to quote on neighbour.
  
  The game's solid sinlge player experience also comes with a multiplayer conterpart, although this 
 suffers from the same problem found with many Tom Clancy games. And that is the two different studios 
 tackling two sides of the game. There's a noticeable difference in graphics as you jump into a 
 multiplayer game, although that's not to say the visuals are at all ugly here. Also, the beautiful 
 animations in the campaign mode aren't here - why not? Why does that mini-progress bar come up 
 when you reload, like in Ghost Recon 2? It's all very disorientating if you jump from single to 
 multiplayer and vice versa, but hey, at least the controls are consistant, unlike Splinter Cell: 
 Chaos Theory which featured two completely different schemes for it's single and multiplayer games.
 
  
  Overall, Ghost Recon offers a real next gen experience. It's not without it's flaws, but without 
 doubt it's the game which you cried out for when you first invested in that XBox 360 - the game 
 which tells you next-gen has arrived. Everything from the graphics, to the sound has had every 
 effort put into it to ensure an authentic, immersive experience.
  
  Best Ghost Recon to date, and highly recommended for veteran and newcomer alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dajo128
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 19, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  The game is just as my title has told you, it is the new Halo 2 on the 360. The game has a good 
 online community with many competitive players. The single campaign is good and doesn't stop with 
 some surprises. 
  
  The best part of the game though is the online play. You can either switch back and forth from 
 3rd to first person giving every gamer exactly what they want from a game. The game looks just 
 as good online too, but some of the boards seem to onesided. 
  
  You will see when you enter into Ghost Recon play that you will be put on the team that is not 
 soo good, and you will start from a very hard part, but hey the rookies have to start somewhere. 
 i started at that same posision until i put together a clan of players that i play with that do 
 very well.
  
  The game isnt done justive without a Hi-Def tv, and you are at a disadvantage without one. Example 
 would be the better view across the boards allows you to differ between bushes and bushes with 
 people sniping from them.
  
  This game is worth the value and is a good upgrade to a game that seems to be a bit more realistic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rumstocker
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 19, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  G. R. A. W. is easily one of the best three games on the Xbox 360 at the current time (June 19, 2006) . 
 The gameplay, the graphics, the sound are all great, the only thing I didn't like was the multiplayer. 
 I know that now a million of you will click that you don't recommend this review, but you know 
 what, sitting in a game lobby listening to people talk and waiting for their game to finish sucks. 
 It really sucks! On several occasions, I loaded up G. R. A. W. and turned it off after fifteen minutes 
 of not getting into a game quick enough. Tell me I should wait. Fine, but when I can pop Halo 2 
 or Call of Duty 2 in and be playing in less than five minutes, then thats what I'm doing. Now once 
 you get into a game, the game is great. And if you have friends online, making your own partying 
 and battling bots is impressive, espescially the H. U. D. cam. Other than this probalem though the 
 game is great. It is easily one of the top three along with Elder Scrolls: Oblivion and Call of 
 Duty 2, and yes, it's better than C. O. D. 2, so it's in the top 2. (I am not a fan of RPG's, but 
 I respect Oblivion and I will admit that it is the best game on 360.) GRAW's gameplay is sweet. 
 It's a shooter with a single player campaign that's worth the money. The graphics are beautiful. 
 If you like shooters, buy this game. If you have a 360 try this game because it's one of the best. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlcain
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 18, 2006 11:50 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, or GRAW, is a series that had a strong showing the Xbox, and is 
 now making the leap to next generation with it's first showing on the 360. Well, let's just say 
 I hope all the series that will transition to the 360 end up sharing GRAW's success. It's not a 
 perfect game, but it is still a fantastic game and something the 360 really needed.
  
  GRAW came out at the tale end of a 3 month drought of games that began when the system launched 
 in late November. While there were some great games in the launch lineup, none of them really showed 
 what the 360 could do graphically. Enter GRAW, that was the first game that really showed what 
 the 360 could do and was a game that you could validate your purchase of a 360 by just looking 
 at it. I realize Fight Night came out first, but that was great graphics on a much smaller scale. 
 
  
  So it is all just graphics then? Absolutely not! GRAW is an extremely tactical shooter that incorporates 
 possibly the best cover system in a game to date. The great thing about the cover system is that 
 it is essential to the gameplay, in the SP game at least, and is not scripted in the least. Each 
 of the levels are just open ended enough to not feel like you're on rails, as well as to warrant 
 multple playthroughs. The other aspect that warrants multiple playthroughs is the difficulty, as 
 I recommend everyone play through the game once on medium to hone your skills, and once on hard 
 to truly experience the superb tactical gameplay. This is the first game I have played in a while 
 that honestly feels different, and better, on hard difficulty.
  
  The MP however doesn't really share the SP success in my mind. While given the right conditions 
 the MP can be one of the best experiences you have had on a console, the average gamer will have 
 to go through numerous hoops to get to these experiences. Getting randomly booted from servers, 
 rampant spawn camping, and a lack of any sort of skill matching system are just a few of the big 
 problems of what seems at times like a broken MP system. But if you already know people who play 
 GRAW MP that you can hang with and will teach you the maps and other essentials, it could be your 
 MP game of choice for some time to come.
  
  There are other issues with the games AI and such, but those don't come close to marring a fantastic 
 presentation and SP campaign. Anyone remotely interested in third-person shooters should have already 
 picked this up, and be shot if they haven't. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sludgely
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 18, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I'm not going to say that Ghost Recon completely sucks, because it didn't. Unfortunately, this 
 could have been great game was plagued with a few minor flaws that seriously destroyed the game. 
 I'll go through and look at each category individually.
  
  Gameplay:
  In terms of single player, the game seems pretty cool at first.
  The interface is simple and 
 easy to learn. There's a plus. It is extremly easy to control your troops but with this simplicity 
 is accompanied by one of the games first major fault. This is a tactical shooter. All you can do 
 it tell your troops to move from one place to another or whom to attack. That is it. How are you 
 suppose to create the complex strategies that you would like to make in order to complete the mission? 
 Here's the answer: you can't. Compared to the original Ghost recon, in terms of commanding your 
 squad, this game is trash. Compared to a game like Socom or it's sequel, this game is wayyy behind.
 
  Here's the second major problem in the single player: the AI (put simply) sucks. Your allies are 
 retarded. You tell them to shoot a guy, and they will get stuck shooting a sandbag. if you tell 
 them to move somewhere, they will run out into enemy fire and die. You can't even tell them to 
 take control of a machine gun! How did gamespot give this game a 9.2 claiming that it sets the 
 standard for xbox 360 shooters? Don't ask me. So yeah, there are my two biggest qualms when it 
 comes down to the single player. If they were fixed, perhaps the game would be a little better.
 
  
  Multiplayer:
  Well... what's there to say... it's terrible. And the sad part is, it could be so easily fixed. 
 The multiplayer is designed so that you cannot enter a room with a party of friends so that the 
 teams do not get rigged. Well, players have invented two simple solutions. Fortunately for skilled 
 players, Ghost Recon allows the host to pick the teams. The result: the four best players versus 
 the four least experienced. it creates an excellent environemnt for those who wish to learn how 
 to play the game. And the other method. If players want to play with their elite clan, they will 
 simply make a gametype no one plays, have their friends join that room, then simply change the 
 gametype to one that people play, effectively placing all of their skilled friends on their own 
 team. My point is that this game sucks for new players online.
  The other major issue with online play is camping. Every spawn point is practically pre-determined. 
 Again, the host will choose to have no invincibility time after you spawn and, as a result, the 
 game turns into a who can camp whom's base first. Sound fun dosen't it? Skilled teams will actually 
 have positions for every player in order to make it so that not a single player can spawn.
  I won't diss the Co-op. It's actually pretty cool and most games don't have it. I mean, you can't 
 respawn, but that isnt so bad. If you enjoy Co-op, this is actually worth playing.
  
  In terms of actual gameplay, everything is pretty good except for the few things that I mentioned 
 above.
  
  Graphics:
  There isn't much to say. The graphics are great. But then again, this game probably was regarded 
 so highly largely as a result of its beauty rather than actual content.
  
  Sound: 
  I can't really remember what the sound was like... I'm sure it wasn't bad. Few games actually create 
 immersive soundtracks these days anyhow.
  
  Value and Tilt:
  I gave them 6's because the game has issues. Simple.
  
  I hope this review was helpful for 
 you. Please, rent this game before you buy it. It has some issues and I do not want you to be as 
 dissapointed as I was when I bought it. I wish i haden't spent my 60 bucks on it. Plain and simply. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rounder617
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 18, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  this game is probably the best in it series but it is totally differnt than the PS2 and XBOX versions. 
 The onilne play isnt that very good but its still fun to play. but if your getting this for then 
 online play don't its not worth 60 bucks wait a little bit and then get it or rent it. but the 
 single player play is what you should buy it for becasue it is awsome. if you really just want 
 to play it for live rent it or wait till the price drops becasue live isnt that good but the graphics 
 are awsome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IOwnMasterChief
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  I have probubly played near 500 games in my life, i have played all the top XBOX 360 games (which 
 frankly wern't very top material)
  
  This is Bar None, the best Console game, i have ever played, ever
  
  In the first 50 minutes, 
 here are my P and C
  
  Pros:
  -Disguestingly Realistic Graphics
  -Very few glitches (no walking through people or people standing in objects)
  -Perfect Gameplay
 
  -Amazing Story
  -The most next gen game on Console today
  -Pretty realistic physics
  -AI is not your average dip$h! t
  -Lots of weapons to use
  -Easy team commanding (Similar to 
 Ten Hammers)
  -Explosions are increadably realistic
  -Sniping is a blast, and realistically hard in Campaign
  -Hundreds of different possiblities 
 for game modes, for local and online play
  -Xbox Live is FLAWLESS
  -Main Charecters voice in campaign sounds like the burger king guy :-P "New at Burger King!... I 
 mean... Regroup!"
  -Multiplayer maps are increadably fun!
  
  Cons:
  -Only thing i can think of is that you cant hug walls in multiplayer maps....
  
  Amazing game, 
 Deffinatly a buy, this game will be your focus until Halo 3, or Gears of War comes out, 100% garuntee 
 (unless another amazing game comes out soon)
  
  10 out of 10 (my first ever)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StanleyHandyman
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  G. R. A. W. is undoubtedly the best game in the Ghost Recon series. It has all the elements oh a great 
 game, and is a gem on the 360.
  
  Gameplay
  Good- Well rounded tactical action, lots of gameplay modes in multiplayer
  Bad- The game is a 
 little too slow paced at times
  
  Graphics
  Good- Awesome player models ,and military vehicles, Good representation of Mexico city
  Bad- Some 
 of the building exteriors aren't to good, civilian vehicles are ugly
  
  Sound
  Good- voice acting, sound effects
  Bad- charecters dialouge isn't too great
  
  Replay Value
 
  Fairly long story mode, Multiplayer modes are fun and have kept me busy for a while, lots of acheivements.
 
  
  Overall
  This is a game that is a must have for the 360. It does nearly everything right and should not 
 be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo3GAMEFREAK
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 18, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  I would've given this game a 10, however before i did that i remembered the movement in the gamplay
 
  EX
  You are running, you take a turn around a fence, you run into the enemy. (This is the problem) 
 You don't have enough room to shoot him so you have to back up, and while you are backing up it 
 makes it even more difficult to shoot the guy because your guy keeps moving left and right as you 
 are trying to aim. Do any of you guys agree with me on this or is it just me? I just think they 
 could've made the movement for the people better, but seeing as how it is a third person I guess 
 it should be excused. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunslingers
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game with a good capian. The multiplayer. Is also very good. The campain has some 
 hard spots and will keep you playing for hours. The multiplayer has some great aspects. The only 
 darw back is one XBL it takes a while to get into games ( maby it's just me but still) . Other than 
 that the multiplayer is very solid. It also has some great squad comand controls in the campian 
 mode. You can use these controls to move our squad or a tank. You can also tell the tank what to 
 shoot at. The same thing can be done with your squad. There is also a very cool detaction drone 
 thing, that is fun to play around with. This detction drone is also very us full. I would say this 
 game is a buy.
  
  -The Gunslingers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue-Sky
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 18, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The controls are quite simple. May take a bit to fully understand, but after a while it all becomes 
 routine. Whether you are solo or commanding 4 soldiers and vehicles, G. R. A. W. is no run and gun. 
 Taking cover and using strategy is the only way to win this fight. However for a soilder with futuristic 
 equipment sometimes combat seems a little too slow such as using zoom on scope mounted weapons. 
 The AI is a lot better than the previous installments but not self-sustaining. You still have to 
 keep a close eye on everything your fellow soldiers do. Overall these are all minor hiccups that 
 are easy to tolerate when playing. 
  
  Graphics: 
  G. R. A. W. still contains some similarities to its multiplatform counterparts, but is definitely 
 the best of the bunch. Thanks to the HUD and lighting effects that give it a real war, gritty look. 
 And you won't be disappointed if you are playing it in Hi-Def
  
  Sound: 
  If you don't have a 5.1 setup to experience how amazing this game sounds, its still satisfying 
 on a TV set. In my case, I turned up my TV real loud!
  
  Online:
  G. R. A. W. offers a variety of options such as maps, minor character customization, and preset Co-op 
 scenarios. Unfortunately It plays nothing like the single player campaign, but more like its predecessors. 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zmaleh
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 17, 2006 10:37 pm PT
Review:  I got this game from a friend. When I watched him play it at his house I was very confused and 
 it looked very complicated and hard, I asked himIt looks so confusing, How do you play it so 
 well?" He answered, "You will get used to it and it will feel natural, it wont be so complicated". 
 Well Anyways another friend traded it with me permanantly for Full Auto, this is where the story 
 starts.
  
  I played the trainging and was pretty good, not a pro, it was confusing, but I knew the basic controls. 
 After a few days I had the Game completely down, I was finally a pro and was good and this game 
 beyond belief. 
  
  The Game had excellent graphics for a 2nd Gen 360 game, It had good sound, I loved the Cross-Com 
 feature, the Gameplay was fun, The Difficulty was hard at first but Just right after. The Achievements 
 for Hard and Normal gameplay gives this game great Replay value. I loved the campaign, and the 
 multiplayer was good, and fun, but an amateur would get killed very easy at first.
  
  When A different one of my friends came to my house, He said that It was a complicated game and 
 that it looked hard and frustrated, he asked me how I could play when it is so confusing, I strongly 
 replied "You will get used to it and it will feel natural, it wont be so complicated" Just as my 
 friend assured me Before I played the Game.
  
  I hope I leaned some people towards buying this Game, And Im glad if this review had helped someone.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 17, 2006 10:13 pm PT
Review:  I just didn't really see why everyone loved GRAW so much. I mean, it's a fun game but it's way 
 too tactical for its own good. Also, where is all the action? Shooting enemies just isn't as fun 
 as it should be and something just feels left out. Don't get me wrong, it's a good game but it's 
 just not as great or fun as everyone claims it to be.
  
  The shooting is all about thinking. You see, you could walk out and start trying to mow the enemies 
 down but there just isn't as much enemies and it tells you where they all are. Now where's the 
 fun in that? If you run out and try to shoot 'em all down they'll take you in a second. You've 
 got to use your head, grenades and walls to hide behind. Also, a lot of this game feels like doing 
 something and repeating that.
  
  The graphics and sound are flawless. The voice acting and sound effects are very, very, very realistic. 
 The graphics look photo realistic. It's just a great looking and great sounding game. The game 
 is pretty long. About 15-20 hours long. Not too many reasons to replay it but maybe once more I 
 guess.
  
  The main problems here is the action just isn't all that fun. It's a good game but it lacks variety 
 and is way to realistic and tactical. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rapt0rz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 17, 2006 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon is one of the best Team Based Shooters ever and certainly one of the 360's best available 
 titles. The gameplay is fun, tactical, and skilled while the weapon balance (although not perfect) 
 is amazing with each gun having its own strengths and weaknesses. This game is truly next gen. 
 With amazing graphics, sound, and gameplay this game is the real deal. The only problems that I 
 found in these areas are that the soundtrack is only Rock (not a problem for me but may bother 
 others) and that the textures are dramatically downgraded for multiplayer. Luckily this is countered 
 by the games amazing gameplay and assorted stellar multi-player modes that are fully customizable 
 and include preset types such as Hamburger Hill and Siege. However what really puts this game over 
 the top for me is Ubisoft's devotion to keep the new content rolling which we see in the Chapter 
 2 update that will be accessible through the XBL Marketplace and will feature a new co-op campaign, 
 new maps, and some cool new weapons. GRAW is the real deal and succeeds where the series has failed 
 in the past.
  
  95.5/100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlightedEye
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 17, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  After about 25 hours spent with the game, Ive played through the single-player campaign on hard 
 and spent several hours on multiplayer. Its a good thing I waited to write this review, because 
 based on the first mission, I was ready to give this game a perfect 10.
  
  During the first couple of hours, as I played the single-player campaign, it seemed that this game 
 had everything right. The graphics were amazing (I was particularly impressed by the draw distance 
 and the real-time shadows on everything) , the audio was excellent in every way, and the gameplay 
 was simple, deep, and worked perfectly.
  
  As I progressed, however, I realised that this perfection amounted to only half the single-player 
 campaign. Im not sure why, but in some areas objects would take a couple of seconds to pop into 
 view. The mission Guardrail IX, for example, had one section that appeared to be a large open area 
 until I waited a few seconds and pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, several piles of wood popped into view 
 one after another. Unfortunately this pop-in was quite severe in many areas of the game and really 
 detracted from the otherwise great graphics. Framerate was also an issue occasionally as large 
 explosions could make it drop to into single digits.
  
  While the severe pop-in was rather annoying, it was not the worst part of the game. Gameplay, which 
 was mostly great, was sometimes very unpolished and frustrating. The AI was the biggest offender 
 in this regard as many times my teammates would not recognise enemies standing right in front of 
 them. I was grateful when the enemy returned the favour and didnt notice my teammates. In these 
 situations I would mostly stare in stunned silence until my teammates finally shouted, Enemy spotted! 
 or, more frequently, were shot down. While the AI could be the most frustrating, the game engines 
 obsession with having objects move through other objects was also annoying. Once I forced to shoot 
 enemies while in a helicopter flying through buildings, and many times I would find enemies and 
 teammates stuck in objects and walls.
  
  Aside from these issues, however, the campaign was well-done, challenging, and a good length (it 
 took me 20 hours on hard) .
  
  While the single-player version of the game is quite unpolished in some cases, the multiplayer 
 does not suffer the same problem; although it does lack many of the single-players graphical and 
 gameplay features.
  
  In contrast to the single-player, there are no real-time shadows in multiplayer and the draw distance, 
 while still large, is considerably more restricted. On the bright side, I never once saw an object 
 suddenly pop into existence. In the single-player campaign, on the best features of the gameplay 
 was the ability to take cover and lean around corners. For some inexplicable reason this feature 
 is not included in multiplayer. Also, glass in multiplayer in completely bullet-proof and all boxes 
 and other objects are stuck to the ground and immovable. Despite these drawbacks, however, the 
 multiplayer is still solid and can be quite fun.
  
  Overall, this game is a mixed bag. When it works well its brilliant, stunning, and even groundbreaking 
 at times. But you never know when mailboxes might start popping up in front of you, when teammates 
 might suddenly decide to run into the middle of an open field when told to retreat, or when youll 
 be forced to shoot enemies while flying through the buildings of Mexico City. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spicylemon89
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 17, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This is the only Ghost Recon game that I have played and man is it good. I've owned the game since 
 it game out. I played the single player for a while and really enjoyed it. It's very immersive 
 and the graphics are amazing. It's a tactical shooter, but a fan of any type of shooter will enjoy 
 this.
  
  The single player lasts around ten hours or so and you can play it through on hard also. Once you're 
 done with that, there is the multiplayer component. I didn't give multiplayer the time of day when 
 I originally played the game. I finished single player and the game collected some dust because 
 I really hated the lobby system. So, I finally came went back to multiplayer and found that it 
 can be really fun if you can get past the lobbies. Once you get into a got server, you'll play 
 for hours (assuming you don't get disconnected) .
  
  So, basically, the only bad thing in this game is your squad's A. I. (I had some problems with them 
 for a while) , there is no co-op for single player (I wish there was even though there is co-op 
 for separate missions) , and it can be hard getting in to an online game sometimes. But other than 
 that, this game is amazing. It has to be played to understand how good it is. It definitely is 
 the best game out for the 360 to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SemiMaster
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 16, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  I was thinking, hmm, a next gen tactical shooter. Yes, it has some of the glitz and glamor of a 
 new graphics engine on a next gen system, but it lacks heart and soul. It lacks a solid coop campaign, 
 which is probably my single most favorite aspects of Halo 2 and Perfect Dark Zero. 
  
  Gameplay: Well, this is one of the most important parts, and it is where I find Ghost Recon Advanced 
 Warfighter falls short. The reason is there is not much to do besides shoot people with guns that 
 appear different, but other than the standard 15 clip pistol, hand grenades, rocket launcher, sniper 
 rifle and about 50 different semi to full auto rifles that shoot with varying accuracy and bullets 
 in the clip, there just isnt much more than, pistol, rifle, grenade, sniper, rocket launcher, and 
 with the exception of a pistol and grenades you can only hold one item. Now I appreciate the realness 
 of this game, which is one of its charms. Get shot in the head, you certainly die. Get shot anywhere 
 else, you will live. Take one in the chest, yea, your vest protects you, but 3 maybe 4 shots you 
 are done. That is interesting at first, but it gets old quick, where luck of the draw or the shot 
 simply dictate your survival. 
  
  I cannot say how many times I actually tried to rescue the President in the second level, and I 
 was pinned down. Kill as many guys as I might, the very last guy will just get a lucky shot off. 
 Coop against computers is the same way. They can be incredibly stupid, and you can mow them all 
 down, but just one enemy spawns behind you and its game over. Turn on 5 or 10 or infinite respawns 
 it is too easy. 
  
  Calling in airstrikes is interesting, but for such a vital mission, where your commander gives 
 you full jurisdiction and command over troops and such, you can only use your airstrikes very rarely.
 
  
  Graphics: Graphically, the textures and layout of the game is very impressive. Sprawling environments 
 with huge buildings and vehicles and trees. Landmarks are well designed, the arena combat maps 
 are all very different and give an interesting perspective and feel to each fight. Everything is 
 crisp, even up to close zoom or staring at a wall. 
  
  However, there is a lot of reasons why this game is graphically overrated. 
  First, there is 
 no battle damage, other than a few cheesy bullet marks on the wall. Buildings take damage, no structures 
 collapse, no cars explode, the chairs at outdoor cafes do not even move. 
  
  Second, the enemies ALL look the exact same, and you would never know by getting up close, as you 
 would die before you saw their faces. 
  
  Third, there are NO civilians anywhere the entire game. No hostages, no kids playing outdoors, 
 no people going to and from work, no traffic, NOTHING. Out of a city of 28 million (Mexico City, 
 well its actually in the 2010s too, so close to 30million I'd say) there is not one single civilian 
 in the city. If feels to contrived to artificial, more like the whole game is a virtual simulation, 
 and not urban combat. I'm not even going to bother saying what impact it would have on the gameplay 
 or story, just graphically it is a cop out.
  
  Sound: What sound? Gunfire? Some half way decent voice acting, aircraft flying over, but thats 
 it. 
  
  Value: Decent value if you don't mind the single player game, with better if you like the Xbox 
 live version. Mind you this game isn't for everyone, and as a newbie, you will be even more outmatched 
 by veterans on Xbox live who are smarter and more experienced than bots. I guarantee this will 
 turn you off of Xbox live with this game very quickly.
  
  Tilt: I don't like this game, it isn't even good when you seriously strip it down to its components. 
 I understand some people may like the game play much better than I do, I am just one person with 
 an opinion, but the fact that the graphics and sound are flawed due to lack of certain qualities 
 really detracts from the whole realistic combat scenarios. Anyone can program a beautifully rendered 
 game with sharp 90 corners and rectangular buildings, but it is hard to create a game with destructible 
 environments and mulitple A. I. Also, 2 player coop would not have suffered, more than a split screen. 
 A system with this high graphics capability wouldn't have diminished the gameplay at all. 
  
  These things seriously hurt the game. Take a step back and think about it, even Perfect Dark 
 Zero had the ability to dislodge boxes and shoot out glass and such, just minor things like that, 
 not even huge glaring flaws like no coop (it should be mandatory for any tactical shooter I believe) 
 hurt this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MCCHA
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 15, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The missions are a little short and a bit more variance in objective types would have 
 been nice, but otherwise the game is solid. There are many different multiplayer modes which makes 
 for some excellent online and system link matches.
  
  Graphics: The best on the 360. Surpasses Oblivion only slightly. The character physics and movement 
 are excellent. Smoke and fire effects are the best I have ever seen.
  
  Sound: Does not get much better than this. Turn on surround sound and let yourself enter the battle.
 
  
  Value: A few more missions and a little bit long missions would have been nice, but play through 
 on hard mode and play the multiplayer and you will definitely get your moneys worth from this.
 
  
  Tilt: Yeah, I liked it, and you probably will too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ukmids
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2006 3:12 am PT
Review:  G. R. A. W is 1 of the best games around on the xbox 360, from the start including the trainnin level 
 u thrown into instant action, the graphics throw u into another place were u feel like u in total 
 control , n ur the 1 who gonna save the day, the cross com system is awsome, givin u the option 
 to try differant things, the nite vision on graw is awsome, everyone shud play the game just usin 
 nitevision, i completed the game on normal in 11 hrs but to get the most out of the game has to 
 be played on hard, yeah it does get a lil frustrating, 1 hit kill on u n start again thats the 
 best thing bout it, the games tests ur ability to try new tatics , the AI for ur men, is bad i 
 found it easier to go at it alone, or jus kill ur men from the start cus they dnt really do that 
 much in the game, pretty much stand there readin a paper while u gettin shot, buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enmitY-_-
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 13, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game I didn't think it was going to be as fun as everyone brought the hype up 
 to be. When I first started playing it the single player was really fun, and showed so the basics 
 which helped alot if you want to beat the game without having alot of difficulting.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay in GRAW is really good , the game runs really smooth , except for sometimes 
 in muliplayer you lag a little bit. In single player the frames are always high and you will never 
 get choppy. 
  
  Graphics- The graphics in this game are seriously amazing, coming from me thats really good because 
 I don't think that alot of games have really good graphics or anything. I don't have a HD television 
 , just a small one in my room and the graphics are outstanding, if you worrying about the HD next 
 gen stuff , its really no big dead , sure it will make it look better but without the HD it looks 
 just fine. 
  
  Sound- The sound of war, the sounds are really good , you can hear everything from the rebel's 
 yelling to the shots of every different gun in the game. The helicopter sounds really cool: D and 
 the music when your doing the missions is cool too.
  
  Value- GRAW is a good pick-up for anyone who likes tactical shooters , and for the people who just 
 like war. I liked it for both its qualities but GRAW should be bought by anyone who likes a shooter.
 
  
  Tilt- This game has good tilt. The game is always challenging you with easy to difficult missions 
 in the long campaign mode. The muliplayer is really fun and the game is a must buy.
  
  Thanks for reading!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamecubefan2000
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Yes, this game is really fun. I recommend it for any Ghost Recon fan. It's just another game that 
 looks next-gen and plays like next-gen. The multiplayer is just fun as ever. I have to compare 
 this with Halo 2, as Halo 2 is the best multiplayer game on the Xbox. This, in my opinion, is the 
 best multiplayer on the 360. The campaign isn't bad either, and is very worth playing for achievement 
 points. GRAW on the 360 is a game that'll keep us on our toes for another Ghost Recon game for 
 the next generation. The weapons are excellent, the graphics are amazing, and the game itself is 
 worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treyskillz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 12, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  This is the first game I got that actually feels Next Gen. Graphics, and gameplay, plus its the 
 first ghost recon I could stand to finish to the very end. If your not a fan of the old ones, you 
 should still pick this one up, its a great tactical shooter. I'm going to go through this baby 
 again on hard, just for fun
  
  Only downside = More work should have went into the multiplayer, its more like a upgraded GR2 than 
 a next gen version like the single player. Plus not being able to join games that have already 
 started, and having to wait in long lobbies (hopefully you have a harddrive to listen to music) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VooDoo1144
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 9, 2006 3:10 am PT
Review:  I bought this game because almost everyone who owns a 360 has this game... I plan on using this 
 game to get into Xbox live when I am able to afford it.
  
  Due to my lack of any multiplayer experience with this game I may end up updating this review with 
 a higher score... but for now I will just get into the Single player aspects of the game.
  
  Apon starting this game I knew I was in for a very polished and tight feeling game, the graphics 
 really blew me away with all the bloom lighting and great bullet impact effects and explosions. 
 The ghosts look great and have a very smooth life like feel to them... even the controls seem to 
 respond in a very organic manner. The enemies look pretty bad... almost to the point where I wonder 
 why they even bothered... I bought a next gen game... I want next gen everything.
  
  the new interface really changes the mission structure... though I hate that I am not able to pick 
 my weapons as much as I would like... and I doubt that Mexican revolutionary's would be outfitting 
 with G36K's... I would have rathered see a bunch of AK varients... but your choices are good... not 
 as good as the other GR games.... but okay... but why can we not have a scope on a weapon with a 
 underslung grenade launcher... seems like a forced balance issue to me.
  
  The story is pretty standard... almost laughable considering the current political climate... but 
 still it is good enough for the game and never feels that bad at all... the villain feels a little 
 B movie like though... the last level is a good indication of that.
  
  The sound is really good... bullets hitting concrete and such... the music is kinda dumb (the All 
 along the watchtower cover is alright... but the rest is pretty lame indeed) ... but the score is 
 nice... I like that almost Hans Zimmer feel to it.
  
  The AI is pretty awfull... the enemies are okay... but your ghosts are dumb as rocks and do not do 
 anything on their own... I would have liked them to take some inititive and maybe automaticaly heal 
 others and such.
  
  I do really like this game... it is good enough to play again due to the very open narrative of 
 the game... it never feels like you have to play the whole thing to enjoy it.
  
  I hear that this game is great on Live... I will be trying that this weekend and I hope it lives 
 up to the hype.
  
  anyway... if you like Clancy games... buy this game... if you need one game to buy with the 360... buy 
 Elder scrolls... more money's worth.
  
  Here is my edit... I have put more than enough hours of multiplay into the game and I must say that 
 it is really great.... but only if you have a few good freinds on your list.
  
  The maps are great and sometimes very easy to remember... the extra guns are great and add personal 
 style to the game... the ability to lock out certain weapons is a welcome feature due to the reduction 
 of COD2 style grenade bombing and such.
  
  my only gripe is that you really need to find a good crowd to play with... alot of dumb kids and 
 adults don't understand that it is a team game and needs to be played like one.
  
  again... stupid halo playing running gunners tarnish a otherwise great game!
  
  anyway... GET 
 THIS GAME!
  
  Mike 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tom_25
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2006 4:01 am PT
Review:  Probally the best that the Tom Clancy series has ever released. The online is just as fun as Halo 
 onilne. The weapons are great and fun to use. So far out of Call of Duty 2, Perfect Dark Zero it 
 tops all of the shooters for the XBOX 360. It will probally be awhile until another game comes 
 out just like it or close to it (Halo 3) . Never out of all the games I have ever played have I 
 ever had it brings to your TVso much fun on one game. I love the physics it bit brings to your 
 TVrings to your TV. it brings to your TV. it brings to your TV. it brings to your TV. it brings to 
 your TV.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesgearing
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jun 11, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  This has ruined the game for me and 10% of the folks that picked up this game. It looks like alot 
 of fun, but with out this FUNDEMENTAL option, the game sux... I know ubi is planning a content 
 release soon, but based on the chatter in the ubi forums it looks like no lefty option is not going 
 to be fixed in a patch.. Im going to wait for the patch, if it doesnt fix it, i'll sell my copy 
 at gamestop and never buy another game before verifying lefty support. If this is a new trend by 
 game devs, then I'll probably sell my 360 and go back to PC games... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Briboo21
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 11, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  GRAW has an Ok singleplayer campaign and a good multiplayer. The campaign has the best visuals 
 I've ever seen on any console game and the lighting and shadows are very realistic. The details 
 on the ghosts are great, you can see wrinkles on there uniforms, stitching on patches, grooves 
 on boots etc. But the details on the NPC's arent good at all. The npc's have ps2 quality faces, 
 prolly worse. The gameplay in single player gets repititive really quick, cover up, pop up, fire 
 aimlessly. The aiming reticiles for all the weapons are terrible becuase its hard to aim precisely 
 since they're so big. Theres about 10 weapons to use throughtout the campaign and I dont thinks 
 thats enough for a ghost recon game. Theres only one pistol and 2 grenade types. The AI for your 
 team isnt great at all. They can find cover pretty good but thats about it. The multiplayer half 
 of the game is where this game shines. Team battles are intense and fun and the co-op is pretty 
 good but it needs more depth and more levels. The only bad part about multiplayer is the system 
 to find games which is bad becuase whenever it says a game is open and needs more players, the 
 room is alreay filled when you try to join. The hosts of the games always put the highest level 
 people on there team and the lower level newcomers on the other so they always have the experience 
 advantage. Thats annoying. Also theres alot of lag and dropping issues when you get into a game 
 so its hard to find a good place to find good games. I usualy end up quitting cuz of the difficulty 
 of just trying to find a decent game to play in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ra-Devil
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 11, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  AWESOME: The gameplay may be different from most shooters, but this is what any tactical shooter 
 should be like. What people were waiting for.
  
  THE GOOD: The on-the-fly command system is great. Keeping control of your squad and any other support 
 is easy and intuitive. Missions are each different and fun, giving lots of variety. Online gameplay 
 is a welcome addition, with multiple gametypes and variants. The immersion due to graphics and 
 sound is awe-inspiring.
  
  THE BAD: On some missions, even though you are given a rally point, you can't find your way to 
 it, with the addition of being blocked by knee-high ruble. The online play seems dry compared to 
 the Campaign, lacking the visual and sound effects and taking away cool gameplay elements that 
 show up in Campaign.
  
  REVIEW: A really great game. This is the kind of game I've been waiting for, and I know others 
 have too. The Campaign is really impressive, spanning all the story elements we've come to expect, 
 but this game is out to peek your interests with the gameplay. The tactics required in a single 
 mission is incredible. Either you do it the old-school way - making it really hard; or you do it 
 the new, innovative way - making it somewhat difficult, but really fun. This is not a run and gun. 
 This game is about your ability to lead your team and any other support effectively. It can almost 
 be compared to Full Spectrum Warrior, except you are actually playing as one of the soldiers. Shooting 
 things is very important, but you can't do these missions on you own, nor can you just sit back 
 and let your fellow squad members die. The quick and precise commanding system is awesome, making 
 your job a lot easier and much more fun. It almost brings back memories of Command & Conquer, except 
 now you are one of your units on the ground commanding all the others. The online play is fun, 
 but it feels a lot like the older Ghost Recons. None of the ducking behind cover or commanding 
 elements were brought over, nor were the immerseive visual and sound effects that got you stuck 
 on the game. While ducking was missed, it's understandable, since games like Perfect Dark Zero 
 showed nobody really ducked online. The problem is that this game was different, and ducking really 
 was something that would help. Overall though, it's still tons of fun. Get ready for a new style 
 of tactical shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwordsmanBeta10
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  This is a really, really, good game! This is one of my favroite first-person games besides Halo 2! 
 One of my favroite ideas about this game is the Cross-Com and UAV. You can send in the UAV to find 
 out enemy locations and see them on the Cross-Com! I also think that the weapons in G. R. A. W. are 
 really cool! My favroite is the MR-C brand of weapons! All in all, this is a good game and you 
 should give it a test run! Just be sure that you take alot of cover from enemies and pick up the 
 right weapons! Smoke grenades would not hurt either! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoE_bOi
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games ive ever played once you get used to the controls. This game is for 
 you if you love being trapped behind a concrete barier and there are machine gun pumling your position 
 and you call in for a helicopter and they come and kill everything, dont get me wrong, you might 
 gather the courage to kill them yourself but the apache is just a whole lot cooler. The graphics 
 are amazing and the detail is impecable. Also the online play is very intense having to use tactics 
 rather than just having the best gun. I remember the situations where you have to hold off, what 
 seems like infinite enemies and just gunning them down with my team and if a light armor vehicle 
 dares come and take us on we just throw nades at it and blow it to hell. if you like games like 
 the ranbow six series or the older ghost recon games this game is for you. just buy this game and 
 you will get it, it's AWESOME!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paullywog
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 27, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon is one of the highest rated games on this website. And those reviews can be backed 
 up by this game if you are the right person. If you like tactical shooters that require you work 
 along with friends, this is the game for you.
  
  GRAW's single player's first few missions are just trying to teach you everything, so obviously 
 aren't the greatest. But they get more fun and challenging as time wears on. There is enough here 
 to keep you challenged for a few hours, especially on harder difficulties. The levels are fairly 
 well designed, making you use the environment and your teammates to succeed.
  
  GRAW online could be better, but it is a fun experience. The lobby system may leave something to 
 be desired, as it may take you upwards of 10 minutes to get playing. The community may not be the 
 nicest, but just don't try to spark conflict and you will be fine.
  
  Overall, Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a shooter that many can enjoy, but it must be approached 
 with an open mind and a few hours to acclimate to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tasuke
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 10, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  From the beginning to the end i was astonished on everything this game had to offer. Graphics are 
 what they live up to be especialy cause its on the xbox 360 i absolutely loved the graphics how 
 it made it feel like you were actualy in a city. Sound and voice acting was amazing felt like you 
 were actualy holding the gun within your very own hand. I didnt necessarily like the fact that 
 every place there was no pedestrians or anything. Along with the fact that you couldnt use any 
 vehicles its always nice to use vehicles other then a chopper gun turret in a game. Other then 
 that i loved this game to the fullest. The storyline was beautiful and everything about this game 
 was perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D223
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 10, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  This is truly a great game if you're into 3rd person army style games like me. the thing they could've 
 done better was the controls there a bit screwy. Other then that the games perfect. It has an awesome 
 story line and tons of twists to it. Online is great but they changed quite a few thing when your 
 going online. Such as: different camera, no sticking to walls, no sliding or diving into walls 
 and you don't have to hold your breath when in scope. Co Op could've been a little better. it is 
 also extremely hard when on hard difficlty. But overall great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-gamer-X
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 10, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon AW is the best tactical shooter i have ever played. First, the controls are decent. 
 The single-player campaign was nice. Being able to give orders to support units other than your 
 feeble-minded helpers is a plus. The real time tactical map is an awsome feature. I really had 
 to think and strategize while trying to keep my squad mates alive and my support units online. 
 
  The online features are really cool. In enjoyed playing co-op and versus match. I thought it would 
 nice to play the single player campaign mission in co-op. But i cant complain, because this game 
 has exceed my expectations. But there is always room for improvement -----especially in the field 
 of ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bupp
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 10, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  When I first heard news about Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, I wasn't at all interested. When 
 GameSpot reviewed it and gave it a 9.2, I still wasn't convinced that I would like this game. However, 
 after several weeks, I finally decided to give it a try and I rented it. It was awesome.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a great game because the gameplay is unique. This 
 is not your run-of-the-mill shooter where you are an invincible one-man-army with and infinitely 
 huge arsenal. In GRAW, you lead three soldiers as you traverse through terrorist-infested Mexico 
 City in an effort to find the President of the United States, who has been taken hostage. Your 
 character is not invincible, instead, he has the power of advanced weaponry. The battles in GRAW 
 are amazing because of the intense realism which hits you like a ton of bricks. There are lots 
 of squad commands and vehicles at your disposal which help to elevate the fun. The storyline is 
 compelling and believable, and the battles are all quite intense. The multiplayer is also fun because 
 it is very different from the single player. There are several various modes that are all great 
 fun, and you play from the first person perspective instead of the third. Every aspect of GRAW's 
 gameplay is brilliant.
  
  GRAPHICS: Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter was truly the first next-gen game which opened up a whole 
 world of possibilities right before our very eyes. The graphics in GRAW are amazing. Lighting and 
 effects are breathtaking and the environments are nearly perfect. Character models, while occasionally 
 weak, are usually very realistic. Explosions, gunfire, and everything else looks truly astounding. 
 This is the next generation of gaming.
  
  SOUND: The audio in GRAW is also very strong. The voice acting is great, much better than most 
 game. The sound effects, such as gunshots, helicopters, and the like are all very convincing. All 
 of this just adds to the unbelievable realism.
  
  VALUE: The single player campaign lasts a good long time and it is great fun to replay. But the 
 multiplayer is the place to be once you have beaten story mode. There is a lot to do on Xbox Live 
 and you will find yourself coming back for more and more for months. This game will keep you busy 
 for ages.
  
  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is incredible. It is one of the greatest games on the 360 right 
 now, and it is one of the best games of the year. The realism that we have come to expect from 
 Tom Clancy is taken to a new level in this game because of the unbelievable graphics, sound, and 
 especially the gameplay. This is a rare gem that should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperRacerC91
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 10, 2006 6:04 am PT
Review:  I rented this game a while back for gamerscore a little while back. Since then I've picked up this 
 title and never looked back. If you like any shooting games then I think you'll love GRAW. It's 
 definitely a different game however with a third person view throughout the game. You'll adjust 
 quickly though and start having fun. There is a huge arsenal of weapons to choose from online and 
 in single player. Single Player is something else, the story line is great and draws you in until 
 the final conclusion. It's also a great way to spend a week or two. Online play sets this game 
 way up there however. There are so many types of games to play online, then it only gets better 
 when you can make your own type of game. I found this all to very entertaining, however the only 
 lacking subject of this game is amount of vehicles in the game. There's only a few helicopters 
 in online play, and they can only used in certain game types, not mention a total lack of automobiles 
 period. So while you'll find yourself on the ground mostly, it will heat up as soon as you get 
 near the enemy. So this definitely deserves a rental at least from everyone in the FPS community, 
 maybe even a pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: augrunt
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 10, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter was the next step in the "Tom Clancy" titles. Bringing again the 
 feel of Realistic War with a Hint of "Future". 
  
  This game is one word... "Spectacular". Reason? Just look at a screenshot and think real. This 
 game captures War with such force you'd need a physichatrist to treat you for shell-shock if you 
 have a high end stereo system.
  
  The Story takes place in Mexico when there spawns a Rogue General... "General Ontiveros". He threatens 
 to destroy countless lives and unleash a nuclear war that threatens to destroy all of the world. 
 Here come the Ghosts. State of the Art Special Forces. Armed with the best in technology. Mitchell. 
 The Leader of the Ghosts is briefed and preps his team and is ready to embark on one hell bent 
 mission into the urban metropolis that is Mexico City.
  
  The Difficulty is reasonable. A newbie player will find it fun to pick up the controller and play 
 but will quickly find out he's gotta learn the techniques of diving and taking cover. This isn't 
 neccesarily a bad thing because it encourages the player to learn and play and get better.
  
  The Gameplay is fairly addictive, you can do everything you'd expect to do in a real war engagement. 
 Taking Cover, firing over cover, command your squad, heal your team mates when they go done, It's 
 really great
  
  The Graphics... One Word... ABSOLUTELY THE BEST in Xbox 360 to date.
  
  The Sound... You can hear the bullets whiz past your head and as it hits your enemy you can hear 
 him scream as it pierces him. The dialogue is also great. Mitchell talks with a firm voice as would 
 a special ops commander.
  
  It's truly an amazing game, if you have an xbox 360... Go buy it right now. If you can't afford 
 it? Borrow it off a friend. If that fails. Rent it and don't return it for a good week ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pink_Bunny42
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 9, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  All I can simply say is... "Wow." This game truly shows what the next gen consoles can do. The 
 top of the class when it comes to next gen, what is there to say? Graphics are just amazing. Everything 
 is detailed, grass, trees, all the way up to buildings and vehicles... The sound leaves one to 
 be in awe for... Gun fire, explosions, vehicles, everything sounds just right and perfect. The 
 musical score for the game is superb, adding emotion to every encounter through out the game. Controls 
 are bit tough to handle at first, if you're some one looking for quick action... But once you've 
 gotten a handle on it, things really start to take of. Team controls are near flawless, and makes 
 action move smoothly, so you aren't pausing every five minutes to order troops around, or help 
 them in every situation. This game is something worth having in your Xbox 360 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLB2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 8, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  The campaign move is awesome one of the best besides of call of duty 2 the cover feature is one 
 of the best you cans still aiming you aponent and he didnt notie the second best of the campaign 
 are de big maps in the whole camping mode you only do the sme map twice at the beginign when you 
 are to the usa embasy and the end when you kill ontiveros in the embsy ... the grphics are the 
 best the sound the sun blocking you vision everything the only bd thing in the campaign mode is 
 that is just to easy in both dificults.. 
  
  the online play is very good you have 8 big maps well maybe just 6 hh the others are medium the 
 lobbys are great and the game never lags 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HammerMan333
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 8, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who doesn't like this game shouldn't own 360. It feels so great when yoou are playing this 
 game. It's so intense, most realistic shooter ever. Is Amazing. Must get it 360 owners. Thank you 
 Ubisoft. Is definitely my favorite game for the Xbox 360, scratch that my facorite game period. 
 Take a day off work to get a load of this shooter. Soooooooooooo much fun. hard to stop raving 
 about. Wish i was playing it right now, is going to play it right now. If anyone doesn't agree 
 with this review, they should probably go screw them selves because theyed have to be super biased 
 towards sony or something gay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UNREAL_IRLman22
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 8, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  to be honest i never really enjoyed the ghost recon series, but this game totally changed my mind. 
 i loved the way you could control your squad like in full spectrum warrior (not AS much control 
 but enough) the graphics are amazing, and the gameplay is fluent and easy to pick up. now that 
 ive played this tom clancy game for 360, i cannot wait to see how the other games (rainbow 6: vegas, 
 and Splinter cell: double agent) turn out and so i can play those games. to anyone whos looking 
 for one of the first great 360 games, pick this up no doubt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: racefan48
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 8, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  Good overall game; none of the levels are repetitive and the new download on xbox live is a great 
 improvment. Mulitiplayer mode is awesome. And graphics are truly next-gen. And the cross-com is 
 a good game feature so basically it is really good game. And now your team is a better at helping 
 you out . I would of liked to see some missions were u are able to drive tanks and hummvees in 
 singleplayer and multiplayer. And they should have some guns that u can custumize. Also with the 
 xbox live content download coming u will have more custimization options to create your own character. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capt_karem
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 7, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  I Played the first two ghost recon games but I never finished them. The first one was just too 
 tedious going through the whole planning phase and having my plan go to the dogs at first contact. 
 The second one was better but I thought the whole setup was kinda corny.
  This is the first ghost recon I played all the way through and I enjoyed every minute of it! I 
 went though the training mission twice to make sure I got the controls down. After that, I was 
 ducking, weaving, shooting, calling for fire from my squad, calling fo fire from Apaches and M1s, 
 and having a thrilling time! 
  I liked how you could customize the members of your squad and not have the same poltically correct 
 members all the time. The graphics are truly outstanding (not as good as Oblivion in my opinion 
 though) . The character models and cityscapes are the closest to photorealistic I have seen thus 
 far. Also, the story that drove the gameply was pretty good too. It conveyed a sense of urgency 
 to the events. I actually got a little PO'ed when my partner in the Helo got shot towards the end. 
 
  With what I said about the story, I think the developers should have been a little more brave and 
 had an islamic terrorism element to the story. That would given the story greater depth and realism. 
 Also, There should have been more levels where you employed combined arms tactics. It was so cool 
 to control an infantry squad, a ground vehicle, and a Helo all at once and there should have been 
 more of that. In all, it was a great game and anyone who has an interest at all in the genre should 
 check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thezuki
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 7, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  This game gave me mixed reactions, some things i loved, others not so much, lets start with the 
 single player, the graphics and sound were amazing and the gameplay was good, but the story was 
 just to damn confusing and i didnt get into it, and the gameplay started feeling somewhat repetitive, 
 but overall it was good
  
  the multiplayer i hate to say was pretty bad. its just not fun, i mean the range of the levels 
 is just to big and its sometimes difficult to see people and the gameplay just isnt very fun at 
 all, overall its a decent game mainly for the ghost recon fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Richardness
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 6, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a huge Ghost Recon fan, and it's always been my way of getting of my usual run 
 in and kill Rambo style. This is the game for anyone who wants to just have fun, and think at the 
 same time. The graphics on this bad boy have reached what is called next-gen. The gameplay has 
 been tweaked from previous versions to give total control for a player, and to enjoy everything 
 about it. The action starts right at the first mission and keeps going until the LZ at the end 
 of each mission. This is how gaming in this genre should be done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zami77
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 6, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is very good. In this game you cant really run N gun. You use tactics with your teamates 
 (some missions your alone) to take out the enemy. You die very easily so cover is constantly important. 
 Your teamates can sometimes save you and kill you. Their A. I. is not the smartest. some times your 
 shooting and they will jump out right in front of you, but the enemy A. I. is pretty good. when 
 your alone this game gets very hard. Your constantly trying to fire but they are always firing. 
 This game has an excellent multiplayer because you can play online co-op and some excellent survival 
 missions. Anyways dispite it's AI flaws this game is a great tactical shooter and you should get 
 it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mierdahp
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 6, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Ghost Recon 2 for the Xbox, I loved it, so I couldnt wait for Summit Strike. 
 Then I found out that GRAW was going to be a 360 launch title, I was glad, but then they delayed 
 it to February, and then March, but it finally came and it was way better than the other Ghost 
 Recon game I have ever played. The story is interesting (though Im sad sense the Mexican government 
 says the game is "to realistic", but they didnt ban it or anything) . It reminds me when all three 
 countries met some time ago in Mexico City (coinsidense?) . Well if youre daughting wether to buy 
 it or not, you should, especially if you own a 360, but in my experience, the Xbox PS2 and PC versions 
 are good to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakemeup893
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 5, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  GAME PLAY: The gameplay in GRAW is great. The idea of having a cross-com and the ability to control 
 all aspects of a mission is a really great idea. However, the teammate AI are not the smartest 
 around, and may make the few levels where Mitchell is by himself the best. The multiplayer AI is 
 not that great either, but you can make up for it by adding more bots to a game.
  Besides the 3rd person default view, there is also a first person view that can be enabled by changing 
 it in the options menu. This turns the game to a 1st person shooter rather than a 3rd person shooter. 
 The difficulty settings mean what the say. Normal (realistic mode) is the average difficulty-not 
 too hard, not too easy) and the Hard (ultra-realistic mode) is hard. One shot will most likely 
 kill you and the Ai's accuracy is greatly increased. There should be a difficulty setting for the 
 online co-op, which isn't all that bad but could've added more achievement points.
  
  GRAPHICS: Amazing. The amount of detail is amazing considering what else has to be displayed. The 
 explosions in the game look extremely realistic.
  
  SOUND: The game sounds great, with each gun having the corresponding sound effect. No one can mistake 
 the sound of an Ak-47 being fired at you. The sounds completely surround you in the environment.
 
  
  Value: No matter how many times you beat the single player, there is always another way to beat 
 it and with another kind of gun. The online multiplayer can drive this game far, which includes 
 online co-op, something that Halo 2 left out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hondje89
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 23, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon has always been fun games to play alone or online with buddies. But since the lack 
 of a refreshing gameplay to all the platforms it was released on, many people were asking ( if 
 not begging ) Ubisoft for a real fresh strategy shooter. And Ubisoft listened. Ghost Recon: Advanced 
 Warfighter takes place in the year 2010, Mexico. The United States and Mexico have come to a agreement 
 to ship 50 US tanks to Mexico. But, things are getting out of hand. Rebellions that are against 
 the agreement are trying to break down the president of his leadership by force. These rebellions 
 arent just rebellions, they are Mexicos own army. You, Captain Scott Mitchell are the leader 
 of the Ghost squad. Youre a special armed soldier with the newest and latest war fighting options 
 of equipment and weapon technology. Your mission will be saving both presidents from the battle 
 raging in Mexico City. The US army is already fighting them, but they need you and your squad for 
 special missions.
  
  The gameplay is very unique this time. Ubisoft did listen to the cries of the fans. The most appealing 
 part is the third-person view. This gives you the opportunity to oversee the battles better and 
 further. But also to give your squad more easy commands. The cool features in this game are leaning 
 over a wall to give covering fire, send you Ghost to positions or just to check out the enemies 
 position. Not only that, you can also slide from side to side by jumping while you run. This will 
 prevent you from getting hit by enemy fire. Since this is a strategy shooter, it requires tactics 
 to overwhelm the enemy. This means precise shooting and good thinking. You dont have that much 
 of a chance if you just run at them while shooting. Youll be dead in seconds. So, use your squad. 
 You can set your squad in two different battle modes. For easy and calm fire, use the Recon 
 mode. Or for aggressive firepower and enemy termination, use Assault mode. These modes will 
 provide some extra opportunities of attacks. You can command your squad to take down soldiers, 
 tanks, trucks or give you covering fire. Theyre also able to heal a squad member when critically 
 wounded. But theyre only able of healing other members, not you. When youre shoot, its all the 
 way back to the last checkpoint. Also you can make use of the UAV Cypher. This marine scout will 
 be able to for see the battle areas of enemies. But when in Detecting mode, it will be able 
 to shoot down.
  
  The multiplayer is fun indeed. Although it lacks attention to the cooperative modes. The mission 
 you will be able to play are lame, easy and short missions that arent really enjoyable. I guess 
 Ubisoft is familiar with this lame maps, just like Splinter Cell. But, luckily there are also options 
 like: Determination. Here its all about killing all the bots on the map, which can be very hard 
 when alone or with only one extra buddy. It just depends on what difficulty mode it is. Also youll 
 be able to play matchmaking games where you just compete against other players. The sweet part 
 of this game are the graphics. Ghost Recon is the first Xbox 360 game, that really shows what the 
 Xbox 360 is made of. I can describe how it looks like, but its just hard to tell that. Although, 
 the sunlight is very beautiful it might get in the way when it blinds you. This wont happen often 
 though. Another sweet graphical point is the heat waves that youll see all through the game. As 
 for the shoot, its nothing special. But that isnt a bad thing. No thats a good thing! The weapon 
 fire is identical to its weapons. What I mean is, that you wont hear a rocket shot while shooting 
 with a assault rifle. Ok that was a overreacting example, but youll get the picture. Also, the 
 most realistic part is with the flying particles. When a bullet impacts on a wall or something, 
 youll see little flying pieces of solid rock. I know, nothing that special, but it is special 
 when none of those holes arent identical nor will disappear within 12 seconds. The value is surprisingly 
 superb with this game. Beaten it on Normal? How about Hard? I made it on both difficulties, but 
 dont ask how. Normal was already insane at some points, but Hard is close to the real deal. Here, 
 the enemies will not just aim at you, but theyll aim at your head, only. This will require more 
 tactical gaming. You might get moments where youll throw down your controller on the ground, but 
 not much later, youll just pick it up again.
  
  Overall, Tom Clancys Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter may not be the Xbox 360s killer app, but 
 its still the best looking Xbox 360 game to date. Though, the cooperative maps for multiplayer 
 mode are more than lame, Ubisoft still did a great job with the other multiplayer options. Same 
 goes for the very awesome single player. The story might not be THAT original, but its still appealing 
 to lovers of the shooter genre. The action is fast, hard, but very great on every way. This is 
 one of the best Xbox 360 games.
  
  Good points
  +Great graphics, best next-gen so far.
  +Very fine single player mode.
  +Not a game that will be beaten easy.
  +Great multiplayer options 
 for Vs. modes.
  +Fast loading times.
  
  Bad points
  -Lame cooperative multiplayer maps.
  -AI may not be that great as has been told.
  -Darn hard 
 at some points.
  -No way of respawing after dying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobi22
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 5, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Well i got to start with the graphics its AMAZING its looks better then fear and fear as u know 
 looks good its look like a pc game .... on a green box ... and a small controller anyway lets talk 
 about the controls...... on the spot all i got to say but what about the important thing of all 
 "the gameplay" well its good the single player is very nice the co-op is very nice .If i were u 
 i would have asked myself so it that means that this game is perfect well its not its got little 
 graphic glitches here and there not something normally u noticed but i did becuse im the master 
 man ... sry about that .This is my first game and im very happy :P so go buy it ,come on go 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpo335
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 5, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, its so much fun. The graphics are incredible and thew gameplay is fun. Its a 
 great game to have in your collection. The XboxLive on it is great. There arn't too many maps but 
 theres tons of weapons to choose from. The cross-com is useful, you can see what your teamate is 
 doing at the same time as you. You can both use tactics or just play for fun on multiplayer. The 
 singleplayer is fantastic. The way the gamemakers set it up is great. You also get multiple control 
 of different things, like your squad, then maybe an Apache or a tank. You can tell them all what 
 to do and where to go. Overall I think this game is great and would advise anyone on getting it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IAmLostWhatAreU
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 5, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Definately the best of the Ghost Recons, you truly feel like your in Mexico except maybe the overpopulation. 
 Single player is great, never gets old, and A. I. are of high standards. Gameplay is near exact 
 with the old Ghost Recons with some tweaks. Online gameplay is great, although trying to get into 
 a quick game can be frustrating since when you join already in progress you have to wait for the 
 game to end or exit out and have to load the games all over again (which is somewhat slow even 
 with a high speed internet connection) . Still, the best or second-best (in comparison to Battlefield 
 2) FPS to date on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Fly
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 5, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  I have NEVER played a Ghost Recon game before, so this review is from someone who has never been 
 interested or enticed by other installemnts.
  
  So, it is safe to say I didn't enjoy this game as much as the reviews seemed to convince me I would.
 
  
  While the campaign is pretty fun it relies a little too much on trial and error for my liking.
 
  
  You take the roll of "Scott". A "Super Soilder" from about 2007. A new suit and, weapons and HUD 
 make you one of the most deadly men on the planet. And teamed with three other warriors you venture 
 into Mexico city.
  
  Moles, traitors and conspiracy lead you through the city on a mission to bring peace to the people 
 of Mexico and stop a war breaking out across the world.
  
  The game is focused on stealth gameplay. There aren't "shadows" to hide you position like Splinter 
 Cell but you do have to take cover, go prone and direct you squad to tactically-advantageous positions. 
 Those who have never played a GR game before will need a lot of practice in manouvering your squad, 
 at first you will barely use them because it feels a little unatural but as time goes on they bacome 
 more important.
  
  Your squard have two modes. The blue mode makes them quiet and sneaky whereas red mode keeps them 
 on alert to kill anybody in the vacinity. You can also order them to take down certain targets, 
 stand in a spot or follow you.
  
  Later on you will also get to control Helicopters and Tanks via the D-pad (the same method used 
 on your squad) and tell them to kill other vehicles
  
  Aside from moving and controlling your squad, you also have to shoot. The game works pretty well. 
 The camer sits over your shoulder and povides good aim but most of the time you will want to either 
 steady your aim or zoom in for an easier kill.
  
  On the whole the campaign works very well, giving you a real sense of "being" in a city and fighting 
 for survival. But it is a little linear and trial and error plays a big part.
  
  There is also an online. But it feels tacked on. It is NOTHING like the campaign, instead it resembles 
 previous GR games just better looking. Also, there is a poor lobby system and tactics are lost 
 on most people.
  
  On the whole it is a good game, worth a look for those who like GR games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littleplaya319
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 4, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  This right here is an example of a perfect 360 games. It's very addicting and enjoyable to play. 
 Some of the best gameplay I have ever seen. One thing this game does that is very impressive is 
 the realism. Espesially the combat realism. It's very cool and realistic the way that you can take 
 cover in this game being walls and other things, and while taking cover you are allowed to peak 
 and shot the enemy which is what they do in real life. The one thing about this game though that 
 makes it seem very weird is that in Mexico city one of the bigest cities in the world is desserted 
 with no civilains not that this ruins the gameplay but makes the game seem very weird at times 
 but to me that doesnt make much at all of a difference. The other thing about the game is that 
 the story mode can sometimes get difficult. Which I am not the best at the game but I have to admit 
 that you have to get pretty good to be able to beat it.. Right now there are about 5 games on 360 
 that are worth buying (not that there arent good games to offer but most of them are better for 
 a rental) this is one of those games that is worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HUNTO1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 4, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  The game is great with the best graphics on the 360 to date. The only problem I have with Ghost 
 Recon is that the co-op is terrible. The maps suck, the perspective is 1st person instead of 3rd 
 person, and the missions are very bad. The programmers spent less time on the multiplayer and more 
 time on the campaign (which is excellent) . The campaign starts you off in an urban area, and you 
 are trying to locate Ramirez. The rest you will have to find out for yourself. The programmers 
 did a great job making the virtual world. In the first mission they made an entire city. The best 
 game in the series and the best game on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmajchrzak
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 4, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  For the trained soldier. Squad based techniques will keep you alive longer. Move carefully and 
 stay under cover. RPGs, sniper rifles, grenades and constant contact with your eyes in the sky. 
 
  
  Nothing is more fun than 3 of your buddies playing co-operatively, trying to clear out a map of 
 bad guys. Working together, figuring out strategy, calling for backup, surrounding the enemy, commanding 
 the drone to spy out the area,.. Its all so good. The ONLY thing missing is driving a tank or APC. 
 Man is this game fun., The learning curve is steep, but well worth the trip. This is all about 
 gameplay.
  
  The graphics are very good, but not flashy. That's ok, its war. Well, it does get flashy when you 
 RPG some car the street, but its not what the game is about. The 5.1 audio is very handy when locating 
 where the fire is coming from.
  
  A very good addition to the XBox 360 lineup. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 3, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  G. R. A. W. is a great video game. The stealthy combat used in the game is very fun. I love the way 
 you post behind walls for cover, and see where your opponent is. The graphics are perfect. Except 
 for Obivion, I've never seen graphics as good as these. The voices are good, and the explosions 
 and the sound of gun fire is great. The game itself is very long, and can get quite challenging. 
 The multiplayer is okay, there is a lot to choose from, but some of the game modes are just plain 
 dull. I need to try it on Live to actually tell you how good it is, but sadly I don't have live. 
 I don't have much more to say, don't miss out on this great shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdbthexboxgamr
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 3, 2006 7:49 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is the latest in the Ghost Recon series from our fiends 
 at Ubisoft. But wait!, this one is different from the previous Xbox versions of the game. This one 
 is near flawless!. Right from the beginning of the game you will have to stop and look around just 
 to admire the sheer beauty of this game. The visuals are highly impressive!, this is definately 
 the "Yeti" engine showing off what it can do!
  Once you get used to the beauty of the graphics in this game you will see that this game is not 
 just a pretty face, it is also a very fun game and enjoyable game to play. The setting of this game 
 takes place in the pretty near future so you and your team are pretty decked out with gear that 
 makes you and unstoppable force on the battlefield. The HUD in this game will take a little getting 
 used to, from the beginning of your mission you will see all kinds of arrows and boxes pop up on 
 your screen, yellow indicates your current objectives, green indicates friendly troops or vehicles, red 
 indicates enemy troops or vehicles and a blue/green color indicates your squad mates.
  The sound of this game is second to none, play it through a 5.1 speaker set-up and you will hear 
 bullets whizzing by your head and you will be able to tell where gun fire is coming from simply 
 by the sounds. Special effects like your HUD getting staticky and explosions are near real life 
 quality, this is truly the game to showcase what your 360 can do to all the naysayers out there. 
 My only minor complaints on the game is that some gamers will be turned off by the learning curve 
 and there only a few minor graphical glitches but honestly they are very rare, at least during the 
 time I played through the entire game. 
  Go pick this game up now!, this is the best 360 shooter I have played by far!, it is truly a sight 
 to behold!. And enjoy the sounds of Ill Nino during the credits! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 08willej
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 2, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best game out for the xbox 360, i LOVE the single player, i love the online 
 co-op, and i love the multiplayer vs.
  
  The pros about this game is definately the graphics, the best yet, they are stunningly good and 
 bullets hitting the wal next to while debri chips of is wild.
  
  the cover option is also a pro, the way u have to peek out to see enemies then you can you down 
 the left trigger and precise shoot them, SWEET.
  
  only one con i can think of in this game, WHERES THE CLANS, the clan option couldve added alot. 
 In a game there's a drone and the person who gets to use it is randomly selected well what if the 
 highest ranked person in your clan got the drone and gave you orders.
  
  All in all this is one of the greatest games ever and you wont be dissapointed, this is a must 
 buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swedish-marine
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 2, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  At first I was worried that Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter (G. R. A. W) would have such complicated 
 controls that it would be hard to play due to the fact that you can do such many different things 
 more than running and gunning, but the controls took their time to get used to be after that it's 
 as good as it can get. 
  
  You will be able to command units to move, attack, help wounded soldiers out or regroup simply 
 by using the "+"-pads up and down controls dependly on what you're facing. If you're facing a infantry 
 unit you can send your other Ghost team-mates to take it down for you but you'll probably try to 
 keep them as covered as you might and save them for the more armored targets. Not only will you 
 be leading your other Ghost soldiers but also different vechicles throughout the game, tho you 
 will not manueer those vechicles but only give them waypoints where to go/attack. A shorter list 
 of such vechicles would be everything from M2A3 Bradley Fighting Vechicle System (APC) to M1A1 
 Abram Main Battle Tank and Apache AH-46D Longbow all with beatiful and realistic design, weapon 
 effect and ofcourse simply amazing sounds. And you'll be leading those units just as simple as 
 the infantry units but they will have a more limited erea of service due to terrain and blocks 
 or whatever might be blocking their way (if ground vechicles, obviously the airborne vechicles 
 will not be effected of what's on the ground) 
  
  The general controls of controlling, aiming might be a little ackward at first if you're used to 
 other shooters for the Xbox series like Halo, Perfect Dark Zero but when you've got the ideas of 
 the game it's no problem, it only takes a little time to get used to. You will often be needed 
 to use cover and to do so you simply walk towards a wall or a static vehicle and when you're close 
 enough the charather will hude behind it, and to look up from the cover is done with the analog 
 sticks which makes it possible to peek out just enough to tell where the enemies is if the cross-com 
 system haven't located them for you already. And from the cover you can just lean out of it, aim 
 and shoot when using the Left and Right Trigger and the aim the scope you'll press the right analog 
 stick one or two times depending on how much you'd like to zoom. 
  When moving you can run, crouch and crawl. You can change positions quickly and effectivly from 
 running to crawling or crouching by pressing the Right Analog Stick in different ways, if you press 
 it a little harder and you're running your charather will jump down to crawling position and effectivly 
 hide behind cover. 
  
  There's alot of graphical details in the game, really nice shading details and glossing details 
 on cars and windows and such. But the thing that I haven't seen before is that if you're looking 
 down on the ground and it's a bit dark you'll be "blinded" by the light in the sky making the ground 
 all dark... I make it really hard for you people to understand what I'm trying to tell you, I don't 
 know any proper words to describe it with - anyways, it's a real amazing effect however. And the 
 graphics in general is very polished, worked through and sharp, making it the best looking Xbox360 
 game to date and I can't come up with any as nice looking on the PC.
  
  The voice-acting is most often really nice as well, feels pretty natural but the voices for the 
 orders your charather is giving such as "Take the shot" and such is feeling really bad becuase 
 the sound quality feels drained and the voice at all is not fitting into the games general worked 
 look, just as the responses upon that which is even worse. But you'll get used to it, it comes 
 very natural after a couple of hours of gameplay if you are as whiny as me about it. 
  
  It's also realistic in that point you will not survive without your teammates which always got 
 your back, and if you're trying to run towards a enemy in classic "Run and Gun" style you won't 
 last more than just seconds, two or three shots and you're out of buisness. But you will always 
 have someone to keep your back, if your teammates would be wounded badly you'll have about 30-40 
 secondes to treat them or send another teammate to do so, it sounds easy but you got the clear 
 the erea before thinking the idea of doing so.
  
  This game is probably to recommend to all Xbox360 owners that plays alone on one system. Becuase 
 the split-screen modes is horrible, laggy and is turned into First-Person View just as in SWAT 
 3, it would be fair if they kept the Third Person view into the Split-Screen modes as well but... 
 No, seems like they had other things on their mind. You won't need a HDTV to get all the beatiful 
 details out, I'm running it on a regular TV and it's as beatiful I can believe it could be, though 
 I recommend you to have a good sound functionality to get all the great stuff out of the sound 
 details in the game, surround sound with a nice bass and likely is just as good as beeing there 
 on the field. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScOtTiLeS
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 10, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review so please recommendations would be appreciated :)
  
  Ubisoft has been churning out Ghost Recon games like Britney Spears making babies. But this is 
 no ordinary Ghost Recon. To be honest I never really owned or played the previous Ghost Recons 
 so correct if I am wrong, but the new game is head and shoulders better than the current generation 
 iterations. Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter or what the cool kids like to call it, GRAW, is the 
 new chapter in the Ghost Recon series. Now I am known for being a person who buys games for the 
 name like Final Fantasy, Zelda, and Mario on the cover but what struck me about GRAW is how much 
 the game improved over previous Ghost Recon games and early builds of GRAW. Not to beat anything 
 over the head with a stick but this game is awesome and pure fun.
  
  GRAW takes a different route over the previous games and moves into the future. About ten years 
 into the future in Mexico City. Now soldiers, or Scott Mitchell the main character you will play, 
 have revamped armor, weapon, and communication technologies. GRAW is squad based and you will have 
 a squad of four including yourself. The other three Ghosts you control with a simplistic command 
 system. You either press up on the D-pad to move the Ghosts into certain spot or down to make them 
 follow you. The Ghosts can also be set to be sneaky or be fairly aggressive. Also you can tell 
 your Ghosts to heal a wounded soldier or use explosives on vehicles. The only problem with your 
 squad is that sometimes they get stuck running into a wall and you might run through the level 
 and they are mile away. Basically GRAW has decent squad AI.
  
  Besides controlling your squad you do control a character of course. Scott Mitchell, who is the 
 captain of the Ghosts, is the character you play through the entire game. GRAW can be played in 
 first person or the default third person view which I recommend. The third person view can be viewed 
 from the left or the right side with a click of the left bumper and the third person view has the 
 Resident Evil 4 over the shoulder feel. Your character has a HUD that has a constant video feed 
 of breaking news, mission updates, drone views, and views of other Ghosts. This has ever been done 
 but is done very impressively. What I hear is that the story is more involved with the HUD now 
 implemented into GRAW. But this game shines in the main place for all games, the game play.
  
  The combat in GRAW is fun and exciting. There are a plethora of guns at your disposal and explosives 
 too. Shooting in this game is just plain fun. You can stick to walls and move around to peak around 
 corners to fire or peek over a ledge. One mission in particular you have to go to the US Embassy 
 and on your way there the mission seems generic but BAM! The Embassy explodes right in front of 
 you and now you have to protect and rescue the President. GRAW also is one of few games that have 
 no loading times because loading times could kill a game and making GRAW seamless made it work. 
 In between missions you go into your Huey helicopter and fire at enemies with a Gatling gun. Also 
 in between missions you sit inside an APC truck thing.
  
  Visually is probably what got me to buy the game. Graphically GRAW is nothing less than stunning. 
 Flying in the helicopter and seeing the city of Mexico City is breathtaking. But one quark I noticed 
 is why is this city deserted? Anyways, GRAW also has great audio; the music is a variety of immediate 
 music and rock. It is just too bad that I do not have surround sound anywhere in my house. Fund 
 raiser for Scotts surround sound system please?
  
  GRAW also boasts a huge multiplayer. It has the standard deathmatch and objective games, but it 
 also has online co-op and co-op missions. Something which I have never seen done this extensively 
 ever. When I played, me and my friends set up a co-op match of territory for 1 territory and would 
 set infinite AI spawns so they would keep coming. Thus we could pick a map to choke them in one 
 spot and get a lot of kills though we kept getting overrun. But it was mainly done to get cheap 
 gamer points for 10,000 kills in multiplayer. Now if that did not convince you how much fun co-op 
 in GRAW is, then go watch grass grow then.
  
  In the end, GRAW is an excellent tactical shooter that is not only fun to play but looks and sounds 
 great. So I recommend anyone with a 360 to check this game out. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LatinG187
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 1, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Let's jump right into this....
  
  Gameplay: 8.6/10
  Pretty smooth for the most part, more controls than Call of Duty 2 and they all respond rather well. Also 
 quite a few different guns in GRAW, including some that comes with a gernade launcher attached to 
 them as well as a few with a camera that gives you the ability to peek around corners without exposing 
 your body. It takes a sec to switch from your gun to a frag gernade and another sec to use the smoke 
 gernades but the game is not as fast paced as COD so it really isn't something that will hurt the 
 gameplay.
  
  A. I. is not extremely intelligent more so the three soliders you control for most of the campaign 
 mode. There will be times where you get frustrated with them as they may get in your way more than 
 they actually help but they still are valuable to have, especially when surrounded by a lot of ememy 
 soldiers. These guys will cover your back however if one of 'em takes fire and goes down, it's your 
 job to either heal them or you can order another solider to heal him, just make sure you take care 
 of the guy who shot him or you'll have just another wounded solider to worry about. You also can 
 command tanks and black hawks to attack the enemy and they usually get the job done and clean up 
 what you squad doesn't.
  
  GRAW doesn't have any health packs u need to look for but you can't get your healthy by just simply 
 taking cover. If you get wounded you must be very careful because you will not get ''healed'' until 
 you meet up with a supply truck. So if you're in red and get wounded, you'll die and have to start 
 from the previous checkpoint.
  
  Campaign Mode: 8.5/10
  Just like many action/shooter games recently, you start the campaign mode with a nice training level 
 that basically tells you everything you need to know as far as the controls are concerned. This 
 Campaign is based in the year 2013 in Mexico City and each level looks so realistic and as a person 
 who has visited Mexico City several times, I must say that they nailed it. The  
 and looking at the sun reminds me of those hot summer days in Mexico. A great feeling indeed and 
 even though the game is based in Mexico City, you won't be playing in the same kind of enviroment 
 each time out. The first level starts on the outskirts of Mexico City but also there are missions 
 in the heart of the city as well as night missions at a ''Mansion'' if you will and others that 
 are outside of the city.
  
  The basic mission of the campaign mode is to rescue and protect both the U. S. President and Mexico 
 President. The story is told in a nice way, no cutscenes or loading screens telling you what to do. The 
 story is told during helicopter rides as well as told during the level, though there are some moments 
 when it's hard to catch what's being said when the enemy is shooting at you. The ending is disappointing 
 to say the least and the last level is proably one of the easiet in the game. After all that work 
 I was hoping for a little more but overall the campaign and story is very good. Also after you finish 
 it on Normal, you can go back and try your luck at Hard, which isn't all that difficult. Tougher than 
 Normal but nothing that will give you headaches or have you frustrated. 
  
  Sound: 9/10
  The music is actually pretty damn good in my eyes and fits the game nicely. It gives you that feeling 
 like you're about to head into combat. Sound effects such as the guns, gernades and other things 
 are also pretty good. Honestly though, I could not really tell the difference between each weapon 
 unless I really payed attention to it. The explosions are awesome though, I personally went through 
 and even though I would eliminate all the enemies, I still blew up every vechicle I could just to 
 hear that sound, great great stuff. The voice acting is good too, not overdone and it doesn't feel 
 like they are just reading from a script either. Each guy with maybe the exception of Carlos Ontiveros (the 
 last bad guy you must take out) did a good job and adds more to the game.
  
  Graphics: 9.3/10
  The best looking war game so far on the XBOX 360 that I've seen. Just so much 
 details in everything, from the light posts, street  
 among many other things look simply tremendous and the lighting is so damn realistic when I looked 
 at the sun in GRAW I get that blinded feel you do when you look into the sun in real life. Yes people, it's 
 that damn good. Like I already metioned, I've been to Mexico City many times in my life and this 
 is as close as you can get to duplicating it. The graphics in GRAW are the only graphics so far 
 that I've seen outside of Fight Night Round 3 that made my jaw drop. Again, these graphics are just 
 outstanding and do a lot for the game.
  
  Online: 8.9/10
  Online is where it's at in GRAW, there's so much you can do as far as gametypes and custimazation 
 it's insane! You can also have 16 players in one match but some hosts have not been able to hold 
 16 guys and due to that, some of the players would get booted but for the most part, you can usually 
 find a match with 10+ guys and not have any problems. Also not only is there deatchmatch and team 
 deathmatch modes but GRAW also offers four co-op missions which were plenty of fun to do and also 
 kind of challenging. I personally have had a better time playing Call of Duty online but GRAW has 
 a ton more options that make it great.
  
  Achievements: 9/10
  GRAW has 38 achievments and what I really love about them is that it's spread out all across the 
 game. You get gamerpoints for beating every level on Normal and Hard difficulty but thats just half 
 of them. You get points for each co-op mission you complete and a ''perfect chapter'' achievment 
 if you beat all 4. Some other good ones are, kill 30 enemies before dying, kill 4 guys in 4 seconds 
 or less,10,000 kills and shooting down 100 helicopters, just so many different ones to get it'll 
 keep you playing for a while and even if somehow you do manage to get all 38 GRAW has you still 
 wont get the full 1000 gamerpoints. That is because GRAW only has 925 points you can get, this is 
 something they did purposely because Ubisoft is planning on releasing new co-op missions for gamers 
 to download.
  
  My one gripe with the achivements in GRAW is there are 4 that are pretty much unachievable, that 
 is getting team, solo, universial #1 leader and one other. The only way to get these is if you cheat 
 you're way there and even then, the max skill level is I think 25 so once u get there you still 
 won't get anything because of all the cheaters already ranked 25. These achievments should not have 
 been in the game but still I really like these for the most part, spread around throughout the game 
 and a good number of 'em.
  
  Overall: 8.9/10
  Yet another solid game out on the market for the XBOX 360 however I wouldn't suggest this game 
 to everyone. If you are into these kinda game then give it a try, chances are you will really like 
 the game and will be worth buying. But if you are not into ''tactical shooters'' then I recommend 
 maybe renting it just to check out the amazing graphics in this game and just giving it a chance, you 
 may end up like me and be impressed enough with GRAW that you go and purchase it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skaless
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 1, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  When I started playing through the tutorial, i thought i was going to have problems with the controls, 
 i found it hard to get to grips with and this was the first 360 game i played. However, given 20 
 minutes with the controls, they became much easier and allow you to perform a variety of actions. 
 The campaign on normal mode is challenging, but never becomes too hard, whereas hard mode is well, 
 hard, but worth the go if you think you can hack it. All the time i spend on the game now is online, 
 it has me hooked, just because i always want to beat the rest, and the ranking system will always 
 keep you motivated to try and get better. Some actions do disappear online, that were in the campaign 
 however it gives a better balance between head on action and strategy. The play is generally smooth, 
 the only problem online, is some of the people, who take it too seriously, that's my only complaint. 
 The achievments are fun to try and obtain online aswell. My verdict: Amazing game, with fantastic 
 online support. More than worth a look 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murrayftw
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 1, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  So we have been waiting some time for something to come out of Tom Clancy and Ubisoft's studio. 
 This is one of their best games to date.
  
  Lets just say Ubisoft has officially figured out the secret to attaining some of the best graphics 
 ever seen on a console, perhaps in any game I've seen period. It may even pass the graphics of 
 Oblivion, depends on who plays what.
  
  Ghost Recon looks amazing no matter where you play it. Lets say that with HD, you will see every 
 little detail from the insignia on your soldier's shoulder to ever spec of dirt on the ground. 
 The players are rendered in hi def and look amazing. The environments look great as well, with 
 the multiple areas to hide behind and recover from fire.
  
  Your teammates stick around and cover your ass as long as possible. Sure they pull some stupid 
 moves, but overall they are very helpful. Performing attacks on tanks and the like, as well as 
 clearing roadblocks in the way. This games takes the buddy system and online shows what your teammates 
 see in your crosscom, basically PIP in the future.
  
  The sound is great as you can anticipate the rush of enemy soldiers by hearing the screams of them 
 getting psyched. The ambient noises in the background really add to the suspense as you may never 
 know where enemies could come from.
  
  With XBox Live, you can play online against multiple opponents either in Team play, Deathmatch, 
 or Co-Op.
  
  I'd say this game is fantastic and is perfect for a war-buff. The future of warfare is here on 
 XBox 360, and now you can jump in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klm1
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 31, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Good: This Game Has Excellent Graphics, With A Nice Looking Third Person View. The Artifical Intellience 
 Is Good Also, Which Makes The Game Even More Exciting, While Attempting To Out Smart The Enemy 
 The Player Has The Freedom To Move Around . Having The Ability To Control Allied Vehicles Is A 
 Plus For This Game. 
  
  Bad: The Weapon Selection Is Very Poor For This Game; Their Is Only One Type Of Hand Gun Throw-Out 
 The Game, And I Wasn't Impressed With The Primary Weapons Available. I Also Think This Game Should've 
 Had More Missions In Different Parts Of The World. 
  
  Overall This Is A Good Game Worth The Price With Only Minor Set Backs... I Look Forward To The Future 
 Ghost Recon Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MIB456
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 31, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  This is easily the best of the Tom Clancy games that I have played, and that includes ALL of the 
 Ghost Recon series on Xbox, Rainbow Six on Xbox, as well as the first Splinter Cell. Graphics are 
 like WHOA! The game play is superb. I just wish the game makers would stop getting away from team 
 based co-op objective play. We who love to find new ways to defeat the AI co-operatively are getting 
 kinda disgusted with having to SEARCH out good co-op play. This game has what, 5 co-op mission 
 maps and just a few more co-op firefight maps??? Come on UbiSoft, give us MORE maps, more, dangerous 
 and tactful AI, and make it happen SOON! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedStarStrife
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 31, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  personally i guess im just not into 3rd person shooters but this is what i have to say about this 
 game
  
  graphics- 10/10......... Beautilful and the cities are huge, plus the lighting and shadowing is 
 done very well
  
  gameplay- now here is what i saw as the problem for me
  I didnt like the fact all the enemies would have a big bright red diamond on them at all, it made 
 the game to easy and got boring after a while, so i just stopped playing it, Even the multiplayer 
 i thought wasnt thought out all the way..... i especially didnt like the maps and it got old fast.... 
 7/10
  
  value- for a game that gets old fast with a price tag of 60 bucks......... uhh no better renting 
 it first 5/10
  
  sound- cant say much more but great sounding game...... makes you feel like your actually on the 
 battlefield. 10/10
  
  already explained my tilt up there so 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pannstar
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 30, 2006 8:39 pm PT
Review:  But.....
  
  Campaign Mode
  Good: Graphics are definitely next gen, fire fights are amazingly fun. Control and level design 
 are flawless. Its perfect length with good replay value
  
  Bad: Your squad-mates are fearless! Youd think thats a good thing but wait until you are healing 
 one of them in the middle of a battlefield with 2 tanks , a helicopter, and mexican rebels on top 
 of every building. Its extremely hard, but not impossible.
  Multiplayer Mode
  Good: There is multiplayer and Its online
  
  Bad: Finding a game sometimes takes 20 minutes. 
 You enter a party, the party leader boots you because you looked at him wrong. You enter party, 
 the party leader boots you because he is a level 10 and you are a 3. You enter a party ( in a ranked 
 match) and the party leader puts you on a team with bozo's, and he mauls you. If you thought this 
 game was hard in campaign mode then guess again, try being spawn killed (yeah spawn killed) , what 
 are we? playing jamesbond again? You have to have reflexes like a cat and eyes like an eagle. Oh... 
 and those graphics you thought were drop dead gorgeous ... think again. In multiplayer they are 
 downgraded a butt load. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alextrox69
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a 3rd person shooter for the xbox 360. The game takes place 
 in mexico year 2013. U. S military surveillance hardware has been stolen buy Nicaraguan rebels. 
 Your missions in the game is to stop the rebels from selling the hardware to mexican forces.
  
  Gameplay: When i first played this game i was very confused with the controls. Before this 
 game i was playing a ps2 shooter with different controls. When you first start G. R. A. W. your first 
 mission is a training mission that is perfect and easy to understand. The training mission covers 
 every control used in the game. After The gameplay is strait forward after the training mission. 
 Your objectives are very easy to understand and theres no confusion about what to do. The objectives 
 are not only easy to understand, but they're very fun. The interesting campaign missions will keep 
 you coming back for more.
  
  Graphics: Amazing! Best graphics out of any game for the 360.
  
  Sound: Although sound alone 
 doesnt make a great game, G. R. A. W. is right on target with sound. All vehicles sound correct. Your 
 footsteeps mach the sound perfectly.
  
  Value: Killer app for the xbox 360
  
  This game is a 10 out of 10 easly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brad52
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 12, 2006 10:38 pm PT
Review:  It looked better on commercials. The campaign is the best thing about the game. I just think it 
 is boring on Xbox Live. Some of the features from the campaign are not on Xbox Live. I regret buying 
 this game, I should have rented this game before i bought it. I could of saved $60 and bought COD2. 
 Graphics are good, but looked better on TV. I recommand this game to rent only for campaign. Xbox 
 Livers will not have a lot of fun on thid i think. Spawn killing also happens a lot on Live. Very 
 Overrated! ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok ok 
 ok ok ok ok ok ok 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpacers31
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 30, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  This is by far one of the best games out for Xbox 360. It might be one of the best in the series 
 for Tom Clancy because of the online play. The single player game play is relatively short, but 
 it is pretty fun way to get geared up for the online experience. This was the first game I bought 
 with my 360 and I am glad I did. I have not heard any bad reviews because there is not much wrong 
 with the game in my opinion. I love the online play because there is always a load of people to 
 play with. I am glad i have the game and recommend it to anyone who buys the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrxpimpinx
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 30, 2006 12:58 am PT
Review:  The attention to detail while making this game is what truely makes this game one of the best out 
 there. A solid story line while still maintaining a gameplay that makes your jaw drop. The way 
 this game is designed is great. For example, there is not jump button. At first I was dissapionted 
 because I always loved to go exploring in games like Halo. However, the game makes up for the missing 
 button by using the action button to allowed you to jump over fences and climb onto ledges. Basically, 
 the game is smart enough to make you have a jump button only when you are near an object that you 
 can jump onto or over. Also, the online play is highly addictive. The online lobby menus are not 
 great, but once you get into the gameplay, its awesome online. By far, the thing that makes this 
 game stand out from all the rest is the graphics and the animations. When you are lying down prone 
 and want to reload your weapon, you character will actually lean to the side to lift up his belly 
 enough to he can reach his next clip. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmielnik
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 29, 2006 10:23 pm PT
Review:  G. R. A. W. is the best game for the 360 period! Multiplayer is the best for the 360 as well. G. R. A. W. 
 does an amazing job of balancing multiplayer and campaign mode. The highly immersive world Ubisoft 
 puts you in as a graphical wonder. There may be a few glitches revolving the cross-com and identfying 
 enemies. It loses track of enemies a few times that would frustrate you when the enemies would 
 flank you. This is a great game with many acheivement oppurtunites besides the almost impossible 
 top leader board position. If your a fan of the Ghost Recon series than this is a game that you 
 cannot miss. A must for 360 owners! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spot2009
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 29, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  I don't know, at first when I was going to buy it, my thoughts were basically, 'Awesome! GR: AW 
 is going to own!' My friend purchased it as well, before me, and told me that it was a great game 
 and I should really buy it. So I bought it, and started to play it. The weird thing was that I 
 wasn't really interested in it.
  
  I started to play on Hard difficulty and immediately on the first mission I was dying in a snap. 
 I thought it was strange, so I turned my difficulty back to Normal. Again, same deal. I wasn't 
 sure what the problem was; I'm a pretty good FPS/TPS player. After playing it a bit I finally got 
 a hang of it.
  
  On the gameplay side, it's sort of repetative. At first I was thinking to play this game using 
 a lot of stealth, but that turned out not to work so well. But in the end, I thought that the gameplay 
 was getting very boring for me and didn't hook me as much. Maybe it was because the game was too 
 realistic for my liking (killing/dying in 3 shots) . I just didn't like it that much. I also didn't 
 like the reload times nor the switching weapons. The reload just seemed 0.5-1 second too long for 
 my patience. Not that I only like super fast reloads, though.
  
  Graphics are great, however. I think that it has insanely good graphics, but the thing I don't 
 like is the animation on the videos. The mouths just move up and down. I wasn't too happy about 
 it, but it's only a small thing in the game. The problem is that I think the colors of it is either 
 very dark or just way to pasty colored (Like GTA San Andreas) . I didn't really like the scenery 
 on that part. But I loved the rest of the graphics. Another thing that annoyed me is in the first 
 person view, there is no gun! That annoyed me.
  
  Online mode is pretty fun. Just playing with 1 friend on co-op isn't that great. But just playing 
 online with 7 other guys is just great. It seems a bit more fun, but maybe that's just me. It's 
 very hard to explain.
  
  It's fun overall, but campaign is just not that great. It's only slightly more fun online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XBOX_360_PLAYER
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 29, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  This game has the multiplayer, the graphics, and the gameplay. I love how there is the different 
 ranks and creating your solider. Like giving them a helmet or goggles. But the thing I have to 
 say is don't play the single player, unless your a really good at ghost recon single player, because 
 the single player missions are a pain to beet. But overall has everything you could want for a 
 multiplayer game and shooter. 
  
  This game has the multiplayer, the graphics, and the gameplay. I love how there is the different 
 ranks and creating your solider. Like giving them a helmet or goggles. But the thing I have to 
 say is don't play the single player, unless your a really good at ghost recon single player, because 
 the single player missions are a pain to beet. But overall has everything you could want for a 
 multiplayer game and shooter.
  
  This game has the multiplayer, the graphics, and the gameplay. I love how there is the different 
 ranks and creating your solider. Like giving them a helmet or goggles. But the thing I have to 
 say is don't play the single player, unless your a really good at ghost recon single player, because 
 the single player missions are a pain to beet. But overall has everything you could want for a 
 multiplayer game and shooter. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigO12101
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 29, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  To begin, Ghost Recon does a phenomenal display the new style of CGI in the Xbox 360. Just in the 
 beginning clip, the graphics look like a video feed right out of Iraq. 
  Adding on, the HDTV graphics fine tune the playing to make the gamer more involved psychologically 
 inside the head of Ghost Team Leader, Scott Mitchell. 
  The coordination of your team buzzing in your ear as you fight your way through Mexican Nationalists, 
 sending a $30 million tank to go wipe out an enemy, and lastly, the sniper scope that forces you 
 to hold your breath to fire all make this game an Odyssey of accomplishment, and wickedly destructive 
 fun experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IIRubenII
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  Hello everyone, this is actually the first game I've ever played on the Xbox 360, and is also the 
 main reason why I bought this system to begin with. In the past year or more, I was looking at 
 this game through previews and trailers. This was a must have game after I saw the screen shots 
 and gameplay movies here on Gamespot. Therefore, I will dive in to all it's glorious categories 
 of play time and give you my review. Let's move on shall we? 
  
  First of all, let's speak about the gameplay. The gameplay in GRAW is very well done. Especially 
 with the wireless controller, every button you press is very highly responsive. The artificial 
 intelligence is up to par, while your commands to your team are very well written out in the game. 
 The missions are lengthy, and you have a vast amount of variety when trying to finish your mission, 
 and in weapons cache. You'll end up practicing your controls for an hour or so, that way you'll 
 get a feel to your environment. 
  
  Second, let me write to you about the sound. What more can I say? 5.1 in all of it's glory, explosions, 
 foot steps, guns blazing in the warzones, and even alarms and dogs barking and birds chirping. 
 You actually feel like you're in Mexico city when the enemies taunt you in Spanish. It's like the 
 makers of this game went to a war zone and just recorded everything that was going on. Every reloading 
 of your weapon and every shot of glass is crystal clear. The sound is amazing.
  
  Third, let's talk about the graphics. High Definition, need I say more? When you are playing GRAW 
 you actually feel as if you're in this place. You look up, you see a huge water tank. You look 
 across a balcony and you'll see Mexico City in it's vast environment. You walk the streets and 
 you'll see the trees blowing in the wind and the cracks in the streets. You'll see the blades of 
 grass moving to and fro, and you'll see the reflections of the sun in the windows of the buildings. 
 This game has the best graphics I've ever seen in any other video game. 
  
  Fourth, the value of this game is superb. You'll end up playing it for hours and hours on end. 
 But to make things even more better, you have to play this game online to fully experience how 
 fun it can be. There are guys out there who are superb players and once you see how good this game 
 can get, you'll never let the controller down until the batteries run out! Ghost Recon is a highly 
 addictive game that you should'nt miss out on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpudmonkeyInc
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 28, 2006 9:51 pm PT
Review:  I got an X-box 360 yesterday. From the outset I knew that I wouldn't find many good games for it 
 until a year or two into the console's lifespan - as is the case with almost any console. However, 
 this is one of those launch titles that really gives you hope and keeps you happy until said time 
 when you're actually seeing these better games being released. 
  
  G. R. A. W. is the best squad-based shooter I have ever played. Period. The controls are extremely 
 approachable, even if getting truly good may take a while. Commanding your team plus additional 
 support (tanks, recon robots, choppers, you name it) has never been easier on such large battlefields 
 as this. Speaking of the battlefields - Mexico City looks absolutely fabulous in this game. So 
 very detailed that you feel like you're actually navigating a real city. I never really had a problem 
 with the absence of civilians. It was something that, of course, occurred to me, but it never really 
 seemed to detract from the feeling of realism because players are kept on the move and thinking 
 about the action as numerous new orders and objectives are being thrown at you dynamically. 
  
  It's really an enthralling, amazing experience that - if you own an X360 already - you owe 
 it to yourself to buy. It may just be that one game that makes you stop regretting dropping the 
 four bills for the console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevo123
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 28, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Yet another Tom Clancy shooter!
  
  This title, however, is different than those other Ghost Recon games. The games title advanced 
 warfighter really says it all. From the minute you start playing the game it has a sense of well, 
 advanceness too it. From it's high tech HUD to squad based missions this game shows what modern 
 warfare is all about. 
  
  Campaign:
  
  Most players will dive right in to intense campaign mode and most will find it both enjoyable and 
 challenging. The misssions on the normal difficulty don't really pose much a challenege to veteran 
 shooter players. While the game does have it's intense and frustrting moments playing through the 
 campaign on normal will keave the average gamer wanting more. All in all the campaign is fun and 
 relativly easy to get gamer points from. : )
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  I would write a full mutiplayer review with level breakdowns and a description of live play but 
 it's 1:00 in the morning and i gotta get up early so ill just say that the multiplayer is freaking 
 insane and it is where many of the games attributes really shine.
  
  -Kevin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silent1333
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 28, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Step aside Splinter Cell and up front Ghost. In G. R. A. W you play as a Ghost named Scott Mitchell 
 who is sent in to help resolve a hostage situation of some pretty high up people including the 
 President of the Mexican Government. 
  
  The US and Mexican government agreed to meet and sign some document on opening the borders between 
 the two country's and upon doing so the US sent the Mexican Government some tanks and just when 
 everything seemed to be going smoothly a Coup erupted and things changed for the worse. 
  
  Immediately after the training mission I knew this game was going to be a awesome game and something 
 I would enjoy many times through. Apart from the awesome Visuals and great sound the story draws 
 you in especially more towards the end. You are hooked up with a bunch of high tech stuff I can't 
 even explain but I can tell you this it makes fighting in a urban metropolis that much from fun. 
 You are able to get live feeds from almost everybody on the field for some helpful Intel and updates 
 on your current objective and even see what your teammates see. You have a fairly decent sized 
 arsenal and they all have their ups and downs. Like some weapons have a scope while others do not 
 and the scope helps you out a lot though I guess it's not a must. Like in most shooters today your 
 firing is more accurate when you are standing still, proning or laying down. In this game it is 
 imperative you find cover and poke your head out around corners and take pot shots instead of running 
 around like a crazed lunatic waving your gun around which I did anyway sometimes.
  
  Ordering your teammates (apache's, tanks and Cypher's.) around is pretty simple as all you can 
 do is direct them where to go and what to shoot at or to take up the defensive or attack at will. 
 And if one of your teammates get injured you can simply heal them or direct another of your teammates 
 to do it instead but if you are shot down you cannot be healed by another teammate. There are though 
 some resupply boxes spreadout through each map that give you some health as well as ammo. 
  
  Another cool feature is the Tactical map which gives some insight on what's around you and 
 or the best route to a objective. And if you really wanted to you can change your perspective to 
 first person in the options menu
  
  In the beginning and end of some missions you are the gunner of the Black Hawk which is pretty 
 cool. But don't get to crazy with it as it can overheat and break down. The graphics here are really 
 cool as you get to look out over the city ( this is a good part to play some music saved up on 
 your hard drive) .
  
  After you beat the game you can go back and choose what missions to play and you will because it's 
 just that cool or try out the multiplayer either online or off but the multiplayer missions are 
 not all that great by yourself. 
  
  Overall: If you are looking for a great shooter set in a Urban setting then this is a must have. 
 Really you would be a giving it a bad name by not at least renting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exeeded_limit
Rating: 10
Date: May 28, 2006 8:54 pm PT
Review:  I expected this game to be better. Everyone was saying that this was THE GAME. Well not really. 
 It was ok but there are a bit of flaws. First of all there is too much overkill. When you shoot 
 someone they fly 10 feet in the air. Then sometimes there is a delayed action. There was a sniper 
 on the water tower I shot him and he didn't move so I watched him. Then three seconds later he 
 flies five feet in the air and off of the tower. So realistic. The gameplay is always the same 
 only in a area every time. It gets boring after a while. So there a few good things about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnPraser
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 28, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  This game was pretty hard to play at first, but as you move on, you'll get more experienced and 
 get better. But don't be fooled by your experience: Just like Oblivion, all the enemies are all 
 matching your level, and you just about have the same amount of health as 1 enemy does. So basically, 
 this is a game that has graphics that are flawless and has an amazing music score. Oblivion is 
 a superb game, but yet a really hard one.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  The gameplay score could've been higher, but I have noticed flaws. These aren't exactly flaws considerably, 
 but the game is hard no doubt. This game is so hard at some parts, it could actually force you 
 to actually activate a cheat code in order to pass a certain hard level, like for example, MayDay, 
 MayDay! You play as Captain Scott Mitchell, and you are usually teamed up with a ghost squad. But 
 don't get me wrong here. There are missions where you have to play by yourself, and those missions 
 are quite hard. But there is a simple agreement to this: Some levels are easy, some are hard. So 
 basically, it's not entirely hard, but overrall, GRAW is no doubt a hard game, and the hard diffuculty 
 does have a potential of ruining the fun gameplay of GRAW, but still, GRAW is an overrall superior 
 game that overshadows the hard diffuculty. So caution yourself to this game if you are a gamer 
 that absolutely hates hard gameplay, but this game is definitely the fit for any gamer that loves 
 hard gameplay in video games.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  Some of you may think I'm ridiculous for saying this, but GRAW does have flawless graphics. When 
 you play the game, it does of course look like just a typical XBOX game, but when you try to notice 
 fuzzyness in the graphics in this game, it's pretty much absent. If there is no fuzziness in the 
 graphics of the game, that means it must score a 10/10. That's what describes GRAW, because you 
 do notice when you're looking out the helicopter at some parts that the city in reality does almost 
 look exactly like Mexico City. So if you ever heard anyone saying that this game makes you feel 
 you're in an actual city, they're right, this game really does put you in a very real Mexico City 
 environment and the graphics are just about flawless.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  The music score in this game is amazing. Like when you're in the third level near the end, you 
 notice this real-time war music, much like you see in World War 2 movies, which is pretty similar 
 to what would be up for a Grammy Award nomination. You can also notice that almost everytime you're 
 in a helicopter, right after a person briefs you on a new mission, this heavy metal/rock music 
 turns on and is absolutely rock solid music that is turned on that moment. And don't forget that 
 the overrall sound of the game perfectly suits GRAW, and is therefore amazing.
  
  Value: 9/10
  This game has really good replay value, although it is a hard game. When you spend 
 $60.00 on this game, you will be happy that you have made that decision. With the overrall superior 
 graphics, music, and even gameplay, this game has tremendous replay value, and is very well worth 
 spending $60.00 for it. GRAW is a must-have game for your 360 if you have a little over $60.00 
 in your wallet. So right now, go to your nearest retailer that sells video games and buy GRAW (remember 
 to get the 360 version of it :) ) 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 9/10
  Overrall, this game is superior, but still might have some flaws in it. The hard gameplay at times 
 may ruin the superior gameplay of this game, but this game is so incredible that the hard diffuculty 
 probably doesn't even matter to some of you. If you like games with solid graphics and music, get 
 GRAW. If you like hard games, get GRAW. If you like hard gameplay, flawless graphics, and amazing 
 music altogether, get GRAW. Enough said.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostRCP90
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 28, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  This is possibly the best game I have ever layed hands on. The graphical ability of the 360 is 
 really put to the test in this beautiful game. The various scenarios set up for the campaign show 
 off the 'brain power' of the games engine. Before I played this game I was unsure on whether I 
 had made the right decision on getting a 360. I did not know whether it would be the better option 
 compared to a PS or a Wii. Now I know. The 360's capabilities are endless. The game pulls off 
 some of the craziest stunts i've seen from any game developer. With a cross-som system that works 
 to perfection (excluding minor frame lapses) and a multiplayer that literaly 'blows you away', 
 GRAW is the ultimate gaming experience for any tactical shooter fan.
  I'm sorry I don't have much to say about GRAW. It's bacause I'm playing it whilst writing this 
 review. I really can't type what this game makes me feal like (it's slightly erotic) , just buy 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Setho10
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 28, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter (graw) is a very enjoyable game, with some notable flaws. Note 
 that I only played the single player portion of the game and so my review only covers half of the 
 game. 
  
  First off, graw's story is pretty standard fare, involving terrorists, nuclear war, and you, the 
 hero, the only hope for mankind. Again, this is pretty standard fare. The game is a tactical shooter, 
 played in either first or third person. You are Captain Mitchell an elite Ghost. You can use many 
 different weapons, control a set of up to three other teammates, as well as tanks, choppers, and 
 a GPS type robot that will give you a tactical advantage of the battlefield. All this is fine and 
 dandy, until you realize that the AI in the game leaves a lot to be desired. Don't get me wrong, 
 most of the time enemies and teammates will do exactly as they are supposed to. Several times though, 
 I told my teammates to do something, and they didn't. For example, you are allowed to heal any 
 downed teammate for a short period of time. When two teammates are down, it is possible to heal 
 one yourself while asking your third teammate to heal the second one. Sometimes though, your third 
 teammate will just stand there, leading to the death of one of your comrades. Other times I witnessed 
 teammates standing directly in the line of fire, not shooting or diving on the ground, just standing 
 there. Once, I even had to restart a level, after my ghosts all got stuck on a wall. I want to 
 reiterate that these problems are generally very rare, but are annoying when they do pop up. Enemies 
 fare much better. They will generally use cover and pull off some good shots. I did notice a couple 
 of times though that an enemy would stand right in front of me, empty a whole clip and do absolutely 
 no damage to me. I could attribute this to the normal difficulty level I was playing at, except 
 that most of the time this would be a near instant death. Again, these problems were very rare. 
 Gunplay is very enjoyable. You have to manually reload which can be annoying to run and gun style 
 players. But then again, these players will probably hate the game in the first place. This game, 
 you see, is very much a hide behind cover, pull of a couple of shots, and get back behind cover 
 type of game. Stay out in the open for more than a few seconds and chances are you'll be dead. 
 I enjoyed this more methodical pace, and found it to be more realistic and more rewarding. Others 
 though, will find it slow or cumbersome. 
  
  Graphics are superb. The final levels are a real treat with smoke and fire everywhere, and often 
 a dozen enemies on screen at once. There was virtually no slowdown. This was an intense game. Characters 
 were perfectly modeled and environments were sharp. Overall the graphics were very impressive. 
 No complaints here.
  
  Voice acting was great. It was because of the acting that the story survived. A tale that could 
 have been lame turned intense almost totally due to the realism of the vocals. Music was sparse 
 but effective when it showed up. 
  
  The campaign was short but the unplayed multiplayer should add plenty of value. This is a fun and 
 intense game, and warrants two play throughs at both difficulty levels, if only to unlock all of 
 the achievements. 
  
  One other "bug" that I wanted to note is actually a spoiler. So stop reading here if you don't 
 want to know. 
  
  At the end of the game your black hawk pilot is murdered by the enemy general. The problem though, 
 is that some canned responses, such as "Your leaving the battlefield" when you go out of the level 
 are still the same dead person. This ruins the immersion. Again, it's no big problem and most people 
 wont even notice it, but I found it t be annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samwise911
Rating: 9
Date: May 28, 2006 3:37 am PT
Review:  good- great solid gameplay, looks amazing, good online play. very good AI, sounds good, immersive 
 storyline.
  
  bad- waiting time in lobbys can be a pain in the ass, your team mates can get stuck randomly, if 
 you get lag, can ruin a game, controls can take a bit getting used to
  
  so. i put this in my 360, it loads up, i go single player, and..... *drools* wow. this game is 
 gorgeous, the lighting effects just make it that bit more omg... is this really a game? 
  the game has a very intuitive control system. this is sometimes good, othertimes... quite fiddly. 
 a few times i actually had to stop and press several buttons before i could get my equipment. I 
 wouldnt let this worry you too much though, this really is a good game. 
  i went on live, and it really was fun to play. very rarely can you say that about tactical shooters, 
 im a very relaxed gamer, so i dont play ranked very much, but even when i have, its a very relaxed 
 atmosphere.
  
  i would recommend this game to almost anyone who is up for a challenging game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoiled_spanich
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 27, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  This is an awesome game, I also have to admit it have flaws. How ever the postive over come the 
 negatives very easily. 
  
  From casual to hardcore, this game should be fun for all stripes of gamers. 
  
  It have new 
 and intersting ideas that I think future video game companies would pick up. Original things like 
 the 3D map, the original sniping experience, and the flickering enemy fire (also, the interface 
 is good too) . 
  
  Things they can work on? The music, glitches, and your teamates' brain (they stand in the middle 
 of a fire fight looks like they are trying to hurt themselves) .
  
  What would be awesome in the next Ghost Recon? Be able to drive vehicles, fly planes and more team 
 members. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameCrazy9025
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 27, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  This game is fantastic, one of the best shooters out for the xbox 360. Gameplay is great ,survial 
 in this game is way improved then any other shooters out yet. Makes you seem like you in a real 
 war. This is not a run and shoot game its a duck and shoot then run for more cover. Very realistic. The 
 visuals are perfect what more would you want? Fighting enemies is great and exciting, dust in the 
 air, pieces of ruble breaking off. Just seems so real. Sound is amazing the tanks firing, guns firing, 
 partners and enemies yelling. Really gives you an idea what it must feel like being in war. There 
 is only two things I don't like about this game,1: This game could of have more missions in single 
 player, I think there is only twelve.2: I really thought that giving orders to your allies would 
 be improved, you cant control 1 of them they all follow your command and you could only tell them 
 to move to certain spots. Atleast you can give orders to tanks, helicopters and more. Well the fantastic 
 gameplay in singleplayer makes up for these flaws, and if you beat singleplayer mode multiplayer 
 and online would keep you hooked on this game. Overall great game buy it if you dont have it worth 
 the 60 bucks. Don't let other reviews discourage you to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbinky2
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 27, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  I bought this game with my 360 and have yet to get bored of it. The campaign is very, very good 
 and the story feels like a Tom Clancy novel pulled out into a game and as such it is very immersive. 
 I could go on about how good it looks but you only have to look at any other review for that. One 
 thing i have not seen people say anything about is the very noticeable animation problems. When 
 reloading, the magasine in the gun is never removed. This was blaringly obvious tome and makes 
 me wince every time i reload. The other problem is with the MRC-LW. Whoever animated it didn't 
 spend much time on the SP animations because as you move around when leaning on something Scott 
 breaks his wrist and becomes a T-man regularly. There are some other flaws in things like when 
 going from a standing run to a crouch and his arms move to the position of holding a rifle. Apart 
 from these flaws the game is very good and is definitely worth buying. The MP is fantastic and 
 I have had some very fun times on the unranked matches, where all the nicer, friendlier gamers 
 go. There are some very good game modes to be played, my personal favourite being Co-op territory 
 because it is hella fun wasting the 100s of bots runnning your way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofhalo24
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 26, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  An excellent game with a few minor flaws that dont really affect the game play just a few objects 
 that can be walked through and there needs to be a few more guns and the squad command feature 
 could have been a but more complex. The graphics are truly next generation not quite as good as 
 Fight Night Round 3. It is the best game in the series, it has a solid frame rate, and great physics. Another 
 major flaw is the online graphics for some reason not as good as single player, but still a very 
 good online tactical shooter. There will be times you wished this amazing game had driveable vehicles. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RVCA823
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 26, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, or G. R. A. W, is the heavily anticipated 3rd person squad based 
 game from Ubisoft. 
  
  The game takes place in Mexico, where rebels have taken over the country. They have the American 
 and Mexican Presidents in hostage. 
  
  You play as Scott Mitchell, the leader of the Ghost squad. You have a rifleman, a bomberman, and 
 an all- around shooter. You also have a sharpshooter at times.
  
  You give these soldiers various commands such as, "go to that location", fire, and cease fire. 
 You may also control how stealthy or aggressive they are.
  
  The squad AI is horrendous and frustrating. You give them a command, let's say, to blow up a tank: 
 sometimes it takes five times to tell them to blow it up! They are always in the line of fire, 
 and never take cover. You have to do all the work, and you will wish that the squad was never there! 
 The enemy AI is just the same.
  
  Another frustrating part of the game is that it saves automatically by checkpoints. You have no 
 control over saving. This will become very frustrating when you have a last battle in the end of 
 a level and die.
  
  The graphics are outstanding, but not as good as everyone says they are. There are night levels 
 in the game that make the game look downright atrocious; but suffice to say, the graphics are amazing.
 
  
  Do not buy this game for the online multiplayer. It takes, sometimes, up to 20 minutes to get into 
 game! And half of the time it disconnects. The graphics look very bad in multiplayer, and it gets 
 very boring and repetitive.
  
  It will take you less than 10 hours to complete the game. If you play it on hard mode, it will 
 take you 15- 20 hours.
  
  Overall, G. R. A. W. is decent game, that offers a more realistic style to the genre. I just wish 
 the AI, saving system, and multiplayer would have been better.
  -RVCA823 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aliens1234
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 26, 2006 6:52 am PT
Review:  GRAW, as the 3rd instalments (excluding expansions etc.) is without doubt the best in the series. 
 As Scott Mitchel you battle through Mexico City with 3 team-mates. As the most elite squad in the 
 world, the Ghosts will battle against swarms of troops, tanks, helicopters, and APCs. That may 
 sound like a daunting prospect, but at times the player is in control of other friendly units (e. g. 
 an M1tank, UAV, or an Apache) . Their controls are so well integrated into the new cross-com system, 
 it makes manoeuvring them and your squad simple.
  
  That is not to say this game is easy. Using your squad and friendly units effectively is vital 
 to a successful mission, and takes time to master. As before, well aimed shots can kill instantly, 
 so this is no walk in the park. Many have criticised PC to console games as being dumbed-down, 
 but you wont find that here; there is more available interaction with your squad, friendlies and 
 the environment than any previous GR title.
  
  The visuals are terrific, as you enter the city via Blackhawk, you see the urban layout sprawled 
 beneath you in great detail while the sun reflects off of windows and gives an orange tint to the 
 horizon. Once on the ground, you can fully appreciate the work that went into making the experience 
 feel authentic. Explosions create clouds of flame and smoke, at the same time rumbling your vision, 
 or causing your team to hit the deck.
  
  Your team is, for the most part, a well oiled killing machine. There are times when orders arent 
 followed (for example destroying a stationary truck) but these lapses in team-mate AI can be overlooked. 
 One issue is that the enemy seem far more focused on shooting YOU, not your team-mates and this 
 can be very frustrating on the hardest setting. For team-mates that are taken down, their lives 
 can be saved by you or your men and little touches like the man limping after being healed provide 
 great levels of realism.
  
  The levels are varied and can be approached from different angles as has always been the case with 
 GR games. They go from one to the next with each briefing given on the way to your next objective.
 
  
  The multiplayer is great and comes in all the matches you would expect (team deathmatch, deathmatch, 
 capture flag etc.) but there are also a number of co-op campaigns that can be played over LIVE 
 with up to 16 players. Although the graphics in the multiplayer aren't as stunning as in the SP, 
 there is still a great level of detail and plenty of fun to be had on LIVE.
  
  GRAW for the 360 is a well polished game that delivers on both SP and MP modes. We can be glad 
 it was held off for a few months, resulting in what is arguably the best 360 title to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: habinator
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 25, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  You know, this game is supposed to be one of the best looking games for the 360 and while it may 
 have its pretty moments it doesn't scream next gen. As a matter of fact I still have yet to see 
 any game out there that really gives me what I was expecting with these "next gen consoles". 
 
  
  Don't get me wrong this game is very nice in terms of graphics and does have its many spectacular 
 graphical moments but I just feel like it didn't hit that "next gen" point in graphics. 
  
  THe single player mode is decent and maybe for a few hours will hook you but after that can get 
 kinda boring and sort of repetetive. 
  
  If you need any reason to actually buy this game, get it for its online play. Some really fun modes 
 here. There is nothing like taking 15 other guys through a map trying to complete objectives. Of 
 course the fools that don't cooperate die off within the first few minutes but the guys that stick 
 together or work together are what makes it so much fun. 
  
  Its different only because most online games like this are run and gun, but this one is much different. 
 If you run and gun you'll be the one who leads near the end of the game with deaths. You need to 
 play tactical, and use your position and scope to your advantage. You need patience, accuarcy, 
 teamwork and you need to know when to take cover when playingt his game. 
  
  ONline really is the number one reason why this game could be a "buy". I say unless you have already 
 played it, rent it first before you jump into buying it.
  
  Oh, and the sound in this game is phenomenal. They really captured the background sounds of a city 
 perfectly. And the gameplay is quite easy to pick up after a whiie. My advice when choosing a gun 
 and class, go sniper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rwgober92
Rating: 9
Date: May 25, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  I picked up this game thinking it would just be another shooter that all you did was run around, 
 shoot a few people, then your done. Fortunatly for me, i was wrong. I found myself directing team 
 mates (who actually listen to what you say and dont kill themselves in battle) , sniping enemies 
 through brush in the jungle, and using heat vision goggles to hunt down enemies.
  I also like the amount of detail they has in the weapon system, the multiplayer maps, and the settings 
 for multiplayer. Ive found myself up countless hours and even through the night and into the early 
 morning playing this game with my friends. So if you want a great FPS game that has a perfect balance 
 of everything there is to offer rite now or just a game you want to play with your friends, pick 
 this game up and start kickin ass! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danhr
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 25, 2006 12:46 am PT
Review:  A really great game. I am not a big fan of Tom Clancy games, but G. R. A. W is just awesome. There 
 are several occasions where there are huge fighting scenes and not just sneak-and-shoot like most 
 of the other Tom Clancy games. You also need to play tactical and take cover up against the wall 
 to prevent getting shot. The enemy hostiles are good shooters and you do not stand against alot 
 of bullets, which makes this game very realistic.
  
  The graphic and plot is very good. Ubisoft did a great job with it, and I personally like how your 
 equipment is so modern and tactical. If you like military games, Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter 
 is definitely something for you. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stealthrodent
Rating: 7
Date: May 24, 2006 11:51 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: I was amazed with how realistic the game was. How the camera swayed and how smooth your 
 guy ran and slid into cover.
  
  Has some really fun moments like big firefights and diving to cover. 
  Makes you feel like your 
 there and no matter who plays, the guys actions and moves make THEM look really good.
  
  THE BAD: The game is really hard even on the easiest setting which is normal. I played for a while 
 and barely got far and had to repeat ALOT of levels to finally beat them. 
  
  There seems like there's too much going on. 
  For example: In one level, it was night and I had 
 to go across an open area while constantly switching my vision mode on and off to see any attackers, 
 and I had to worry about staying quiet and shooting and sniping enemies, then also I had to wory 
 about my squad which kept running off and getting injured, so I had to constantly watch them and 
 tell them to "fall back on me" and heal them when they were hit down, then I also had to worry 
 about a tank, that I controlled and had to order it to move and go back and I had to constantly 
 stay behind it to avoid being hit and keep my squad behing it. I also had to worry about not getting 
 it blown up and defending it. I also had control of a helicopter, which I had to order in air strikes 
 on enemy vehicles with it and keep it in the right position and worry about it being destroyed 
 and if it was still following me. And I had to worry about my objective which was to go to numerous 
 bunkers and destroy them with c4. 
  
  ALL of this was going on AT ONCE plus the ackward controls left me feeling helpless.
  
  The 
 multiplayer was kinda fun for a little bit, like 2-3 games max, then got really repetetive and 
 boring.
  
  Not a BAD game, but not for everyone, only harcore military people and people into that tactical 
 blah blah will find it most rewarding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_fox_man
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 24, 2006 10:51 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks! The only other ghost recon game i have is ghost recon 2 and loved that game. I 
 had to get GRAW when i picked up my 360 as it was reviewed as the best game at the time i got it 
 and i have become a fan of the series, even turning family members into ghost recon fans (my cousins) . 
 The graphics are the best i have seen to date! Campaign mode is fun and immersive with a simple 
 story of taking control back of Mexico City from the bad guys. This game includes new features 
 like being able to lean and peak aroun walls and gunning down dudes with the machine gun in the 
 black hawks! Thed only thing i don't like about the campaign is that it is in widescreen and the 
 levels sometimes get fairly orange in colour from the light. Multiplayer is great online with up 
 to 16 players, it's great! Overall this is an amazing game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boricuan2128JJ
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 18, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  This game was one of my favorite games. But all of that changed ones i played online. It was stupid. 
 The people found u fast and u do not respond that fast. I haven't play the campain mode so i dont 
 now abuot that. The multi player $ucks. I prefer the one from Halo. The graphics aren't that good 
 the ones from Call of Duty are beter. I wich i ca play campain but i can't so i hope the campain 
 mode in beter if not this game is realy bad. Its to realistic. Like u can get killed by one bullet 
 that is bad. Realy bad. After u read this review i hope that u won't buy this game. Also if there 
 are Xbox live mebers tell me so we can do a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingSlacker
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 24, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  A all together great game to play and experince, spent many late nights playing this game. Although 
 the single player was quite easy to blow through on easier levels, it did prove to be a chalange 
 on harder levels. This game has massive value for its online experience, many differnt game modes 
 and a verry good atmosphere to play in. I have really enjoyed this game, and don't just go out 
 and rent it, go buy it. The gameplay could have been a tiny bit better, but nothing to complain 
 about, like I have already said, the multiplayer picks up the slack. Some amazing graphics and 
 some of the nicest sounds on a game, I loved the atmospheric music, it added that nice touch to 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fable_fodder
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 24, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game this weekedn and I've already played it for 15 hours. It is so fun. You get 
 to go around with you and your squad, giving them orders and taking out bad guys stealthily (if 
 you're any good) . The graphics are superba and the music really fits the game well. In multiplayer 
 there is at least 25 guns to choose from, from and ak-47 to a bazooka. Although, multiplayer is 
 not nearly as good as single player campaign. In single player, you can hide behind obstacles, 
 and pek around the corner for a shot. Plus, if you're being shot at and you're running, you can 
 dive to the ground, it's pretty darn cool. I don't give many games this score, this game is awesome 
 so don't miss out on it!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rykh
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 24, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Ghost recon is a series I have enjoyed for quite some time. This was the first time I have ever 
 played one on a consol and was impressed and disappointed. The gameplay overall was pretty solid, 
 with minimal but often frustrating bugs. 
  
  The single player mission was enjoyable and the story was somewhat believable. It played well and 
 didnt feel too short or long. The hard mode was quite a challenge, though at times because the 
 squad didnt do quite what you wanted but oh well. There needed to be a quick way to get back to 
 cover with the scope up and such to avoid fire. One time I ordered the squad to take out a vehicle 
 as we were behind a corner and he hit the corner and blew us all up. I had to restart. Grenade 
 launchers have a delayed fuse, so that could not have happened. It was little things that added 
 up that disappointed me, but overall I enjoyed the game.
  
  The multiplayer aspect wasnt something I would stick to. I still enjoy playing Halo 2 online over 
 this, but it might have a greater effect on other people. Just wasnt my style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_lalli
Rating: 9
Date: May 24, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  Yes i know that is a bold statement 
  
  First off I never played much of ghost recon's 1player but from what i saw when my cousin played 
 it seemed pretty great. The Ai was dam good, better than what I've seen in other games. .The cross 
 cam i thought was stupid at first but then i realized it was a very helpful tool, sometimes it 
 worked like eyes behind your head, or you could use it when covering and have someone oon the look 
 out.
  
  Multiplayer was the best part, and im talking aout offline multiplayer, I mostly played the multiplayer 
 with 3 other ppl. The intensity, the action, the sneakingness, was all phenominal. There would be 
 matches that took forever or matches that just ended fast. Sometimes you would be losing but then 
 you and your teammate ambush the other team and start winning. Team elimination mode is the best, 
 it really required strategy and cunningness. But then there were modes where it was just a flat 
 out shootout. 
  
  THe only thing i never liked about the multplayer was the online, because alot of times you had 
 to wait a long time to get in a game then when you were in a game you get stuck in a game where 
 the other team spawn camps, that really sucked the fun out of online.
  
  But if you have 3 controllers and 3 friends man is this game fun.
  
  The graphics of this game 
 are phenominal especially in HD, i found my self dead a couple of times becasue i just stared at 
 the water in one level. And the animations are sweet especailly when their rolling down the hill 
 after they die. I liked the hud display as well. especially how it tells you what position you're 
 in cuz in multiplayer sometimes you cant tell cuz its in first person. 
  
  The SFX are great, especially the gun sounds and the sounds of bullet contact. 
  
  This game 
 really is the first true next gen game in my opinoin, and it seems like ubisoft is right on topp 
 things for this next generation, with this, splinter cell and redsteel coming.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Game21x
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 23, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Im running through the sweltering streets of Mexico City armed with the best equipment US tax 
 dollars can pay for. My squad mates follow closely behind, checking the surrounding area for new 
 threats. I situate myself behind a building and take a quick peek around the corner. A couple of 
 red target indicators pop up on my HUD. No biggie. I pop around the corner and take them out with 
 a few bursts of automatic fire. As they go down, more and more red indicators show up. Obviously, 
 these guys had company. I send my team over to a better vantage point. Theyre situated and ready 
 to fire, now I need a better view. I spot a nice big building across the street. Not good. I need 
 to get there quickly. I break into a run from cover. Bullets whiz past as I dive behind the building. 
 I made it without a scratch. I order my teammates to open fire. The insurgents drop like flies. 
 I let loose and mop up the rest of them. That battles over, but I know its just going to get 
 tougher from here.
  
  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is the Xbox 360s first tactical military shooter bearing the Tom 
 Clancy name and some might argue, the first truly next-gen title on the 360. This title was originally 
 slated to launch with the Xbox 360 but was delayed. It seems, that this delay was for the best, 
 as the developers have delivered an amazing tactical shooter, both online and off.
  
  This game really shows how realistic games can look on the Xbox 360. Everything is incredibly detailed 
 and lifelike. The buildings, trees, cars, and even the streets are detailed to an amazing degree. 
 During the helicopter fly over scenes, youll notice the incredible draw distance. You can literally 
 see for miles. The HDR imaging used in game looks great. It accurately simulates the way the human 
 eye adjusts to changing intensities of sunlight on the streets of Mexico City. If there is a sudden 
 flash of light, your visor will be completely washed out for a moment. Very realistic looking 
 stuff. The soldiers themselves are well detailed too. Their animations look smooth and realistic. 
 When you dive for cover, it really appears that your character is doing it like their life depends 
 on it. 
  The game also implements a new form of communication for you and your teammates dubbed the cross 
 com. It shows up in the form of a small screen in the upper left or (in the case of story progression 
 scenes) right corner of the screen. The cross com feeds from your teammates, Bradley tanks and 
 an Apache helicopter and so on all occur in real time so you are constantly updated on whats going 
 on in the battlefield. The cross com also finds its way into the multiplayer games as well. This 
 can prove to be invaluable. As it can reveal the location of enemy players and allow you to get 
 the drop on them, so long as they havent been seen. 
  
  The single player campaign is amazingly fun to play through. It starts you off with a quick training 
 session. You can skip it if you wish but it is recommended that you give it a quick play through 
 because it gives you time to wrap your head around the rather complex control scheme without having 
 to worry about being killed in the process. Once you learn the control scheme, it becomes natural. 
 Although, it is difficult to manipulate sometimes in the heat of battle, especially while cycling 
 through the cross com feeds. 
  
  Before a few missions, you are tasked with manning the helicopters minigun and clearing the landing 
 zone. Its a bit disturbing how fun these brief sections are. The minigun itself is very visceral 
 and is a bit difficult to aim properly as the chopper circles your targets. As you fire, the gun 
 will even overheat and fire erratically requiring you to stop and give the gun a second or two 
 to cool down.
  
  Most of the time youll be running through each of the battlefields with three squadmates under 
 your command. The squad A. I. is often hit or miss. These guys are supposed to be the best of the 
 best. Based on the things Ive seen, you wouldnt know it. They occasionally runaround outside 
 of cover and end up getting picked off. Then they wont follow the orders theyve been given such 
 as when you order one of your squadmates to heal the man (or woman in some cases) who just got 
 themselves shot. After waiting for them to carry out the order, I figured I was going to have to 
 do it myself. Oftentimes, to keep my squadmates from getting killed, I had to order them to some 
 out of the way place and clear the zone myself. The solo missions are a very welcome (and needed) 
 break from the constant babysitting of your teammates. 
  
  The multiplayer is almost a completely different game than the single player game and I mean that 
 in the best possible way. Its amazing. The multiplayer offers support for up to 16 players in 
 a large number of multiplayer modes. There are also plenty of customization options in there as 
 well. There are co-operative and adversarial modes to keep you busy for a long time. The co-op 
 modes are plain awesome. These modes pit you against the (rather aggressive) A. I. in one of the 
 many modes. With the right options, these modes are incredibly fun and challenging, requiring cooperation, 
 as you will often be thoroughly outnumbered and out gunned.
  
  As with all games, there are some flaws. Some of the maneuvers from the single player game are 
 omitted from the multiplayer for some reason. You cannot press your back up against a wall and 
 peer around a corner the same way you would in the single player missions. The method of doing 
 so in multiplayer leaves more of your character exposed to gunfire than would be desired. Some 
 graphical effects are removed from the game to ensure it runs smoothly with little to no hiccups 
 in the action. These are minor gripes and really wont take away from your enjoyment of the game.
 
  All in all the multiplayer experience is the main reasons to buy this Xbox 360 game, and fans 
 of the tactical shooter genre will not be disappointed.
  
  To wrap things up this is an excellent installment in the tactical shooter genre and the Ghost 
 Recon series in general. The online multiplayer is the main reason to buy this game but the single 
 player game is exactly what youd expect from a tactical shooter and shouldnt be overlooked. Anyone 
 who owns an Xbox 360 should add this game to their collection immediately.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ancientchicken
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2006 5:32 am PT
Review:  This is one of the most amazing games I have ever played. Let me start out by saying that I do 
 not own it myself because I have no 360, but I got this game for a friend because they have a 360, 
 in other words, I got this game mostly for myself, so that I could play it on my frineds xbox 360 
 system. lol. so, I take the game over to my friends house who has the 360, and I pop the game into 
 the disc tray thing, I'm getting all excited about it, and I could hardly contain it. My friend 
 who I purchased the game for was not nearly as excited as I was, but they could were really glad 
 to have a new game for their 360, and thought it looked promising. When I started playing, the 
 fist thing I noticed just completely blew me away. The grahpics, these are the best graphics I 
 have ever seen in my life. They are simply amazing - I couldn't take my eyes off the screen. Anyone 
 who has played a Tom Clancy game before or specifically a Ghost Recon game will be no stranger 
 to this gameplay, as its similar in play to most other tactical shooters, team based action and 
 what not. I played for hours and hours before I considered putting the controller down. Now, I 
 am not usually one to judge a game by its graphics, but they were so amazing that I couldnt help 
 it, they just blow me away. The game itself will take you about 10 hours to complete the first 
 time. But if you've played a Ghost Recon game before, you would know that these games are hard, 
 really hard. I can guarantee that you will die at least once every mission. But don't let that 
 discourage you, this game is fun enough that you don't minding playing trough the mission again. 
 I find myself replaying this amazing tactical shooter over and over. I can't wait to play it again.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo2_Norad
Rating: 9
Date: May 22, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  As soon as I popped this into my 360, I got chills just hearing the Ubisoft title jingle in 5.1 
 surround. Ghost Re\con 3 is the first Ubisoft game to come out for the Xbox 360. As well as 360's 
 first tactical shooter. And I will say right now that it is all that.
  
  The gameplay itself plays just like the other Ghost Recon games that were featured on Xbox. A few 
 tweaks here and there but overall it's pretty much the same. The AI is pretty advanced. Enemies 
 are always trying to flank you and get the better of you. I sometime just wish that developers 
 can make enemies shoot at you while they are running. Because real people do that as covering fire. 
 
  
  The graphics are some of the greatest I have ever seen in my life. The hi dynamic rage lighting 
 and soft shadows make more believable surroundings. As well as the highly detailed buildings and 
 plant life. The soldier animations are spot on to mimic almost exactly like the US Special Forces. 
 Your squad advances they way they should and take orders they way they should. Its sometime scary 
 how real they look.
  
  The game itself will take you about 10 hours to complete. Because if you've played a Ghost Recon 
 game before, you would know that these games are hard, really hard. I can guarantee that you will 
 die at least once every mission. But don't let that discourage you, this game is fun enough that 
 you don't minding playing trough the mission again.
  
  So if your up for a challenge and a good time. Pick this up now! If you are a casual gamer, you 
 may want to rent it because there is a chance you might get frustrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09BA8053
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 22, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is great for people who are new to the series and people who have been playing the series 
 since the beginning. The graphics on this game are incredible best so far on the 360, you can see 
 as far as the eye can see in this game. The gameplay is also awesome something always happens you 
 don't expect and changes every thing in the game, which is awesome. Another thing i liked was the 
 sound, the sound is also incredible. With a surround sound system each explosion sounds so real, 
 it's like you are right in the middle of a war in your room. I would highly recommend this game 
 that likes 3rd person or even 1st person shooters. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamermon
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 22, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Basic tom clancy shoot this shoot that, blow this up, But we all know thats the point in video 
 games. Am i right? Its a futuristic first person shooter, like u got drones an everything and u 
 blow things up and kill evil spanish guys who capture the US president and they r rebles and stuff. 
 But id look into it more if you wanted to get it, make sure its right for you. It has alot of weapons 
 to choose from, but the multiplayer isnt all its cracked p to be, dont do co-op or 1v1, just do 
 Single player or online games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlimFrom303
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 22, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  What do u know about great games? If u know great games then u should have this one in your collection. 
 This game is engaging, energetic, realistic (except for AI) , and is very entertaining for your buck. 
 Of course this game has flaws, mainly AI flaws, but overall it is well-polished and thought out. 
 This games sets the standard for the 360 and anything less will not be tolerated. GRAW shows its 
 fans and critics what a Microsoft Xbox 360 can do with its power. Anyone that doubts should be 
 sent to the gas chamber. The developers obviously took the time to properly research and test the 
 different methods to great gaming. I give props to the whole production team and anyone else who 
 helped with this product. Like I said earlier, u set the standard for 360 gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddie00
Rating: 10
Date: May 22, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  "Hey whats that lurking around the corner?"
  
  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter (G. R. A. W) is the fifth installment in the long running Ghost Recon 
 series. This is the best game of the series. They introduce the cross com system in which you can 
 see what is going on through your teammates eyes, this is the best and most noticeable new feature. 
 The story mode also sticks out to be the best in the series also.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics look so real, everything looks and moves like the real thing. You can see every bullet, 
 see the sweat gush out of your soldiers faces. The smoke and Fog are blinding like the real thing. 
 The lighting effects are great, the reflections off of windows is amazing and the overall style 
 and design of this game is just unparalleled to any other game out now.
  Final Verdict: 10/10 
  
  Controls 
  The controls do take a little while to get used to, they 
 do feel quite clunky and cumbersome at times but once you get used to the mechanics it is a breeze 
 to play. Everything is responsive and their is not a button that does not have a feature. 
  Final Verdict: 10/10 
  
  Gameplay
  What can be better than a tactical war shooter set in 
 the near future that plays better than probably any other game in this genre yet. Absolutely nothing, 
 thats what. In this game you play as a captain of the U. S Ghost team as you protect and escort 
 presidents and fight a war in Mexico City. The amount of things to do is amazing. Each level is 
 long and has a lot of replay value. The A. I. is probably the best ever seen in a game to date. 
 Their is nothing wrong with this game in the gameplay department what so ever. 
  Final Verdict: 10/10 
  
  Sound 
  The sound is one of the biggest helpers in this game, you 
 can hear people creeping up behind you, you can hear where gunfire is coming from, in this game 
 YOU use the sound to your advantage. Everything else in this department is great too, the songs 
 are fitting and fit with the mood of the game and you can hear bullets scraping against metal and 
 groans of your teammates as they get hit.
  Final Verdict: 10/10 
  
  Multiplayer 
  So much stuff to do! With over 1000 possible types of setups online their is always something new 
 to do. The servers always have a good amount of people on them and their is always someone willing 
 to play. Their is almost no lag so every game is 100 percent enjoyable from start to finish, this 
 is the major selling point in this game.
  Final Verdict: 10/10 
  
  To Rent or to Buy 
  This is a no brainier, buy this game. This will be the best $60 you have ever spent, With some 
 great new features, great live, best graphics for a game yet and so much more their is no reason 
 not to buy it!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maniacc1
Rating: 7
Date: May 22, 2006 6:41 am PT
Review:  This game has captured me since the day I took it off the shelf. The graphics and visuals make 
 the game seem so real, so amazing. It actually does feel like Mexico City in 2013. Also the way 
 that Ubisoft made the HUD adds the awesomeness factor to this game. The missions are great, the 
 storyline is top notch and the gameplay is phenominal. Tom Clancy has almost never let us down, 
 and this one is far from being a bad game. The AI is also a great factor and the ability to lead 
 your ghost team around is amazing. They've done it once again and GRAW will be the talk of the 
 360 for months to come! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: granposho
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 22, 2006 3:31 am PT
Review:  Man, such a great game!! I've played in both versions, X360 and PC, both with it's differences, 
 but both with it's great gameplay. As far as the eye candy goes, there's plenty of sweetness to 
 go around, pretty impressive graphics and of course, impressive demands for pc. Hey! You can't 
 have it all my friends. 
  The storyline is what you'll expect from a tom clancy game, which is indeed a pretty good one.
 
  The sound... well, the effects are all pretty well done, it delivers a very very realistic sound 
 experience, you only hear music at emotional moments and as for the rest of time, you'll get ambient 
 sounds.
  For gameplay, the tactical and the authenticity of combat makes it a very engaging and challenging 
 game to play. But, as far as my opinion goes, you don't get a real feeling for this game until 
 you play it on hard mode, and that means one shot, one kill (a kill for the bad guys that is, you'll 
 be an instant corpse) . The online play is a very different experience also, so either way, you'll 
 be having at least 3 games in one, single player campaign, multiplayer match's, and a coop campaign 
 makes this a very complete title.
  So, in other words, if you still have your doubts, rent it and see for yourself, and if you don't, 
 then what are you waiting for? It's a total must have!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 20, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  I've always felt that the Ghost Recon games were kind of dry and boring, but this game has some 
 real punch to it and deliver some awesome action sequences.
  
  With games like PGR3, Fight Night Round 3 and now Ghost Recon AW we can truely say that the next 
 generation of gaming is here. Ghost Recon looks amazing, and feature some of the most impressive 
 graphics ever shown of by a game console. When you fire with your massive machine gun from the 
 helicopter, and you see the enemy running in all directions to avoid the bullets, you're really 
 stunned by this massive polygon feast.
  
  Ghost Recon AW feature some mind blowing explosions, and the weapons sounds great. The actors have 
 done a fine job bringing all the characters to life, and with some superb audio tracks Advanced 
 Warfighter require you to pump up the volume.
  
  The game contains both an awesome single player campaign and a great online multiplayer. The multiplayer 
 may actually be a reason to buy this game alone, cause the fire fights are really great online 
 both in the classic deathmatch mode and co-op mode which features 4 brand new missions. But I really 
 adore the single player campaign. The storyline is simple but very effective, though it doesn't 
 make you wanna play more just to find out how it all turns out or anything. But the game has a 
 great progression, which means you always wanna play the next mission cause they just keep getting 
 more entertaining and keep on delivering more interesting gameplay elements. You fight alone in 
 the dark, with troops in the city, hunt down enemy helicopters with your mounted mini gun, give 
 orders to friendly tanks and choppers and much more. This game runs smooth, and has a fantastic 
 looking HUD with more markers and pop ups than you can count. The game is very entertaining and 
 is an incredbly tight tactical shooter. Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a must buy for everyone 
 that has a Xbox 360. It's even one of the main reasons to buy a 360 at the time.
  
  +
  Awesome graphics. Fine controls and it's easy commanding your teammates around. The on-rail helicopter 
 shooting is awesome. The sound effects are great and the music is very cool. The HUD looks amazing.
 
  
  -
  There should have been more missions in the single player, and maybe some more weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Parker626
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 20, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  Reviewing this game is simple. If you own a 360, then you'd better also own this game. The gameplay 
 is amazing and highly advanced, the graphics are ridiculous (in a good way) , and the sound does 
 not get any better. This is probably the best game to date on the 360, and also plays the best 
 as well. There are many things about the game that make it outstanding, but I'd rather not divulge 
 all of the sweetness about it on a review. Let me just put it this way. You need to purchase this 
 game, it is friggin' sweet.
  
  Being able to see what your team is seeing, your tank is seeing, your helicopter is seeing, and 
 the fact that a special sniper rifle shooting through walls are just some elements that make this 
 game stand out from all of the other first person shooters ever made. This game just raised the 
 bar for all of the rest of the FPS that are going to come out in the future for the next gen consoles.
 
  
  By the way, the online multiplayer is great. It is one of the best experiences online I have ever 
 been through. Most of the maps are great, the competition is at a great level, and there is no 
 lag whatsoever. Get this game, get online, and get your ass kicked while kicking some ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fauij
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 19, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best game on xbox 360 period. The grapics are just plain out 
  jaw dropping and all the effects are just beutiful. The gameplay is also incredible by the way 
 he moves and the way he shoots. I have been a ghost recon fan ever since the first ghost recon 
 on the PC and the original Xbox. This game just got bettter and better. Online is alright but it 
 could of been a tad more better, however the single player is just amazing. They are plenty of 
 missions to do and fun playing them over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -AirHendrix-
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 19, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Yesterday, me and my bro recieved an xbox 360 for our Birthdays (a week apart lol) , and boy from 
 that startup screen, I immediatley said Next Gen completley. Now, GRAW is a game for all FPS gamers 
 no matter if you like the Stop and Pop or not, its got all the great elements of Shooters. The 
 Third person, to my own suprise was actually the best way to put the New Ghost Recon. When you 
 look around, hide behind walls, duck and shoot in cover, etc, it feels like you're there. The Campaign 
 so far is excellent including obviosuly soldiers, tanks, panzers, futuristic menus, etc that make 
 the game even more appealing. What IS awesome about GRAW is its Multiplayer. When you go into Live, 
 you can just simply select Optiplay just like Halo 2 all you Bungie fans and jump into a match. 
 For even more fun, you can add a guest to it too aka my bro and have more fun. The multi has all 
 you want, basic Team Elimination, CTF, even CAMPAIGN! (TOTAL FUN WITH 16 people= mayhem lol :) ) 
 for the price of just 60 bucks dude. If you're on the borderline on this game and loved classic 
 FPS gaming, then this my friends, is the perfect game for you hands down.
  ~MOVE OUT SOLDIERS~!
  
  *my gamertag is AirHendrix91 if you want to play a match of GRAW, I'd 
 be oblidged to show you the ropes, just send me a message on Live :) , See you there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: durdanjack
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 19, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  I'm an Xbox fanboy first off. I just expected more from GRAW. It's by all accounts a good game. 
 It's just not as great as everyone says. While the levels are fairly large and give you a little 
 lee way as to how to you play them I felt through most of the game I was still being forced down 
 a predetermined bottleneck. The helicopter shoot out levels were a pain in the (expletive deleted) . 
 I hate on rail shooters. I thought this really screwed with the flow of the game. It would have 
 been better if you could have at least passed a few orders to the pilot, instead of the copter 
 running a script.
  Bugs.. Bugs.. Bugs...
  Several times I ran into enimes I shot that didn't die. This resulted in more than a few cheap 
 deaths.
  Also, rocket proplled granades can't kill snipers with any dependablity? How can any sniper survive 
 when the only thing seperating him from an explosion is a 2x4? Apparently it happens all the time 
 in the world of GRAW.
  For some reason bad dudes can shoot through hills and buildings but, you can't. I wouldn't even 
 mention this if I didn't run into this glitch like 40 freaking times!
  Finally there are graphical hic-cups all over the place. They only last a moment but, they're noticeable.
 
  
  LAST- The multiplayer. What the hell is this crap? If you can duck behind everything in the single 
 player game why can't you do it at all in multiplayer?
  The whole multiplayer feels like a tacked on Xbox 1 version. It's totally blows.
  
  Bottom 
 line- The only reason to play this game is for the single player campaign, even then there are 
 some problems. Over all it's still worth palying through at least once.
  
  It's far, far from an A game but, it's a solid B.
  
  It's not worth buying for everyone.
 
  
  Most people should rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tptstud01
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 18, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Once again the boys at Ubisoft have crafted a superb FPS. A gripping story line, a visually stunning 
 cityscape, and enough challenge to keep you coming back for more packed into one incredible ride. 
 I have only been with the game a short while but I am hooked. The gritty realism of urban conflict 
 is brought to life in this amazing game. You are the commander of Ghost Squad and are smack dab 
 in the middle of a coup-de-tat in Mexico. It's up to you and your elite squad of soldiers to restore 
 order. With your heads up display you control your squad, but also H-60 attack helicopters, unmaned 
 survey drones (which come in extremely handy for strategizing a route through war-torn Mexico) , 
 and APC's which can give you the rolling cover you need to survive. The best thing about this game 
 is the realism of it. Where other FPS's will allow you to be hit 20-30 times before you die, G. R. A. W. 
 doesn't give you that luxury. Your standard soldier can take you out in about four hits, while 
 a Marksman with a Sniper can take your head clean off with just one shot..... and that's on normal 
 difficulty. Crank up the difficulty to hard and any enemy with a gun in Mexico is aiming is targeting 
 your head. The real key to success in this game is your squad, keeping them safe so they can give 
 you the cover you need to complete your missions.
  For first timers, and for fans of the previous Tom Clancy games my one piece of advice....... GO 
 BUY THIS GAME!!!! I promise you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akessle1
Rating: 8
Date: May 18, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  First, the graphics. They are the best on the 360 and the environments are great. Everything looks 
 perfect and makes next gen actually look next gen. 2nd, sound. The sound is accurate and makes 
 you fell like you are in the heat of the battle. In the gameplay dept, Graw has a great single 
 player mode. You have control of your team and engage in hard fought battles. The team seems to 
 be dumb. The health is virtually nothing which is accturate but is not as fun and makes you hide 
 and heal teammates while they fight. Overall sp is good and lasts long enough. Multiplayer however 
 is horrible. Any split screen is in 1st person w/o guns so it looks like you are in spectator mode. 
 And if you are playing on live with the 5 people that do, you have 3rd person but the character 
 feels so stripped down from what the sp is like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaclarks
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 18, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a spectacular third person shooter that makes good use of the 
 360's power...
  
  Gameplay: The is played out in the third person perspective, although it gives you the option to 
 play in first person mode; however i would discourage the use of this mode as it hinders your ability 
 to see around you and also make the visuals appear worse. The game may seem a little short but 
 it is a thrill ride none the less. Most of the missions start with you in a hellicopter and in 
 some you even get to operate a machine gun mounted in the hellicopter in rail shooter like segments... 
 those happen to actually be one of the games strongest points. Auto aim is a little strong, but 
 necessary for how the gameplay machincs work.
  
  Graphics: The best on the system, by far... some people think oblivion has the best, but i would 
 disagree. every window has a reflective surface, and the visuals are just a sight to behold... 
 even the cars placed in the game are really detailed; however, there are no civilains... not sure 
 why, it could be because of the framerate, or just because it would have been to distracting.
 
  
  Sound: No major complaints here, but still nothing really revolutionary, basically what you would 
 expect from a game like this on the 360.
  
  Closing: You will be done with the single player within 12 hours tops on the default settings. 
 The hard difficulty really is hard, so if you want a challenge its here... a lot harder than COD2 
 was... and dont forget the great multiplayer if you have xbox live... THIS GAME IS WORTH THE PURCHASE!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zealot51
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 18, 2006 12:45 am PT
Review:  the controls are very easy to master in 20 minutes you will be juggling between your three man 
 squad, a bradley tank and a survallence cypher with no problems.
  
  the action is unrelenting one wrong move and you will be witnessing a massacre of your squad and 
 maybe your self.
  
  there is a wide variety of wepons ranging from simple assult rifles to sniper rifles that pierce 
 thin walls and take out the guy behind it
  
  the environments are highly detailed and the explosions are very big
  
  i recommend this game 
 to any one who is a fan of squad based shooters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xdRabbitx
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2006 12:43 am PT
Review:  Although this game can be very difficult in the single player campaigns and missions, it is very 
 easy to play online along with very good graphics and realism.
  
  1st the single player:
  -Unfortunetely you will have to play several days maybe even weeks before mastering the single 
 player, it is very hard (take my word for it, shoot'em up games are my specialty) . But once you 
 figure everything out, you will enjoy the challenge the game presents. If you enjoy a challenging 
 game, then this is just for you. 'Dont pick up the game if you just want to get an easy 1000 G-Score 
 points for your profile'.
  
  2nd the online multiplayer:
  -You wanna talk about a 10 rated game. If we are just talking about online Multi, than put this 
 game over everything you have ever played. The graphics are unbelievable to begin with. There is 
 absolutely no lag online, the GRAW team provides the best servers i've ever seen. The maps are 
 absolutely bueatiful, you will have to run around on them sometime and just look at every little 
 detail to see how amazing they are. However there are voice chat glitches here in there everyonce 
 and a while, which will eventually be fixed. If you played the original ghost recons on XBOX, this 
 is the same thing except the graphics times 300.
  
  But I would recomend saving your money unless you have online capabilities. Because the single 
 player can be very stressful and drive you insane at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThatGuy_5
Rating: 7
Date: May 17, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  GRAW twas one of the games I rather looked forward to. I awaited the release date with grand patience, 
 knowing that my friend was going to thy merry local Gamestop of olde to purchase the game. So thus 
 it twas my duty to sponge-a-feel off of my freind's large mass of money and magical ability of 
 being able to purchase every game he even want... ith. So, my freind hopped onto his mighty carriadge, 
 which he calls a "Lexus" (Odd name for a carriadge) and purchase the said game. Then, my freind 
 return-ith with a copy of GRAW. He then proceeded to place the discus into thy merry box of X and 
 he loadith upith thine gameith (God, I gotta stop not sleeping) . The single player was quite cheerful 
 and tickled my friend's fancy. But, we saidith that GRAW's single player twas quite lacking in 
 some fields. Let us not go into depth in these ordeals, for they can be pondered upon in future 
 interactions between man and beast. Then we moveth to the playing of multiple persons. This was 
 quite the bag of riches to us both, and we playith for a few hours... ith. I am done talking about 
 this subject of the magic of the box of X and the holy disucuses. For twas thee who **** quite 
 the critic at some pointith, too. And I need not go into detail. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lghtsbr
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 17, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Well, ever since I got my Xbox Magazine and saw this game I couldn't wait for its release. It was 
 overall a great game. I could spend hours and hours playing it, and thats just the SP! The multiplayer 
 is even better. You can customize your characters face, and headgear. Up to 4 players without XboxLive, 
 and 4 Campaign missions that are great to play over and over again.
  
  Lets start off with visuals, which were the greatest I've seen on the 360 yet! 
  The Gameplay, 
 hours and hours and hours, must I continue?
  The sounds were quite realistic and most voice acting was great.
  The story was well thought 
 up, and I still have yet to beat this game, too busy with friends on MP.
  
  Anyway, there were a few, minor flaws.
  1) I think they could've put a few more Campaign missions 
 in the MP.
  2) They should've had changeable clothing rather then a preset outfit for each class (this can 
 really be overlooked, doesnt matter)
  3) They could've had the shoulder cam in MP. For two players at least! Or had a First Person Gun 
 model in MP, which they don't. This is the only real thing they could've improved. I wanted shoulder 
 cam on MP.
  
  Overall, great game, with small overlook able flaws. This is just a game you could spend days playing, 
 the kind of games I like. This is truly AMAZING. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreak4ever
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 17, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Although I've played and bought all the Ghost Recon games on the old Xbox, I was never an avid 
 fan of the series. Yes, I enjoyed them to a certain extent, but they didn't draw me in like some 
 other shooters have.
  
  Now Ghost Recon comes on a new next-gen console, with spanking brand new features, and one heck 
 of a nice coat of paint. Yes the game can best be described as being revolutionary in its class.
 
  
  Graphics
  First of all, when you pop the disc in, the graphics scream and overbleed with the terms "next-gen". 
 Character models are nicely done, and the whole ambiance and seamless city makes the experience 
 that more enjoyable.
  IMO, if you really want to show off your new next-gen console, then GRAW fits the bill perfectly.
 
  
  Sound
  You need, I repeat, you NEED a 5.1 sound system to experience what this game has to offer. Never 
 has the sounds of war sounded so realistic and crisp. Even the little voice acting there is, makes 
 the setting very realistic and engrossing.
  
  Gameplay
  This game will keep you busy. Yes, all the buttons are used and many complex operations are needed 
 from the user. The learning curve for some might be a bit high, but once one has passed the learning 
 curve, the controls becomes second nature.
  Although the game seems slow paced, it is far from it. There is plenty of white-knucle action and 
 pure dynamic gun fights to make it an experience of its own
  
  Conclusion
  GRAW is a fantastic game. Although not everyone might appreciate it, those who are interested in 
 AAA games, will surely find much enjoyment to be had in this true-next-gen revolutionary title. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doa_luver
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 17, 2006 4:23 am PT
Review:  at first i thot i wasnt going 2 like this game 2 much cuz im not really a war game fan, but when 
 i played it i had a completely different opinion! 
  
  gameplay: campaign mood is freakin awesome! its actually kind of hard. but i wasn't expecting it 
 2 be really easy. but its not like on those hard frustrating games where u feel like giving up. 
 i actually wanted 2 finish the level and stuff. at times i think it gets a little 2 complicated 
 tho cuz theres so many things 2 remeber how 2 do and it jus confuses me sumtimes. (im sure the 
 ppl who play this game non stop have got the hang of it tho! lol) 
  
  graphics: omg the graphics r amazing! even better than kameo (which i thot had amazing graphics) 
 it looks very realistic and it feels like r actually there! theres nothing more 2 say! the graphics 
 r really really really really really good!!!!! 
  
  sound: the sound is really good 2! and yeah thats all there is 2 say about it...... lol
  
  xbox 
 live: well i havent actually dun xbox live yet becuz im not so good @ this game yet. a few more 
 levels and then i'll c how do. i kinda jus dont wanna embarass myself in front of everyone cuz 
 im not so good yet! lol
  
  overall if u have a 360 u would be stupid not 2 buy this game. its definelty one of the best on 
 the 360 and also its really fun and challenging. definetly buy not rent!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greglinton
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 15, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  if u have people competing over a system i wouldnt suggest this game the multiplaer lackes the 
 over the shoulder view for split sceeen wich realy pissssses me of and if not all that goood but 
 the one player isnt terribly lenghty not worthy the sixty bucks i would suggest perfect dark call 
 of duty oblivion over this game mainly becase u see it potential in the campaign get be hind cover 
 dive rool see your charecter in action but i multi plaer u can not pres against cover and it lacks 
 the view and in early screen shots and videos it shwed it switch to first person to pick of enemys 
 and i thought that was so cool like metal gear but this feture was cut and i wonder why there is 
 surley and better way for u to spend 60 bucks on this game dont make the same mistake i did and 
 the graphics are at time amaxing but there are some animation like facial ones that stop it from 
 realy shining 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razoso
Rating: 10
Date: May 14, 2006 9:23 pm PT
Review:  When i first got my Xbox 360 last month, this is the first game i picked up for it. i had bought 
 Ghost Recon 2 for the Xbox and was impressed by it. but G. R. A. W adds everything GR2 didnt have, 
 like wall moves, Cross-Com, and a much, much better online gameplay. Its single player mode a a 
 deep and interesting story and the hard difficulty is truly hard unlike other shooters. But what 
 really sets this game above from the rest is it online mode. Map are made to perfection. Are you 
 a sniper, well then consider Rocky Cove your home map. Or are you one of those action guys, then 
 Boneyard is good for you. And Nowhere has a little of both. My personal favorite is Wharf. The 
 many different types of game play you can have, its Great. 
  
  Truly a 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Basinboy
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 14, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  If you're an American and want revenge on the Mexican's pouring into your country and disrupting 
 its economic status, then here's your opportunity. If not, then don't digress; Ghost Recon: Advanced 
 Warfighter is quite possibly the best tactical shooter to date.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Now this is what I'm talking about when I say "next-gen." From the smooth textures encompassing 
 the character models to the gritty urban environments of Mexico City, this game is PURDEE. It might 
 lack some detail here and there, but c'mon, you'd be hard-pressed to find what this game is missing 
 in the graphics department.
  
  OVERALL..........10/10
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Sure, a game might look good, but that's not what made Asteroid or Space Invaders great games. 
 No, it was what you did that made it great. Well, fear not gameplay whores! Single Player Campaign 
 offers a truly invigorating experience as you mow through Mexican rebels and lead a well-trained 
 tactical offensive against the Guerrillas that charge recklessly towards you. A. I. can sometimes 
 be idiotic, though it's a rare occassion. They fight back, but they don't possess god-like aiming 
 capabilities. They're not too hard, not too easy. Though the controls may seem daunting and complex 
 at first, it only takes a level or two to fully understand how it works. The only complaint is 
 in the multiplayer. I've never been a particular fan of the MP in Ghost Recon games, but if you 
 are, then fret not. You get the good old stuff again, but it's so radically different in perspective 
 from the SP that it might turn many off. That, and the online games are hard to come by currently. 
 However, the game is truly fantastic.
  
  OVERALL......9.5/10
  
  SOUND
  
  I don't understand why so many people fret over whether or not they can hear a bullet zoom past 
 their head, but after playing GRAW, I can understand what it would be like to not hear it. In surround 
 sound, you can almost hear the bullets slicing through your torso when you get shot, though luckily 
 you don't get the same feeling. Great soundtrack, though the gunfire sometimes sounds weak. Minus 
 1.
  
  OVERALL........9/10
  
  VALUE
  
  Single Player is fun, though after beating it on hard there isn't much to do. Luckily you're allowed 
 to select any level you want, so if you want to give it another go then you can pick and choose 
 any level you want. If you're a fan of MP, then you won't be disappointed. Well, actually you might. 
 Finding people to play against online is bit of a task, but if you're an outgoing person (or a 
 gamer who just wants to own noobs) then you'll find a game just fine.
  
  OVERALL......8.5/10
  
  TILT
  
  The game runs flawlessly and is fun as hell. C'mon, what 
 did you think I was going to give it?
  
  OVERALL........10/10
  
  A must-buy in my book. Hope you enjoy it as much as I did. And just to further emphasize its greatness, 
 I really have never liked the Ghost Recon series (until today, that is) . Well what are you waiting 
 for? Chop-chop! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigPimpn
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 14, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  (I have not played multiplayer so I will not mention anything on the multiplayer aspect of GRAW)
 
  
  The Ghost Recon series has been around for several years. Since its original release, GR has seen 
 its fair share of expansion packs and to this day, has spawned two sequels. The most recent, Ghost 
 Recon: Advanced Warrior has raised the bar in terms of graphical presentation. In short, this is 
 the best-looking Xbox 360 game to date.
  
  Like all Tom Clancy novels, movies, and now games, there is a complicated political and military 
 situation that feeds the tension of the story. You take command of Scott Mitchell, a commando of 
 an elite Special Forces unit called The Ghosts. The story takes place in Mexico City, 2013. The 
 North American nations of the United States, Canada, and Mexico, are preparing to sign a new joint-operational 
 initiative to strengthen the security of the North American continent. And like any story from 
 Tom Clancy, things go haywire, Mexican rebels seek to prevent this, and all of Mexico City is in 
 civil war. This is where you come in.
  
  Like any top-notch United States military program, you posses the latest military technology to 
 accomplish your objectives and complete your missions. And that is where the Advanced Warrior program 
 comes into play, as your HUD has some pretty nifty accessories, mostly for surveying the battlefield 
 and the current situations. In an interesting add-on, you have a camera feed that allows you to 
 see what your squad mates are seeing. Also, when you deploy your surveillance drone, you can use 
 your camera feed to see what your drone is seeing and detecting, giving you a big advantage over 
 your enemies.
  
  And speaking of seeing your enemies, the HUD system has a unique targeting system, which allows 
 you to see where certain enemy targets are, even those behind cover. Enemy targets are displayed 
 in red diamonds, which signifies that they are breathing and dangerous. Then turn white when they 
 are dead. Friendly units such as tanks, soldiers (excluding your squad mates) , and helicopters, 
 are displayed in green diamonds. Your squad mates are displayed in turquoise-colored diamonds. 
 This type of targeting makes it easier to pinpoint whos who and what side they are on.
  
  But make no mistake; this groundbreaking technology (along with your nifty weapons) does not make 
 you invincible or your enemies less harder. In fact, the game is quite challenging and requires 
 time and patience in order to make the right call and get you and your men out in one peace. Resistance 
 by rebels is intense to say the least and they are heavily armed, with tanks and helicopters to 
 make the road much more choppier for you. It is safe to say that this is one of the more challenging 
 games that require you to use your head, rather than straightforward run-and-gun tactics.
  
  The game features a lengthy 12-mission campaign that does more than keep moderately occupied. 
 Its challenging, intense, and adrenaline pumping in a couple parts of it. And lets not forget, 
 the beautiful graphics and scenery adds up to the whole experience. This is where the games strengths 
 mostly lay. The game designers definitely show signs of going great lengths in giving an awesome 
 visual presentation. And not only do the character and environment models look amazing, but the 
 size of the city is HUGE. You primarily catch a glimpse of this when flying over the city in your 
 Blackhawk helicopter in between missions. And the city skyline isnt the only eye candy here. Since 
 you are in a war environment, patches of rising smoke and fire can be seen in the distance, giving 
 you a sense of an actual war going on.
  
  But with all that trouble in making these graphics look life-like, the one thing you will notice 
 that takes away from the experience is the fact that no sign of pedestrians or moving cars can 
 be seen. In a sense, this capital city of over 9 million people feels more like a ghost town than 
 anything else. But this lack of feeling like youre in a real urban environment is mediocre at 
 best, and you really need to be nit-picky in order to be distracted by this. Because all in all, 
 this is the best looking game and accompanied by breath-taking audio, you really feel like youre 
 in a war-torn Mexico City.
  
  However, the game-play is a bit unsatisfying. Despite the interesting components that have been 
 added to enhance the strategy involved, the game really doesnt add up to what it should. Not to 
 say that its bad or anything, but a bit disappointing. One of the noticeable flaws of the game 
 is that teammate AI desperately needs a fix. They can be useful from time to time, but sometimes 
 controlling them can be a bit of a nuisance and theyre not the best in caring out orders. This 
 is kind of a shame for a game with so much to offer, only for players to be distracted over the 
 frustration of moronic teammates, who are considered the best this nation has to offer.
  
  It would have been nicer to have the option of switching from third person to first-person views 
 (strangely, the original Xbox and PC ports have this option) . While it looks impressive on where 
 the camera is angled behind your commando, it also can be a bit difficult in seeing things from 
 that angle. And speaking of difficulty of seeing, I will have to say that the irony of the amazing 
 graphics is that there is one flaw to this. Because the game designers went great lengths into 
 making the lighting real as well, the sunlight can be a bitblinding and hard to see  like real 
 sunlight.
  
  Overall, this game adds up to what its cracked up to be. It was disappointing to see the awesome 
 trailer back in May last year, knowing we wouldnt be able to play it for sometime afterwards. 
 But it was worth the wait and it is finally here in its full glory. GRAW will leave you very satisfied; 
 with a bit more to be desired, but very satisfied. GRAW is another testament to what next-generation 
 gaming should be and an optimistic sign of what it is becoming. Fans of tactical-shooters and Ghost 
 Recon have an obligation to pick this up. Even if youre not a fan of tactical-shooters, you still 
 owe it to yourself to try it out. GRAW is unmistakably one of the best games out right now for 
 the Xbox 360 and one of those games that the next-generation console has been looking for to promote 
 why it is the next-generation.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jc_nieves
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 14, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Chapultepec Castle and woods are 100% put into the game, also 'El zocalo', I would like more music 
 tough, LADA-Telmex phone cabinets, red mail boxes, buses colors, houses colors, oh my God who was 
 taking pictures of the city all this time to put all of that into the game?
  However all Mexico City details are Amazing, its my first Xbox 360 game and I have had much fun.
 
  I would like more citizens walking around in the city also, looks like ghost city scenario but 
 its ok.
  By the way all texts in menus and 'help on screen' font sizes are very small, do I need a HD TV 
 to see that without putting my face in front on f the screen? lol
  Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smoothrj
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 14, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  this game has alot to deliver in the ghost recon series. it has great new technology called cross 
 com developed by the us military. it's very helpful in GRAW campaign and i use it very well. this 
 game has a very strong tactical feeling to it and thats what makes this game great. but what even 
 makes the game better is the multiplayer. i've acually enjoyed multiplayer more than single player. 
 multiplayer is more fast paced and has a little socom feeling to it. but the thing that is weird 
 about this game is that mutiplayer and single player are two differrent things. in graphics i'd 
 say mutiplayer because it's more clear and looks more real to me. single players graphics are realistics 
 but a little too detailed ubisoft put tons of detail that it made single player looks kinda blurry 
 in a kind of way. This game had a great story and multiplayer and i hope ubisoft comes out with 
 a great new Ghost Recon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fivestar24
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 14, 2006 6:52 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a superb extension to the Ghost Recon games. Standard campaign 
 is very challenging, yet falls perfectly in line with a good story line. Many players have difficulty 
 on the normal setting, and most everyone has a problem on hard. There are factual parts to the 
 game, such as the foot ball and the way news broadcasts are not always accurate. Online could not 
 be better. Great way to play with a few friends or even meet a bunch of new ones. Game play is 
 great, as long as you don't end up with a host who's just after your spawn!
  
  Difficulty on my bet is very hard. Compared to something simple, like Halo, for instance. Learning 
 curve isn't that long, the commands are fairly simply. The only thing that takes time is learning 
 ambushes and sniping positions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sieling123
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 14, 2006 4:14 am PT
Review:  First of all, this game has the best graphics of all time, even for 360 standards. 
  There's tons of open ended levels and movie sequences that make this game an unique experience. 
 It really feels as if you are on the battlefield.
  
  This game is impressive in single player mode and will keep you hooked for probably 15-20 hours. 
 
  From what I have seen the multi-player is just shoot and click, and has nothing to do with the 
 single-player.
  
  One thing that might bother you is the hud, which often has too many items on the screen.
  
 
  This game is very frustrating in some parts of the campaign because you can get killed by only 
 one bullet. But this game is for tactical gamers, anyway.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokurocks2442
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 13, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Ok ok i know what your thinking and yes i think the game is hard but thats only cause im new to 
 these type's of games and i found the game a little frusterating untell i learned you can controle 
 the helicopter and all your support.
  
  Anyways to get to the review
  
  This game by far is one of the best games out for the xbox360 to date! It has the graphics the 
 gameplay and most of all the action but every game has its problems i mean look at halo2 or halo 
 did it get a 10 or did any of the Gta titles get a 10? If you say no then you right!
  
  I noticed in this game that if your Xbox360 is in a closed area then this game will freeze on you 
 and dont complain to me go complain to microsoft .
  I also noticed that sometimes the sunlight in the game can make it hard to see sometimes.
  
 
  The online play is pretty dam awsome but if you like PDZ then your obviously gonna hate the online 
 play unless your used to straight up shooters. 
  
  This game is awsome and is worth the $59.99 american and $69.99 canadian so go out to your loca 
 gamestore and give this game a buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WillGDeska
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 13, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  Though this game is unfortunately not my type, I do own it and have beaten it. It has a great balance 
 of cinematics and gameplay, great PiP during the missions, and sound comparable to Oblivion's. 
 It's graphics are almost uncomparable at this time. Character model's are the best i have seen. 
 Tactical third-person shooter will be on peoples' top lists for a long time. I say it needed an 
 easier level, for those people new to games (such as my brother) and it is great and challenging 
 for those who have experience. I believe that for the right people this game will stay off the 
 shelf for a long time. Replay value for this game is great, and I will definitely play several 
 more times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomrockin
Rating: 10
Date: May 13, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  Kicks the crap out of any other XBOX 360 game I've played Call of Duty 2 and Perfect Dark Zero. 
 It's even better than the Halo games (1&2) . Absolutely amazing but not the longest game ever and 
 you have to be at least half decent to get anywhere near to the end of the game. Bit disappointed 
 with the amount of weapons that can be picked up from enemy dead bodies there are only 4 but the 
 weapon choices for Scott Mitchell are awesome. I love the over shoulder view it means that you 
 can take cover and seeing as I pretty much suck at these sort s of games that has come as a great 
 advantage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rob-Smeg
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 13, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter (GRAW) is a very realistic game. I highly recommend this game to 
 360 owners because GRAW is not only extremly realistic it has great multiplayer, its highly addictive, 
 the graphics are superb, and the gameplay is just great.
  
  In GRAW it makes u feel like you and you enemies actually want to live rather then running around 
 just dying every second. You, and your Partners and your enemys have the exact same health. one 
 shot to the head your dead ,one shot to the heart your dead. This game is amazingly realistic. 
 In this game you actually have to take cover when fighting unlike other games you can just run 
 out and kill everyone in a second. In GRAW you feel like your actually in the army unlike some 
 other army games you can get shot about 20 times before dying. i like this game because the enemies 
 AI is very good, they have great accuracy, and they try to flank you, they take cover, it kinda 
 makes you feel like your playing against real people Thats Right! there something not alot of other 
 goood games have Allies and Enemies have the same skill level or in other words "EQUAL".
  
  Multplayer is just like what i said above, but there are 4 classes Rifleman, Grenadier, Automatic 
 Rifleman, and Marksman not on ly that you can customize you character to your liking! I highly 
 recommend GRAW for its outstanding Perfomance, Good Campaign, Good multiplayer, you cant beat that.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arba
Rating: 4
Date: May 12, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Like many others I was drawn in by this games reviews and its pedigree. I loved the first Ghost 
 Recon. All that I loved about that game is missing here. Yes the graphics and sound are outstanding 
 and look impressive on a big HDTV but more is needed. Some of my friends have the same feelings 
 about this game, looks nice but doesnt have what it takes to keep them playing. 
  
  It is very linear. I am not sure why you have teammates to control. I wouldnt call it control 
 you can send them places but more often I leave them alone and try to finish up solo and seem to 
 do better. First Ghost you had two teams and could swap into any one of them and setup of complex 
 strategies. This one you have 3 teammates that you tell where to go and what aggressive setting 
 to have. Thats it. You also get to control some vehicles and UAV Drone. The control is little 
 more than forward, reverse, stop and attack for vehicles the drone can be used to do reconnaissance. 
 For me I played the game and never felt like I was accomplishing anything. In the first Ghost you 
 would unlock weapons, new teammates and could train those teammates to make them better in one 
 of four areas. The teammates in this game do not get better, cant be trained and are broken down 
 in choice of Rifleman, Gunner and Sniper. I tried several missions with different choices and it 
 never made a difference. In Ghost one I felt some kinship with my teammates they helped me, I trained 
 them and when a plan worked it was great. This game just did have anything for me to look forward 
 too or any reason to continue past mission 10. As for the online play I have more fun with Battle 
 Field 2 but the ability to design your own maps and load them is intriguing. Again if graphics 
 is all you are looking for this is your game but if you are looking for something that makes you 
 think it is not here.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: godmachine0603
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 11, 2006 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Ever since i was introduced to gamespot, rarely has there been a time where i disagreed with reviews. 
 That is until now. Before playing G. R. A. W i noticed the excellent rating it got, watched the video 
 review and was impressed with the graphics. Being an army nut i figured it would be a safe bet 
 to go and shell out 60 clams to buy the game. Upon putting it in my 360 i again was impressed by 
 the graphical quality, however i didnt find myself sucked in. I ended up playing it for another 
 2-3 hours and was still waiting to see what was so good about this title. Needless to say after 
 countless missions, as well as playing it online i had invested in the most overrated game i have 
 ever had the displeasure of playing. I have been a gamer for almost 20 years (yes i know, im old) 
 Since i began, i have always looked for fun factor im my gaming experience. Rarely have graphics 
 played a large role. They can create atmosphere and be nice to look at, but if a game isnt any 
 fun, they are pointless.
  
  As far as the gameplay go's, you spend most of your time running around, and little time with any 
 action. The gun fights are boring, and commanding your squad has little to no depth to it. On top 
 of that i found G. R. A. W to be extremely linear. All you do is find yourself running to objectives 
 all over the map, and most of your time is spent doing just that, running.
  
  The only people i could recommend this game to are people that only look for good graphics in a 
 game. No depth, being too linear, and no fun whatsoever scores a big zero in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tha_King_Of_Ny
Rating: 10
Date: May 13, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  GRAW is one of those games that u think is not going to be a perfect or superb game but once u 
 start playing it u noticed that it is a perfect game and that u can't stop playing it. The gameplay 
 for GRAW is long, fun and amazing. The graphics are super realistic, i have a standard tv and the 
 graphics are still realistic, like u can see everything in the game like u'll see it in real life. The 
 sound for this game is good cause u can hear everything nice and like in real life. Closing comments: Graw 
 is the best one in the series and is a PERFECT game. I think if u have the xbox 360 and u have 
 this game for another console u should still get this version cause is so much better than all 
 the other ones. If u dont have any of the other version than u should really get this game, even 
 if is 60 dollars, cause at the end u'll be happy u bought this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi6745
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 11, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  This is a really good game! This is probably one of the best ghost-recon's out of every one of 
 them! The game play is great and the graphics are awesome! What can you expect from a 360 game? 
 My favorite weapon is the counter-snipe rifle because it can shoot through thick walls and that 
 is the best weapon ever made in a game. The multi player is great and the commands that you tell 
 your comrades in single player are very realistic. The explosions are realistic and some are really 
 big! The rocket launcher is kinda stupid cause you have to stand still to shoot it but its still 
 causes destruction. I like how you can hide behind walls too because you can pop out really quick 
 and shoot people. This is the only ghost recon that i know so far that does that. I am glad this 
 is the first game that i got. I highly recommend this game to anyone who has an Xbox 360 and hasn't 
 gotten this game yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: henryfreeman
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 11, 2006 1:17 am PT
Review:  The thing I notice most and love about GRAW is the realism of the game. In particular I love the 
 guns in the game, they feel so real and this is largely down to the great sounds of the game. Sound 
 is definately on of the strongest points of the game, don't be playing it on a low volume setting 
 you can easily convince people walking past your house that WW3 has arrived with it on max volume. 
 It does a great job of sucking you into the action which looks remarkable. The explosions, the 
 fires in the distance, everything in this game looks and sounds so real.
  The gameplay is what really matters though on GRAW doesnt dissapoint, this isn't a game where you 
 run around shooting like crazy. Its about tactics and finding the right cover. The fact that saving 
 is by checkpoints within the game makes things even more tense as you run dow the streets of mexico 
 pleading with the game that a checkpoint is coming soon
  It's an all round brilliant game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbx360gamer
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 10, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Personally, I think that these are the best graphics on the 360 to date. The shading and HDR look 
 fantastic. Also the re-creation of Mexico City in the single player modes is fantastic. The helicopter 
 flyovers at the beginning and end of the levels are simply breathtaking. The sheer number of building 
 is absolutely amazing. The gameplay is excellent, but the squad AI could have been a bit better. 
 The multiplayer mode is superb. This is not PDZ. You can easily be killed in 2 or 3 shots to the 
 body. It is much more tactical, and you are forced to use strategy and work with your teammates. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzDbacks921
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 10, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  I really woud of thought I would like this game, since I love FPS and tactical. It turns out Campaign 
 is good, but Multiplayer is horrible. Live matches are basically sniper matches and you lose much 
 of the game when playing multiplayer. Also, my game is messed up, because the main character floats 
 in mid-air when crouching down, and he gets stuck in the walls. I was deciding on whether to get 
 this, or to get Battlefield 2, and I really wish I had gotten Battlefield 2. I am not buying anything 
 game from Ubisoft again!! Glitching in there games have occured few times in my friends Tom Clancy 
 games and now this one. Big waste of 60 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxlunchtreyxx
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  there are just so many ways to describe this game it is just so uch fun. I finished the caimpaign 
 in about 10 hours. And 10 hours well spent. I got this game the first day that it game out and 
 have played it ever since. The graphics are amazing especially on the caimpaign. This is a real 
 next-generation. This game is just crazy good. It is really hard to put down the controller. So 
 I would have to say that any one that loves military shooters would not have a problem with this 
 game. I just hope there is going to be anotther Ghost Recon on the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sazreal
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 10, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  From the start of the game, I could tell that it was going to be a beautiful experience, and I 
 was not dissapointed. I loaded up the training level of the game so I could get used to the controls (first 
 time playing on a 360 as well for me at the time) and also see what has changed compared to the 
 xbox versions that I own as well. I was able to easily get used to the hugging the cover at my 
 disposal really well, and believe it's a very easy control scheme that they start you out as. The 
 only complaint I had about the training level, as well as my friends that played it as well, was 
 that the text can be hard to read, especially if you look into the sun glare effects that they 
 have running. I think we all were lost for a small fraction of time because we were too busy looking 
 at the beauty of the game to even care about the objective. 
  
  Once it was all soaked in though, the game was a fun experience. Taking cover and directing Apache/tank 
 assault strikes on enemies was a thrill that I can't even describe. The mini gun sequences were 
 fun and also a little annoying, the gun overheats just as fast as it cools down apparently which 
 didn't make a whole lot of sense to me. A minor detail though. The biggest complaint I had with 
 the game, was the night levels. The night vision is rather limited in range much like real night 
 vision, although I would believe he'd be wearing gen III or something better which I believe has 
 a better range then what the game portrays. The main gripe I have though, was the fact that the 
 enemies have no form of night vision whatsoever, yet they know exactly where you are and can pick 
 you up long before you can find them in most cases. I spent a lot of time switching back and forth 
 between night vision and regular mode, since in the regular mode you can see muzzle flashes a lot 
 better. Not to mention the number of times I thought I was shooting directly at someone but to 
 find out that there's a building 50 ft. in front of me absorbing my shots. 
  
  This should not deter anyone from enjoying this game though, the night missions are only a small 
 portion of the game, and they still bring a lot to the game with how you must adapt to the environment. 
 The story kind of takes a weird spin at the end, something that I really felt I didn't pay much 
 attention to the rest of the game or something, but I didn't really care a whole lot about that (it's 
 at the end and doesn't really matter at that point, because if you got to that point you are going 
 to finish the game) .
  
  The Multiplayer aspect (not on XBox Live) was rather dissapointing, because you are placed back 
 into the first person perspective and lose a lot of the ability to take cover that you get used 
 to playing through the single player aspect. I thought this was rather weird and felt like a different 
 game to me, but since the players are all sharing the same screen, it probably isn't productive 
 to put the 3rd person perspective in since it would take up a large chunk of your already partitioned 
 screen. It's still fun to play though, although I've found if you are a sniper you'll usually get 
 most of the kills since the enemies will all storm your location, all you need to do is find a 
 nice spot with enough cover (like the edge of a map) . Otherwise go with a SAW or heavy machine gun, 
 and watch out for grenades since that's how I died 80% of the time by catching those with my teeth.
 
  
  It's the best game I've played in a long time, and it is also 5 times better than the xbox version 
 of the game. They don't even follow the same mission flow, so if you didn't like the xbox game, 
 just think of it as a different game with the same title because the 360 version is worth playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Digital_XTC
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 9, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Im not quite sure how to do this review cause i definitly loved this game despite some VERY iritating 
 bugs. I guess ill start with garphics. There astonishing! for a first gen - next gen game they 
 did a great job with the graphics. most in part due to some VERY high res textures. Not so much 
 bump mapping or other effects but instead by creating wonderful enviorments with great atmospheric 
 touches. The sound in my opinion is on par with any other tom clancy game so not that groundbreaking 
 there. The gameplay is very solid with only a few things that bothered me. For starters you cant 
 fire your weapon while slidding across the ground. During multiplayer if your doing a standard 
 zoom by holding down the left trigger and reload at the same time you have to take your finger 
 off the left trigger and re push it to go back to standard zoom. The storyline is ok kinda hard 
 to follow towards the end. The later missions start to feel a little repetative in the sence that 
 your bassically trying over and over agian to complete your mission. Im trying not to give too 
 much away but when you do play the campaign youll know what i mean. 
  
  Now the major bugs in this game are the kind that can be there one minute but gone the next. Theres 
 a lot of poping or flashing of distant textures which you normally only notice when using your 
 scope. The odd part is that the developers had to have seen this since during these occasions its 
 normaly required that you use your scope. On one mission if you decide to go prone you find yourself 
 hovering like a resurected jesus clone gone to the army. This mission doesnt really require you 
 do so but its an odd thing to see. On top of all that on a peticular mission called bulldog which 
 I had to play repeatadly over and over again before the game would recognize that ive reached the 
 checkpoint. 
  
  As for multiplayer this really needs to be fixed and that is the server search. It takes forever! 
 for instance if you select quick match at may take up to a minute to find a game and then end up 
 telling you the room is full and thowing you back to the multiplayer menu. Then selecting custom 
 match it does the same thing. It doesnt even keep the server list, you have to start your search 
 all over again! VERY FRUSTRATING!. 
  
  All in all despite its flaws it is a very good game and worth the purchase. Just try not to expect 
 perfection as it cant deliver in that department. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tdouglass
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 9, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon: Advanced Warrior takes the basic controls common in all First Person Shooters and 
 runs with them. With very realistic combat, incredible AI and a variety of weapons, GRAW is a must-have 
 for 360 owners. The graphics are stunning, and the loading times are dismisable. Sound adds a lot 
 to hunting for stragglers, as well as sleuthing to take out an encampment all at once. Xbox Live 
 allows for up to 16 player Co-op, a hook that would do any game good. In short, GRAW should be 
 on every 360 owner's shelves, and Xbox Live owners should pick up just for the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeffGenocideX
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 9, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  GRAW is one of the best Ghost Recon games i have played. It has alot of action in it, i love how 
 it feels soo real, just amazing. The combat system is unbeliveable. WOO! The AI is great also... 
 they do flank you & come in number, sometimes they are always in the same spot. I am dissapointed 
 in that they give you the real first person view at all. Shooting cars & seeing the bullet holes 
 is great also. If your in real combat games get GRAW... this game blows SOCOM outta the water by 
 10. the game has awesome XBL play & Single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXBrazilManXx
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 8, 2006 11:53 pm PT
Review:  Here is another great game by Ubisoft called Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter. A modern strategy 
 shooter game that takes place in 2013 and allows you to see and experience what technology soldiers 
 will use in the future. This game is very well built and the A. I. is immensely smart.
  
  The action is non-stop and will always keep you satisfied. If you are a great fan of the Ghost 
 Recon series, then you surely can't miss out on this one! The story of the Campaign mode is great 
 and just right. The graphics are amazing and beautiful, lighting effects and physics are perfect.
 
  
  I think every Xbox 360 owner should have this game if they want a true next-gen experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackcannon
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 8, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  The A. I on the opposing force is well smarter than your comrades. They move more look for cover 
 and they also suppress fire at times when one of there soldiers is tring to come in closer. They 
 talk to each other and use signals and overall there very interactive. but your men move into you 
 at times when firing at an enemy attacking. when you tell your men to regroup they go infront of 
 you at times. (and there is no more flanking button) but I've owned all Ghost Recon tittles and 
 this one is a most have. the controller is hard getting used to switching from xbox to the 360 
 but it works out for the game. The game play is amazing and I'm about 99% positive you can pass 
 every level in the game. (it's not that hard) . and the set up of the game makes you feel like your 
 in the future, from the way you receive intel to how you can see through your comrades eyes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpttemplar
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2006 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that this game is a total and complete masterpiece, and one of the most 
 amazing games i have ever played!
  
  Gamplay: Completely amazing. The core of the ghost recon gameplay has been kept, but a few added 
 features maximize the fun level
  
  Graphics: Some of the best i have ever seen! the lighting is utterly amazing, and the cityscape 
 is as realistic as you can get. the only thing that looked a little current genish were the faces 
 of other people, although they looked good, i have seen better. the explosions look amazing though!
 
  
  Sound: Sounds great, everything sounded nice
  
  Value: Although i rushed through the campaign, which left me wanting more, online play has kept 
 me from selling this game. although the graphics are not as good in multiplayer and you cant go 
 up against walls, i still enjoy the multiplayer very much.
  
  This game is one of the best games ive played, and will probably remain one of the best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BFGbearer
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  I am truly speechless as to how the makers of this game made it so God-like and perfect. Everything 
 is phenomenal. Graphics are stunning. Real city look. Realistic weapons. Gameplay is also just 
 incredible, simply amazing. Play as captain mitchell and lead your squad through the streets and 
 suburbs of Mexico, as an assault team. Choose what makes up your team, a rifleman, a gunner, or 
 a grenadier. Choose the weapons your team has. Including grenades. Then take your team through 
 the streets while giving them commands. Also use a wide variety of gadgets such as bombs or even 
 commanding a spy drone or plane. I give this game a 10 and an A+. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodring
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 8, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  This is a game everone should buy .It shows the true power of the360 and the fun part of Xbox Live 
 and with new downloadable content on the way it is a game which will never die .I must say i did 
 not know if i should get this but this game made me wont one and i my opion beening a sony fan 
 boy XBOX RULES it has the fun games and thanks to xbox live graw is a completely successful .So 
 GRAW is a complete success and because of xbox live it will last until the next one comes out and 
 then we will see the true power of the 360
  
  Also I must admit this is much better thean socom on the ps2 so 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaYz0rUK0151
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 8, 2006 4:58 am PT
Review:  Over the last few years, during the MMORPG boom, I went off First Person Shooters and didn't think 
 another would get me interested again. From the moment you submerse into this game, even through 
 the training process you can tell the quality and excitement that you have ahead of you.
  
  Allthough I haven't even played past the first mission as I'm currently submersed in replaying 
 the whole final fantasy series again from VII -  X-2 aswell as playing away on FFXI for X360. It 
 is easy to see this game is a new and exciting breed of next gen first person shooters and I certainly 
 won't hesitate to spend many hours on it (as soon as I get them free) .
  
  Stay Tuned Folks,
  
  Jay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xphoenixtheory
Rating: 10
Date: May 13, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  In 2013, the U. S. Army will implement the Integrated Warfighter System evolving what we know as 
 the modern soldier. IWS combines advanced weapon systems, satellite communication devices and enhanced 
 survivability into one fully integrated combat system. The IWS program has been developed to meet 
 these new threats head on. Now, it can be tested on the battlefield.
  Embody Captain Scott Mitchell as he commands the Ghosts and Special Forces allies equipped with 
 the IWS in the quest to save the president of the United States, recover stolen nuclear codes and 
 eliminate a vicious band of renegade soldiers hell-bent on unleashing catastrophe. Amongst the 
 major new features added to this edition is the new Cross-Cam eye-piece communication device, utilizing 
 the power of the Xbox 360 to deliver constent and complete battlefield awareness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bassoonrules27
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 6, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  I was a bit skeptical about GRAW, mostly because I had never played any previous GR games. OXM's 
 review made the game look promising and I have been a huge Tom Clancy game fan (well, just the 
 Splinter Cell series, not RS) . I picked up GRAW and got the best game experience on the 360 (at 
 the time, Oblivion wasn't out, but that's another story) .
  GRAW's single player is fairly short, clocking just over 14 hours, but the challenge, level variety 
 and just plain fun makes it well worth it. GRAW has two difficulties: Normal (fairly hard) and 
 Hard (dear God...) . Normal shouldn't strain anyone, but Hard is... well... hard.
  The single player takes place in Mexico City, where a meeting of officials from Canada, US and 
 Mexico has been disrupted by Mexican insurgents. Your task is to rescue the Mexican and American 
 president. The story line is expertly crafted and is virtually unparalled. The gameplay is great 
 and, though I'm not a big fan of third person shooters, is easy to learn. A variety of teammates, 
 weapons, and level structures (sprawling Mexican cities, open forests, etc.) make it great.
  The multiplayer is where it's at, though. Co-op missions are fun and hard. The classic deathmatch 
 and team deathmatch are available. Team and solo objective games and territory games are also fun. 
 
  Basically, you cannot go wrong with GRAW. It is simply one of the best games on the 360 and I highly 
 recommend it for everyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainstringer
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 17, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  well its a about 10 to 30 mins of gameplay and u well be happy as controls are simple and u think 
 how easy how the game works because what you do is command your squad and a apache in [some missions] 
 to give u fire and take out the bad guys but its awsome as u command your squard to the right place 
 so they can wipe out the bad guys but u don't put in a stupid spot so they get killed its tactacial 
 warfare which mean u use them as cover and they cover u which brillant as you get into the game 
 the gunfire is realistic and so is a vehicle getting blown up also there achivements which gives 
 the player more on campain to do and also online.
  Achivements gives u a better rating and once completed u know how to get loads of kills my mate 
 was going for heavyweight which is a 1000 kills damn its tuff but u do it if your a ture fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bowchickabowow
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2006 3:28 am PT
Review:  no.
  
  but its for SURE right up there in the video game HALL OF FAME.
  
  everything about this game is AMAZING.
  
  the single player is fun and beautiful to look at.
 
  
  sometimes i caught myself wondering around just shooting cars, and windows to watch them blow up.
 
  
  everything is destructible.
  
  and when i say everything i mean EVERYTHING.
  
  its pretty hard on normal
  
  but on hard its damn near impossible
  
  haha
  
  i mean 
 the AI in this game is amazing.
  
  they will aim at your head EVERYTIME
  
  and when you have waves and waves of them.
  
  it gets pretty intense.
  
  NOW.
  
  for 
 the best mart of this game..
  
  
  
  the MULTIPLAYER.
  
  the multiplayer in this game is probably the BEST multiplayer i have ever played.
  
  i mean 
 NOTHING i have played compares to this.
  
  i have gone days without showering because of this multiplayer.
  
  its insane.
  
  at first 
 its hard to get into.
  
  because most players are really good already.
  
  but as soon as you get the hang of it..
  
  nothing will take you off.
  
  the only thing 
 keeping the multiplayer from being COMPLETELY perfect
  
  is the fact that the ranked games seem to disconnect..
  
  but thats something ubisoft can patch 
 up.. and will patch up soon.
  
  so yeah..
  
  this game is pretty much a MUST have if youre a fan of shooters
  
  especially if youve played 
 any ghost recon game and liked.
  
  this one will NOT disapoint.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterdeath31
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 5, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep this short, the single player is very fun and badass with a slide move and the ability 
 to hide behind cover and shoot ( kinda like like perfect dark) and an awsome musical score. It 
 was kinda like seeing a blockbuster movie but it was a game. With that said I'll say something 
 that will just piss people off: the multiplayer sucked. Well it didn't "suck" but it was just simply 
 the same old crap from Ghost Recon 2. The graphics are mediocre in the mutiplayer wich perplexes 
 me as to why the creaters would sluff off on what is the best part of GR games. Maybe I'm too harsh 
 but th lobby system simply sucks hard. I dont know why since the first game none of the creators 
 have fixed it. I mean you end up sitting in lobbies fo 10 minuts at a time staring at the lobby 
 screen because you can spectate the current match. This simply destroys any fun I would've otherwise 
 had on a great game. So if you don't mind sitting in lobbies online while life passes you buy the 
 buy this game it's one of the best for the system.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofan1314
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  This game is oficially the best Ghost Recon game ive ever played so thats why i gave it a 10! Well 
 anyway, this game has a very hard start but once your used to playing its awesome since this is 
 the first 360 game i ever played of course its the best but i know it is ive been waiting forever 
 for a game like this to come along multi-player awesome solo-play awesome music awesome game is 
 one of the best Ubisoft has ever made thats wy is say to Ubisoft MAKE MORE GAMES LIKE THIS!!!!! Anyway 
 buy this game thats final now bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w00t_2006
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 5, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Sure the Xbox 360 has great graphics, but what about the gameplay? G. R. A. W........ not so much. 
 I started to play the game for a while, and after 15 minutes. I just quit. THIS GAME IS BORING! 
 The only good thing about this game is the graphics and sound. Everything else just sucked. Controls 
 were horrible, I tried to aim correctly, but I just missed. And you die (*dies*)
  a lot (*dies*) of (*dies*) TIMES!!!! I mean COME ON! This dude your playing obviously forgot to 
 wear armor with his suit. 2013 technology..... not cool. It's just a more complicated verision if 
 current technology, only more umm........ FUN? Now I'm off to play CoD2... WHICH IS A BETTER MILITARY 
 GAME! 
  
  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advaced Warfighter get a 2........... out of 5. (Or a 5.8.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: League727
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 5, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Great but not what I expected. I expected things like big bullet holes in buildings explosion everywhere, dust 
 particles in your face. Don't get me wrong it is a great game but I don't i know i wanted more. 
 It is next-gen but not exactly next-gen........ gameplay doesn't wow me idk.......... I do love it 
 tho :)
  If only they took some more time with it.
  Then it would be a great must-buy.
  I expected a lot more.
  AI can get sloppy.
  Some of the guns feel the same.
  Great graphics, 
 not Amazing, but great.
  Environments are easy to the eye but not very interactive, just covering.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgsato1
Rating: 7
Date: May 5, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  While this game has great graphics, I just couldn't really get into it. I experienced a major glitch 
 in one of the early levels where the screen went black except for the checkpoint arrows and walked 
 around blindly for a few minutes until eventually the graphics came back (but color was messed 
 up) and then it finally fixed itself. Resetting wasn't really an option because I would have lost 
 too much progress.
  
  On the hard setting, the helicopter levels are next-to-impossible, at least for me, which made 
 the game less than fun while I had to retry several times.
  
  The missions have a good variety and layout but after a while became repetitive, go to a checkpoint, 
 perform some action (save someone, blow up something) , stay alive, repeat. On the hard mode, it 
 becomes an exercise in memorization as you must learn to remember where/when the next group of 
 enemies will be located and plan accordingly. The enemies always start in the same position which 
 removes the element of surprise. 
  
  With reviews saying the single-player campaign takes about 10 hours, I chose to start in hard mode 
 to extend the game. And although the slow paced nature of the game makes it more tactical, at the 
 same time it removes the sense of urgency that one would expect when trying to resuce the US President. 
 Oh and I don't understand why they coudn't give you the points for beating a normal level when 
 you completed it in hard mode. That would seem to be a given to me, rather than having to replay 
 a mission on an easier difficulty.
  
  The weapons also didn't seem to have much variety either and the sound/feel of shooting them doesn't 
 provide the same enjoyment that I found even with COD2.
  
  Online play is a bit more fun as it has a slightly faster pace but I haven't spent much time with 
 it after my disappointment with the single-player campaign.
  
  Overall the game keeps in line with the series but perhaps it's just not my style. Other than the 
 graphics, I didn't really see much that stood out about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pepechidoone
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  this game the first time i played it, i couldn't believe that there was a perfect game in the XBOX 
 360!!! the graphics are just amazing!!!
  
  Graphics - as i I have said, grapichs are amazing, they're so so amazing that sometimes you can't 
 even see because of the sun light!! and many things!!
  
  Gameplay - it has an exellent controller, and when you play it you won't stop until your momma 
 tells you "turn off that thing" lol
  
  Sound - this is one of the bests sound i've ever heard, you have to buy a 5.1 or 7.1 if you like 
 to enjoy the spund of this game at it's full!!!!!
  
  believeme guys, this game won't disaponit you, and if it does, you don't know about good games 
 :)
  
  peace out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daveg1
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 5, 2006 6:19 am PT
Review:  ghost recon for the most part from the xbox to xbox360 is a great series,, but this one stands on 
 its own as great addition to the franchise,
  the game is set in mexico city, as to my knowledge everything is recreated as accurate as possible, the 
 first thing you notice about graw is obviously the stunning visual, and the most impressive thing 
 to me i thought was the sound of mexico city,, the sound will have you thinking wooahh!
  its really that good, especialy when you 360 is linked to a surround sound set up!
  
  one of 
 the things that was good was the ability like in the other ghost recon games was the ability to 
 give out orders to your team mates, even if they sometimes act a little strange just standing there 
 getting randomly shot, but for the most part they act with good a. i.
  
  another good aspect was the colour of the settings of mexico given the graphics a kind of haze 
 that pulled of the gritty esque look of back street mexico complete with heat shimmer and a great 
 war torn feel to it!
  
  the game play i found was very engageing, with a difficulty level that as not so steep a learning 
 curve, but was just about right going from level to level, even if after getting shot and killed 
 about 8 times on the same sequence, but mostly that is good because it teaches you to look out for 
 things not firstly noticable to the naked eye, which then allows the use of the the heat gogles 
 and night vision, that come in handy at a lot of times and you will use a lot of the time in ghost 
 recon,
  
  the longevity of the game is ok, but a great game like this is never long enough, but thankfully 
 this game can be played over xbox live so that adds a lot more life to a already great game!!!
 
  
  the controls are great too, once you figure out what button does what, it is a little difficult at 
 the start to understand what all the on-screen hud is showing, and the way they react to different 
 enemy's but after a few levels you soon become adapt at sniping around corner's and giving order's 
 to your team mates and using the cypher, which is also a valuble part of your team!!
  
  daveg1!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_Kaliaver
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 5, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  This is one game that you won't want to miss to pick up. It has an effect to make you yell Yehaah 
 when you get a kill.
  
  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter (or known as G. R. A. W) will blow you off your feet 
 when you step into the shoes of Scott Mitchell who is Captain of an elite group known as the Ghosts.
 
  
  When you step into the shoes of Scott Mitchell you will immediately notice the graphics improvement 
 from Ghost Recon 2 and a graphics to surpass almost any game out to date. G. R. A. W doesnt just 
 flash of its sexy view it also has a lot of content that includes a great story.
  
  Scott Mitchell is now put into another conflict when he steps into Mexico City where the leaders 
 of the United States, Mexico, and Canada are to meet about a security deal. But when the meeting 
 is taking place a Mexican rebel force comes out and attacks the UN building where the meeting it 
 taking place. No longer are the leaders of these three great nations protected and that is where 
 you come in. Now its your time to shine and you will be doing a damn fine job by protecting the 
 Mexican President and the US President. The pace changed from Ghost Recon 2 though no longer are 
 you fighting in forests where you may never see any enemy before your teammates take them out, 
 oh no you are fighting in the streets of Mexico City where you command an elite squad of four ghosts 
 (including your self) . The control over your ghosts might seem a little watered down from all the 
 commands that you could issue in Ghost Recon 2, but it will seem like a breeze when all you must 
 to is look to where you want the to go the press up on the d pad or press down on the d pad to 
 regroup. No longer will your squad be useless they are responsive and will take kills, and with 
 the bonus of being able to hide behind walls (you and your team) they wont die instantly but they 
 still will. With the new maneuver to hide behind walls and shoot from behind them it will add a 
 type of strategy. With the new helmet and screen you get to see where you have ordered your ghosts 
 and see where they are (even through buildings) plus you can see enemies if you have looks into 
 there direction. 
  
  Now G. R. A. W gives you the chose to go from Third-Person to First-Person view in the middle of game 
 and even switch from right to left shoulder view. With the shoulder-to-shoulder view to help you 
 see around corners you think you would get every single kill. No longer will your squad be useless 
 they are responsive and will take kills, and with the bonus of being able to hide behind walls 
 (you and your team) they wont die instantly but they still will. With the new maneuver to hide 
 behind walls and shoot from behind them it will add a type of strategy.
  
  Through the single-player game not will you only be given just three other ghosts to command, but 
 you will be given helicopters, tanks, and smaller antitank vehicles. The command of these vehicles 
 is easy to use either look at the enemy (which has a red diamond in front of him sometimes) and 
 press up on the d pad and the vehicle will attack or without looking at an enemy just press up 
 on the d pad and they will move forward on an automated course (tanks and light antitank vehicles 
 only) . The helicopter responds the same way as your men, which is nice over an automated course. 
 Beyond the vehicles you will be given a wide assortment of weapons with: sniper rifles, grenade 
 automatic rifles, automatic rifles, machine guns, grenades, pistols, and a rocket launcher oh and 
 dont forget about those camera operated automatic rifles. Now almost every rifle has an option 
 to be semi-automatic or just go spray and pray style. Through the story you wont be able to pick 
 out of every gun at once but they do give you about 2-12 choices per level to choose from and then 
 the guns off your dead enemies. With all those weapons come new strategies and new ways to play 
 the game. You could either hold back find a nice dark building and pull out that trusty sniper 
 rifle and take down your enemies from a distance. Or you could always just run into an already 
 going fray and just blast down some guys with a huge machine gun or blow a party of 4 guys into 
 submission with a grenade launcher attachment on your rifle. Now along with all the guns there 
 are four classes of ghosts that include: Rifle, Grenadier, Automatic Rifle, and Marksmen that only 
 affect your other ghosts and your clothes on multiplayer. G. R. A. W lets you choose they style you 
 want to play from the third or first person view to assortment of guns and thats only one thing 
 G. R. A. W doesnt let up on.
  
  The levels on G. R. A. W on single-player are pretty much one way to go with times to go along little 
 separate ways to reach the same point. With the graphics and the special effects in the game and 
 explosive cars you wont be noticing the straightforward levels. To the multiplayer levels that 
 make a total of ten maps to play over the places to move vary greatly and difference is levels 
 also varies greatly. Now the biggest feature left out of multiplayer is the ability is to hide 
 behind walls why Schott Mitchell can but an ordinary ghost during online cant is a very complex 
 thing.
  
  The multiplayer in G. R. A. W really changed up the online aspect of shooting games. Not only can 
 you play death-match or capture the flag and other objective games, it adds a cooperative story. 
 Out of the ten maps online four were chosen to be able to be played for co-op. The story for the 
 co-op missions really does not vary it is either between kill all enemies on level, defend a building, 
 and blow up crates but in each mission you will be doing all three. Now for these levels dont 
 underestimate the AI it will come from behind corners when your not expecting it and they are masters 
 of aim and will gun you down if you are careless, which can make it somewhat frustrating. Even 
 with the very smart AI to take you down again and again you will find that you could play the multiplayer 
 for hours. G. R. A. Ws single-player and Multiplayer offers much replay ability with the achievements 
 to get done and the amazing story you will want to play at least two to three times. The Multiplayer 
 doesnt let up one bit either with the co-op that you will beat and want to do over and over again, 
 and also the robust online system will make you love all the options G. R. A. W gives you. .
  
  G. R. A. W offers a good single-player and multi-player but still it lacks things that could have 
 made this game get a better score. Like some things offered from single-player that were missing 
 in multiplayer to the much less strategic ghost command and no mic commands offered from previous 
 Ghost Recon games. Really this game offers enough content and truly some of the most amazing graphics 
 and effect (explosion and the HUD) that I have ever seen and I cant get enough of it. The explosions 
 alone could keep me entertained for hours upon end. If you loved Ghost Recon 2 and even Ghost Recon 
 it is a must buy, but to all others think to I want fast paced or slower paced game-play. What 
 I would say go rent because I did and I still want to buy it.
  
  All in all Ubisoft knows what theyre doing and their not letting up. This game takes a good score 
 as it deserved and lets just hope they improve the single to multiplayer transition for the next 
 Ghost Recon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xoverkillx
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 3, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is one of the best tactical games that i've played in my life. 
 THe missions in GR: AW are so much fun.. You actualy have to think about what your going to do and 
 strategize because its not just like walk up and shoot. It actually takes skill to defeat the enemy. 
 The multiplayer in GR: AW is so much fun. There is hardly any lag if at all lag online playing GR: AW 
 so its perfect to get if you want to have a blast online. The achivements are mediocre in GR: AW 
 some of them are unreasonable like getting to the top of the leaderboard but that is ok. I like 
 most the achievments though. The graphics in GR: AW are way good. By far one of the best looking 
 games i've seen to date. I would definatly reccomend buying GR: AW because the replay value is awesome 
 and you will never get board playing online. I would reccomend this game to pretty much everybody 
 because it is so much fun. A definate game to add to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hydrolix
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 4, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  I am loving this game... and much more than I thought I would.
  
  The single player campaign has brilliant moments of intense firefights. The co-op multiplayer is 
 great fun. I still am bothered by the general multiplayer where I run about and die without ever 
 knowing what happened, but never-the-less it's fun.
  
  The sound will blow you away. If you don't have a surround sound system you are missing out on 
 a large chunck of the immersiveness of this game.
  
  So far probably the best graphics on the 360.
  
  If you like shooters... you can't go wrong 
 with this one. And if you like the Ghost Recon series, I think this is probably their best outing 
 so far.
  
  Now I know some of you are complaining about the thrid-person view, but you can manually change 
 that if you don't like it. I, however, do like it because third person really lends itself to a 
 game with the necessity of finding cover and such. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sergiosissylala
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  I honestly can't wait to see the next set of Ghost Recon Games. This one was so amazing I just 
 can't even imagine what the next one will be like. Can't be any worse hopefully. This game was 
 very awesome, graphics kicked ass, gameplay was unreal and everything was just revolutionary. I 
 was so stoked when I first stuck to the side of a wall. Thats a whole new range of maneuvarablity 
 for ghost recon games. It's amazing how all the little details are added in. Like when you peek 
 around a corner and someone shoots and the screen shakes because of the Bullet impacts. The only 
 negative thing I have to say about the game is the Multiplayer. it was still pretty fun but you 
 didn't really get alot of the cool features you did in single player, they should have thrown that 
 stuff in there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L0CC
Rating: 7
Date: May 4, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  When I bought this game, I was kinda expecting a COD kind of game play. But when I loaded this 
 and played it, it was very different. Tactictal gameplay is not my thing. But I will keep it and 
 try to learn how to play it and give it a chance. I wish I would've gotten call of duty. I played 
 call of duty, the first for xbox and loved it.
  
  The gameplay is pretty much tactical and you can do a lot. The graphics are amazing, especially 
 when you throw a grenade and all the dust and how it lingers around. The sound is really good as 
 well. The value, since this is not my type of game, I didn't give a very high score, just cuz, 
 not my cup of tea. I have no idea what reviewer's tilt is.
  
  Dont get me wrong GRAW is probably great, but not a game for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yahoo1979
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2006 1:23 am PT
Review:  I tell you what.. This game is truly next-gen.. 
  Forget it about Killzone 2 video, ok... 
  this game is near CG quality and gameplay is fun...
  Great looking HDR effect and soft shadow. 
 
  I'm very surprise that they pull this off using Direct 9.0c. 
  It's not even Direct 10. My Pc can't but xbox 360 can. very interesting!!
  I just can't wait 
 to see more in the future. 
  I didn't realize how great was to have xbox 360 until I play this game.. 
  This is the definitely 
 killer apps for the xbox 360. 
  you should get it too. you gonna love it.. 
  GET THIS GAME NOW!!! ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadylpfan
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Wow this is the first game I've gotten for my 360, and so far I love it. I love how the graphics 
 in this game are so increadible. Plus also a lot of the technical shooting is cool too, yet hard 
 to learn. It's a lot different than the usual conrotls that's been used in the past, but it'll 
 take a half hour to a full hour learning curve so no worries. All in all great game, so go out 
 and buy it cuz I garuntee you that you will love this experience. And trust me if you have 360 
 you're gonna love it even more dude! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCatIsRed971
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 3, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is easily one fo the greatest shooters for the xbox 360 yet. It has a combination of 
 sitting and waiting on some stages and on others its just a full out rush. I like this game a little 
 bit more than Halo because the pace is a little slower and Im more of the type who likes to sit 
 and snipe. The only reason this game isnt perfect is you can get a few people who will quickly 
 start spawn killing. The only way around this is to just try to make a break for it which usually 
 doesnt work. The best thing to do is wait for your whole team to die all run out together shooting. 
 It can be annoying but its not worth missing this game because of that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaCPkiinG
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 3, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Okay this is what i think the game is good. It has the best grafics that i have seen in a xbox 
 360 game. The only problem is that it is thrid-person and if you switch it to first-person than 
 it looks like poop. In first person all they do is make the guy dispear. The first-person is not 
 real first person, you can't even see the gun. I think that it was a mistake to not make it in 
 first-person. HALO 2 is MUCH BETTER. 
  
  Okay this is what i think the game is good. It has the best grafics that i have seen in a xbox 
 360 game. The only problem is that it is thrid-person and if you switch it to first-person than 
 it looks like poop. In first person all they do is make the guy dispear. The first-person is not 
 real first person, you can't even see the gun. I think that it was a mistake to not make it in 
 first-person. HALO 2 is MUCH BETTER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jax_of_Blades
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 2, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is crazy it delivers graphics that are o so real and it also is realistic firefights 
 and tanks and apaches. They made the control of your squad very effective although I would have 
 liked more control it was still a great gaming experience. The length of the game also was good, 
 most first person shooters are not very long story-lines but this is a long and well written story. 
 I thought it was funny how the PS2 version was so low rated it was kind of funny. The XBOX version 
 didn't turn out so well either but on XBOX 360 the best!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chestnutz
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 2, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is amazing. Although it takes alittle while to get used to the controls. There 
 is so much to learn and you constantly use these different things in the game, because everything 
 changes so quick. I just bought the game and Im playing it on super hard on the solo campaign. 
 It's hard as hell but Im getting better everytime I play it. I really enjoy walking around the 
 city, constantly on edge. You never know when you're going to get smoked. Im still learning the 
 controls. So it definitely requires some time to learn the techniques.
  
   
 fldsknfl; sadj flsdknf sdf sl; dkf lskda fkl; dsa klds fklsda fl; as dfl; dsklf lk; sd fl; sad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amourkiss
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2006 3:47 am PT
Review:  This game deliver the best graphic so far for the 360, the feel of being on a battlefield is vividly 
 strong.
  The control is easy to follow, and the third-person angle might take some time used to, since every 
 other shooting games all using first-person view point.
  The sound is great, the explosive, and smokes are stunning.
  
  This game isn't run and shoot 
 type of game, unlike PDZ and CoD2, this game ask you more on the strategy side of play, you always 
 have to think where's the best spot to put your man, and what's the next appropriate moves, etc.
 
  
  IMO, this is the only game in the market that really give you the feel of next-generation, regarding 
 graphics, gameplay, lighting, and sound.
  
  360 owners, you ought to check this game out !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TeamMM3_Xbox
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 7, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  This is by far my favorite Xbox 360 game. The graphics in single player are the best I've seen 
 for 360 yet. Multiplayer is where the game lacks a little. The graphics aren't quite as good as 
 the single player and you can't do some of the stuff online that you can in single player. The 
 single player story is cool. Online is very fun. I've spend a lot of time playing this game with 
 my friends. In my opinion this is a must own shooter. I have always loved Ubisoft's games and I 
 can't wait for the upcoming Splinter Cell Double Agent and Rainbow Six Vegas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultimafanatic
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 1, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon 3 has been floating around magazine and internet articles alike since the 360 was announced. 
 Ubisoft promised a gritty, tactical, militaristic shooter, and they didn't dissapoint.
  
  You assume the role of Captain Scott Mitchell. Leader of a team of 'Ghosts', the worlds finest 
 soldier, armed to the teeth with the latest weaponry and armour (Based on technology in development 
 by the US military) , and the game altering "Cross Com" system, making issuing squad commands quick 
 and easy, and allowng Scott to see the world through his teammates eyes, and enabling him to utilise 
 support units such as tanks, drones and blackhawk choppers.
  
  Your team is dispatched to Mexico to keep the peace while the Presidents of Canida and America 
 negotiate with the Mexican government. As always, it all goes horribly wrong, Rebels attack the 
 summit, killing the Canadian president, and soon after, America loses contact with the US president. 
 The games over-riding plot is to find the President, and locate the "Football", a suitcase containing 
 the launch codes for the US's cache of nuclear warheads, your Ghosts will be forced to fight through 
 jungles, shanty towns, and deep in the city blocks to complete their objectives. The missions are 
 split up with sections where you travel through the city in an APC or Blackhawk, but these still 
 allow you to mantain control of Mitchel, allowing you to look around in your seat on the chopper 
 of APC.
  
  Graphically the game will blow any competition away. Mexico city is recreated perfectly, the texture 
 on the scenery is spot on, and none of the buildings lose detail, no matter how far away they are. 
 Lighting effects are brilliant, glare from the sun affects your vision and maniulates the appearence 
 of your surroundings, allowing enemys to hide. This is handled far better than anything on the 
 PS2 or original Xbox.
  
  It must be noted that this game is hard, if you approach a situation in the wrong way, it will 
 result in you being blown to the floor and your team-mates screaming your name as all vision fades 
 out. Enemy A. I is incredible, with enemys sneaking round and through buildings to reach you, flanking 
 you (A quote used liberally in the gaming industry, bu this is the first time it has ever been 
 made noticable) , taking up sniping positions, and a nuber of other things to prevent the player 
 from doing what they set out to do. Thankfully, if the Cross-Com system is used correctly, the 
 Mexican rebels will fall quickly.
  
  Unfortunatly the A. I on your teammates is not nearly as good as the enemies. Team-mates will simply 
 neglect to fire at a tank somtimes, and have a nasty habit of deciding to run out of their designated 
 cover and straight into the scope of a sniper. Healing them is a simple matter, walk (Or run, usually) 
 to them, hold Y, and surprise surprise, you've just done a Jesus, and Ramirez, or whoever was stupid 
 enough to get themselves torn apart, is on his feet again, ready to fight. The healing will provide 
 some good "War Film" esque moments, esspecially when the player is desperatly trying to heal a 
 team-mate with bullets soaring part their head.
  
  The only other gripe noticable with this game is when reloading a weapon, Scott will put on some 
 ellaborate relaoding pantomime, but neglect to remove the clip, or for that matter, put a new one 
 in. But magically, the weapons ammo is refilled. This glitch is only noticable if the camera is 
 incredibly zoomed into Scott.
  
  Overall Ghost Recon is the most realistic modern war game to date, and will hopefully be a sample 
 of things to come from the virgin console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OoofMich_69
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 1, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  this game is great. it has a very fun anf very challenging campaign and multiplayer. 
  
  the campaign has lots of challenging missions. you get lots of cool weapons and gadgets to use. 
 I think that your teamates Ai isnt that great, but the enemy Ai is very intelligent. campign takes 
 lots of straegy and will keep you on your toes.
  
  next-multiplayer. i think this is the best part of the game. it still has all the great weapons 
 and classes of soldiers and lots of good maps to play on. the multiplayer has many team objectives, 
 like CTF, KOTH, and sraight up killing. there is also a CO-OP in the online. in this u will plat 
 against enmy AI, but u get to play with other live players and friends. there is also a seperate 
 online campaing to play with other people. You are also allowed to create custom gametypes.
  
  last thing, it is a pretty easy game to get achivements.. some are easy and some are hard or 
 time consuming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zonmom2508
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 1, 2006 6:14 am PT
Review:  Wow this is one of the best shooters for the 360 out. The game has PDZ and COD2 beat in my mind. 
 One of the best games out on the 360 before the TES4 Oblivion. Some of the most amazing graphics 
 i have ever seen in a shooter. Its story was unfortunatly short and kind of a week story. The online 
 was fun and made it worth its while. Until something like gears of war or bungies next gen project 
 this is a good game to play. This game is definately a rent first if you can. I bought and was 
 pleased but after i saw the short storyline its no longer as much worth a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darksaber91
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 30, 2006 11:20 pm PT
Review:  G. R. A. W. is a first person shooter that doesn't really try anything that will blow your mind but 
 is very solid and will satisfy a lot of different types of gamers. Personally I like quick, nonstop 
 action with tactics and a lot of heartstopping moments. This game delivers.
  
  The great thing about GRAW is that you don't have to own any of the others to be able to jump right 
 in and have fun. Both me, a new comer to the series, and my friend, a seasoned Ghost Recon veteran, 
 have a lot of good things to say about this game.
  
  Graphics are great and the sound is impressive. A plethora of multiplayer options that you can 
 tweak to your heart's content increase the game's lifespan.
  
  Overall, GRAW is a great choice if your looking for a great xbox 360 game. Also the achievment 
 points are not too hard to get and if the game seems too challenging on hard mode you can always 
 use a FAQ or cheats. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: facelessdrone
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  this game totaly blows your brain out the back of your head. When i first played it i spent the 
 first 3 minutes running around looking at how beautiful the game and its graphics were. The gameplay 
 is solid the only flaw i can think of is the slugish fire in campaign mode (you actually have to 
 pull the trigger all the way to get a shot off this time, unlike the previous GR2SS) . Other than 
 that this game is the best looking 360 title to date (not counting Oblivion) . The daylight effects 
 will have you in aww along with the amazing small features such as, dust that comes off the walls 
 and gathers on the ground, the sound effects of the guns and the shells hiting the ground, and 
 the feeling that your actually in the game itself, its absolutely stunning. this is one of those 
 few 360 games that looks superb even on a regular TV. and the online play is awsome the new aiming 
 system allows you to slow walk your oppents easier online. I cant even begin to explain how great 
 this game is! A definite perfect 10!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MountainDew77
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 30, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  First of all, let me start out by saying WOW. This has to be one of the greatest games ever created. 
 (Behind the SOCOM series) Once you start playing, you cannot stop. When I bought the game, I took 
 it home and started playing the Single-Player right away. I was AMAZED at how crisp and smooth 
 the graphics were. It was crazy! The gameplay had solid, easy to learn controls, and the game uses 
 real life tactics. So, as soon as I played like 4 of the missions, I thought I would try out the 
 online play. This is when I realized just how good this game is. You haven't experienced Ghost 
 Recon until you have played this game online. With as many options and game modes there are online, 
 this is a game guaranteed to have you playing for months. Although not as good as SOCOM, it comes 
 pretty darn close. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LostCatalyst
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 29, 2006 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Now I had a lot of high expectations renting this one after the solid reviews all the editorials 
 and gamers have given. I was at first blown away by the intensely great graphics and fairly cool 
 storyline. But after playing for several hours I felt the experience lost some of its shine.
  
  Now the graphics in this game are close to the best on the 360 so far. Great effects on explosions 
 of vehicles, lighting, shadows, pretty much everything. I can't say enough how much I was consistently 
 impressed. I especially like the first person view you received from either your teammates or the 
 various choppers/tanks/recon vehicles you also get to control. Its a cool idea and although I complain 
 that the pip screen you get may be a bit too small any larger and I suppose it would have impeded 
 the view of your main character.
  
  Sound in this game is also very cool and immersive. All the basics are covered from a cool soundtrack 
 during the cutscenes, voice acting that sounds excellent, and great fx. The guns sound awesome, 
 holding your breath sounds cool when sniping, and the overall ambience creates a good 'yeah lets 
 go to war, rock out, and shoot some stuff'.
  
  Gameplay at first was a little overwhelming but once you get used to the controls you'll find yourself 
 sniping in no time. I have zero complaints about anything except for the a. i. of your teammates. 
 They seem to be absolute idiots at time and rather than take cover will just stand in the open 
 and get shot. Therefore requiring you to heal them. It never failed when I set them up nicely behind 
 some cover to shoot the enemies, then they get shot. I look over and of course they are in the 
 middle of the battlefield.
  
  Value was ok as its nice to go online and play live of course. The campaign is fairly involving 
 if you enjoy a good recon war story.
  
  Sorry to say my tilt was swayed downwards by this one though. It just seemed like I was bored too 
 many times running from cover to cover shooting stuff. Or rail shooting from the helicopter. In 
 my personal opinion I never quite liked the cover system as some objects you'll grab cover while 
 others you have to dive to your stomach while running.
  
  Overall I would definitely recommend a rental and if you like what you play then go for it and 
 grab a copy. But be sure to rent it first, otherwise you may have a dust collector other than to 
 show off the sweet graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoonDockSaint15
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  I love this game man nothing but war blow up stuff guns ,guns and more guns i love this game this 
 only makes me want to play it none stop if i could oh man i did not think it was going to be this 
 great the coloring the background it looked so real i mean i thought i was really there i thought 
 i was the guy holding the gun wow wow wow man i just can't get over it if i could i would not be 
 at the computer i would be playing the game you know what i am going to go play it but anyway the 
 graphic and the sound needless to say i thought i was shooting a real gun in my liveing room but 
 anyway it is so a must have plaz everyone get it i love this freaking game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: everest116
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 29, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  After finishing the campaign I wanted more out of it. The action was great when killing enemies 
 or when you are out number. But I thought there was alot of trail and error. The different guns 
 was fun to play around with. But it didn't matter which gun you choose in each mission. I didn't 
 think it made any differences at the end. Most of the mission was fun, it never got stale. The 
 best part about the game to me was the different ways you could approach the enemies. I recommend 
 to rent it if you just want to play the single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raiden_976
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 28, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Ok after being disappointed by BF2: MC's release date and absence of a demo I wanted a decent military/shooter 
 game. I had played Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon before and thought it was good for a shooter and the 
 previews for G. R. A. W. looked amazing.
  
  Graphics: As you get to the actual missions you are in the vast Mexico City. The visuals are stunning! 
 Even in the distance the buildings look just as good as something that is right next to you. They 
 really push the power of the Xbox 460 here. Explosions and bullet fire are all around you. And 
 except for the possibility of dying it looks awesome (sorry for the corny joke) ! The city in itself 
 is huge! And since it is based on a non-linear approach to solving missions you can go almost anywhere. 
 The character models are sweet and realistic looking, almost like looking at a real person in action. 
 Gun models are very nice looking. Multi-player graphics are slightly less impressive for some reason 
 but it still looks good. 
  
  Sound: Superb sound! BF2: MC let me down in sound but here it doesnt at all. 
  
  Realism: Very 
 realistic. The reload impressed me the most. Instead of always having the clip on hand when you 
 reload you will see sometimes your character might have to dig it out of his vest like you would 
 in real life. You die within 1-3 shots which is probably how it would be in real combat. The only 
 thing where it fails here is when you get hit in the hand you will take as much damage as if hit 
 in the chest (I died once because someone sniped my hand) . The scopes are realistic as well.
  
  Storyline: Good kept me interested and it has a... no I shouldnt tell you.
  
  AI: The 
 campaign AI is revolutionary on Hard and Normal. But the XBL AI is pathetic at best. But makes 
 for good practice so they do serve a purpose. Team AI on the campaign are good shots but are a 
 little cocky you might say (they always seem to find the bullets) .
  
  Toys: M1A1s, Apaches, UH-60s, Mini-guns, Bradlys, Cross Com, Every gun you could ever want, you 
 name it. 
  
  Controls: Easy To use.
  
  All around great game. I recommend it for anyone who likes Tom Clancy Games or if you like Military 
 shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Col-Ancient
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 28, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  Ok after being disappointed by BF2: MC's release date and absence of a demo I wanted a decent military/shooter 
 game. I had played Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon before and thought it was good for a shooter and the 
 previews for G. R. A. W. looked amazing.
  
  Graphics: As you get to the actual missions you are in the vast Mexico City. The visuals are stunning! 
 Even in the distance the buildings look just as good as something that is right next to you. They 
 really push the power of the Xbox 460 here. Explosions and bullet fire are all around you. And 
 except for the possibility of dying it looks awesome (sorry for the corny joke) ! The city in itself 
 is huge! And since it is based on a non-linear approach to solving missions you can go almost anywhere. 
 The character models are sweet and realistic looking, almost like looking at a real person in action. 
 Gun models are very nice looking. Multi-player graphics are slightly less impressive for some reason 
 but it still looks good. 
  
  Sound: Superb sound! BF2: MC let me down in sound but here it doesnt at all. 
  
  Realism: Very 
 realistic. The reload impressed me the most. Instead of always having the clip on hand when you 
 reload you will see sometimes your character might have to dig it out of his vest like you would 
 in real life. You die within 1-3 shots which is probably how it would be in real combat. The only 
 thing where it fails here is when you get hit in the hand you will take as much damage as if hit 
 in the chest (I died once because someone sniped my hand) . The scopes are realistic as well.
  
  Storyline: Good kept me interested and it has a... no I shouldnt tell you.
  
  AI: The 
 campaign AI is revolutionary on Hard and Normal. But the XBL AI is pathetic at best. But makes 
 for good practice so they do serve a purpose. Team AI on the campaign are good shots but are a 
 little cocky you might say (they always seem to find the bullets) .
  
  Toys: M1A1s, Apaches, UH-60s, Mini-guns, Bradlys, Cross Com, Every gun you could ever want, you 
 name it. 
  
  Controls: Easy To use.
  
  All around great game. I recommend it for anyone who likes Tom Clancy Games or if you like Military 
 shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grant_Guy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 28, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  At first i was unsure about this game i've never liked stealth or realistic games but then i played 
 graw. 
  
  I really liked the single-player but it was fun then i played co-op and was like meh it's fun then 
 i played multiplayer and was blown away it is so much fun this game reminds me of a halo gone realistic 
 type game. I recomend getting this game if you have a 360 and if you don't have a 360 pick it up 
 just for this game you will not be unhappy with your purchase.
  
  The sound, graphics and gameplay is flawless the cross-cam really brings a whole team based shooter 
 element to this game which is very revolutionary. the value isn't that good because once you beat 
 the single-player and co-op and have played on xbl for a while you will get bored of this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gylfi88
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 28, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  Advanced warfighter makes the perfect blend between Action, Steaalth and tactics. But let's face 
 the truth it has it's flaws f. ex the A. I on your teammates in singleplayer is compareable to a 
 Retarded infant level. I'm frankly shocked, but all the other components makes it an exellent game. 
 The single player experience is somwhat short but the action there is pretty solid. Advanced Warrior 
 really sines though when it comes to the multyplayer part. It's just what you would expect from 
 a next-gen game that is costing you more than the previous generation. The graphics has been toned 
 down in multyplayer but that doesn't matter, it looks crisp and sharp anyway. There is one thing 
 about ghost recon 3 that i adore and it is the fact that you're only able to take like 2 hits or 
 possably 1 when you're shot, just that little detail makes it that much better in for me. But there 
 is one more annoying thang about advanced warrior; you can't change the sensitiviy on the analog 
 stick, personally I think that sucks balls. Despite it faults and lack of innovation GRAW showcases 
 360's new graphical power with flying colours and deliveres an action packed sequal for all shooter-fans. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazedColombian
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 22, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  OK lets just start with the amazing gameplay..... 
  ITs amazing this game is everything is cracked up to be and bag of chips. 
  Everyone should own 
 this game because it show cases what the 360 is capable of.. I rented it because I never played 
 a game like this and was only use to the Halos and the perfect darks. THIS IS NOT LIKE EITHER OF 
 THESE GAME BUT IS AMAZInG
  
  the campaign is short but sweet and multiplayer is where the game really shines. def worth the 
 $60. Has two difficulty levels normal which is fun and then Hard which is one shot and ur dead.... 
 which i found hard but very enjoyable and realistic
  
  only downsides
  * is that the xbox version has one or two more multiplayer stages.. 
  * the stupid drone thing 
 sometimes get stuck in trees in multiplayer
  * Ur Ghost Unit sometimes isnt as smart as ud like it to be 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theshway
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  Ghost recon advanced warfighter is game that looked full of potential, with screenshots that took 
 gamers breath aways. Well guess what, you won't be dissapointed. GRAW is full of variety including 
 a range of action-packed missions, to immersive online play. The story is that of any ordinart 
 Ghost recon game, a wants to take over the world or something. But it all includes the president 
 and various other modern day targets for terroists. You may be shocked when you first start plaing 
 as to how real it moves, the movement is spot on. But this game is tough, especially if you have 
 never played a ghost recon game before. Its on e of thoseget shot once and die" kinda games, 
 and if you get hit and your still alive, count yourself lucky. Throughout most of the single player 
 game you control 3 teammates, which for the most part are pretty intelligent. Whats clever is the 
 new cross-com system you may have hear about. This gives you access to a small part of you screen 
 showing a camera of your one of your teammemembers. So when they are entering unknown territory, 
 and you want to keep your head down, you can see whats going on from there point of view, this 
 gives you a samrt tactical advantage. Not only do you see and control you teammates from this but 
 throughout you are given an array of veacles such as tanks, helecopters and an intersting cypher 
 which can float over head and spot (mark) enemys on your cross-com, so before you even see them 
 they have bee iconed into your visor if you get me. The multiplayer is definatley something to 
 come back to time after time. Especially if you have certain friends who go on with you, the experience 
 is some of the best since halo 2, and i'm not just saying that. The only factor gamers may have 
 to adjust to is that the multiplayer engine is far more simaler to that of ghost recon 2, but the 
 graphics has undergone a noticable improvment.
  GRAPHICS: 
  Amazing, not hardly a glitch to be seen you'll stare, mouth wide open in amazment, this truly uses 
 the power so far uncovered from the xbox 360. 
  GAMEPLAY:
  Briliant to say the least, the difficulty can get a little hard sometimes, but its straightend 
 out by the use of the cross-com and things like that. 
  SOUND: 
  You can hear bullets whizzing past your head as you spint for cover. The music is certianly cool 
 as well, you feel a little tingle on the back of your neck as the music kicks in just as your about 
 to do something important. 
  VALUE: The single player isn't the longest game you've ever played, but is filled with tons of 
 great moments, plus you may want to go back like me and do it again on hard, just for a bit of 
 gamerscore. The mutliplayer certainly shines in this gem 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j2johnson
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 26, 2006 11:45 pm PT
Review:  Since Splinter Cell 4 wasnt available yet, I bought Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter the same time 
 I bought my Xbox 360.
  
  Now, I'm a huge fan of the Tom Clancy Splinter Cell series (1, 2, & 3... and 4, I'm sure) so I 
 was expecting a whole lot more story than what GRAW offers. Theres lots of gunplay though... whether 
 you want it or not. No alternative routes, no TRUE tactical choices... other than Assault or Somewhat 
 Reserved Assault. 
  
  Two things I LOVE about Splinter Cell:
  1. Having a TOTAL tactical choice throughout all missions.
  2. Story, Story, Story!!!
  
  
 Call me crazy, but I really enjoy having the choice to become a ghost, sneak past all the guards, 
 accomplish the mission, and sneak out without anyone knowing I was ever there. I also enjoy the 
 expertly crafted storylines that earn their association with Tom Clancy.
  
  Ghost Recon, on the other hand, would have us believe that all we need is a magical heads-up display 
 which identifies all the "bad guys" for us with magical red boxes (very annoying) . And what's the 
 only way you can possibly deal with these "bad guys"? Well, of course, you shoot them all dead. 
 Every last one of them! Yeah, what fun.
  
  That "kill 'em all" approach sort of works for the games like Call of Duty, "Return to Castle 
 Wolfenstein" and "Doom", but even they get pretty boring after a while. 
  
  For my money, I prefer having the choice to decide whether to go in guns-a-blazing or totally stealth 
 or somewhere in between.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaTt345
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 26, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  The Tom Clancy series has come along way and it just gets better and better. This is a really fun 
 game, the graphics are the best I've ever seen and the sound is dead on. It's a very technical 
 game and very realistic. You can't just run around shooting everything you see, you have to take 
 your time and plan out what your next move is going to be. My only complaints are sometimes the 
 levels can get a bit lenghy and the A. I can really piss you of. For instans you could be in a heated 
 battle and your team will be standing in the middle of no where just taking fire. Other then Call 
 of Duty 2 GRAW has the best online play. This is a very fun game and will be for many years to 
 come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeingo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 26, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  The game has a very solid multiplayer progressing through the time of about two days or so. the 
 graphics are amazing in this game and it has great gameplay. there is a glitch here and there and 
 can get very tedious at times with having to stay alive the whole level with only a few save points. 
 but those are the only problems the rest of the game is absolutly amazing. I love this game. the 
 split screen is a slight let down in the offline department but other wise a very solid multiplayer. 
 online i have not met anyone being cheap. a major plus is that the weapons are all very well balanced 
 so its hard to be cheap if you want to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fantasticlink
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 26, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  When i first played the game, i thought it would be amazing because a lot of people told me it 
 was amazing. But when i did start playing, it was so tactical that it was boring. If i wanted to 
 play such a tactical game i would do it in real life like paint balling. It takes you about only 
 maximum 3 hits to die. And thats if your lucky. Oh, and did i tell you about the glitches. I shot 
 tons of guys in this game with a sniper, and half of my bullets go through them. I once shot this 
 guy 5 times in the face and he was still standing up like nothing happened. I'm telling you right 
 know that if you do not like tactical games or even if you do like tactical games, do not get this 
 game. Really boring. Like i said before, people like this game because of the graphics. If you 
 like games just because the graphics look good, then be my guest and buy it. You might regret it. 
 While your playing that crappy game, i will be playing tactical games that are worth playing like 
 Metal Gear Solid, or Splinter Cell 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GRNDLarsny
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 26, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Pros- The online experiance is killer, IF you can find a good group to play with. There is a big 
 user base, so finding a games is not a problem. The gameplay is awsome and once you get it down, 
 its hard to put away. 
  
  Cons- There is something of a map shortage. Teams absolutely suck, players will camp out each indiviual 
 spawn site so that the other team doesnt stand a chance. Players who host matches will kick you 
 if your winning and it reduces your rank. 
  
  Overall- The game has its ups and downs, and with there being something of a shortage of good 360 
 games, there is not much in the way of altenatives. Quake 4's online is better, but it is harder 
 to find games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 07pimp
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 26, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  This is jest an awsome. I jest cant get enough of it. I have been a fan of the ghost recon/tom 
 clancy universe. I haven't stopped playing this game on xbox live sense the day I got it (easter 
 2006) . I have spent alot of time on learning every single trick in this game and all of the maps. 
 There are VERY, VERY good maps. Honestly I didn't think this game was gonna be this good, and I 
 like these games. There are plenty of guns to pick from. Maps are designed goos and you can tell 
 they spent time on making them. I jest love it.
  
  I STRAIGHT OUT LOVE IT!!!!
  
  I have been a game reviewer for years for a website (use to get paid $$) , and I haven't seen a 
 game like this for years. Website went under though.
  
  This is jest an out standing game on the 360 even better with Xbox Live!
  
  OK!! Here it is 
 the thing you all have been waiting for the Chapter 2 Review!
  Ok, ok I paid the 15 dollors to download it so I could play thats how much I love this game. I 
 was kind of angery that it cost money cause most other games don't cost a penny to update, in the 
 end it was worth it. So far I have spent atleast 48 hours on the new maps. The are some pretty 
 awsome guns out their to. With the new game mode of Team Battle were you play dominatoin with AI. 
 I will be adding more to this review when I am down with the missions.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtomicMuffin
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon AW is a great addition to the Ghost Recon series although the single player and multiplayer 
 still leaves a lot to be desired. The campaign is immersive, the voice acting is above average 
 and the gameplay is what you would expect of any Tom Clancy game... Superb.
  Although the gameplay is great once you beat the game the game leaves much to be desired. You'll 
 feel as if the game went by to fast. Multiplayer helps this problem, but still the game is repetitive 
 and with only so many maps to play on the online will quickly follow the dull single player. While 
 it is a fast paced action game you'll want to play with your friends its just not a highly value 
 lasting title. The Graphics are stunning on an HDTV. If you only have a regular tv the game looks 
 nice but after playing it on HD the graphics on the normal tv looked like rubbish in comparison. 
 Although this game looks and plays great it leaves more to be desired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Commandofreak92
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 24, 2006 11:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely amazing. The Single Player's graphics are the best non sports game graphics 
 out so far. The campaign has a great story (For a GR game) and the controls work to perfection. 
 The symphony sound is one of the best game scores I have heard and the in Helo soundtracks are 
 a little reminiscint of EA Trax but fit in well. I have some minor issues with the squad but really 
 its less than what the reviews claim. Just be careful on the 4th mission and you should be alright. 
 Once you beat this game you still arent done. You really havent played GRAW until you try the hard 
 mode. But after that theres more. The Multiplayer has its own small but awesome campaign and a 
 wealth of options. Its enough to be its own game. While the graphics are not as amazing as it is 
 by another company the MP still is a 369 game and the customization is awesome. Ubisoft has really 
 hit the Next Gen nail with GRAW as it offers amazing graphics, sweet XBL all packaged under a smooth 
 experience. GRAW is almost glitch free. Theres a few minor stuff where the guns will point up in 
 prone. On the 4th mission the squad is prone to walk into this one gate booth and get stuck so 
 be careful there. Other than that the game is smooth and definitely in no desperate need for a 
 patch unlike some other game *cough* Oblivion *cough*. The Co op campaign just screams marketplace 
 and more maps and weapons are sure to be on the way. You really cant go wrong purchasing this game 
 without an XBL connection. If you have XBL and are reading this review without the game you have 
 two options 1) Shoot yourself 2 (Run to the nearest game outlet and buy GRAW) . Look me up on Live 
 Gamertag FootlessJoe always up for a game. Happy GRAWing everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venator117
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 24, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  This is the first 360 game I purchased outright as oppose to simply renting, and I wasn't dissapointed. 
 The graphics are outstanding, and so is the game's presentation. The game itself is fun, though 
 I am critcal of the fact that some of the missions are entirely dependent on Captain Mitchell who 
 single-handedly (Rambo style) gets in firefights with about a hundred people on some stages -- yeah 
 right! But I guess that's typical in video games. That aside, this game is rich with detail, from 
 the vehicles and equipment to the firearms, and worth your investment if your a fan of the series, 
 or just into the military action genre. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thechosenone827
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 23, 2006 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter is a very good game for the Xbox 360. The visuals 
 in this game are absolutely stunning and the sound is very well done. The game play is a little 
 complex at first but after the training mission and a little while playing they become easier and 
 work very well. Another thing I like is that you can choose to play in first person mode or third 
 person mode, I personally went with the third person mode because I really don't like the way first 
 person mode looks on this game. I admit the story line in the game is not that great, but the action 
 in the game is very intense that you will get hooked on playing this game to the end, but I will 
 warn you by saying that the single player campaign is short like many other Xbox 360 games. This 
 game is really fun on local multiplayer and on Xbox live with several types of game modes to play. 
 This game is filled with achievements and you can unlock most of them by playing the game on the 
 normal and hard difficulty levels. There are others that must be done in multiplayer and some that 
 you have to become the solo and team leader on the leader boards which is something that I won't 
 even attempt to try. If you like stunning visuals, intense action, and great multiplayer I definitely 
 recommend buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G_Unit
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 23, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advance Warfighter is the best game of the Tom Clancy's series. The storyline of the 
 game is very impressive and very indepth. Right away when you start you will be immersed and over 
 whelmed with all the features that the game has to offer. The graphic in Ghost Recon Advance Warfighter 
 are jaw dropping, i havent seen so much detail, and effort in a game. Just walking down a street 
 in mexico city in the middle of a mission will make you daze off and admire the detail that Ubisoft 
 has put into Ghost Recon Advance Warfighter. he sound in this game takes the game to a whole new 
 level. Ubisoft has done a wonderful job in the sound department. If you have a well setup speaker 
 system then this game takes full advantage of it. The gameplay cannot be described in words, its 
 just amazing how much features and things to do in this game. The AI in the game are very well 
 done, don't listen to what some reviews have to say about the AI they are just BS you. This game 
 is um believable and while playing it you will definitely know right away that the next Generation 
 has begun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan0187
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 12, 2006 4:09 am PT
Review:  Great, truly a next-gen game that delivers in all areas. Graphics are amazing enough to make you 
 just stare and go "Wow." The physics seem to react faster than in previous generations. Cross-com 
 and the new added features with your squad and being able to control more on the battlefield are 
 a great addition to the series. Gun sounds and explosions are ultra-realistic in look and feel. 
 The storyline seemed more invloving this time around in that they make you listen to certain things 
 while integrating them into play (between levels in the helicopter) , and all the times where cross-com 
 has video feed that is hard to ignore while playing. This differs in a good way from previous GR 
 games because unlike old ones where you could just skip through and go right into playing not caring 
 about the story, this one forces you to know and care about the story, but makes it alot more fun. 
 The live play with leaderboards and achievements and a rank system is a plus as well. When you 
 stop and think about how much time and effort they spent developing and working on this game (especially 
 the 360 version) , you really begin to thank yourself for actually spending time to play it. What 
 an amazing installment in the Ghost Recon series. Just one question. What happened to all the recon?!? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXor512
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 23, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  As with all Tom Clancy games, the name of the game is tactical. This is a tactical, squad-based 
 3rd person action game set in Mexico in the year 2013. You have futuristic weapons and gear at 
 your disposal, but honestly they dont help that much. The main feature in GRAW is the cross-com, 
 which is a camera at the top left of your screen that shows what your teammates see. This is pretty 
 useless in the single player story, because your dumb teammates mimic your every move so youre 
 basically seeing your point-of-view only a few feet back. Another feature of the cross-com is on 
 the top right of the screen when people tell you your next objective. There are absolutely no videos 
 in the entire game, the only thing you get that moves the story along is a little screen on the 
 top right telling you whats going on. 
  
  Although the cross-com is useless in single player, it really comes in handy on multiplayer. If 
 your running and one of your teammates is about 30 feet in front of you and gets shot down you 
 will see it on the cross-com and know that theres an enemy ahead. The online contains a lot of 
 sniping and stealth, but there is a good balance of just regular shooting as well. The controls 
 in the game are good but your movement is kind of weird when you are walking. The game kind of 
 feels like you are skating on ice. When you are moving forward and stop you slide a little and 
 you dont get the sense you are walking, it just feels like you are sliding everywhere.
  
  There isnt a whole lot of variety in the guns. You get a few guns in the game, but most of them 
 are pretty much the same. You basically get a handgun and a machine gun with sniping capabilities.
 
  
  The single player game isnt the best in the world. All of the missions are different but feel 
 pretty much the same. Go from point A, shoot some people along the way, get to point B, shoot a 
 lot of people, get a new objective and continue over and over again. 
  
  The best part of Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is the graphics. The graphics are incredible and 
 when you are flying in helicopters your really get a sense of this when you are high up and can 
 see the whole city. When on foot you can also see really far away which comes in handy when there 
 are enemies approaching. 
  
  Although Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a graphically impressive game, it doesnt make up for 
 the fact that the story is basic, the single player is repetitive and the gameplay is boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icebuster
Rating: 4.8
Date: Apr 23, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  I was very very disappointed when i got this game, the controls are very poor, very very complex 
 and boring. Very very long too. I was very very very disappointed when i got this game.
  
  The story is merely ok... just mediocre. i would rather play just about any other game then this 
 one.
  
  As some people say with sequels-the next one is never as good as the original. Some times they 
 are right, and sometimes they are wrong. With the original Ghost Recon, it was AMAZING. The 2nd 
 Ghost Recon was pretty good. But this time, it just doesnt cut it. Sorry Ubisoft but this time 
 they were right.
  
  Just, and simply, HORRIBLE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: streetsweeper01
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 23, 2006 8:15 am PT
Review:  this game is the best game of the year. it was perfectly layed out making it really fun to play. 
 dont u just love sniping the snipers? well it made me have an orgasm =P.. jks... this game was 
 actually the best shooting game i have ever played with extraordinary graphics which enhanced my 
 liking for the game. this game made me an XBOX 360 lover altough i still love my PS2.. this game 
 converted my religion..
  
  GAMEPLAY: AMAZING.. i was astonished as the levels went on becuase it got better and better after 
 each level. everytime i turned the system off i regret it. and then 1 day i beat it n i felt a 
 sudden rush of joy.. amazing game just amazing.. MULTIPLAYER.. THAT WAS THE MOST AMAZING EXPERIENCE 
 EVER.. I COUDNT EVEN GET UP OUT OF MA SEAT TO TAKE A PISS IT WAS THAT GOOD. 10
  
  GRAPHICS: again the best graphics i have ever seen. made me piss ma pants because it was soo nice 
 and nearly real. 10
  
  SOUND: sound was amazing too but it could have been better. i thought in some missions the sound 
 and music was dull and it sort of slowd me down because it didnt provide me with the adrenelin 
 that i needed. 9
  
  VALUE: definatly worth it. i personally would have payed over a 100 dollars for this game because 
 its just amazing. it was worth the wait and it was obviously worth playin because.. it was amazing..
 
  
  best shooting game i have ever played because of its exceptional use of features and weapons especially.. 
 i like gunss "ROAR".. just amazing.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InfamousMobbs
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 23, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  This game takes it to the max. I never played a game better than this. No other shooter can match 
 up to this game. BEST Tactical shooter ever. You can not comepare to another game like this. The 
 graphics the gameplay everything is great on this game. Even online is amazing! There is even a 
 multiplayer campaign which is really good also. Best game by 
 
  Missions are awsome everything is awsome every who played this game can say the same thing that 
 i just said. this game is totally worth it. Addicting, fun, crazy, worth buying, This game takes it 
 to the max. I never played a game better than this. No other shooter can match up to this game. 
 BEST! This game takes it to the max. I never played a game better than this. No other shooter can 
 match up to this game. BEST! This game takes it to the max. I never played a game better than this. 
 No other shooter can match up to this game. BEST! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtalmadge
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 1, 2006 8:21 pm PT
Review:  GRAW ( or ghost recon advanced warfighter) is a very well built game. As a tactical shooter its 
 awesome. Perfect set up. It improved greatly upon previous Ghost Recon games. The campaign is intense 
 and very breath taking. Difficult, yes, worth it, yes again. GRAW for the xbox 360 is truly magnificiant. 
 The graphics are excellent (for a tactical where graphics dont make the game... but they help alot!) 
 the sound is realistic, very realistic. The gameplay... offline campaign..... trying, you must 
 think tactically, but you really get into the role of main characterCaptain Mitchell". Multiplayer.... 
 Intense, hardcore, fun. Ranking system that works well, ranks that make you seem important. A ladder 
 system that really makes you compete against the other players to be #1 in the world.... or atleast 
 #1 team player.... or #1 solo player.... or #1 Sniper/grenadier/ Automatic rifleman/ rifleman..... 
 yeah. Lots of leaderboards for lots of different players. Also, excellent game types. Not too little 
 viarity where your stuck doing something you dont like... and at the same time not too much variety 
 so that you dont know where to start... or what to stick with... or anything. Also, Lots of real 
 life weapons, not made up junk. The weapons are very realistic, like the AK-47. Can't have a shooter 
 without that one! Many different types of weapons for the many types of classes. You can be a marksman 
 (Sniper) A grenadier (Blow people up kind-of guy) an Automatic rifleman ( get in close and personal 
 and shoot long 100 ammo clips and nail your opponet like 50 tiimes just to make sure hes dead!) 
 and rifleman (the medium range, all purpose soldier whos really cool... and really deadly!) Also, 
 you can customize your character for online play... and offline multiplayer ! Then, theres the multiplayer 
 maps. They are detailed, magnificiant battle fields. Awesome. And theres lots of them! There-in 
 lies the Content downloads that appear from time to time. You are able to download new maps, new 
 weapons, new co-op campaign missions. Yes there is a multiplayer co-operative campaign. For people 
 who like to fight the fight... together! So yeah, this Ghost recon beats all the rest! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goughy2k4
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 23, 2006 2:15 am PT
Review:  That's it, crouch in the grassno one can see me here. Now, carefully, carefully, poke your head 
 u
  
  Phut! Phut! *crumple*
  
  GAME OVER. 
  
  Dammit! 
  
  The above illustrates what has happened each and every time I've tried to play a Ghost Recon title 
 in the past - a couple of minutes of complete confusion, followed by a very fast death. One of 
 the more realistic war gaming series, it has tended to downplay drama and spectacle in favour 
 of subtlety and at least a sheen of accuracy. If Black is the Burnout of shooters, then Ghost Recon 
 is Gran Turismo. 
  
  Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter, or GR: AW, marks a bit of a change for the series, keeping its 
 basic values intact, but streamlining the control system for improved accessibility and bringing 
 that missing drama screaming into your consciousness.
  
  A squad-based shooter, GR: AW gives you control over up to four soldiers, plus tanks, choppers, 
 robotic recon units and more, and throws you into the middle of political strife in Central America, 
 with only the best weaponry that the US military of 2013 can spare for company. Which is handy.
 
  
  The complexity has been toned down significantly from earlier instalments while not taking a huge 
 amount away from the depth of the action. Think the strategy-lite blaster stylings of Star Wars: 
 Republic Commando or Full Spectrum Warrior for an idea.
  
  For example - you have a squad of three at your command but can't split it, the vehicles you control 
 can only operate within predefined parameters, and so on. But this is about as much as you can 
 cope with in GR: AW anyway - since once the shooting begins all you really have time to do is panic 
 and hide, at least until you can formulate a better plan involving shooting people with grenade 
 launchers.
  
  Indeed, you'll need to seek cover often, and thankfully the context-sensitive cover mechanic is 
 brilliantly executed. Moving your character up to any surface automatically causes him to press 
 himself against it, from where you can peek around the corner and fight back. 
  
  When a firefight does break out the usual slow pace of the game vanishes and is replaced with an 
 uncommon level of intensity. As bullets bludgeon your surroundings and smoke fills the air you 
 can almost revel in it - and when the petrol tank of a nearby car is sparked for the first time 
 the resulting screen-shaking explosion will cause you to catch your breath. It's exhilarating stuff.
 
  
  This atmosphere is the result of some truly stellar work on the graphics and audio - GR: AW has 
 been the game a lot of Xbox 360 owners were hoping would give them a better glimpse of the capabilities 
 of their new console and boy, were they right. The sprawling metropolis into which the Ghosts are 
 dumped looks both stunning and oppressive in its realism, bought to life by spectacular cutting-edge 
 lighting techniques. Visually, everything has been taken up several notches from any Xbox 360 title 
 to date - and the result is breathtaking. The only possible criticism that could be levelled is 
 that when there's a lot going on, the screen can become extremely busy, especially taking into 
 account the video display in one corner and your HUD's overlaid tactical displays. 
  
  The sound effects and musical score are of a similar fidelity - especially the banshee-wail of 
 the Blackhawk helicopter-mounted Vulcan cannon. There's just something about massive guns that 
 spin around, for some reason. Also of note is the superb music that fades in during dramatic firefights, 
 evoking scenes from numerous war films.
  
  The solid Live offering provides great scope for the future as well as a unique and thoroughly 
 enjoyable co-op mode. 
  
  GR: AW rarely falls down, and when it does it's usually the same problem - almost random seeming 
 difficulty spikes that can make progress through the game stilted and frustrating (though if the 
 challenge is what you're after, then the hard mode offers it in spades) . The game also features 
 a night vision mode which is simply a joke - it's not even vaguely useful during play. Yes, it 
 is handy that the enemies are picked out in bright green, but not at the expense of seeingyou 
 knoweverything else.
  
  For Ubisoft, it's a slight step backwards in terms of its polish when compared to the usual standard 
 of release i've been happy to sing the praises of recently. The sheer daftness of some of the errors 
 (I mean, Ubi practically invented night vision didn't it?) is only so frustrating because this 
 is so close to greatness you can feel its breath on the back of your neck. 
  
  Indeed, with another three months in development Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter would have been 
 a truly exceptional title.
  
  Yet this does not detract from what GR: AW is in its final form, and that is the most graphically 
 advanced game in the world today, and the strongest release yet in what has been a very highly-regarded 
 series.
  
  Verdict 
  + A real showcase game for your new Xbox 360. - Night vision - an early April fool Ubi? 
  + The 
 intensity and atmosphere can be staggering. - Uncompromisingly bleak in its difficulty on occasion. 
 
  + Vulcan cannons rule! - The occasional bug can detract from enjoyment. 
  
  - Night vision - an early April fool Ubi? 
  - Uncompromisingly bleak in its difficulty on occasion. 
 
  - The occasional bug can detract from enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChiefSUB0
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 15, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  The graphics alone in Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter are perhaps the greatest ever rendered in 
 a video game to date. With the immersive lighting and screaming bullets flying through the air, 
 Advanced Warfighter practically drops you from a Blackhawk helicopter into the heart of war. The 
 explosions are simply as crisp as can be and you can practically feel the shrapnel grazing your 
 armor. There is a difinitive story line that is well developed. The command tactics are suprisingly 
 easy to get used to for those not familiar to the series. Playing the game can become very intense 
 at times and make you want to go into the battlefield yourself. Multiplayer includes tons of weaponry 
 for anyone but there is still much to be desired in it. There is no definite ranking system except 
 for a number that appears beside your gametag online and raising it is tedious. There are no driveable 
 vehicles online for those of you in desire for those. The gametypes are also limited online to 
 Deathmatch, Territories, and CTF. Overall though the single-player game is well developed and the 
 multiplayer is good just to have a little bit of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barbierian205
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 22, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The one thing that has always been a strong point of the Ghost Recon series is the ultra 
 realistic, yet extremely fun shooting action. This time around the Ghosts are deployed in Mexico 
 City to stop a crazy rebel group from overthrowing the Mexican Government. The city setting provides 
 tense firefights in claustrophobic alleyways and rooftop to rooftop combat at its best. The same 
 core shooting gameplay is there, but some minor tweaks and updates have been made to make the experience 
 even better. First of all, the HUD now sports an always on camera display of you allies view of 
 the battlefield. You can toggle between your Ghost squad and friendly vehicles to get a better 
 view of the battlefield. Also, your allies are always marked by a Blue diamond and your enemies 
 by a red one. If you dont favor knowing enemy positions, you can turn this off, but it will make 
 the game significantly harder. Other new features include a drone that can scout ahead before you 
 advance and a sniper rifle that can shoot through thin walls. There are around 10 missions and 
 the game took me about 7.5 hours to complete on normal and 8.5 on hard. The enemy AI provides a 
 smart and tough opposition (unlike in GR2 where their main tactic was to run at you at 200 mph 
 while firing.) but your ghost squad fares much worse, they will randomly forget orders and get 
 stuck in walls. If nothing else, they provide a good distraction for the enemy to shoot at but 
 it does get tiresome babysitting them throughout the whole game. Thankfully there, are 3 or 4 solo 
 missions that alieve you of your dummy squad mates in favor of the scout drone. To sum it up, the 
 missions are (for the most part) fun, the firefights are tense, the cheapness is kept to a minimum, 
 and the story manages to be slightly more interesting than that of the other games in the series. 
 But, then again, you didnt buy this game for the story.
  
  Graphics: Simply put, GRAW looks amazing. All of the character models look immaculate and animate 
 with unprecedented fluidity. But the real star of the show is the jaw dropping lighting model and 
 the great looking environments you fight in. When you start the game in a helicopter and look down 
 over Mexico City, you will see a gorgeous, fully modeled, living, breathing metropolis that would 
 be downright impossible to create on current-gen consoles. Also, the buildings trees and roadways 
 look almost photorealistic. Glass breaks dynamically when shot and trees shudder and lose leaves 
 when an explosion goes off near them. Everything is fully modeled for shadows and you can see heat 
 waves rising off the scorching pavement. Also, an atmospheric haze effect is present during the 
 day and your vision nearly gives out when you look directly at the sun. Simply put, the attention 
 to detail is amazing. One of the best looking games EVER.
  
  Sound: Solid. Gun sounds are loud and piercing and explosions not only sound great but screw with 
 your HUD if you get too close. The music is great and for the most part fits right in with the 
 game. Also, the ambient sounds of the city are all present. (crying baby, police car siren, beeping 
 car horn, etc.) Not much else to say except that the voice acting is good as always. 
  
  Value: The campaign is about 16 hours long if you play through it on both difficulties. (It is 
 a completely different game on hard.) Also, the multiplayer is insanely deep with nearly 2 dozen 
 game types to tweak and customize to your liking. Just playing around for a while with the game 
 type editor could produce a whole new game that could add hours to the longevity of the game. The 
 possibilities are almost endless. Also, the achievements promote dedication which also adds life 
 to the game. All told, you will be playing this one for quite some time.
  
  Tilt: Not only is it the best in the series, this game sets the bar for all tactical shooters here 
 on forward. No tactical shooter to date has as much depth, visual prowess and attention to detail 
 as GRAW. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gjagiello
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 22, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  I bought my copy of GR: AW for regular Xbox a month ago, before I had a 360, and I was really disappointed. 
 Then I found a 360. 
  
  All the reviews made it clear the game was different and better than the old Xbox version, but 
 I was reluctant to drop yet another $60 on a game I had already. I took the risk anyway, and it 
 is well worth it.
  
  Some key differences:
  
  * Online Live play is much better on the 360 version. The lobby system works well, and load times 
 are no where near the painful experience I had with the old Xbox version.
  
  * The story and missions are entirely different. This is interesting, because the actually do recycle 
 some of the voice-over audio from the Xbox verion on the 360 version, and some of the settings 
 are a little familiar, but everything is completely different.
  
  * Online multiplayer maps are different and better. Some old favorites from earlier GR games are 
 here, and improved. Desert Gulch is here, but with more variety in altitude and scenery, and slightly 
 different routes for better gameplay.
  
  * The 360 version does't suffer from any weird frame rate issues like the Xbox version does. 
 
  
  So if you're a GR fan, bought GR: AW for Xbox, and were disappointed, put that out of your mind 
 and go buy the 360 version now. You'll be glad you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cartmanstein
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 21, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  My fear was that G. R. A. W. was just going to be a prettier version of the previous Ghost Recon games 
 with all that lame gameplay. I couldn't have been more wrong. This is not only the best tactical 
 shooter I've ever played, it is one of the most immersive and exciting shooters ever. The developers 
 did away with most of the flaws that plagued the first games, like bad visuals and terrible AI. 
 Instead there are jaw-dropping graphics, and wide open mission levels filled with deadly adaptive 
 enemies. I truly feel like I'm part of the game's war-torn Mexico City; the danger feels real, making 
 for an experience that is thrilling, nerve-wracking, and sometimes frightening. S*IT!!! The realism 
 created by the visuals is furthered by the tight gameplay. The open desighn of the areas allow 
 you to plot your own routes, letting you devise your own strategies through the missions. issuing 
 commands to your fellow comrades is much easier because of the point-and-click control mechanics. 
 The huge levels combined with the unbelievable gameplay will make you play through the game several 
 times. Of course, multiplayer is a huge component in this game, and G. R. A. W. doesn't disappoint. 
 A wide variety of game modes are available, and each mode is as polished and shiny as the campaign. 
 The co-op was my favorite part, because it lets 4 of my friends play at the same time, so they 
 can shut up about me never letting them play. Xbox Live is the best part. Words cannot explain 
 it. I recommend this game to any hardcore shooter fan because this game KICKS @$$! It is obviously 
 one of the best titles in the 360 library. I meant Xbox 360 when I said 360, for those of you out 
 there that are mentally disturbed and or retarded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TripleO7
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 20, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. It finally offers the great visuals the 360 is capable of. The sound is impossible 
 to describe. It sounded like I was in the battlefield. The sound was so good in fact that I turned 
 on the surround sound while playing. And it was AMAZING! The gameplay is extremely solid and the 
 action is intense. The single player is great and it blends the story with intense action. It was 
 a little on the short side but it was easily made up by the multiplayer. Although the multiplayer 
 isnt as good as games like Halo 2 or Battlefield 2 it is still incredible. This is what Ive been 
 waiting for since I got a 360. If you have a 360 and don't have this game.... WHY NOT??? GRAW makes 
 up for the embarassment of Ghost Recon 2. That is how good it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeyBoy505
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 19, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Alright lets get right down to business, this game is a most incredible squad based shooter. 
 It really captures what it is like to be out in the field of war. You play as Capt. Scott Mitchell 
 of ghost team, throughout the game you will experience true war, ever changing surroundings, mission 
 mods, and the A. I., oh, the A. I., this game is soooooo hard even on recruit mode. Well I guess 
 having a game that hard really helps capture the realism factor. I mean it isnt like you are a 
 super soldier with 3 times as much heath as your enemys, so that is a good and bad thing. Lets 
 talk visuals for a minute, wow the visuals are awsome, well that seemed a lot shorter than a minute. anyway, 
 over all we are looking at a moderately good tactical shooter with its fair share of up and down 
 over all though it is a solid title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VaNdAmAgEr
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 19, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  The new Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter in my eyes is one of the best crafted games 
 out on the xbox 360 console. The first time i played it i was extremely impressed both with the 
 intricate gameplay ranging from moving your men and artillery allies on the playing screen to using 
 the in depth tactical map to maneouvre your men into position ready to deal the lethal blow. 
 
  
  There isnt alot really to say about this game's down points because it is pretty flawless other 
 than perhaps the campaign levels arent very challenging as such in terms of the depth but they 
 are fun what so ever. 
  
  Multiplayer is where i think this games stands out. In my opinion this game ranks close to the 
 same gaming experience as was felt playing halo 2 on xbox live, and boy that was pretty amazing. 
 The detail of the levels and the size of the maps is really astonishing. What is also great is 
 the amount of guns and extras such as side arms and grenades you get to choose from. Whether it 
 be from a good bolt action sniper rifle, to the fully auto machine gun capable of taking out a 
 small country, this name fails to fall. 
  
  All in all this game is astounding and well worth playing so i suggest this is the first game you 
 buy because not only does it provide the user with outstanding gameplay and graphics, it really 
 shows how good a standard the xbox 360 console really can perform to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeLdAmAsTa19
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 19, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  I got this game when it first came out, this has been the only game out of only 5 games I have 
 on the 360 that is def nex gen, that said i wanna talk about the graphic first. The graphics are 
 not the greatest ever, but there the best for the 360 to date. There are def some downs but nothing 
 major, like for instance you cant break windows but you can do some cool damage to cars, like blow 
 them up and some of the trees wich I have noticed on 360 are stillhaving hard time making them 
 look realistic, they all look very current gen no big deal thats pretty much the only bads.... 
 The goods are the charecter modles are good, They look life like . The guns look great and the 
 enviorments defare the shining star for the 360 graphical power, they look excellent. Now on to 
 the gameplay. Its very tight controllers comapred to the current GRAWS you obviousley use both your 
 joystiqs, but youalso have to use your d-pad alot, the bad thing about that is some time you have 
 to press the thing on the d-pad to do dif commands to your squad and the AI seems like it gets 
 very confused. this has been very annoying part for me because they allways do something else... 
 but like the graphics its nothing horrible. You alost have a new thing called your HUD wich is 
 very useful indeed. You can do thing like pressing up on you d-pad where ever on your map indicates 
 you to go and command your squad to go right on that location, you also can press up again to have 
 your guys go in aggressivley. The bad about that is your squad some time gets very confused they 
 will do dif things like stay inthe same spt when you command them to go somewhere on your map or 
 go all over the place. Xbox live is great alot of dif things to choose from, the only bad wich 
 in my opionion the worst thing about this game is you have to wait for how ever long the game is 
 in the lobby you joined to join a match. its very dissapointing part because Live has no problems 
 except that one. So if your looking for a game with great graphics and replay value this is it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OoMandaloreoO
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 18, 2006 11:56 pm PT
Review:  'G. R. A. W truly harnesses the full potential of the xbox 360, with stunning visuals and immersive 
 gameplay.'
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is exiting and fresh, always keeping you in wide open enironments. The HUD is 
 godly and the controls are realistic. Also the combat is exhilarating and adenerline fueled. You 
 gotta love it.
  
  Graphics: This game almost harnesses the full potential of the xbox 360 and relinquishes nothing 
 to the jaggies. The character models are smooth and life-like and the gun models are as just inspiring. 
 The game true hallmark though is its Explosion and vast environments. truly awesome!
  
  Sound: The voice acting is what you would expect from a army/war game, harsh and rugged. "im a 
 soldier" as a wise man once said. The explosion effects are the games sound hallmark with very, 
 very realistic 'bomb' noises and the gun effects are also very good.
  
  Value: I have yet to play this game on xbl but i can see how good it will be. the campign takes 
 a while to complete (becasue its so hard) and after that you have to complete it on hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videokidandrew
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 18, 2006 10:50 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about G. R. A. W.? If I were to sum it up in one word it would have to be a resounding 
 WOW. Never have I felt like I was in a game as much as G. R. A. W. From the minute you put the disc 
 in the drive it will suck you in for hours on end. I really was getting worried about when we would 
 see a true next-gen game, and for all of you who say it doesnt exist I cant give you a bigger 
 wake up call than G. R. A. W. If like me you have been a loyal fan since the first game on the Xbox 
 you will immediately see a vast difference in game play. Even though one could argue that the A. I. 
 isnt a huge improvement it is integrated so much better they respond faster and for the most part 
 work where you need them. As outstanding as the single player game is it doesnt even compete with 
 online play. While the co-op only lasts 4 missions they all play well and support up to 16 players 
 simultaneously without any kind of interruption (lag) . These 4 missions are a nice feature for 
 less competitive players. For you hardcore players out there G. R. A. W. will feed your urge for Pwning 
 N00Bz for months to come. There are so many ways to customize your online experience its unreal. 
 To come to a conclusion I simply cannot recommend this game enough no matter if you like the genre 
 or not. G. R. A. W. is one of the greatest games ever and I hope you will at the very least give the 
 game a rental.
  9.9/10
  videokidandrew
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: biosc1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 18, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Single Player 
  Graphics: 
  
  Not a lot can be added to what has already been said in other reviews about the graphics in this 
 game. The graphics are superb and do a tremendous job at immersing you in "Mexico City". When you 
 first start playing you will be surprised at how well detailed your character and other characters 
 are. You'll never tire of watching your character switch weapons or reload. Once you start looking 
 beyond the character models you'll start to see how well detailed the city is. From the smoke to 
 the birds, to the choppers flying in the air, you'll be pleasantly surprised at how immersive the 
 game becomes. The draw distance is impressive, which makes sniping a fun event. Helicopters, tanks, 
 APC's, and supply trucks all look great as well.
  
  To be fair, I shall have to point out some issues with the graphics. Some of the most common graphical 
 flaws are tearing and pop-ups. Though, by common, I don't mean to say that it happens often, but 
 when it happens, you'll notice it. You really don't stand around long enough to notice these things 
 and they do not detract from the gameplay at all. Another issue occurs mainly with the shadows. 
 You'll notice it mainly when you are in a chopper or APC (because all you'll be doing is looking 
 around) . Facial shadows and interior shadows have a tendency to "move around" erratically. Again, 
 not an issue, just thought I'd say something about it. Playing through the whole campaign, I only 
 ran into one major graphical error. When protecting the president at the embassy at the end of 
 the second chapter, the graphics actually disappeared and only the character models were present. 
 This seemed to have something to do with how intense the firefight was because, once I killed off 
 some bad guys, the issue went away. Not game stopping, but annoying.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Initially, I only played coop with a friend, so, when I started the single player, I noticed quite 
 a difference in control. For one, in single player, you will move slower. There is definitely a 
 more deliberate pacing to the single player game which is a good thing. Control wise, the button 
 layout is the usual fare with the notable exception being the squad control with the d-pad. The 
 only difficulty that you might encounter with squad control is when you have more than one squad/unit 
 to control. Sometimes, in the heat of battle, you can spend more time controlling a tank and your 
 squad than keeping an eye on people shooting at you.
  
  As for the rest of the gameplay, it is fairly intuitive. The feel of each gun and how they shoot 
 feels good. Grenade throwing is nice, with a strength meter determining how far you throw. There 
 is also a nice wall hug/crouch feature that feels great, though, initially, can be a bit confusing 
 when you get "stuck" to a wall. By the end of this game, you'll have perfected all the moves at 
 your disposal.
  
  Sound:
  
  One word: Perfect. From the music that the helicopter plays whenever you get a ride to the bullets 
 just missing your head, every sound is superb. The beginning of the game sets the stage. The game 
 begins with you sitting in a helicopter overlooking Mexico sitting. The sound of the helicopter 
 combined with "All Along the Watchtower" by Everlast remind you of Robert Duvall in Apocalypse 
 Now. I'll admit, that 5.1 surround sound is almost a definite must in this game. The sound programmers 
 really worked hard to incorporate a truly surround sound experience into this game.
  
  Multi-Player 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Graphics in the single player game are not as good as the 
 single player game, but they are still superb. Draw distance is great and there are no frame rate 
 problems. Split-screen coop can only be played in first person view unlike XBox Live multiplayer 
 where you have a choice between both view points. Overall, it's hard to explain, but the graphical 
 bells and whistles seem lesser than in the single player. This is fine because, I believe, the 
 frame rate would have suffered in 16 player matches if the graphics were as great as the single 
 player game.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The pace of multiplayer is definitely quicker than single player. The pacing feels good though. 
 For multiplayer, it's nice to be able to get into the action quickly. You can still be deliberate 
 and belly crawl through the jungle if you wish. 
  
  Another big difference is in the controls. No longer can you hug walls or peek over low cover. 
 This feature was probably not implemented with the idea that it would make deathmatch style matches 
 harder. Other than not being able to hug cover, there is a lean mechanism that just doesn't feel 
 very good. To lean, you press the left bumper and then you can lean left or right. The range of 
 the lean is not very far, so you'll rarely find yourself using this feature. Also, the lean button 
 acts as a switch. You press it to lean and then press it again to get out of the lean action.
 
  
  Sound:
  
  Not much to add here to differentiate from the single player experience. No real difference. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 18, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  When the Xbox 360 was announced last year, one of the most highly anticipated, and best looking 
 titles shown was Ghost Recon. After missing the launch, the 360 now has its first tactical shooter, 
 and its easily one of the best games for the system.
  
  The story centers on a meeting of the US, Mexican, and Canadian Presidents in Mexico City. During 
 the summit, Mexican rebels attack the conference. Its then up to you to rescue the President by 
 commanding a four-man squad of the US Armys most elite soldiers: the Ghosts.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Ghost Recon has come a long way since its days on the PC. GRAW is the most realistic 
 military shooter I have ever played. The setting is so realistic that I often found myself ducking 
 in real life to avoid bullets. You can really get a feel for how intense modern infantry combat 
 really is.
  
  The controls work very well, and allow you do to a wide variety of moves with your character. My 
 only complaint is that your team members arent the brightest soldiers. You can only issue basic 
 commands to them as a group, and you cant give individual orders for flanking maneuvers. This 
 means that youll be doing most of the legwork. But for the most part they are effective at finding 
 cover, and distracting the enemy enough for you to flank them.
  
  Since this is a tactical shooter, its not very accessible. Theres a lot of trial-and-error progress 
 through GRAW, and that will mean some controller breaking if youre easily frustrated. The tutorial 
 is also very basic, and really only gives you the run down on the controls. More advanced techniques 
 will need to be discovered by yourself.
  
  GRAPHICS
  Jaw-dropping visuals abound in GRAW. From the moment you start up the first mission, youre bombarded 
 with stunning visuals that really make you feel like youre in a war zone. GRAW has outstanding 
 reflections, texture resolution, particle effects, and lighting. Everything about this game screams 
 next-generation. The only downside to the graphics is that theyre so good its almost required 
 that you have an HDTV setup to get the most out of it.
  
  SOUND
  The music is also top-notch stuff. All the sound effects are very realistic, and make you feel 
 like youre on the front lines. If you have a good bass system you can actually feel the thump 
 of the explosions, and feel the danger of bullets flying past you. The music also fits very well 
 with a lot of thumping beats, and some rock music when flying in helicopters. The voice acting 
 is very well done, and all the voices have that certain level of stress that youd expect them 
 to have in a combat zone.
  
  VALUE
  The single player campaign is about 10 to 15 hours long. Which is standard for the genre. But its 
 only worth playing through once. Maybe twice on hard if youre a sucker for pain. No joke, the 
 enemy AI is brutal on hard difficulty. The real lasting value in GRAW is the online multiplayer. 
 Its fun, but like most online games, its only as good as the people playing it. If you get people 
 who dont know how to play, it usually devolves into a zerg-fest that feels more like Halo than 
 Tom Clancy.
  
  My only real complaint about the game is that the single playing campaign is so short, and that 
 theres no unlockables. Which means that its replay value is low. But for the short time I had 
 with playing the game, it was a roller coaster of a ride. GRAW sets a new standard for military 
 shooters, and should be a welcome addition to any action fans library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mack10
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 12, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  My first impressions of the game were those of ambiguity, but a few hours in I realized this game 
 is quite amusing and has much more superiority than the contrary. It might be a bit early to review 
 this game (on my part anyway) , having not tried my hands at many things yet, but when I have a 
 good feeling about a game I know It'll produce.
  
  A few hours in I can say this: this game has great graphics. Great looking enviornments and great 
 looking character models make up for a great shiny coat on top of a great game; that being said, 
 I don't think the graphics are amazing in any way. I've read many reviews (including Gamespot's 
 I believe) that mentioned the graphics being the best on the Xbox 360, and they might've been when 
 the game was first released, but it seems other games I have surpass it in that department; very 
 good looking game nonetheless, and for its "flaws" in the graphics department (if you can even 
 call them that) , the game's great gameplay system makes up for it big time.
  
  G. R. A. W lets you play as a squad captain leading a squad (believe it or not) of soldiers to carry 
 out your missions as outlined before you. I haven't delved far into the story but I'm not going 
 to get into the details I know for the sake of keeping this review "spoiler" free. Anyway, the 
 gameplay requires you to use strategical methods and tactics in order to get through your missions 
 successfully. The enemy A. I. is great at best on normal mode, and greatly better on hard mode (from 
 my experience anyway) . I found the enemies much more precise in their shooting when playing on 
 hard mode, and I would die much faster If I wasn't careful.
  
  Types of tactics you can use in the game come in plenty: you have your usual arsenal of weapons 
 (3 different categories for each mission: Rifles, Handguns, and Grenades) and you can alternate 
 between them at the click of a button. Advanced warfighting requires much more than just your run-of-the-mill 
 weapons and thats when your squad comes into play. Your squad consists of 3 soldiers simply there 
 to carry out your orders. You can give them the green light to kill everything in sight, or play 
 it safe by telling them to take cover behind a wall or truck or whatever you deem safe. Your squad 
 is great help, but even better is when you get air support and the such; a chopper can come in 
 in (select) "sticky" situations and take your orders, most likely those of hunt and destroy. A 
 lot of support is at your disposal and you'll need every bit of it, especially when one of your 
 squad members is down. This game leans towards realism (albeit in a futuristic time) and part of 
 making it real is making other characters around you act in a realistic way; if your squad members 
 are too much in the open, they might get shot and in the process get hurt or die. In the event 
 a member is hurt, you can order another soldier to help him out or help him yourself, and trust 
 me, you'll need them alive and well for as long as you can manage. Summing it up, you will need 
 to use your enviornment, your squad, and your weapons to your advantage - most of all you will 
 need to use your brain to survive.
  
  My lasting impression is yet to come (I will update this review once I get some multiplayer hands-on, 
 including Xbox Live) , but for now I will say this: this game is a must play for Xbox 360 owners 
 because it's one of the few that goes for quality and does so very well.
  
  [UPDATE] Now that I've had more hands on, especially with multiplayer both online and offline, 
 I have a few points to add.
  
  It's unfortunate, but playing multiplayer split-screen isn't as good or even near what I would've 
 liked. The major piece of multiplayer that I had a problem grasping is the fact that it didn't 
 allow you to play in 3rd person view, and detracts from some of the features available when playing 
 in that view (i. e. leaning against a wall) . This was only in split screen multiplayer mode, and 
 it really took away from it and I don't understand why it wasn't made any better, but all in all 
 it was pretty solid (except the fact that the maps are too big for only 2 players, might be better 
 with 4 instead) .
  
  On the other side of the fence, online multiplayer is solid and very fun. You can play with up 
 to 15 other players on one of several maps (in both 1st or 3rd person view) . You have a choice 
 of many different match-ups including team and solo games. Online play is a must If you have GRAW 
 for the Xbox 360, because it's just loads of fun.
  
  As unfortunate as it is that the game's (split-screen) multiplayer isn't as superb as it could've 
 been, it's overshadowed by it's online play and it's single player campaign, which is good enough 
 to rank this game as one of the best, if not the best, tactical shooter of all time. It all comes 
 down to this, you must play Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_PREZIDENT
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 17, 2006 11:44 pm PT
Review:  I recently got a 360 and this was the first game I got. Game was amazing. Graphics are nice, wait 
 I mean outstanding. I First tried this game on a standard TV set and it was just beutiful. Then 
 on a HD-LCD and........... speechless. It was truely amazing. My girlfriend would be jealous if 
 I discribed the graphic being more gorgeous then her.
  
  Gameplay is good. took me a while to adjust to the control. It not like a FPS, you rely on your 
 teamate 80% of the time for support. Though I wish my team was a bit smarter. And enemy AI is a 
 bit bad. Some times I walk past them and they dont even notice me. That could be a reason why its 
 called "Ghost" Recon. But mostly gameplay get intense and you dont even notice your being attacked 
 by idiots and your team mates are morans.
  
  The sound are nice, feals like I'm really there. What can I say. There nothing seriously bad with 
 the sound. It Exellent.
  
  This game could just be the beginning on what Ubi-soft has instored for next-gen games. Cant wait 
 to see what they will come up next.
  
  I really never played a game online since 6 years ago, but when I played this game online, I just 
 got hooked on it.
  
  I recommend this game if you like war game and a challenge and a good online challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macekenobi
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 17, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancies Ghost recon Advanced Warfighter is arguably the best game on the 360 but the multiplayer 
 makes the game top notch and deffinitly a reason for buying it. So far GRAW is deffenitly the best 
 addition to X-Box live in a long time the maps are great and are of a great variety spanning from 
 desert waste lands to heavily built cities there are seven maps in total each good for the full 
 16 player matches or your classic 4vs4 clan match style the game plays more freely than the older 
 ghost recon games online but still has the immersive tactics that will turn you from a good player 
 to a great player. GRAW still stays faithfull to its predecessors with its classic multiweapons 
 and weapons classes again with its signature weapons. the m8 carbine is now replaced by a superior 
 MR-C but the m8 carbine is still available. Overall the gameplay is great fast paced all out killfest 
 with a military base of gaming there are many game types from your classic sharpshooter which is 
 just a deathmatch to a brand new 16 player coop campaign not nearly as good as the single player 
 but playing with your friends discussing tactics is alot of fun the game is more fast paced and 
 it has to be sayed more fun than the last games online but hardcore fans might not be so happy 
 with this as the game is easier to play so anyone can have a good game not just the experienced 
 although experience helps also now with your own costamizable character make your soldier your 
 own as other players will recognise you from before hopefully as the guy who owned us all lol overall 
 GRAW is a modern updated much better and more fun version of the old ghost recons if your looking 
 for a good addition to your xbox live collection look no further this game blows all other games 
 online and of its genre out of the water simply addictive and great fun for all gamers move over 
 halo theres a new bad boy on the block !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irvinroach1
Rating: 7
Date: May 9, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  when i first bought this game i wanted a better feel for the game so
  i put it on hard and when i played it one shot kills but it was wroth it 
  i am kicking ass passing 
 levels like nothing because now i got the hang
  of the graphics or awesome wow i love it i was in the military and they 
  got everything down 
 to the T and its so futuristic the real army doesnt
  not have tech like that yet but soon they will hee hee the only thing i dont 
  like about the 
 game when the enemy is shooting at you and ur post on the wall its like your getting hit but your 
 not its like some real feeling that your in the game thing but it plays with your head you think 
 your getting hit but your not and sometimes there is a few gliches the guy freezes by the wall 
 most times and your squad they are so so so stupid on hard they get killed so fast its not even 
 funny but sometimes they dont listen to you you tell them to advance and stay in an area they do 
 it then after like 10 to 20 minutes they do there own thing and one guy could role on ur squad 
 and kill them all it sucks but i have to do everything on my own thats what makes it harder so 
 its like your by ur self with no support in the real army support is serious and smart nd stupid 
 listen to your cap nd do what he says at all times 
  but its a awesome game my dogtag name is ThermoGenesis lets play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GazzaB
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  I own the 2 previous Ghost Recon games, and enjoyed them a lot, so when I heard that GRAW was coming 
 out, and even better, being released on the 360, I thought great! Its a sure buy.
  First impressions through playing the training mission were great. The graphics were excellent, 
 some of the best Ive seen yet on the 360, and the controls felt great. It felt truly next-gen 
 to me.
  Playing through the mission was an amazing experience. The game is very cinematic, and it felt 
 as if I was there in Mexico City fighting with these guys. The missions are all very fun, not repetitive 
 at all. My favourite level being the roof top one. 
  The addition to be able to control tanks and helicopters and UAVs is great! Its very easy to 
 use, and very effective. I dont know how many times the additional support has saved my ass. As 
 for the controls, they fell very natural. Very well suited to the 360 controller.
  The online play in this game is excellent, just like the previous games. The co-op mode is particularity 
 fun.
  Overall, Ghost Recon is an excellent game, with exciting missions, very fun gameplay and controls, 
 lots of replay ability over Xbox Live and some of the best graphics out there.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FragSeeker
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  My God! If youre planning on buying this game, Do. The Campaign is the main feature of this and 
 most of the mission requires you to secure VIP's or locate documents. You are CPT Mitcheal of the 
 US ghost Recon Squad. You are in a corrupted Mexico in the year 2013. Using state of the art tehcnology 
 and weapons you must fight your way through suburban towns and back alleys leave no enemy soldier 
 to waste. The graphics are simply unbelivable, especially in High Definition. The sound is flawless. 
 The gameplay can get a bit hectic and hard, this is not a "Run and Gun" game. You need to think 
 carefully before sending your men out into what seems to be and empty battlefield. Because of this 
 the game can take a long time to complete the 11 missions on any difficulty. Normal is Hard. Hard 
 is too realistic its scary. These are not bad points. There simply is not anything wrong with this 
 game unless your not a fan of the Ghost recon series. The multiplayer is great too i experienced 
 no lag what so ever during play and the community is very freindly.
  
  This Is a must buy for any XBOX 360 owner.
  Fianl Score: 10/10
  Fragseeker 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngL92482
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 16, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  By far this is one of the best games that the XBOX360 has to offer. The graphics are beautiful, 
 the gameplay is sweet and the maps are some of the best that I have ever experienced - especially 
 during the multiplayer levels. UbiSoft has proven yet again that they're a force to be reckoned 
 with their attention to detail - as far as environments go - and accurate physics captured in the 
 motion caption for the characters in the game. With all authentic military moves incorporated into 
 this game, it would make anyone who has ever worn a service uniform proud. The only problem that 
 I have had with this game is the annoying Ghost AI that tends to get frustrating sometimes. Other 
 than that this game has done a great job in translating a real urban world experience into something 
 that will keep you busy for many months to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smurfa1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 16, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Ive never played the previous Ghost Recon games so I had no expectations on Ghost Recon Advanced 
 Warfighter. But I checked some images on it at watched some movies and I needed a new game for 
 my Xbox 360. It turned out to be my best buy so far.
  
  The Campaign is superb. You are, of course after a small exercise level, directly thrown into the 
 battle and looking for some military technology. Suddenly you have to abort because the thieves 
 are fleeing. It is fun and become more realistic when these small twists shows up. Another of these 
 twists I liked was when I escorted the Mexican President to an embassy which was supposed to be 
 safe, and suddenly Ill have to defend it against troops and tanks. The missions are realistic 
 and varying so you never grow bored on them. But they are not so varying that the story becomes 
 unclear and you can always feel that you are following a red line throughout the entire story.
 
  There are two difficult settings, Normal and Hard. In the Normal mode your enemies are good at 
 aiming, but not excellent. If you should got hit, most of the time it doesn't matter because you 
 can take some hits without dying. But in Hard mode its different. They are far more accurate and 
 if you got hit, its an instant kill, which sometimes can become a bit frustrating. So when playing 
 on this difficult setting its important to take it easy.
  Your allies are intelligent and you can choose if they shall interact only if they are attacked 
 or if they shall open fire when they see an enemy. If they are attacked they throw themselves to 
 the ground and fire back on the enemy. It is also very fun to take command over vehicles like a 
 tank or helicopter. 
  The enemies are smart and take cover behind walls and other objects. They are not so hard to kill, 
 most of the times three or four bullets is enough.
  There are a lot weapons in the game. But in the campaign you can only choose between approximately 
 six or seven. Some levels have other weapons to choose between, but I think that the weapon you 
 choose will be the standard assault rifle MR-C. My favorite weapon is the AS50 Sniper Rifle, which 
 can be chosen on some levels
  
  The multiplayer is also nice and the ability to play co-op with up to 15 other player against computer 
 controlled enemies is wonderful. The more people in the co-op game the more enemies, which is fortunate 
 because otherwise it would have been too easy. In multiplayer, youre designing your character 
 and can choose if he should be a marksman (which I am) , grenadier, rifleman or gunner. They have 
 all different abilities which I think is good. When starting a multiplayer match you start with 
 a menu where you can chose you favorite weapon and then it is time to start shooting enemies. 
 
  
  The graphics is very beautiful, but sometimes it starts to lag (I dont know if its my Xbox 360 
 who are trying to play with me) and today the whole screen became green-foggy-smoke and I got killed 
 but it disappeared when I restarted. But except from that, the graphics is very, very good.
  The sound is superb. It really feels like youre in the middle of a battle when the helicopters 
 are shooting missiles over you head, and the explosions are really loud. Everything, from the pistol 
 to the explosions sounds really realistic.
  
  Tom Clancys Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is definitely worth buying if you like modern war/shooting 
 games. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: contaminated
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 16, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  Here it is another espionage game with the Tom Clancy brand. Tom Clancy has become a houshold name 
 for tactical shoter fans like myself. So few games of the same genre can compete with Tom Clancy's 
 series of games. This game however sets the bar up high for tactical shooters. The AI is surprisingly 
 good and smart although they skip a bet every now and then most players would find it passable. 
 The normal setting of the game might be diffucult for new players though. The graphics are very 
 good and even on a normal tv they look really good and very superb. In achievements this one passes 
 because although you won't get an insane amount it is fun and you get 25 points per mission. The 
 online mode is pretty sweet but the lack of a lobby that allows you to join games instead of searching 
 is off putting. When you get in a good game with lots of mic using players you can get stuck in 
 that one game for hours. Ranking is a more of a chore because when you start at rack 1 you will 
 often be kicked out because they believe you are a newb. If you can find a legit host who doesn't 
 cheat on ranked rooms consider yourself lucky. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan9797
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 16, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  G. R. A. W. was a game truly made for the XBOX 360 console. The maps and textures of soldiers, vehicles, 
 and guns a solid and provide the gamer with the experience true of futuristic warfare. Blowing 
 up vehicles, whether with grenades, a rocket launcher, or with the chain-gun of an Apache helicopter 
 is very satisfying as the explosions rock the screen adn provide a realistic fire and smoke. Bullets 
 flying past enemies hitting ground and wall spew chunks of concrete into the air. 
  
  G. R. A. W gives you the command of your 4-man team aswell as giving orders to Apache helicopters 
 and tanks to help you through missions (and you definitely need their help in some cases) . Seeing 
 3 tanks in your way, as well as a few enemy soldiers provides the perfect opportunity to give the 
 command of an airstrike adn seeing the smoldering wreckage as you pass through it onto your objective 
 is very satisfying. 
  
  My favourite part of this game had to be climbing into the helicopter, taking control of the chain-gun 
 and unleashing hell upon the ground below, taking out numerous enemies, vehicles and just tearing 
 up the ground and nearby buildings.
  
  Intense multi-player combat gives this game a good replay value, as do the achievements available. 
 
  
  Some problems with this game include AI faults, such as a glitch of a man getting stuck somewhere 
 or walking out into the open and dieing. Hard at times but overall a great game. Worth gettign 
 adn addign to your collection
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gadget-Man
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 16, 2006 5:16 am PT
Review:  As my first game on 360 is was hoping it would show that the next generation of gaming is here. 
 Well it did.
  From the beggining of this game you feel that you are playing a next generation game.
  
  Let 
 me start with the visuals. I was amazed to see how good this game really looks. The detail that 
 is put into every level is superb. The city that you fight in is huge. The explosions are massive 
 and realistic. The lighting in the game is perfect, almost unbelieveble unless you play it for 
 yourself.
  So overall if your looking for a game that looks great and shows of your 360, then this is that 
 game.
  
  So whats not that great about the game. Well, the enemy AI sometimes lets the game down. It's not 
 terribly bad, but at times the AI just is not good. Thats the same for your teamates. The sometimes 
 get in the way, or dont follow your orders. However this is rare and hardly messes up the great 
 experiance of GRAW. Also, if your the type of gamer that likes to run and gun, STOP, this is not 
 the game for you.
  
  The single player aspect of the game is great. With approximately 11 huge levels it will keep you 
 playing for quite a while. In the game itself you will sometimes have to think tacticaly about 
 what your going to do, Usually this will be taking cover, aiming, and firing. Its not complicated, 
 but if you are not behind cover, your in trouble.
  There are only two difficulty settings, Normal and Hard.
  Normal is definately challenging and 
 is not easy. If thats not tough enough for you, then try Hard. You will literraly get killed with 
 one shot. It's hard, even for the best of gamers.
  
  O. K thats the single player, now what about multiplayer.
  On xbox live you start by customising 
 your own soldier. You can do simple stuff like give him a hat and dark glasses for example.
  Then there are many different multiplayer games you can play like-
  Solo Elimination
  Team 
 Elimination
  Co-Op Objective
  and much more.
  You can host games and do your own custom settings. Multiplayer is a great part of GRAW and you 
 would be missing out if you only played the single player campaign.
  
  So wether your a fan of Ghost Recon, 3rd person shooters, war games, a tom clancy fan, or you just 
 wanna see how good this game is for yourself, then GRAW really is the game to get. It is my first 
 xbox 360 game and i am definately impressed.
  
  Gadget-Man :)
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Esquives
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 16, 2006 3:47 am PT
Review:  I was very hopefull to this release. I've played all of the first version on xbox and pc as well. 
 I loved the first versions graphic and sound. the levels where huge and you could almost feel the 
 wind blowing. And the ability to change character was also very very nice. Unfortunaly that is 
 not available anymore, you also only have to presets in which you determin if your squad is aggressive 
 or more discret. But the AI in booth your teammate dissappointes me. Sometimes they take cover 
 on the wrong side of a wrecked car and get killed. Which annoys the *BIP* out of me. The tactical 
 side of the game has been modified to the better for arcade gamers who wants to have an easy-to-learn 
 game with lots of action. In the older games you could set your squads (yes you had more than one 
 squad, on xbox two and on pc up to three) to look in a certain direction. And after each round 
 the got points in which you could use to perfect leadership, stealth, shooting, toughness. Another 
 thing missing in this game. 
  I'm very sorry that this ends up being a review of the first games, but I wan't to really show 
 the difference in the games and which potential it could have. But still. G. R. A. W. offers great 
 entertaining, nice little story, maybe to short. The sound is again superb. And need I say the 
 graphic is beautifull. For this I give the game 8.1 - also because I'm such a big fan of the ghost 
 recon series and hope for a better one next time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baller_023
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 15, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  This game just made me hug my 360, like seriously. I saw the graphics and almost fell over, it 
 sucks that a lot of its popularity took a toll when Obilvion hit stores, but none the less this 
 game is amazing. The multiplayer is soooooo much fun, and i can understand why there's an achievement 
 for playing eight hours straight. The achievements are actually fun to unlock, some are beat all 
 the missions are normal and hard, kill 4 bad guys in 4 seconds, kill 30 people before dying, but 
 then some are just ridiculous like host 1000 matches, thats more than an achievements, thats a 
 milestone =P. I found the single player amazingly fun too, it really kept you interested in the 
 plot and everything that was going on in the game. Overall, this game is a must own for any 360 
 owner, right next to Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctiebel
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 15, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  I've got to say that after all the reviews I read and all the hype about this game that I was a 
 little disappointed with the results. It is still a good game, but it is not as much next-gen as 
 I was expecting. As usual, the sound was great and the graphics were some of the nicest I've seen 
 on the 360 to date. I'm still not impressed with the weapons kits and the AI still doesn't react 
 the way I would like them to. I enjoyed the maps in the game both on single and multiplayer mode. 
 Although you're limited to where you can go in the battle zone, the cities and areas seemed larger 
 than life still. I would still recommend this game to people, but I don't think that it lives up 
 to the 9.2 rating given to it. Good try Ubisoft, but you still have a way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skidudeone27
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  I am a big fan with Ghost Recon games and GRAW is the reason why. The campaign is great with many 
 difficult situations and a great storyline you could follow. The controls are easy to learn and 
 using your squad is the easiest ever. I also love the cross crom which lets you see what your group 
 sees, what tanks and helis see, or important information you need to know.
  
  The multiplayer is great too. There is the same ranking system as the previous ghost recons which 
 keeps you wanting to play more to rank. The multiplayer maps are great and the gametypes are so 
 much fun. The multiplayer will never have you bored.
  
  In every game there are some problems. Ghost recon has some problems too. In single player sometimes 
 your squad will be very dumb and run into fire or when there are guys above you some of you squadmates 
 will be spazzing out while looking up, shooting random burst. (reminds me of counterstrike hackers) . 
 Another thing i hate is you could still use cheats in single player and still recieve gamerpoints. 
 The last thing is sometimes you will lose connection in mulitplayer matches. This is not a big 
 thing because it happens in alot of online games but it can get very annoying.
  
  All in all Ghost recon is a must if you love shooters. Get it because its great.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big__Al
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 15, 2006 7:16 am PT
Review:  In the game Ghost Recon Advanced Worrior you go through multiple missions, through urban cities 
 to keep the peace. You use a variaty of different assult rifles, rifles, pistols, and grenades. 
 The game even has a night vision mode. It has a thing where you can peek around a corner and shoot, 
 or toss a smoke or frag grenade. The AI in this game is amazingly smart, plus sincce its pretty 
 real you literally have to fight for your life, and use every single bit of cover to survive. If 
 a squad member gets critically wounded you can heal them and they will be on their way again. You 
 have a "holo" map that you can use to position your squad, or vehicles. The multiplayer is a blast. 
 Sixteen people at once is tougher than you think. The maps are pretty big and a full of spots to 
 duck behind if your being shot at. When i played this game it was a rental at first but now its 
 on my wish list and hope to buy it in the near future. Me and my friend didnt get very far because 
 we did other stuff when we couldnt figure out a good stratagy fo the co-op missions. Also in co-op 
 you get only one life so dont run and gun like we did or else youll die very very fast. But other 
 than all that this game is frekin AWSOME, the graphics are beautiful and stunning at the same time. 
 I hope this helped you and i hope you will buy it because its not a complete 360 without this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ejkang91
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 15, 2006 12:30 am PT
Review:  I have been tracking this game for so long, and one of the reasons I did not pick up an Xbox 360 
 at launch was the reason that the launch games were less than gorgeous. However that wait was finally 
 over.
  
  At Gamestop they finally had 360's in stock so I picked one up and bought this game. I had wanted 
 it at launch but they had delayed it. Boy was that delay worth it.
  
  The graphics are just simply amazing. Perhaps the best graphics available for the Xbox 360? The 
 sound is great with real sounding gunshots and explosions. The single player is around ten hours 
 or so but the ending is a tad bit too rushed. Also some parts of the single player are frustrating 
 because of a lot of deaths. Save points are not so common, and you will find yourself back where 
 you were 10 minutes ago fighting evil forces... AGAIN. The normal difficulty is quite hard, but 
 not so hard that I would want to quit. I always knew what I had to do to get to the next level 
 or objective. The story for the most part is bland, but it really doesn't matter too much because 
 it's still something to look forward to and is just absolutely amazing looking.
  
  Gameplay-wise it is a bit too much ducking behind walls. I know that this is a realistic game but 
 some of it seems a bit overdone. Yes, the gameplay is really something you either love or hate. 
 Personally I think I would have preferred less wall-hugging. 
  
  The multiplayer doesn't look too amazing, more like a good xbox game rather than next generation. 
 It is on the level of say Call of Duty 2, although it looks slightly worse than that. But it still 
 has a ton of options and it's quite fun to play with other people.
  
  Everybody this is the game that you have been waiting for. It is a reason to buy an xbox 360. I 
 know that Elder Scrolls Oblivion has the highest score on this website (for now) but Ghost Recon 
 is a more complete package. With a nice (REALLY nice) single player, amazing graphics, fun multiplayer, 
 and just a lot of great stuff you must buy this!
  
  I don't know how game developers will improve the graphics of other games to look better than this 
 one. Even the ground looks fantastic. Personally I am looking forward to Gears of War, Too Human, 
 and especially Halo 3 in this genre. Until then however this is THE game to buy if you pick up 
 a 360, and even a reason to get a 360 in the first place.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dashizy666
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2006 2:44 am PT
Review:  I seenn shooter come and go and they are my favorite genre. The thing with shooters is the quick 
 learning curve. In ghost recon the controlls are complex yet easy to master. with time they'll 
 become second nature. I like a challenge and this wlll bring it. The graphics are in a word breathtaking. 
 Suffice to say two hours in I love this game. I was expecting rainbow six type controls but no. 
 the controlls alone are something that einstein himself concocted. Extremely tactical to say the 
 least. The sound is like something out of a movie ubisoft outdid themselves in this area of the 
 game. This is a game that needs time to learn and is worth the price of admission. The best part 
 is that I traded perfect dark 0, need for speed most wanted , jade empire and dvds for this game. 
 so I got this game for free. I would have payed $70 for this game easily so I got the bargin of 
 a lifetime. i have not played online yet and well that can wait. oh yeah some dumb schmuck returned 
 this gem so i got it preowned. what was up with him? He has no brains and doesn't know a gem when 
 he sees it. His loss my gain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajarsenal12
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  Probally the best that the Tom Clancy series has ever released. The online is just as fun as Halo 
 onilne. The weapons are great and fun to use. So far out of Call of Duty 2, Perfect Dark Zero, 
 and Battlefield 2 Modern Combat it tops all of the shooters for the XBOX 360. It will probally 
 be awhile until another game comes out just like it or close to it (Halo 3) . Never out of all the 
 games I have ever played have I ever had so much fun on one game. I love the physics it brings 
 to your TV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yankeyhotel
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 14, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  First just let me say that I have played Halo 2 more than I have played any other game in my whole 
 life. It is my favorite game. So when I review this game there might be a reason for me not oogling 
 over it. 
  
  I liked the game. The graphics really are everything they could be and should be. The missions 
 were both challenging and interesting. I loved all the different hardware that was available to 
 you. Although I mainly used the default gun and chose a sniper anytime I could get my hands on 
 one. And probably my favorite part of the game was being able to shoot from the helicopter. The 
 offline version of this game was great.
  
  However with that being said I was a little disapointed in the online play. And like I said earlier 
 it is probably becasue its not Halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manowar66
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 13, 2006 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Excellent game, true application of the new Xbox 360's capabilities. Can be a hard game for newbies. 
 All the features can be challenging to master due to all the combinations available on the controller. 
 Overall I think it is by far the best combat simulator I have ever seen. As of 04/13/2006 not enough 
 players in the Xbox live multiplayer arena which I assume will have more attaendance as time passes 
 and more people purchase the game. Take the time to due the training and try to get as much info 
 on weapon and technology mastery within the game itself. If you have never player Ghost Recon before 
 you do not know what you are missing go out and don't waste another second, get the latest and 
 greatest GHost Reacon Advanced Warfighter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: latin_boi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 13, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  The Ghost Recon series has definately had the reputation for being one of the hardest games to 
 date. Along with its Tom Clancy brother, Splinter Cell, a slightly decreased difficulty the third 
 time around is just one of the things that make it so good. In the third game in the Ghost Recon 
 series, Captain John Mitchell finds himself trying to stop a cous d' etat (pardon any misspellings) 
 by a group of Mexican rebels attempting to overthrow the Mexican president and the American president. 
 Like all other Tom Clancy games, the game doesn't delve too much into the story, but GRAW keeps 
 it interesting.
  
  In addition to a good storyline, Ghost Recon 3 also sports a few new gameplay mechanics you'll 
 find quite useful on the battlefield. First is the much talked about Cross-Com. This allows you 
 to see everything your team members see, and the occasional messages from your commanding officers. 
 This is also your primary source of commanding units that help you. Yes, not only do you command 
 your team, but there are a slew of new units that you can command on the battlefield. There is 
 a drone to help you scope out areas ahead for enemies and objectives. There's an APC you can command 
 for good infantry firepower, a M182 Abrams tank for heavy firepower, and even an Apache chopper 
 for support from the air. While the actual mission layouts don't really change, these new units 
 make things really interesting and not to mention action packed and fun. The other major new addition 
 found in GRAW is the ability to actually stick yourself to walls and peek around corners. I, myself, 
 found myself annoyed at the inability to do this in the past games, and I'm very pleased to see 
 this added to this. In addition to the single player campaign, GRAW also supports the first real 
 Xbox 360 live experience worth playing. With a healthy combination of co-op and versus missions, 
 there's a little something for everyone looking to play online in GRAW. The first thing you'll 
 notice online is that a lot of the gameplay mechanics found in the single player (like sticking 
 to walls) has been lost. This is really my only complaint about online play because it plays just 
 like GR2 online. I will say, however, whether you're playing co-op or versus, the action found 
 in GRAW online is extremely action packed and intense. Overall, this is the best playing Ghost 
 Recon game to date, and it sets the standard for future military shooters on the 360.
  
  Now, the graphics... where do I begin? The whole game looks insanely sharp even without HD. Character 
 models and animations are just fantastic. For example, when you transfer from standing to kneeling 
 while moving, Mitchell will slide a little bit, and when you go from standing to prone, he'll dive. 
 The animations are a small little part of the game, but the fluidity adds to the overall fast paced 
 action of the game. What really gets me about the graphics is the environments. Not only does Mexico 
 City look fantastic and flawless in everyway, brick from brick, but GRAW has the ability to load 
 and render THE ENTIRE CITY in a matter of milliseconds. Most games could not do this even on the 
 360, but GRAW does it with extreme ease. Also included in the environments, are the special effects. 
 I don't think I've ever seen a prettier explosion in my entire life. The one mission where the 
 US Embassy is bombed shows off the amazing explosion and the great physics associated with them. 
 Online, GRAW is a little dissapointing in terms of character models. You'll immediately notice 
 that the character models aren't really great at all, but the environment still looks great. With 
 the toned down graphics, there is also virtually no lag whatsoever online, so I guess that's one 
 reason to reduce the graphics quality. Overall, the graphics for GRAW really show off the power 
 to the 360 and impress in almost every way.
  
  The sound to GRAW is another fantastic factor in the game. The original voice actor for John Mitchell 
 returns to do the captain's voice once again. I must say, this voice actor (though I don't know 
 his name) stands among the great video game voices of all time. When I think of the Master Chief's 
 voice, or Solid Snake's voice, I immediately consider John Mitchell's right up there with them. 
 The overall gruffness to his voice is just what the game needs for a main character. In addition 
 to hte great voice acting, there's also awesome music. When you're flying in a helicopter at the 
 beginning of the game, and you hear a great rock track playing in the background, you know this 
 game's music is gonna be good. And it is. Both in multiplayer and single player, music adds to 
 the overall intensity and action of the game in a very good way.
  
  Overall, GRAW is one of the first extremely great games to come to the 360. It's overall great 
 blend of single player and multiplayer action give something for everyone and will have shooter 
 fans constantly coming back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheerio2
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 13, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Basically one the best games i've played. Singleplaye storyline is inmersive, surprising and keeps 
 you playing for long. Graphics are simply the best out there... (dont understand why ppl put 10 
 to Oblivion graphics, when these are far better in all ways) . Sound is also great, even more with 
 5.1 system.
  Controls are right, once you get used to them, they work perfectly. And gameplay in general is 
 excellent, you always want to finish or continue... the thing is that there are lot of different 
 situations and gameplays.. you can even command a Stryker, Bradley, Apache or shot from inside 
 a Black Hawk. The lack of loading time makes the game way more inmersive.
  
  Singleplayer is little bit short, but there is online which makes the game value increase a lot. 
 Anyway is still fun to take singleplayer and discover more ways, options or simply make mission 
 again. This game is defineatly worth your money and if you don't buy it I'll send my elite US Ghosts 
 to hunt you down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtbraves
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 13, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is great.. The graphics are amazing and the gameplay is fun as can be for a third person 
 strategy shooter. Looks amazing plays amazing.. Could have had a few civilians here and there. 
 A city would flee in times of this but some other ppl have to be there, maybe even civilian-dressed 
 bad guys. But overall and amazing game.. The multiplayer on this game is amazing, too. Extremely 
 fun and playable over and over again.. The maps all through the game multiplayer and regular game 
 is gorgeous.. Keep up the good work people working on Tom Clancy games.. Scope out new Rainbow 
 Six Vegas.. Looks sweet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xplayrox
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 13, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  I love the Ghost Recon series but this is the best no doubt about it. It is FPS and also a third. 
 In single player every thing is awsome. You could slide to take cover or dive. You could put your 
 self on the wall to take cover and peek fire. You have these mini screens for a drone to check 
 out the area to see where the enemy is and you also could command a sqaud. Commanding a squad has 
 never been easier and so accurate. All you do is point to where and push up on the d pad and BAM, 
 they're there. I did a little Emril the cheif for you readers. 
  
  Every thing changes though on the great co-op mode and online. The first major thing is that on 
 multiplayer, it is not third person. Second, you can't do many of the actions you could do on the 
 single player like to slide or have the mini screens. It still is great game with out those though. 
 Even though it changes it still is the great Ghost Recon we all know. The graphics are amazing 
 from the glare on the ocean to the writing on the pistol your sqaud member is holding. Of course 
 the sound is good but all army games weapon fire sounds are exaggerated like they are too loud. 
 Over all this is an AWSOME game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maceman216
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  it is the best it is the best it is the best it isit is the best the best it is the best it is 
 the best it is the best it is the best it is the bestit is the best it is the best it is the best 
 it is the best it is the best it is the best it is the best it is the best it is the best it is 
 the best it is the best it is the best it is the best it is the best it is the best it is the best 
 it is the best it is the best it is the best 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_young
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 13, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  This game really is as good as everyone says, it even lives up to the hype (which we all know is 
 rare in a time where quantity of releases seems more important then quality  see the vast amount 
 of half polished ports doing the rounds at the moment) . This is how all games should look and feel
 
  
  From the initial opening movie, visually, this game sets the bar to a seemingly impossible height, 
 then, you get into the game itself and find that graphically, its no different to the opening 
 movie and the solid use of surround sound will have you sat on your sofa ducking stray rounds! 
 At last, I see why I spent all that time waiting, then paying all that money on a second generation 
 console.
  
  Built around a solid storyline, the flow between the missions makes you feel part of the game, 
 and with easy to pick up controls, great features like the HUD, providing real time information 
 updates as you navigate your way through the dusty streets of New Mexico, taking cover with your 
 ghosts as you command APCs and Apache choppers, or running into the heat of battle with your team 
 taking out the bad guys with yourself , this is a totally immersive experience, and other then 
 its shortness, this is a game with no downsides, well Ok, so your ghost squad can sometimes get 
 in your line of fire or stand in front of the walls you want them to stand behind, but if you direct 
 them to locations rather than having them run with you through the regroup on me option and this 
 rarely becomes an issue
  
  As for the difficulty of this game, after the training and about 30 minutes of game play will have 
 you peeping round corners and sniping enemies with confidence and with no great step up in difficulty 
 between normal and hard mode (unlike games like Call of Duty 2) as on hard mode, the enemies are 
 a little more accurate with their shooting and fire a few more rounds your way, for the real hardcore 
 gamers, going straight into the latter mode may be an option, but with this game being so good, 
 doing it twice will be something you want to do anyway!
  
  The online play in G. R. A. W continues to impress, with a good range of solo and team elimination 
 and objective games, plus 4 nice co-op missions that can challenge even the best players will give 
 this game a long life once the solo missions are completed. The only drawback to the online can 
 be that sometimes it feels like you spend an entire evening sitting in lobbies waiting the 15 mins 
 for a game to finish, only too watch everyone leave the room once its over.
  
  Ultimately, this is the must have game for all 360 owners, forget all other games, go out and get 
 this today and itll live in your console for months to come!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hydrolite
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 12, 2006 8:21 pm PT
Review:  One look at GRAW and any gamer with half a brain will know that this is a revolutionary game. This 
 game sets the bar for tactical shooters and multiplayer shooters. With every game though there 
 is always both bad and good things. As in all of my reviews i will list these so that people who 
 will read this review will get a fair and balanced review.
  
  
  
  good: The gameplay is simply fantastic. It truely blurs the line between reality and the digital 
 world. You can't follow the generic FPS formula for victory of run into the heat of battle and 
 lay waste to your opponets. Instead of doing this you must be observant and use your ghosts wisely. 
 The graphics are the best to be seen yet in the 360 to date. The story line is actually pretty 
 engageing also. I almost forgot to mention that the multiplayer is some of the best action you 
 will get online.
  
  
  bad: The Ghosts can be downright stupid sometimes. You tell them to take cover on a wall and they 
 will walk into the middle of combat. When will you be able to tackle actual campaigns with 4 real 
 people. The co-op seems kinda cheesy with some of the objective that are simply incorporate capture 
 the flag, deathmatch, and territory gametypes. Also it is annoying that when you look for a match 
 sometimes you have to wait 15 min. for a match cause you can't join in progress.
  
  Overall this is one of the best games ever made. I don't think i am over rating this game and if 
 you play it you will find that it is worthy of this rating. You simply must own this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHUTupNrocK8
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 24, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon is my all around favorite game for the 360, for now. G. R. A. W. is hands down the greatest 
 game for the Xbox 360 for now, way better then Oblivion. It's graphics are amazing and gameplay 
 is the best ever. But, the only thing I didn't like was when your in battle are man run right in 
 front of you or the battle and get shot and when you command them to destroy a target like a tank 
 80% of the time they don't do it - its annoying and then you get killed. Campaign mode is challenging 
 and fun, but best of all .... Xbox live for this game is beyond AMAZING! Multiplayer mode is great 
 also. G. R. A. W. is super addicting to play and so much fun (esp. on Xbox live!) This game alone 
 is definitely worth the $400 I spent for the 360. Without a doubt in my mind, G. R. A. W. definitely 
 the best shooter game ever ... cant wait for halo 3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x200
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 12, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  I love this game and so does doodles. We play it and it is fun. Uncle Chad ,aka me, says that the 
 graphics are amazing and that the best part is when u get to pwoon noobs online. It is by far the 
 best tactical shooter for the xbox 360. I like when i play ad people make fun of me and then i 
 tell them how im gunna get their kids and skin them alive. ahhhahaha jk So all i have to say is 
 go out and by this game it is amazing. I always play this game and i have fun playing it make sure 
 u get this game right now so i can own u online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neurothustra
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 12, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  This game is worth every penny. I wish I could just leave my review at that but there is a world 
 limit here, so I'll run down Pros and cons.
  
  Pros:
  
  Graphics, of course. The overbright daylight and heat-haze distortion really place you in a sweltering, 
 war-torn New Mexico. Wow!
  
  Gamplay is really good and the AI doesn't suck - yeah, they can actually aim and kill enemies. 
 So well, in fact, that even on the hardest setting I find myself keeping my team behind me so that 
 I can at least get some kills.
  
  Large maps. Self-explainatory there but boy oh boy are theese areas enormous. The Black Hawk flybys 
 are truly breathtaking and awe-inspiring.
  
  Cons: 
  
  Pretty much centering on the multiplayer aspects. Servers - I'm now spoiled with Halo 2's party 
 and MatchMaking system. Other people running their own servers is fine, expect that when the host 
 lags out everyone's game is over, and the lag outs are unfortunately frequent. And of course, it's 
 back to the old problem of hosts being jerks and kicking people.
  
  Weapon inventory. Switching weapons in an FPS realyl should not be this complicated. I appreciate 
 the attept at realism here, but it just isn't appropriate in a shooter. And why is it that fast-switching 
 forces you to switch between the rifle and the grenade instead of allowing you to set your switch 
 as it does in campaign (as a sniper, I prefer to have the handgun at the ready for close range 
 combat and it just isn't possible) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-tronicum
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 12, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  What is the difference of ADVANCED WARFIGHTER and for Example FAR CRY INSTINCTS PREDATOR????? Its 
 not the Publisher ; this 
  
  This Game is an absolutely Masterpiece!!!!!
  The Controls, the GRAPHICS, the Gameplay, the Story.....................,,,,
 
  Absolutely PERFECT!!!
  
  I was very surprised when i saw this Amazing Graphics!! I knew that it would be Good, but i never 
 thought that it would be so good!!!
  The Soldiers are so Brillant animated, simply incredible.
  This Game comes with a high level of 
 EnemyIntelligence and the best Controls i ever Played!!!
  
  The Story is very good translated, so you think you are in the middle of all these Conflicts!!!
 
  And the Sound......... WOW!!!!! Simply the BEST!!!
  INCREDIBLE!!!!
  Two last Words: BUY  ; )
  
  Sorry for the Grammar, im learning 
 English
  Thanxx
  T-troniC Spain 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usaokay
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 11, 2006 10:13 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be the best Ghost recon game to date. The PC, PS2, and Xbox doesnt stand out this 
 masterpiece on the 360. The graphics and game engine makes like it feels your in a city. The technology 
 is real but the politcs is fake. The gameplay feels a little awkard but everything else is just 
 perfecto! This is a must have game for your 360 collection. Also soon in the future, the next chapter 
 for GRAW's Co-op campaign maybe downloadable for the 360. Other than all the rest, GRAW is a must 
 have game when you're fragging online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricksterlau
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 11, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  There was so much hype surrounding the game before it came out. This was the main reason why I 
 actually brought the game. Also I have never played any previous versions of Ghost Recon
  
  Gamplay ~ You may think, WOW, dual screen - the cross-com. To be honest, its pretty pointless when 
 ur in action (ie asthetics) . The only use is when you actually press select and view the map then 
 using ur tactics. I also dont see the point of having red and blue diamonds surronding your enemies 
 and teammates repectively. Even so, they havent made it practical to use. Sometimes when u see 
 the enemy, the red diamonds never appear and even when they are behind walls, the diamonds are 
 still locked. I presonally think that they made a total mess of this 'dynamic system'. They havent 
 actaully made sensible or practical use of it. And the overhead cameras doesnt work effectively. 
 
  I understand the realisim of being killed with a few shots is very realistic. I vey much apprciate 
 it. However I honestly dont think that this works in multiplayer. Firstly, you have to wait an 
 eternity joining a game (around 10mins) then once your playing in one, you can get killed so quickly 
 that you could be yawing, and dont no wat jsut happened. Yes, I admit im not that good in this 
 game, but it just doesnt work. 
  I honestly believe that they should improve on the camoflauging system in multiplayer, ie. taller 
 grass etc so that people can graw around without being seen. Its just not fun at all!!
  The only thing I credit its gameplay for is that the combat system is pretty solid. I like the 
 realism and well created AIs, make missions a challenge. Detailed moved such as run and dive, leaning 
 behind walls etc is pretty kool. But overall, they are just too many let downs to pull its gameplay 
 back up again.
  
  Graphics ~ I agree, pretty damn good graphics, nice realism in them. Well made explosions and very 
 nice character and environmental details. However in the end, there's no shiney-ness in them. Hardly 
 any reflections off surfaces making some areas quite dull. Overall, quite impressive - 9/10
  
  Sound ~ Not the best soundtrack in the world however I do like the sound effects produced by 
 guns and explosions. Solid AI speech. And again very realistic and works very well with surround 
 sound. Feels like ur in a real battlefield. 8/10
  
  Value ~ You can complete the campaigne around 7 hrs, not very long in my opinion. The multiplay, 
 as I have mentioned in the gameplay, isnt the best. Not worht $60. It dries out as time progesses... 
 8/10
  
  Overall, solid solo campaigne. But you will start getting frustrated with the cross com functions 
 (ie red diamonds etc) They dont perform as well as expected. A dull multiplayer makes this game 
 even worse with is online gamplay. Good to look at and nice feedback with the sound effects but 
 doesnt live up to its expectations or the hyped up reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CassiusVII
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 2, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  I didnt like it that much and thats about it. Everything was good except the gameplay. I think 
 the worst part was the talking of the squad members.
  Gameplay- This is where it fell short. I really thought this was going to be something special 
 but It didnt satisfy my First Person Shooter love. The squad members are annoying... always getting 
 injured. The aiming just sux. I think if it wasnt for this being able to be called a fps that it 
 was above a 5.
  Graphics-Awesome... best Ive seen yet. There were a few things here and there though that made 
 it not so perfect.
  Sound- Fits the theme really good. It gets you adrenaline going when you in the midst of a big 
 battle. But the squad members are horribly annoying. Value- 10 ... online play
  This game was hard for me and it just didnt seem like a traditional fps. I thought this game was 
 supposed to be at the top of the charts but I didnt like it that much. 8.2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy27
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 11, 2006 6:10 am PT
Review:  Good Idea:
  Gorgeous graphics that expands from character models to the detail of the entire land. 
  Perfect 
 sounds make you feel like you're in the war zone instead of watching it. 
  Easy for even an average gamer to pick up and start playing. 
  
  Bad Idea:
  A few random 
 scripting glitches.
  Very few graphically glitches such as tearing. 
  A. I. could use a small bit improvement.
  
  Overall:
  Now this is what next-generation gaming 
 should always look, sound, and play like. Such a wonderful layout and a great multiplayer experience. 
 A must buy for a gamer looking for good tactical shooting or war simulation.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  I've played every Ghost Recon game to date and loved them all. It seems to be one of those series 
 that actually get better game by game. GRAW is no exception. When you first get through the training 
 mission, you'll soon realize that this one is actually going to be everything you could hope for 
 in a tactical shooter. But then, the game continues and begins to show you a fully, 3D and highly 
 detailed world... but all from a helicopter! As you look down from the copter, you'll see hundreds 
 if not thousands of highly modeled buildings and towers from Mexico City. It's just an amazing 
 looking game from the beginning and then dances on the other shooters by adding the helicopter 
 overlook scenes.
  
  A feature that stands out a lot is the sound and how they use it. For instance, the gun sounds 
 are terrifyingly realistic. For every gun is it's own very distinct sound and for every explosion 
 is a nice blast of bass from your subwoofer, and enough to make your neighbors think we're being 
 invaded. The voice acting is done by obvious professionals, touching on what is a very realistic 
 gaming experience.
  
  Another really nice feature is your HUD. The cross-com is a very nice add-on to the game and although 
 might not help you much, is there for you to get an extra view on things around your team. The 
 head bob is the best I've seen in a 3rd person shooter too. While hiding behind crates and such 
 and enemies firing, you can actually see your head move around realistically just to keep from 
 having a bullet ricochet into your face. 
  
  The weapons range from sniper rifles to rocket launchers. I'm not going to lie; I have no idea 
 if these handle realistically because I've never fired off a gun. But the fire rate seems to be 
 realistic from what I've seen in movies and popular shooters in the past.
  
  The multiplayer is a totally different story. This is the best multiplayer on the 360 at the moment 
 and will probably remain that way for a while. There are thousands of custom things you can do 
 to the games you play online and make it all for a really exciting game play. If you're ever looking 
 to play around online, my Live name is DryvBy84. I'll be there (if not running through single player) .
 
  
  The only real downfall I found in the game besides the lack of a surprise viewable gun in first 
 person mode, is the A. I. tends to wander around aimlessly and very unaware of what's going on around 
 them. In the first mission alone, I ran into about 4 or 5 terrible A. I. issues such as them running 
 right past me and just standing in it's scripted spot. It was a little annoying but overall, the 
 A. I. served a good purpose as being difficult.
  
  If you're looking for a great game this March, Oblivion and this should be the 2 games that are 
 MUST buys. If you can only afford one, it really depends on what you prefer, but the multiplayer 
 will be long lasting in this game. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Violence:
  A ton of war violence without the gore. There's blood but not a lot.
  
  Sexuality:
  None.
  
  Language:
  Minor words.
  
  Substance Use:
  None. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbadjp
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 10, 2006 11:41 pm PT
Review:  So far I've never seen a game this preety and this exciting ever. The gameplay is insane, it's 
 almost like your watching a movie like "Black Hawk Down". It's insanely good looking, which is 
 probably why it got the recognition for having the best graphics of any game to date. Now we all 
 know that graphics aren't everything, but the gameplay is also a huge part of a good game, and 
 I think that GRAW preety much blows any war game out of the water. The only flaw was I got to one 
 of the levels and if you angle yourself in a certain way it pops up a random imaginary wall, making 
 it impossible to see anyone. It made me made and hence, the best looking game I've ever seen still 
 looses a point in my book, but this minor glitch was in fact a minor glitch. I can't wait for the 
 next one to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameDestroyer88
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 10, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  When I saw Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter that oh so long time ago, I was a bit skeptical. I 
 mean the 360 was new, and I really wasn't ready for another system. Well it is now the present 
 and I love my 360 just as much as I love my PS2, GC, and original Xbox. And now that G. R. A. W is 
 here to stay, it's about time to analyze the belly of the beast.
  
  Gameplay: Wow, G. R. A. W really pulled a fast one on me. I was expecting another squad based tactical 
 shooter. What I got, was a squad based tactical shooter.... this one however influenced heavily 
 with action. That's the main thing you'll notice about G. R. A. W the action. The game is a more clean 
 cut shooter focused on pure action and frantic firefights. I know this may sound basic, but the 
 way the game pulls it off makes it something unique. The controls in G. R. A. W were proffesionally 
 developed, each feature of the 360 controller is put to use, leave no button missing. And at first, 
 it may seem like the controls would take a long time getting used to, y'know seeing as how you'd 
 have to learn all the new features and whatnot right? Wrong. Controls are a breeze. Now you can 
 take cover behind various objects making firefights easier, and making them feel truly breathtaking. 
 Enemy A. I. is frigtening as they will do everything in their power to survive, and make you dead. 
 The only downside which hinders the game is the really odd, nitwitted A. I. of your squadmates. 
 I mean here we have the excellent A. I. the opposing soldiers are showing, taking cover behind objects, 
 throwing grenades at me, and my squad is standing in the wide open, shooting at well covered enemies. 
 It doesn't break the game or anything but it hurts alot.
  
  Graphics: Wow..... this is just the beginning. The visuals in G. R. A. W are superb. Every corner, 
 every car door, every piece of wall and destroyed concrete, they all look superior. I can only 
 imagine what the future holds for later games. Mitchell does still reload with imaginary clips, 
 and when I run towards my teamates I do phase through them, but thats not gonna' stop me from adoring 
 these graphics.
  
  Sound: Aww man have explosions ever sounded cooler. I will never forget that mission were the American 
 Embassy blows up. Wow even on my basic T. V. it sounded devestating. G. R. A. W really pulls the muscle 
 in the audio department, with ear deafening explosions, excellent voice acting, and really great 
 sorrowful music that plays during moments in the missions where every thing looks FUBAR.
  
  Overall: Truly one of the Xbox360's elite games, or as the kids say the days L33T. If you own an 
 Xbox360, quit wasting your time with Full Auto and buy a game that'll really punch your balls off. 
 The **** team A. I. may get frustrating in places but it in no way breaks the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weaponman5000
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 10, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Just for the record, this is my first review in a long time, but I'm glad it's for such a great 
 game. This is definetly one of the best games for it's genre out for XBOX 360 out now. Yes, Oblivion 
 is right on it's tail, but we're talkin about shooters right now. The campaign mode is definetly 
 well put together, with a solid story line and isn't filled with unneccessary or seemingly pointless 
 objectives. There is always action around every corner, and all the more exciting with an over-the-shoulder 
 view and a unique HUD. Commanding your team is very smooth and easy to do it on the spot. One thing 
 I can't stand about some shooters is a chunky ordering system thats too complex, and when you finally 
 issue the command, you're already dead. So definetly thumbs up for the team command system. probably 
 the only downside of the single player part of this game is the A. I. of your squad. You might finish 
 up a small skirmish on your way to an objective, and your team's status will remain as "fighting", 
 so a constant order to regroup is required. But despite the slight A. I. problem, the campaign is 
 great. The multiplayer is less complex than the single player, but is in no way less exciting. 
 Strategy and time to plan is a little hindered here for the action doesn't really stop, but thats 
 no problem, and in some ways better. The True Skill rankin system isn't very detailed; you don't 
 really know when you'll be leveling up, or where your at, so if you want to be get a rank, you 
 should probably just focus on where you are on the leader board. Overall, this is a absolutely 
 superb game, single and multiplayer. If your a fan of the previous Ghost Recon games, or just love 
 shooters, this is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slappnuttz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 13, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  GRAW is one of the best games on the Xbox 360. As a shooter game it is the best. I own Oblivion 
 so I cannot say it is the best game on the system though. I was really looking forward to this 
 game and had very high hopes of how good this game was going to be. My friends had their Xbox 360's 
 a month before I got mine and they all told me how good this game was. When I finally got my 360 
 GRAW was the 1st game I played and I was pleasantly surprised how great the graphics and game play 
 was. I would recommend this game to anyone that enjoys tactical games and even those that don't. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russianelvis
Rating: 2.4
Date: Apr 10, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  I can't believe people think this game looks so great. They use low-res textures and overuse bloom 
 to make it look higher-res than it is. I also found the pacing of this game to be very slow and 
 the 3rd person targeting to be annoying. 
  
  This game is nothing more than a mediocre experience with below-average squad-ai. I don't have 
 teh time or patience for these types of games that lack originality and are just "tactical warfare 
 in another city". The hype is due first and foremost to a lack of anyting decent on the 360. The 
 game is ok but hardly groundbreaking.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JamesM80
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 10, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  Overall the game is great - awesome graphics .... gameplay keeps you on your toes .... the sound 
 make me feel like Im in the middle of all the action ... The tools and weapons at your disposal 
 definetly has a futureistic feel to them .... 
  But the flaws are a little too much .... your squad AI is terrible ... I feel like I didnt even 
 want them in the game .... Where are the people??? Did everyone just suddenly leave Mexico.... 
 I believe the game would have been more realistic with some civilians ... also the darn game freezes 
 up way too much for enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furionpride
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 10, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  This game is awsome! I never really liked the other G. R games because The graphics didnt seem all 
 that good. But I got this game for my birthday, and I'm glad I did. Right from the begining, the 
 game looks beautiful. The vast city goes on to the horizon. There is heat blur, motion blur, and 
 shine effects that make everything stand out. The story plot is more interesting than most tactical 
 shooters. I like the cover system better than Perfect Dark because you just press yourself against 
 a wall. The action is pretty fast pase, although it can get frustrating because it takes forever 
 to perform an action. It'll take six seconds to reload, three seconds to stand from a prone, and 
 five just to look down your scope. But these are minor flaws that can be ignored. I would reccomend 
 this game to anyone who just likes to play good games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stoogene
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 9, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  this game is absoulutly fantastic. the graphics are awsome all though in some places i think they 
 could improve. It has really gone past the 9.0 level. 
  there is no way that anyone with a right mind could say that this isnt the best war game out on 
 the xbox 360 or out on any console/computer. Although i wouldnt play this game on a playstation 
 and mabye not even the first xbox as the graphics are quite horrible compared to the 360. It should 
 be a pretty good game on pc. If you have an xbox 360 and are wanting a new game BUY THIS ONE!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cogginsm
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 9, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, one of the best tactical games to date. The graphics, gameplay, and story are all top 
 notch and if you are a fan of multiplayer action there is no disappointment. Multiplayer accomodates 
 the Halo2 run-and-gun players as well as the "take your time and do it right because you only have 
 one freakin life!" players (that's me) .
  Biggest disappointment is there are some very strange glitches throughout the game (can you say 
 Oblivion!) , but they are easily livable and don't take away very much of the overall experience. 
 This is a must buy for any Xbox 360 owners and if you enjoy this title keep you're eyes attuned 
 to the new Rainbow Six title in the works! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maniacnick93
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome because of all of the cool Shi@# u can do its like real llife and is petty 
 hard but still can really make u feel like ur in the game and ur doing it for real mostly because 
 of the grafics but also because of the great realaty that they put on this game!!! So basiclly 
 this game is so good go and buy it because u won't be disappointed because it has great solo play 
 and great multy playing!!!! i tell u its so great that i got all my freinds and played this game 
 for like 6 hours strait!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neverender
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 9, 2006 6:29 am PT
Review:  The Ghost Recon series is notorious for being very tough and unforgiving. While G. R. A. W. is no 
 exception, it towers above it predecessors and delivers and extremely fun and interesting tactical 
 shooter.
  
  The single player campaign is a good length - spanning 11 missions that tosses up quite a variety 
 in gameplay. For the most part, youre the captain of a 4 man squad and often find yourself with 
 other useful tools and weapons which you control using your Cross-Com. The Cross-Com is a satellite 
 controlled communication device which lets you issue commands to that which you control as well 
 as the ability to see through their eyes. This comes in handy if you find yourself in a tight situation. 
 You can send your squad to a different location and being able to see a wider view of the field. 
 Among the tools and weapons youll gain access to is your UAV, which is an enemy detection unit 
 which hovers high in the air and can be activated to detect hostiles in any given area. There are 
 a couple missions in the game where your HUD isnt functioning properly and you have to rely on 
 your UAV to point out hostiles for you.
  
  The visuals in G. R. A. W. completely blew me away. From the enormous sprawling city to the collection 
 of shells at your feet. It pays attention to all the details and really looks next-gen. But its 
 not just about looking pretty. The character movements are so well done and really feel like they 
 have weight. When youre running, even though its primarily a third person camera angle, theres 
 a nice little bob that goes along with every step you take. Youre not able to swing around 180* 
 in any instant like you can in most shooters which adds a more realistic feel. This was the first 
 game Ive played where youre dependent on using cover that really felt like you were behind cover 
 and protected. I rarely rounded a corner without first sticking to the wall and taking a peek for 
 hostiles first. This was all handled extremely well. You can stick yourself to just about any surface 
 by simply walking into it. Once youre stuck, you can peek around corners or pop your head 
 above low walls to scope out the area and issue commands.
  
  I thought the explosions in Black were awesome - G. R. A. W. blows them out of the water! Never have 
 explosions looked and felt so powerful and devastating. Theyre just huge! Your dude will often 
 duck from the blow and your HUD will flicker and show a little static.
  
  There are a couple things about G. R. A. W. that had me pretty frustrated. Besides the solo missions, 
 the squad A. I. can be pretty weak at times. I dont know how many times I would move into position, 
 call my squad up and have one or two of them run right out into the open, giving away our position 
 and getting shot in the process. You can set your squad to Recon or Assault mode and believe it 
 or not, this kind of thing happened on Recon a number of times. Another annoyance is having a squad 
 member take up position right in front of you while youre lining up a shot. I will admit, I shot 
 a couple of my dudes in the back of the head just out of spite. **** should know better!
  
  There are multiplayer modes a-plenty and if youre an Xbox Live junky, youll love G. R. A. W. I havent 
 played all of them yet, but quite enjoyed the team based objective mode and co-op missions.
  
  G. R. A. W. was the system seller for me. Ive been considering an Xbox 360 since its release 
 and with the PC version being pushed back a couple months and me hating on PC gaming these days, 
 I just had to pick one up. It is, without a doubt, one of the best games Ive played. Even though 
 I beat it over a week ago, Ive still been playing it pretty steady. I highly recommend you check 
 this game out if youre a 360 owner - and if not, it might be time to seriously consider making 
 that investment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: durrty2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 9, 2006 1:50 am PT
Review:  All I can say is Wow!!
  
  In 2013, the US army introduces the intergrated Warfighter system, a combination of high tech gear 
 which have the capability of turning an ordinary soldier into the ultimate killing machine. It 
 contains advanced weapons, satellite communication devices and among other things. Now all this 
 combat gear is put into test thats where GRAW comes in. 
  
  GRAW is simply put the best if not one of the best 360 games out there. It fully captures the reality 
 of future warfare. The groundbreaking features such as a communications device attached to the 
 soldiers gear and powerd by satelitte technology, which delivers constant and complete battlefield 
 awareness. By using this you can also control your team mates to strategic positions, cover, defend 
 or attack..... or simply just to hold an area. The feel of how your men move, how bullets acctually 
 penetrate soft materials are all realistically detailed. Another neat thing is you can play either 
 in first person or thirdperson and this time it acctually shows the gun. 
  
  The Graphics are all so remarkable, you can acctually see all the little details whether its on 
 the enemies faces or building signs. The attention to detail is amazing and considerd groundbreaking. 
 It really shows what the 360 is capable of. The sound is equally great with you acctually able 
 to hear every bullet that whooshes past you and every explosion, comment your team mates give to 
 you. 
  
  GRAW has a superb single player but it also has an amzing Multiplayer mode also. The x-box live 
 functions of GRAW are what really sets this game apart. There are a dozen well built maps and the 
 regular game modes to get into. With the ability to select your class rifleman, grenadier, marksman.... 
 etc.) all adds to the fun of MP on GRAW. 
  
  To put this in the most simple way possible. GRAW is one of the most absolute superb game out there 
 and definitly deserves the 9.2 rating GS gave to it. Its truly the best military experience ever. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pappasfurs
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 8, 2006 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Yet another great Tom Clancy classic next to Splinter Cell, and the other Ghost Recon games. First 
 thing the graphics are incredible and the detail of the characters, the weapons, and the landscape 
 are amazing. The best part of the game is the multiplayer, its great to play once you have completed 
 the game. The downside to the game is the length, way too short, also that you cannot drive any 
 of the vehicles yourself you can use your advanced technology which is still pretty sweet. Each 
 level in this game is great because they have their own unique style and terrain, in some levels 
 you on are rooftops assisting your team and vice versa. The other thing i enjoy is that fact that 
 this is not one of Tom Clancys stealthy games. Another bad thing of the game is the camera views 
 over the shoulder just does not work Tom. So if you enjoyed the other Ghost Recon tittles this 
 is a great addition to the collection and great mulitplayer so go and get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quakester
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 8, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  First of let me say that if you get this game you will never want to put your controller down. So 
 let me say all these great ratings for this War in 2013.
  
  -GamePlay 10 out of 10. This War game has great gameplay and will make you feel like your in the 
 War that is 7 years later.
  
  -Graphics 10 out of 10. Without doubt this is the best 360 game from my point of view with the 
 best graphics and its one of the young next-gen games!!!
  
  -Sound. 10 out of 10. This game has great sound when it comes to gun fire and vehicle movement.
 
  
  -Value. 9 out of 10. This game is worth most of the $59.99 by all of the ways it makes you feel 
 like a new breed of soldier.
  
  -Reviewer's Tilt. 10 out of 10. Overall the game is the best game for the 360 without a doubt and 
 you should get it if you want a game where it puts you in the view of a soldier who is in the future 
 of 2013 who fights for his country and freedom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_pettenuzzo11
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:10
  I have never been to mexico city but after playing GRAW i felt like i had tour the entire city, 
 the most beautiful game (exept oblivion) on the 360 the framerate is smooth and the lighting and 
 textures are beautiful.
  
  Gameplay:9
  The absolute only problem that i had with the gameplay was that your teammates were stupid to the 
 point that you would kill them at the start of a mission so you wouldnt hav to put with their stupidity 
 throught the misson, the multiplayer will get you to keep playing this game till the next Ghost 
 Recon Comes out.
  
  Sound:10 
  absolutly amazing, the music is great and the sound effects were astounding Ubisoft went the extra 
 mile with the sound good job.
  
  I got this game on the first day it came out and i was impressed after the first 30 seconds i played 
 it, dont rent dont borrow do your self a favour and BUY IT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deltaforce80377
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 7, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  This game has very good graphics and very good sound and the gameplay si a liitle short but the 
 storyline is well thought out. This game is an open shooter, you can take more than one path to 
 your objective. Also the cross com is cool, seeing what your support and teammates are seeing. 
 Commanding apaches and bradleys are great. Its a little difficult but if you have a tatical mind 
 it should be no problem. The explosions are very realistic. Also the detail is cool able to shoot 
 out a tire on a car or shoot through tents and car windows is great. Even the car alarm goes off 
 if you hit it. The counter snipe feature is cool because you can shoot through thein surfaces to 
 take down your enemy.
  
  Now to the bad I personally think the game is too short, also I would like more guns than the SCARs 
 and the MRC, theres like 8 guns. There should be the M25, M312, M307, M320, M468, M16a3, Mk14 mod 
 0, Mk23 mod 0, Mk46 mod 0, Mk43 mod 1, M136, M3a3 maaws, M109, and even tough they cancelled the 
 xm8 i think they should put it in it. Also the galtings guns on the black Hawk should be mounted 
 on both sides and in the windowa next to it.. I also think it will be cool to customize your weapons. 
 And I like leaning while I'm prone or any postion the whole pivit thing in 360 is a little dramatic 
 noone mores that fast and doesn't get shoot, but it's cool and should be kept. And if your going 
 to mmake a 3rd person shooter please make the reloading realistic, not that whole invisible reload 
 thing, For the biggest one please make it fist person it such a better experience. A few minoe 
 things the rallys points the truck comes alone in hostile terrain, ad it doesn't get shot I personally 
 there should be Hummer escorts, and they need to re-think the whole armored vechile escorts because 
 in some missions i don't know where they come from or how they appeared in hostile terrain. And 
 one last thing the scar h has a 20 rd magazzine not a 30 rd one thats 5.56 not 7.62
  
  Over all this game is great, I just spot little things that needs to fix. Buy it wroth it. And 
 stay away from the ps2 versions it sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astrodude_5
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 8, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  GRAW comes so close to being one of the best games ever, but misses the mark by just a little. 
 Still a very awesome, and intense game, but not really a killer app. It is 2013, and you are Scott 
 Mitchell and you and your squad (among other things) protect some presidents and defeat some terrorists 
 that run amuck in Mexico City.
  
  First off... gameplay. I give it an 8 out of 10 because the controls are a tad akward. I'm talking 
 about weapons. Switching guns is a chore, but otherwise it controls mostly fine. My other problem 
 is squad A. I. They are rather dull, and often don't do what you tell them. They do, however, hold 
 their own in battle. Another minor gripe is the checkpoints. You'll often have to replay missions 
 because by the last checkpoint, your friends are dead and you only have a tiny bit of health. The 
 good about gameplay are the core controls and everything else. The core controls are intuitive 
 and everything else, including the aiming and combat dives and slides are awesome. You'll feel 
 like a super modern army guy when you dive behind cover, roll out, shoot some guys down, roll back, 
 get up and slide behind more cover, pop your head out and win the battle.
  
  The visuals (at least in single-player) will blow you away. Perhaps the single most impressive 
 thing is the HDR lighting. It's in full affect here and to go with that, you have great looking 
 explosions, semi-destructible environments, and decent textures. It's beautiful in a realistic 
 way, rather than the exaggerated beauty such as Oblivion. Of course the visuals are far from perfect, 
 as certain textures are muddy, and you can see single pixels in the reflections of some windows. 
 My biggest gripe is the reduced graphics in multiplayer. Aside from some maps (*cough* Dry Docks 
 *cough) , the majority of the multiplayer looks obviously worse than single-player. Multi-player 
 is by no means ugly, but not fully realized.
  
  Speaking of multiplayer, you could spend hours playing it if you like it. There are plenty of modes 
 & maps but it's very hard to jump in and learn.
  
  GRAW sounds great. There is decent to good voice acting, great music, and great sound effects. 
 One odd thing is the licensed rock music in your helicopter, but is otherwise great.
  
  In terms of playtime, mabe 10-12 hours in campaign and 2-infinity hours in multi-player.
  
 
  So if you enjoy Clancy or Ghost Recon games, you should definitely pick this one up, or at least 
 check it out. I don't think the 360 is in a dry spell for games, but this really the first of its 
 type on 360, and really worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bsager87
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 7, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter is the first truely next generation game, combining the stunning 
 graphics of the 360, with superb sound, and terrific gameplay. You start the game off being dropped 
 off into Mexico City, and straight from the start you realize this will be a new experiance as 
 you can see the model of the city is painstakingly accurate. The Cross-Com is what makes you feel 
 as though you are in the game, you are feed tons of info, all in real time through this as you 
 fight. The graphics are the best yet on the 360, especially the lighting and contrast values. At 
 times, they will seem to bright but anyone who has visited Mexico City can agree that this is very 
 realistic.
  
  The drawbacks to the game are minimal, but there are a few. First off, the A. I. of your teammates 
 can leave you wondering how they became elite Ghosts of the U. S. Army. They will somtimes stand 
 right in the line of fire, or make very poor choices as who and what to target. Also, the enemy 
 A. I. is fairly straight forward, if you are in there line of sight, they shoot at you, and only 
 you. Lastly, in Mexico City, the most populated city in the world, you see exactly zero civilians 
 in the street. This takes away from the realism that is instilled by the graphics and sound.
  
  Overall this game is a must buy for any 360 owner, as it has a multiplayer with tons of gameplay 
 modes (Think Halo 2 type gametype design.) Co-Op online and off, with specific Co-Op missions, 
 and almost never has lag or online problems when playing on Live.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone with a 360 as long as you like shooters. It easily surpasses any 
 of the first-person shooters availible, and has the multiplayer to make it worth your $60.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Webhydra
Rating: 3.3
Date: Apr 9, 2006 10:36 pm PT
Review:  I have been with the GR series since it first came out on the Xbox as one of the best games at 
 XBOX LIVES's premier and featured a huge list of exotic guns and a very visceral 1 2 hit kill system 
 with sprawling open-ended environments, so when I heard the next chapter would be coming out for 
 the 360 I was very interested to see how it would fare.
  
  Sadly it stumbles onto the new box like a drunken sailor, half naked and about as pretty.
  
 
  Once you get over the very impressive View distance and depth of field blur effects you will notice 
 the poor sub Xbox textures and repetitive color palate, animations on enemies are still very stiff 
 and give the impression that in 2013 Mexico will be invaded by psychic robots, sometimes even in 
 pitch darkness an enemy who is without night vision will pick you off with a single shot at 400 
 yards, in many cases you will have to replay from your check point over and over again while you 
 try to scan the horizon for your psychic assailant.
  
  One of the great features of any Ghost Recon was the buttery smooth control and aim that was virtually 
 unrivaled on any console, so it is puzzling, why Ubisoft decided to toss it out the window for 
 what feels Identical to the floaty cam and reticule system that plagued games like "The Outfit" 
 and "Armed and Dangerous", precision aim literally no longer even exists and while this may be 
 fine fore a 3rd person action game, its completely frustrating in a game where one bullet can put 
 you in a pine box to be forced into spraying a location with half a clip before your target falls.
 
  
  If this wasn't bad enough the scope is even more of a joke since the game can take up to 2 seconds 
 to bring up the scope and takes another 1.5 to zoom in and then another 3 seconds to zoom in with 
 your breath held this totals a full 6.5 seconds before your ready to even take your shot, and if 
 the target is walking at even a slow pace the scope will be hard pressed to keep up, 
  
  One area Ghost recon has never disappointed in was an exotic and interesting collection of weapons 
 to choose from, the number of witch increasing with each successive chapter in the series and GRAW 
 is extremely disappointing here, where GR2: summit Strike boasted 35+ weapons GRAW offers a pitiful 
 12-15 ditching some of the best guns like the M8, mp5-sd, and M246, FAMAS, but considering how 
 accuracy and the ability to zoom has been all but eliminated your choice of weapon has little to 
 no impact on how you play, and in a game that was primarily great for its huge and diverse weapon 
 selection this is unforgivable.
  
  If there is anything I liked it is the multiplayer, though not even close to as good as summit 
 strike, the smoke grenades can breath a little life into this otherwise stripped down SOCOM clone.
 
  
  Sadly GRAW moves to far from its roots, if you have never enjoyed a GR title before you may well 
 like it but if your a GR fan you will find a short soulless shell of what was once a great series. 
 [UPDATE] It seems most likely people who give this game high scores are simply newcomers with no 
 previous expeiriance in a Ghost recon title and dont realize what a huge step backwords GRAW is 
 in terms of teamate AI, and control, but what is outright stupid is the stuborn insistance that 
 this game looks good in any way draw distances not withstanding, this games textures could have 
 been better rendered by an NES and has little to no bump mapping giving the repeditive urban enviroment 
 the look of a cardbord box village!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_gamer_god_X
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 6, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  This game was was fun but to similar to ghost recon 2. I mean it has better graphics and sound, 
 and more wepons. ANYWAY I havnt played the online cause my freinds live was down. Im sure it makes 
 the game a lot better. I wouldnt buy the game cause it's not that big of an improvement. Some of 
 the gunfights are really intense and fun. But man, are your teamates DuMb I swear i have to heal 
 them every five seconds. You get some new and cool weapons, not many though. You can customize 
 your squad which is really cool. So overall the M9 owns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXists
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 6, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  ------------------------------------------------------
  GAMEPLAY 8 / 10
  ------------------------------------------------------
  The Good  
  - Nice squad tactics
 
  - Challenging AI on Hard
  - Fast saving/loading times compared to other games
  
  The Bad  
  - Game End is pretty dull
  - Story lacks creativity
  - No Entering into buildings
 
  - If an enemy gets very near to your corner, you're toast
  - Squad acts stupid sometimes (AI)
  
  ------------------------------------------------------
 
  GRAPHICS 10 / 10
  ------------------------------------------------------
  The Good  
  - Looks great overall
  - Arguably the best graphics as of now
  
  The Bad  
  - None
  
 
  ------------------------------------------------------
  SOUND 8 / 10 
  ------------------------------------------------------
  The Good  
  - Well Done
  
  The 
 Bad  
  - None
  
  ------------------------------------------------------
  VALUE 9 / 10
  ------------------------------------------------------
  The Good  
  - Multiplayer
 
  - Co-op
  - Varied Achievements
  
  The Bad  
  - Repetitive
  - Single Player pretty short
  
  ------------------------------------------------------
  REVIEWER'S 
 TILT 9 / 10
  ------------------------------------------------------
  The Good  
  - Cross-Com pretty cool
  - Co-op missions
  
  The Bad  
  - No Save anytime 
  - Not enough 
 depth
  - More control over Squad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blkgto
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 6, 2006 9:46 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon games have always been quite enjoyable for me, but also extremely aggravating. 
 With the release of Advanced Warfighter however, comes the release of the most well balanced, most 
 intense, and most incredible tactical experiences offered yet by the series. The graphics are incredible, 
 however the lighting can and does make it very hard to see in certain areas, and in certain areas 
 you can see the enemies spawn before they launch an attack on you. Though this is slightly annoying, 
 in the long run it does not really detract from the gameplay experience in any way. The city itself 
 is immense, for when you hop on a helo at the end of a mission and take to the skies, it literally 
 sprawls out beneath you as far as you can see. At a distance the windows in the buildings do a 
 good job of reflecting the world around you, yet when you go up close to them its not nearly as 
 sharp. The only gripe that I have is that considering how heavily populated mexico city is, there 
 is no one around. Nobody is trying to go about their daily lives, there are no cars driving up 
 and down the streets, save those that belong to the rebels trying to kill you. This is somewhat 
 flustering but again it does not really detract from the gameplay experience. Take a moment to 
 worry about that while you are playing and the next thing you know you are in a firefight and its 
 the last thing on your mind. The soldiers look incredible too, both the members of your squad and 
 the enemies look really good. However I personally love big gaping flesh wounds, and there are 
 none on the bodies of the dead. With the kind of power the 360 offers, every shooter should have 
 realistic bullet wounds. Fire fights however do leave very nice scarring across the faces of buildings, 
 and if the enemy (or you) decides to take cover behind a vehicle, the windows can be shot out and 
 the doors can be shot off, making for a good experience. Be warned though, eventually, the gas 
 tank will go and the car will explode. 
  
  The sound is incredible as well, with the realistic thud of soft soled combat boots pounding the 
 pavement as you make your way up through the various areas in the game ranging from the business 
 district to the warehouse district, and eventually the shanty towns at the outskirts of the city. 
 Soldiers call out orders to each other, and they echo quite realistically through out the map. 
 I noticed two rebels talking to each other (in spanish) trying to figure out where me and my squad 
 had disappeared to, and it really brought feeling into the game. The explosions are earth shattering 
 with surround sound, yet unfortunately all the explosions look the same. 
  
  Tactically, this game is far superior to any of the other ghost recons in the series. There are 
 borders to the levels, but you rarely run into them (if you play right) so again this does not 
 really detract from the gameplay experience. Most of the time you have the opportunity to flank 
 your opponent or establish fire superiority in a way that protects your team from harm so there 
 is room for maneuver. The enemy AI is very good as well. They will pop smoke to cover their position, 
 throw grenades, flank you, call for back up, anything real ppl would do to come out on top. Unfortunately, 
 the same cannot be said for your teammates. Who let these imbeciles through boot camp? Not only 
 do the prove to be a danger to themselves, they can be a danger to you as well. When with your 
 squad you need to be extra careful. I have noticed that paul smith (rifleman) really has a problem 
 following orders too, but you can always shoot him in the head for disobeying you. I do. I dont 
 know what it is about him. Maybe they gave him a seperate personality, but of all the teammates 
 he is the one most likely to screw it up. He doesnt move when told to, and when he does sometimes 
 he just decides to keep running. When in recon mode he is the only one who will open fire, and 
 consequently he gets my team killed (go with ramirez) .
  
  The multiplayer is incredible. This is where the game shines. Absolutely incredible intense online 
 multiplayer. There are additional campaign lvls included in multiplayer that you dont cover in 
 the single player campaign, so you and your buddies can go head to head as a fully operational 
 special forces chalk and unleash pain and suffering upon all who stand in your way. Other modes 
 are Co-op Elimination (self explanatory) Co-op Fire Fight (my personal fave) and a few others, 
 all of which are quite entertaining. You also have the ability to customize your own character, 
 though its not nearly as in depth as say Oblivion, but you can choose their class, helmet style, 
 face, whether or not they have face paint, etc. The guns are a lot of fun to use too. The big MGs 
 really chew through ammo, car, and human tissue, and they feel extremely realistic thus providing 
 a great deal of entertainment. 
  
  You can tackle any of these modes in multiplayer in a singleplayer manner too, so have fun with 
 it, this game has a lot of replayability due not only to this but ability to change your tactics. 
 The only real nusances are the scramblers that mess up your hud. I find those extremely frustrating. 
 All in all however, this is everything you hoped it would be. I strongly encourage everyone to 
 check this game out. You will not be disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckyluke21
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 6, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  ghost recon advanced warfighter is set in 2013 you are a soldier fighting terrorist type people 
 you can control vehicles and a team of 3 men and the xbox 360 version is a bit different to the 
 normal xbox or the ps2 and the multiplayer is great online or off line there is a lot of missions 
 and a lot of gamescore points to get my personal offline multiplayer mission is the old town or 
 nowhere but one let down with this game on multiplayer is the maximum ammount of enemies is 50 
 but on one player it it hard to do the missions on any difficulty level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DutchDiis
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 6, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  Tired of being called a "n00b" and having your sexual orientation called into question by 12 year 
 olds on Xbox Live while playing Halo 2? Rejoice then, because there's finally another first person 
 shooter out that will make you take a break from the Master Chief... for a little while. 
  First off, since everyone seems to talk about this part of the game first: GRAW's graphics are 
 excellent and, to me, mark the emergence of truly next gen graphics on the Xbox 360. The lighting 
 an texturing is especially good, and it captures the dust and dirt of a third world country very 
 well. Almost every level is a graphical showcase, and the models are well detailed and animate 
 very nicely. 
  Of course, all this would be moot without gameplay (heck, this reviewer still plays Masters of 
 Orion I and Total Annihilation for the PC, simply because he hasn't found anything with better 
 gameplay out there yet) . The gameplay in GRAW is essentially standard FPS "move, shoot everyone 
 not on my team, and repeat" fare, but when its executed as well as it is here, that's not a bad 
 thing. Weapons are realistically lethal for both you and your opponents and you really won't want 
 to walk out in the street blindly because any old guard can cut you down with a quick burst. Grenades 
 and smoke grenades are handled well and cover is destroyed in a realistic manner. Shooting accurately 
 on the move, like in real life, is next to impossible, and fully automatic fire tends to jump around 
 a lot. Multiplayer gameplay is even better, even if the best tactic is to camp other people's spawn 
 points, which is a bit cheap. A Counter Strike style round system would improve that, but the game 
 is still quite a bit of fun. 
  The sound is very good for a video game -- I say it that way, because having spent a year in Iraq, 
 I have yet to hear a game replicate the way guns and explosions actually sound at close range, 
 but I'm not sure I want to. 
  Now, why, you may ask, does it only get an 8.6 from me? 
  First off -- the AI can be quite frustrating. Most of your enemies don't feel the need to fire and 
 maneuver on you. They're perfectly content to hide behind whatever cover they have and trade shots 
 with you, which inevitably leads to you, with better aim and weapon systems, picking them off one 
 by one. With the realistic weapon damaging models, it is quite possible for them to suppress you 
 and keep you in place; the next step should be their buddies maneuvering on you and flanking you 
 from the side. This rarely, if ever happened to me in the game. This can make certain sections 
 feel more like a shooting gallery than real live combat. Your friendly AI isn't much better at 
 times. My AT gunner blew himself and my team up multiple times by taking careless shots, and sometimes 
 your supposedly high speed special forces ranger types will _walk directly in front of you_ as 
 you're shooting... how did these guys even make it through basic training, much less land a spot 
 on the Army's elite team? Fortunately, playing against real enemies on Xbox Live is much more satisfying, 
 but is still no excuse for the designers to skimp out on the AI. 
  Secondly, some of the computer technology used in the game makes it a bit too easy to ID targets, 
 find out where enemies are hiding and overall take a lot of difficulty out of the game. I understand 
 the targeting system's implementation in the game (its supposed to be a future Army system) , but 
 it still seems a bit cheap sometimes. 
  My last, and somewhat smaller complaint, is that the game only takes about seven or eight hours 
 to beat. When I pay $60 dollars for a game, I'd like it to take a little longer. The multiplayer 
 is great, and the campaign was a lot of fun while it lasted... I just would feel a lot better if 
 I could just say "it was a lot of fun" and ended it right there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyperk7
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 5, 2006 10:00 pm PT
Review:  THIS IS A MUST HAVE FOR ANY FAN OF TOM CLANCY GAMES. LET ME START OF BY SAYING THIS IS THE ONLY 
 GAME ON 360 THAT LOOKS GOOD ON EITHER REGULAR OR HD, BUT IT LOOKS BETTER ON HD 1080I. BUT IN ONE 
 LEVEL IN THE GAME I HAD A PROBLEM WITH WALLS DISAPPERING AND OBJECTS. THE SOUND IS ONE OF THE BEST 
 SCORES I'VE HEARD SINCE A GOOD MIKE BAY MOVIE ITS THAT GOOD BUT IN A COUPLE OF LEVELS THE MUSIC 
 GLITCHES FROM HERE TO THERE NOTHING THAT SERIOUS THAT WOULD STOP YOU FROM PLAYING THE ALMOST PERFECT 
 GAMEPLAY. BY THAT I MEAN THE ENEMY SHOOTING YOU TRHU WALLS AND SOME **** IN THE GAMEPLAY FOR EXAMPLE (I 
 HUG A WALL AND WOULDEN'T LET ME MOVE. BUT THESE ARE LITTLE THINGS THAT I FOUND AND IM SURE YOU WON'T 
 HAVE TROUBLE WITH THEM. THE MULTIPLAYER PART OF THE GAME IS WHERE IT SHINES IN ALL DIRECTIONS. OUT 
 OF ALL THE TIME I PLAYED WITH THE GAME ONLINE AND I DID SPENT A LOT OF TIME WITH IT, THERE WHERE 
 NO LAG, GREAT CO-OP, A LOT OF PEOPLE TO PLAY WITH CHEAP RANKING SYSTEM THOUGH. IF YOUR A FAN OF GR 
 SERIES ITS A MUST HAVE, HAVE XBOX LIVE GET IT, IF YOU HAVE A 360 AND WANT TO SHOW OFF WHAT IT IS 
 CAPABLE OF YOU WONT BE SORRY WITH THIS BUY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HamanZz
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 5, 2006 11:11 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a next-generation game in the fullest sense, whether it's the 
 loaded package of impressive graphics and special effects, the top-notch sound, or the tactically 
 enhanced gameplay. Red Storm's four-plus months of extra time have served the game incredibly well 
 and you can see the difference in the screenshots and you will feel it in the gameplay. It's still 
 Ghost Recon, which is to say it's still a rather acquired taste in first/third-person shooters, 
 but as the series goes, this one is easily the best one yet. You'll be impressed with the stunning 
 single-player game, and when you're done, you'll finally get to play long sessions on Xbox Live 
 with an online game that's fully equipped to deliver a next-gen package. My advice, get this game, 
 or get thee to a nunnery! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdtragichero
Rating: 5.7
Date: Apr 5, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of Clancy games for a long time. Chaos Theory is one of my favorites. GRAW, while 
 beautifully employing the graphics capabilities of the 360, leaves a great deal to be desired in 
 playability. First of all, Scott is incredibly slow -- hard to believe for a Ghost. He runs slowly, 
 squats slowly, and aims slowly. It's frustrating when you know in the real world you'd be able 
 to move your head around quickly to identify enemy positions. In GRAW, your head turn is too slow, 
 and forget it if you're looking through the scope. The lame excuse that you would not be able to 
 move quickly when looking through a scope on a gun is simply wrong. There's no way that your targeting 
 of an enemy who's moving over open ground would be SLOWER than the guy running 150-200 yards away 
 from you. Of course, this assumes that you haven't been shot before the scope decides to come up 
 after you punch down the right thumbstick. Another huge complaint regarding the interface is that, 
 while you're under pressure, trying to run (slowly, gaw!) to a covered position and you're trying 
 to look around, the pressure you apply to the left thumbstick will drop you into a crouch in the 
 middle of the street -- or worse, you'll drop into a prone position. Yeah, that would happen in the 
 real world. A special ops expert would go prone in the middle of the street. Geesh! Did they even 
 try out this game before running it out. I think most reviewers are incapable of writing a negative 
 review of a Clancy game, due to the fact that quality control has been Ubisoft's forte from the 
 beginning. I rate the game "very hard" not because it's difficult to learn the interface -- it's 
 pretty standard; I rate it "very hard" because it just won't do what you want it to do when you 
 want it to do it. I don't play video games to dinker around with the subtleties of the controller. 
 I want the controller to virtually disappear, responding instantly and accurately to my desires. 
 This game's a big bust. Too bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aromon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 5, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Whether a Ghost Recon fan or not, this game will appeal to you. First of all, it is the best looking 
 game on the 360 (Oblivion compares, but has minor glitches at times) and it is packed full of the 
 standard GR content. Order your troops to specific locations, put them on alert or laid back and 
 use special tactics to overcome the enemy. As you know this is set in 2013, so they have incorporated 
 futuristic technology to give the player a new combat experience. You have a light blue outline 
 around your squad and a red outline around the enemy. You can also snipe through walls and use 
 a remote controlled hovercraft to percieve your environment and the enemies in the area. Although 
 those are pretty cool, the gameplay lacks control and you will find yourself dying over and over 
 and over again due to faulty gameplay and the lack of you squad's AI. Also, now instantaneous grenade 
 throwing. You instead have to change completely to grenades as your only weapon, gauge your distance 
 with a fluxuant bar and and then wait 5 seconds for it to explode. Now that specific details have 
 been discussed, here's the rubric.
  Gameplay: Overall good, but has limitations that make it frustrating
  Graphics: Excellent. Superb. 
 Spectacular. Your own adjective here _______
  Sound: Great. Machinery and voice variations superb.
  Value: Best action game on 360 and one 
 of the best available. Graphics can't be beat and new futuristic gameplay very fun to use and quite 
 effective during combat
  To buy or not to buy: Unless you are considering Oblivion or GRAW, get Oblivion, otherwise BUY 
 NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raymin4
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 5, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  First off I have to say that the graphics for this game are beautiful, out right awesome, and very 
 realistic. The lack of neutral towns folk walking around is a little strange, but helpful to me 
 since I tend to shoot the neutrals on accident and fail missions. For me, commanding the vehicles 
 and the Sypher took some getting used to. The AI of your team mates is pretty sharp, but I wish 
 I could give them a few more commands rather than just regroup and go to. The enemy AI is also 
 pretty smart and can see better then I can.... they tend to spot me first.... The game also does 
 a great job with the lighting and shadow effects like how the sun causes glare in the scope of 
 your gun. Overall this game is awesome and has opened my eyes back up to tactical shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phsknight
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 5, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is quite a piece of work. Its single-player, while fun is not nearly as engagin and addicting 
 as its multi-player via live. Its got good graphics, some nice, nice ENEMY AI, your team mates 
 leave something to be desired, the controls are nice and responsive and the game has great effects 
 such as particle effects, the sunlight that blinds you for a second while you walk out of a building. 
 Some minor issues are some multiplayer things, such as the ability to not just walk off a ledge 
 or things like that and when you bring a guest, you are forced to play in 1st person view, where 
 you cant even see your gun. All in all though, this is a fun game and the best shooter for the 
 360 right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fares_bytes
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 5, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The game looks amazing, everything looks rich and detailed, really good lighting effects, animations 
 looks like he is a real soldier moving, this is i buetiful game to see, multiplayer graphics doesnt 
 look as good as the single player mode but also looks damn good.
  
  Sound: Each gun has different sound, you could hear the bullets peircing the walls, the music adds 
 tension, the enemy screams in Spanish, while you teamates screams for help. Just Awesome Sounds in 
 this game.
  
  Gameplay: Way Better Then Every Other Ghost Recon Game, I Like The First Ghost Recon Game, I Also 
 Like Island Thunder, Ghost Recon 2, i didnt like as much, This one is my favorite, the game has just 
 been improve to kick ass, multiplayer also good too but I suck at it, Im improving slowly.
  
  Overall: Buy This Game, I dont know how the original X-Box and PS2 version are so dont get confuse 
 with the 360 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b11051973
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 5, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  I realized I was playing the next generation of gaming when I booted up GRAW. My jaw dropped at 
 the amazing visuals that my HDTV was displaying. All cut scenes are done with the game engine. 
 So, there are seamless transitions from cut scene to game play.
  
  At first, I was a bit overwhelmed by the controls. The basic training level really threw a lot 
 at me, but with time, it all became second nature. The missions themselves were between simple 
 to extremely frustrating. There was more than one part that I had to try and try again. I was very 
 satisfied with the entire game that I had to go back and try it on the "hard" difficulty setting.
 
  
  As for Xbox Live multi-player, the campaign missions are some of the most fun I've had with a video-game. 
 The existing missions are labeled as Chapter 1. I pray nightly to the Ubisoft gods that a Chapter 
 2 release is in the near future. Co-op multi-play is a fun, stress-free mode. It's fun working 
 with friends to complete missions versus running around killing each other with a hundred respawns.
 
  
  I have 2 main gripes about the game. The first being the stupidity of the in game AI. This includes 
 both enemy and friendly soldiers. Most of the time in single player, I would have my soldier hold 
 position far away from the action. If I'd bring them with, they'd just get in the way or quickly 
 die. The enemy soldiers also aren't the most intelligent, but better than my guys.
  
  My second issue is random disconnections during Xbox Live play. It doesn't seem to matter who I 
 play with, it happens. Not every game, but enough to be extremely frustrating. I don't know if 
 this is a case like the Call of Duty 2 multi-player patch. If so, I hope Ubisoft gets a fix out 
 sooner than the IW guys did.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stranger_tan17
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 5, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best game for xbox 360 as of this date of April 5th 2006 and will be for time 
 to come.... the graphics are absolutly amazing and are deffianitly 360 worthy this game is the reason 
 for people to buy xbox 360 i htink that not only is the single player good but the multiplayeris 
 amazing i currently do not have live but i have played the game live and its soo good you have 
 to play the game once u play the game youll be hooked casue i no i am... this game makes you feel 
 like you are part of the army it ahs its own mind set when you play it truly revolutionizes the 
 way people feel about the army but also now how they act in the army! this game is sick i encourage 
 all to get it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Escapingjail
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Ok let me start off by saying this game is by far the best game on the xbox 360 right now and for 
 a very long time. This IS the killer App we have all been waiting for! DO NOT Hesitate to buy this 
 game!!! 
  
  Graphics- Best looking game on ANY console as of right now. No other game right now beats the sharpness 
 and lifelike visuals of this one. I guarantee if you show this to one of your "older relatives". 
 they will swear it's real. The game shows off HDR lighting epic scenery and verryyy high res textures
 
  
  Sound- Everything Is very well done all aspects of the are done precise and are very clear. Like 
 when your in the helicopter you will hear the liscened music playing in the background. The orchestral 
 musicdone in the game is done by Tom Salta one of the better music composers out there his music 
 really adds to the tone and vibe while playing the game.
  
  Gameplay- Very easy to learn hard to master Single player is a good mix of challenges that hone 
 your skills. Multiplayer is where you take those skills and dominate someone else with those skills. 
 in singleplayer you are doing missions im mexico city tostop terrorists from a hostle takeover 
 of the city. it's very intence.
  
  Replay Value- You could play this game for an extremely long time becauseof the multiplayer. there 
 are soo many gametypes to play and explore with tons of gametypes you will lose many hours playing 
 this one!
  
  if your a Ghost Recon Vet you will love this. If your new to gaming, you will love this. If your 
 living on this earth. You will love this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilchild
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 5, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game but something was left, i dont know what was it actually, Call Of Duty 
 was better for me, more realistic and better graphics.
  
  Gameplay- its pretty fun but like i said, i dont know why i got lil bored, sometimes it gets really 
 hard eventhough you are on medium difficulty
  
  Graphics- They are really good on Standard TV
  
  Sound- So far so good
  
  Value- Its ok 
 for a good game, 50 bucks was it?
  
  Tilt- Some of them said a 8 or 9 but for me almost 8
  
  I'm not saying this game sucks but 
 i liked more Call of Duty 2, even though is really short it has (COD2) better gameplay for me. 
 Try both of them to see which one is the right for ya, if i was you, i would take COD2 first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rangers1690
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 5, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  when i turned the game on i was amazed with the graphics, the movement of the squad and the action 
 but once i got like an hour or two into it i was bored with this game more than i have ever been 
 with a game. i took it back to the store the same day i bought it. really disappointing cause after 
 the reviews it was getting i thought it looked good but having played it myself it was absolute 
 garbage. i was on the fence about buying it to start with and to be honest i wish i would't have 
 so if you don't already have it and are on the fence about getting it - don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Limonadi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 5, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  For starters, let me say this -- GRAW is fun. Lots of fun. From the moment I started the single-player 
 campaign and was immersed in such a realistic, desolate city, I knew I was in for a good gaming 
 experience. I have been playing for about a week now (switching it up between single-player and 
 Live play) and I am still having a lot of fun with this one.
  BUT... I am getting very hung-up on the multiplayer in GRAW. This frustration can be summed up 
 very easily -- The lobby system in this game is way outdated. Say what you will about the actual 
 gameplay (it is very good) , but no gamer should EVER have to wait for between 2-15 minutes in a 
 Lobby for the others to finish up a game before you can join. It is simply unbearable. I can understand 
 having it set that way (so you can't join a game in progress) in ranked matches; that somewhat 
 makes sense. But in Player matches? Come on! You can't be serious! I just want to jump in and play! 
 Isn't that what the 360 is all about -- "Jump In?"
  I hate to say it, but waiting around in game lobbies in GRAW reminds me of waiting around in game 
 lobbies in Quake 4. Needless to say, I didn't do that for very long.
  The worst part about it is that you have to actually enter the lobby to get an accurate display 
 of how much time is left. Once you do that, if you want to leave because you know you won't be 
 playing in that room for about 15 minutes, you have to go back to the match selection screen, and 
 then it searches for games again, which is in itself a long bothersome process.
  Well, enough about that. Bottom line -- great gameplay, especially in multiplayer (when you finally 
 do get to play) . If they would just fix the mess that they call a lobby system, then this game 
 would rate higher than the 9.0 that I am giving it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DFT8
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2006 1:32 am PT
Review:  this is the perfect war game!!! and i mean perfect!!!!! this is just soooooo good!! i love it! graphics 
 and gameplay is just fun! good looking!! like a good looking female!!! it can be hard and fustrating 
 but when you get the hang of it its just outplayes you! you gonna sitt infront of the tv the whole 
 day belive me!!! i recomend this game to everyone that has a 360!!!!! its game beats call of duty 
 and the outfit right in the a**!!! if you like war games this game is right for you!!! multiplayer 
 mode up to 16 people and link up to 4-16 people!
  you will love this game!! its very hard in the beginning but this game is like real!!! normal mode!!2-3 
 shots and your dead! hard they go for your head!!! ubisoft has outdone themself with this game!!
 
  I RECOMEND IT TO  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TavLok
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 4, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  The Death of Screenshots.
  
  That should be the subtitle that goes with the new generation of gaming. I was completely unprepared 
 for how this game would look and play in full motion. Nothing in the poorly captured trailers and 
 screens did GRAW any real justice.
  
  This Game is Stunning, simply Stunning.
  
  The madness that is the console wars has everyone claiming what IS and what ISN'T a next gen game. 
 The definitions are all over the place, but usually come down along typical fanboy lines. 
  
  Well as a gamer who has invested in many platform in previous generations, I can say that GRAW 
 delivers a game experience like no other. From the moment I fired up my Xbox360, to the 1st break 
 that I took to come up for air after nearly 5 straight hours of play, I was very impressed with 
 GRAW.
  
  It was only until after I got over the amazing graphics and seemless in-game cinemas that run fluidly 
 with gameplay was I able to settle down and get into the wicked gameplay mechanics that GRAW offers. 
 Sweeping high definition views of a huge and highly detailed Mexico City had me saying, "Wow" over 
 and over again. There were moments where I swore that I felt the heat and the haze of the day.
 
  
  The destructible environments and explosive effects will have you taking in the scenery rather 
 than fighting in the beginning.
  
  When I finally gained control over my little bout of graphic whoredom, GRAW rewarded me with a 
 finely tuned set of game tools, most significantly..... the cross-com. But I'll come to that in 
 a moment. First the story.
  
  To make a long mission short, and not give away the story (not that there's much to give away) 
 you take command of Captain Mitchell and a his squad of ghosts, who just so happen to be running 
 a reconnoiter in Mexico as some tri-lateral trade agreement is being ratified by North America's 
 heads of state.
  
  Like our economy needs another one of these : (
  
  Anyway all hell breaks lose and the body count gets serious quickly. As you leap into action the 
 game's most priceless tools comes in to play. The Cross-Com and the Nar-Com.
  
  The Cross-Com hovers in the upper left portion of the interface, and allows you to both communicate 
 with and take in the POV of your squad and visa versa. The Cross-Com allows you to take command 
 of your ghost squad, armor, black hawks and drones.
  
  The Nar-Com is a transceiver that allows you to communicate with high ranking officials and receive 
 local news broadcasts. The later is not as helpful, but getting local news in realtime is a still 
 a cool feature even if none of the info is a useful as the intel you're receiving from the chain 
 of command. 
  
  I'm not sure exactly how the Cross-com is going to effect gaming in this genre, but it's certainly 
 going to have an impact. I suddenly find myself wishing I had it in other games. Who wouldn't want 
 to call in for real-time air support or armor in Halo2 instead of waiting for it to be provided 
 at a checkpoint?
  
  Trust me, this feature is going to change the way combat is handled in games. Especially online.
 
  
  The missions themselves are both varied and protracted. Some aspects of a mission will have you 
 sniping, others will have you doing demolition or flat out gunning around the city in numerous 
 ways. Which brings up the AI, it can be a bit tricky.
  
  Needless to say, you are going to have get used to the idea of taking cover. Gamers who like to 
 gun and run (and you know who you are) are going to have change their playing habits. The success 
 of these missions depend on cover, stealth and thinking creatively. You won't have to think too 
 hard, the AI isn't brilliant, but there are enough snipers all over the place to nail your squad 
 in a heartbeat. The best way to deal with all of this rooftop trigger happiness is the spy drone.
 
  
  Repeat after me, "The drone is your friend"
  
  The escort missions will have you inventing new curses as these clueless but important people make 
 your squad's job 10 times as difficult. After repeating these missions over a few times, you may 
 want to kill the escortees or get a laugh out of watching them die. I know I did.
  
  Well I should cut this short, or I'll go on forever. Everything you're hearing about this game 
 is true. The graphics, the gameplay, and the innovation are all there. A 1st class gaming experience 
 that won't soon be forgotten. Well deserving of the praise it's been receiving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capin131
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 7, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter was one of the more anticipated titles on the Xbox 
 360. Past installments of the series has gathered a big following. Does Ghost Recon deliver? For 
 the most part, yes.
  
  The plot takes you, Captain Scott Mitchell to Mexico City to ensure the security of world leaders 
 in signing a North American Security Agreement. The city goes to hell when Mexican Rebels take 
 control of the city and kill the Canadian Prime Minister.
  
  This throws you and your Ghost team members into a struggle that pits you against copious amounts 
 of insurgents throughout the city. You will escort VIP's, defend embassies, siege buildings, and 
 go street to street to restore order in Mexico City.
  
  The campaign gives you a lot of variety in the gameplay and where you will be fighting. You will 
 be taking defensive and offensive positions throughout the game as twist after twist is sent at 
 you. The campaign is probably the most visceral and intense Xbox 360 experience since Call of Duty 
 2. You are constantly on your toes because one well placed shot could send you back to your last 
 checkpoint. 
  
  The HUD is also a big part of the gameplay. It allows you to search for targets and outlines them 
 in red so you know what you are up against, and also outlines your Ghost team in blue, and allied 
 members in green. Some might find the outlining of foes cheap, but it is needed because at times 
 the amount of fighters you encounter can be overwhelming, even at the normal difficulty setting, 
 which should give every gamer a good challenge. 
  
  Controlling your Ghosts via the Cross-Com and your various air/ground support is fairly simple. 
 Right or left on the D-Pad switches to air or ground support or switches to your Ghosts. You push 
 up on the D-Pad to move the plane/tank/soldiers to the desired positions, or if your recticle is 
 on an enemy and you push up on the D-Pad, it will attack. Pressing down will tell them to regroup 
 on your position. 
  
  One problem though is that for the most part, the soldiers are not really that smart and tend to 
 just be there to give you some limited support and get shot. You will encounter many times where 
 they will not take cover effectively, and will die, or will blankly run in front of you while you 
 are shooting. However, I found that the tanks and planes were very helpful in the campaign in taking 
 out rebel soldiers and tanks.
  
  Graphically, one could argue that this is the best looking 360 game on the system. Helicopter rides 
 in between missions are probably the most memorable parts graphically. You get a breathtaking view 
 of Mexico City. The character models are nice and detailed. You can see the creases in the clothes 
 of Captain Mitchell and his ghosts. The buildings look very nice close up as well as far away, 
 and the monuments are very true to real life.
  
  The game also features some very solid sound. The soundtrack is varied from epic classical music 
 in certain fighting situations, while the helicopter rides often have rock music. The sound of 
 shooting the gun feels spot on, and feels and sounds like you are doing some damage when you shoot.
 
  
  Personally, though, one of the flaws is value. The campaign will take you 8-12 hours, depending 
 on if you get stuck in certain areas for a while, and it does have co-op missions, which are nice. 
 However, the online seems to be somewhat lackluster. 
  
  The online pits a blue team against a red team. When you are on the red team, it just seems odd 
 to see the red diamonds around friendlies that seems to be counter-intuitive, after playing the 
 single-player.
  
  Another problem that I encountered was the pacing of the multiplayer was entirely different from 
 the single player experience. The speed of the game was ramped up to give it more of a run-and-gun 
 style, and oddly, you can't take cover up against the wall like you could in the single-player 
 campaign, which I also found strange. 
  
  Online does have some nice things about it though. You will never have a problem finding a game 
 on Xbox Live and I have not encountered any lag. The multiplayer also does have a tremendous amount 
 of customization , and there is a lot of fun to be had if you are a hardcore Ghost Recon fan.
 
  
  Overall, Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is just a tremendous achievement. The folks at Ubisoft 
 should be very proud of this game. The combination of an awesome presentation, stellar and intense 
 gameplay, awe-inspiring graphics makes Advanced Warfighter a must have in every Xbox 360 owners 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silv3rSt0rm82
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  Ok, I had my Xbox 360 since january now and I must say I've been waiting for something to really 
 amaze me that had yet to come until this game came out.
  
  A friend of mine bought it as soon as it was released and I didn't really get the hype since I've 
 never loved Tom Clancy's games before except for splinter cell. I didn't liked rainbow 6 cause 
 action wasnt fast paced enough for me.
  
  So I went to his home and watch the game.
  Very first minute I played it I went like:"Holy crap, controls are messed up and difficult" but 
 everything got better. I'd say it takes from 15 mins to h to really get used and get accurate 
 and responsive.
  
  What I love about this game is that you can play it many ways.
  You could take it easy, sending your team first in bloodbaths or you can use initiative to be a 
 real leader and get backed with your team.
  
  I have to admit that this game is overall the best action/shooter I played yet.
  I have almost 
 no cons to give to this game except that a little more interaction with the environment would have 
 been good. In the game you often come by Gas tanks and other explosive things that just wont blow 
 even if you throw rockets at it...
  
  Anyway you take it, this is a must buy.
  To me, this game is better than oblivion cause it can reach ANYONE and you can play ANYTIME.
 
  You can always pop the game in and play for a checkpoint or two, or multiplayer. In oblivion, 
 it gets so immersive that you have to get in for at least a couple of hours... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HassMann
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 4, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  Yeah it's a good game but the single player part could have been better. In single player I got 
 a good feeling how it is to be a soldier. Not running around like a mad rambo and shot 1000 shots 
 in a min. Stay in cover is very cool. But total letdown I was finish with the game in 8 hours. 
 
  
  multi player is fun.. but could have been better too. Need more maps a more ways to play. you know.. 
 there is nothing new i GRAW's multi player. Just the same cs style of play. But a good game with 
 your friends i coop is fun, but then again we need more maps to play with coop and more enemies.
 
  
  It is a great game but you got to have live to really get the full out of the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toma_sasr_aus
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 4, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  If your friends are over and you want to convince them that the xbox 360 has the greatest game 
 play and graphics you show this game off. it will simply blow their minds this game is not far 
 from perfect, with player models taking actual steps and stepping on stair properly not floating 
 on them how much more detail could they put? 
  The intense realistic gameplay has you jumping from your couch (which will be very dirty for the 
 amount of time you will be playing on the 360) with stunning effects and multiplayer madness you 
 will never regret buying GRAW. The game will simply leave you in tears of joy or tears of hurt 
 because of the intense gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomleetaiwan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 3, 2006 11:42 pm PT
Review:  After playing for about two hours last night I thought I would give my impressions of the game.
 
  
  It's best strategy shooting game in XBOX360 now! The fantastic Maxico city is really attractive 
 everyone. I normally dont like a shooting games but GRAW did look kinda appealing to me and I was 
 in desperate need of some next-gen gaming. So I stick in the game and play and the first thing 
 I realize is the amazing. Bullets wizz past your ear as you think to yourself, that could have 
 been the bullet to kill me. Ghost Recon is about making the most realistic experience ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TransAmSD455
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 3, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Got this game right when i first picked up my 360. Might i say the suspense was killing me! the 
 screen shots and all the stories about how great this game was! did the game live up to it?
  
  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter IS EXACTLY what it sounds, an advanced Warfighter game. You've 
 got all these cool little arrows and guages and things all over the hud, unless you are really 
 into the whole technicle warfare, then this can actually get annoying, but i learned to deal with 
 it. 
  
  Graphicly wise, this games pretty top notch, a few glitches here and there, rag doll bodies and 
 pretty nasty sound effects here and there kinda hamper it but the city (not the windows) look fantastic, 
 so do the team mates and wepons, for it being a pretty early game, its pretty fun just to run and 
 gun and see how pretty you die.
  
  Game play in generals pretty fun ONCE YOU FIGURE everything out, when learning, it can be a REAL 
 pain in the butt, but once you grow and figure out how to play and adapt your own play style? you'll 
 probrably love it
  
  In all generality. The game actually only scores a HIGH RENTLE ALERT, but here's the thing, if 
 you do like it? BUY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cokedaz
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 3, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Not a too shabby game, Graphics dont mean anything if gameplay is poor, which I wouldnt say was 
 bad, but there are many other games out there that have a more enjoyable shooting system. 
  
  The game has some nice aspects which probably were the reason it tempted me to buy a 360. Being 
 able to choose from a pretty decent choice of weapons and choosing a look for your player. Those 
 two and co-op online story modes all make an excelent combo. 
  
  Its just a shame the singleplayer missions fell well below my expectations. I have played other 
 shooters that easily beat the story mode of this game. The first week alone I played story mode 
 once, I REALLY didnt want to continue with this game. What is annoying is at times not being able 
 to see because of sunlight, a huge assortment of bugs and annoyances. A number of times the whole 
 level would disapear and all I would be able to see is my gun floating and the enemies. It only 
 fixes if you manage to progress quite a while which is hard when you cannot see anything. Some 
 missions mess up and prevent you from continuing, and you have to restart the mission entirely. 
 Shooting delay bugs, and all sorts just make it very hard to enjoy.
  
  Most of all I just felt the story was very quick and weak. What could have been very memorable 
 as maybe the best missions in a 3rd person shooter, just lack so much. Most of the time my teammates 
 are more use to me out of the way as they never seem to take decent cover and just die and never 
 know where enemies are. When your crosscom is jammed its stupid that you can hardly see at all, 
 it would be better if you could just turn it off, unrealistic that you have to use nightvision 
 just to see where you are going because of static fuzz on your screen. Not to mention how easy 
 it gets at the end, I ended up killing the main bad guy without knowing.
  
  Overall this game isnt bad, but definately not as good as people make it out to be.
  
  You 
 can get bored quickly and unless you really love shooters and guns you will drop this game in before 
 2 to 3 weeks tops.
  
  Definately not worth buying a 350 xbox 360 for, which I did. I was more excited about max payne 
 2 which I got the same time as this game as well as the console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirFatalChaos
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 3, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game for the 360 and I had a blast. Sound? Great! Graphics? Poondizzel! Multiplayer? 
 That's a different story...
  
  The Storymode was fantastic. Good combat and intense action. The only cons were that your teammates 
 AI sucked the big one and sometimes some random person comes out and ganks you.
  
  The multiplayer was good but it could've been better. The lobby and searching for a game was abysmal. 
 It took give or take 5 minutes for 1 lobby to come up and when you clicked on a room it already 
 started so you had to wait 10 minutes for the game to end. When you got in the game it was fun. 
 The aiming was a bit slow but it was fun. Too many people teaming killing or spawn camping in the 
 game though. If they just fixed the rooms and lobbies the online would be much better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newfg311
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 3, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  Much like other Ghost Recon games, you have the ability to control your soldiers, except in this 
 version, the characters that you control actually listen to what commands you give them. The missions 
 are no walk in the park, but they are extremely intense and action packed, which makes for an excellent 
 gaming experience. If you like warfare, especially current, urban style warfare, this is the game 
 for you. This game brings the War On Terror style of combat to your Xbox 360 and HD televisions 
 and lets you experience the combat like never before. The new features of this futuristic war are 
 simply amazing. The game forces you to force yourself to put down the controller once you pick 
 it up and begin a mission. The best part of the missions, in my opinion, is how everything runs 
 together and you actually hear your next mission while flying to the drop zone or riding in an 
 armored vehicle from the extraction point. I cannot stress enough how awesome this game is. Go 
 pick it up today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldFireFly
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 3, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 
  
  Immediately after beginning the single-player campaign of GRAW, it is quite clear that this is 
 a major step up from any previous Ghost title. The campaign was designed by Ubisofts Paris crew, 
 while the multiplayer modes were developed by North Carolina based Red Storm designers. This allowed 
 each team to put their full efforts into each aspect of the game rather than simply creating either 
 a single-player or multiplayer game with the other option slapped on for good measure. With GRAW 
 both the single-player and multiplayer modes of gameplay are equally as exciting and each will 
 give players plenty of hours of explosive excitement in a variety of combat scenarios to choose 
 from. 
  
  First and foremost, forget everything youve come to expect from Ghost Recon and prepare yourself 
 for an innovative approach to modern tactical combat. Whether you are the type that prefers pulse 
 pounding action shooters or the more tedious tactical strategy fighters, there is enough of every 
 conceivable combat setting to please most gamers. The best part is the games designers have done 
 a fantastic job of keeping the gameplay elements mixed up so you are always carrying out objectives 
 that will keep interest without becoming repetitive or monotonous. Much of the game is focused 
 on chasing down the rebel forces who have taken possession of the Presidents. To give you just 
 a peek at whats on the menu, you can expect to be pinned down in the heart of Mexico City while 
 hostile forces close in from all direction, while other missions will find you in an above the 
 ground shoot out with surface to air weaponry, as well as enemy choppers intent on bringing you 
 down. Other missions will include intense rescue operations and the elimination and destruction 
 of key elements, such as scrambling devices that interfere with the Ghosts IWS technology. Whatever 
 it is the Ghosts will be doing over the span of the 12 levels, you will be at the edge of your 
 seat from start to finish.
  The environments that GRAW takes place in are highly detailed and expansive, really giving a good 
 representation of an immersive battleground. With Mexico City as the setting, expect plenty of 
 urban environments, as well as industrial settings. The urban areas are the most impressive due 
 to their sheer size and level of detail, and although the streets are barren of pedestrians during 
 this tumultuous time, there are a lot of ambient sound effects in place to suggest some of the 
 population is still around. For instance, on one level of the game, as the Ghosts make their way 
 to town square area, a baby can be heard crying in the distance. Moving closer to the center of 
 the map, the crying becomes louder. Even though we never see the baby, and the crying is irrelevant 
 to the storyline, its a nice touch that adds a level of realism to the situation at hand. Id 
 probably be hiding in a corner of a building somewhere crying if there was a coup detat going 
 on too. Some levels also feature a broadcast in Spanish given by the rebel forces that can be heard. 
 While Im a bit rusty on my high school Spanish classes, Im guessing its some sort of propaganda 
 being issued to keep the locals at bay inside their homes, while the enemy forces continue their 
 efforts to overthrow the government. In addition to the subtle sound effects of each environment, 
 there are some nice details to the modeling and the objects within each setting. Burnt out cars 
 that are scattered about the streets give indication of the conflicts that have already taken place, 
 leaving the city torn and tattered. 
  
  Gameplay Controls: 
  
  Previous releases of the Ghost Recon series have well, been a tad cumbersome as far as the controls, 
 and it seemed as though Ubisoft hadnt quite decided if they wanted a tactical-based or an action-oriented 
 game with each release. With GRAW, Ubisoft has evened out the mix for a good dose of both that 
 blends perfectly, but does tend to lean towards the action side of things. However, there are lot 
 of tactics and strategy that will go into the action as simply utilizing a run and gun approach 
 is a sure fire way to go down in a blaze of gunfire relatively quickly. The Ghost will need to 
 rely on each other, as well as their hardware, to maximize their effort and ultimately their survival. 
 Even though there is a lot going on throughout each mission, the games developers have laid out 
 the Xbox 360 controller quite intuitively and coordinating even the games most intense actions 
 is much less complicated and less clumsy than ever before. The end result is a much more enjoyable 
 gameplay experience whose controls strengthen the delivery of the action rather than hindering 
 it. Its still not quite perfect, as there are a few times when things get hot and the character 
 will do something questionable, but all things considered its a great step or two in the right 
 direction. 
  The default point of view for GRAW is the third-person, over the shoulder camera. Shooter purists 
 may still prefer a first-person view, but fear not as players can switch to a first-person, sight-oriented 
 view at any time from the in-game setup menu. While FPS fans may cringe at the thought of observing 
 their character from behind, in a game like this it is quite clear how the third-person point of 
 view has its advantages. By looking over the shoulder of the character, we are able to get a better 
 idea of their positioning, which is vital when it comes to taking cover and being able to utilize 
 some of the games more advance weaponry, such as an automatic rifle equipped with a camera, which 
 allows targeting enemies around corners. Sure this could have been done entirely in a first-person 
 perspective, but we feel that the overall vantage gained by being able to actually see the characters 
 positioning, and the ways in which you can manipulate Mitchells movements, are enhanced by the 
 third-person perspective. The third-person perspective is advantageous for movement and positioning, 
 while the first-person camera provides a bit more accuracy when firing. 
  The basic, as well as the most complex, movements within GRAW are fairly easy to perform. This 
 really helps to keep the focus slightly shifted towards the action, while the players intuitively 
 maneuver Mitchell from location to location. During the levels in which Mitchell is supported by 
 three other Ghosts, issuing commands is equally as productive. By pushing up on the D-pad, Mitchell 
 will order his squad mates to move a location that will be designated by three circles. Pushing 
 down on the pad will simply order everyone to follow Mitchell wherever he goes. For the most part, 
 the follow command does the job, but in the instance where a player may want a little extra control 
 the location command comes in handy. Mitchell can also give the order for his Ghosts to act in 
 either recon or assault mode. This simply means they will either open fire or remain arms ready 
 during their actions. Recon mode is great for getting the Ghosts into position without alarming 
 the enemy. The AI of the computer controlled Ghosts is relatively good and they are very good at 
 following Mitchells commands without stumbling around or getting themselves killed. If Mitchell 
 doesnt happen to position them in a beneficial location of cover during a battle, they will be 
 left somewhat vulnerable, as they scramble for cover while also trying to eliminate any threats. 
 At times, a member of the squad may become injured and fall to the ground, in need of medical attention. 
 Mitchell can either assist or issue a command to another squad member who will begin first aid 
 to bring the injured character back into the battle. 
  
  The squad AI isnt perfect, but it is a vast improvement from previous Ghost Recon titles thanks 
 to the more robust Xbox 360 hardware capabilities. The Ghosts are pretty good at taking out targets 
 on Mitchells command, but their accuracy and speed doesnt seem up to par with the performance 
 at which a player can carry out the same task themselves. However, issuing out a command to three 
 squad mates is generally a more reliable tactic during combat than trying to single handedly tackle 
 the situation. Therefore, making efficient use of the squad will generally increase the chances 
 of success and survival, allowing Mitchell to engage in support while his squad carries out his 
 commands. Of course, players who are feeling a bit more gung ho, can always dive into the action 
 head first and hope their squad will follow suit. Being that the game is designed to focus on strategy, 
 this may quickly prove itself to be an unwise decision. In the event that a situation may be too 
 dangerous, Mitchell can command an unmanned drone, if available. The drone flies overhead and gives 
 Mitchell a direct data feed thanks to a video uplink that can be viewed on his HUD. Mitchell can 
 command the drone to a specific location on the map in order to gain intel about what might be 
 at that location. This is a great way to get an idea of what lies ahead without risking the life 
 of the squad. The drone can be lowered for a closer look, but this will obviously make it more 
 vulnerable to being noticed and being shot down by the enemy. Some may find the drone to be quite 
 useful, while other may minimize its use. It can certainly be effective, but there are only a few 
 instances where it is absolutely needed throughout the game. 
  
  Multiplayer Gameplay Modes: 
  
  Developed separately by Red Storm, the multiplayer modes of 
 GRAW have really taken shape to offer up what we think is easily the best the Xbox 360 has to offer 
 at this point. Red Storm has enabled up to 16 player support, including an amazing 16 player co-op 
 mode that allows players to carry out a series of objective based missions exclusive to the multiplayer 
 mode of GRAW. The multiplayer modes not only support Xbox Live online play by default, but also 
 System Link and split-screen play for those without the means of a broadband connection. All of 
 the standard multiplayer modes including Capture the Flag and Deathmatch are a part of GRAWs multiplayer 
 arena, and even though each have a number of interesting variations, the real draw to Advanced 
 Warfighters multiplayer action is the awesome co-op support.
  
  There are four variations of co-op modes including Campaign, Co-op Elimination, Co-op Territory 
 and Co-op Objective. Campaign is the basic co-op multiplayer mode in which players will work to 
 accomplish a mission based objective on a number of different maps such as the Wharf, Old Town, 
 Temple and the Treasury. Elimination is a fast paced mode in which enemies pour out of every possible 
 area, while players must defeat them all before they themselves are taken out. The host will be 
 able to select the number of respawns available as well as just how many enemies will come from 
 every direction. During a territory match, enemies will make an attempt to overtake your base while 
 your team of soldiers defends its position or positions designated on the map. The host will be 
 able to determine the number of respawns as well as enemy density and the number of base zones 
 (up to five) that players will need to defend. The Objective mode is more of a stealth based co-op 
 mode that is meant to work similar to the Campaign mode, but the host has the option of enabling 
 an alarm that the enemy will sound upon the detection of hostiles. If the host so wishes, the match 
 will end at the sound of the alarm, making it of utmost importance to remain unseen and unheard 
 throughout the match. In addition to the four maps we mentioned earlier for the Campaign mode, 
 there are also six more maps that can be put to use for Elimination, Territory and Objective modes. 
 These maps include Fishing Village, Rocky Cove, Desert Gulch, Boneyard, Dry Dock and the aptly 
 name Nowhere. 
  
  For a more detailed look at each map, be sure to check out our in-depth overviews at the links 
 below: 
  
  Desert Gulch & Fishing Village
  Nowhere & Rocky Cove
  Boneyard & Dry Dock 
  
  Each map is highly detailed and some are quite vast, giving players 
 a lot of variation in environments to select from. There is definitely something for everyone and 
 players will be able to take part in a wide range of combat scenarios from urban settings to dark, 
 rainy shipyards to the sun baked desert, and everywhere in between. 
  Now that we know a bit about each map and game type, its important to understand the different 
 class types that are available and how they will determine a players role during a match. There 
 are four classes of soldier including Marksman, Rifleman, Automatic Rifleman and Grenadier. Each 
 name should be pretty self explanatory, and depending on a players personal combat preferences, 
 they can select which type of soldier they wish to be. It is also important to consider the objective 
 at hand when deciding which class of soldier will be best suited for the situation. For example, 
 when playing the Objective mode with the alarm enabled, its generally a good idea to have a few 
 will skilled Marksmen spread throughout the map eliminating targets with stealthy precision. On 
 the other hand, the Grenadier is a players best bet when dealing with heavy armor such as tank 
 units. In addition to choosing their soldiers class, you will also be able to tweak a characters 
 appearance. One of the ways to determine a soldiers appearance is by selecting a face type. The 
 selected class will initially determine the gear of a soldier, but you will be able to adjust up 
 to ten facial options, such as skin tone, and even the addition of face paint. You can also select 
 between available headgear for each class, such as bandanas, helmets or hats. Helping to add some 
 authenticity, and market branding, are a few licensed manufacturers like Oakley and Under Armor. 
 Tweaking a characters appearance may not have any actual gameplay advantages or disadvantages, 
 but its a cool way to customize your soldier.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scuffdog_65
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 3, 2006 6:46 am PT
Review:  G. R. A. W. is a great game that can get very hard. this game offers a very good story mode and an 
 even better multiplayer. It is a lot more realistic than the other shooters out there because if 
 you get shot once or twice, you will be dead. The graphics for this game are awesome. I didn't 
 see any glitches in this game when i played it. The sound is just incredible. This game is more 
 for the people with a lot of patience because if you are like me, this game takes a while to complete 
 because you have to be really stealthy. This is an all round solid game and if you have the money 
 go buy it right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a great addition to any Xbox 360 owner's collection. 
 In my opinion, it is the best tactical shooter out there and does not just look good, it revolutionizes 
 how people should look at the tactical shooter. Now being a big fan of earlier Tom Clancy games, 
 I got a bit bored of those. I myself am a big Halo 2 fan, and my patience isn't short most of the 
 time, but this game has the right amount of action, tactics, and overall package to bring it all 
 together.
  
  Gameplay: Everything you need is clearly displayed on your screen. Think it is too bright outside 
 to even spot an enemy? Well GRAW cleverly designed a short of outline of the enemies (including 
 health percentage) that helps locate enemies. You can easy tell your squad what to do through the 
 D-Pad (i. e. blow up a car, go to a certain point, come back to you and follow, attack enemies in 
 a certain area, heal your wounded partners, and more) . Switching weapons is easy and leaning against 
 a wall and peeking out then shooting your enemy is rewarding. Everything about this game makes 
 you feel as if you've accomplished something.
  
  Graphics: Simply amazing, but I am not playing on an HDD TV so I can only expect them to be even 
 better. Every person in the game has great detail and even better models. Just watch after the 
 first tutorial in the game, when you fly over Mexico City, you can see smokestacks, roads, buildings, 
 and it all looks great. The areas aren't just cookie-cutter but look different and have great textures. 
 The weapon models, interface, and everything looks fabulous.
  
  Sound: Great, especially for those playing surround sound. You can hear your weapon reload, shoot, 
 hit an enemy, fire off buildings or metal, your partners chatter sometimes, you can always know 
 your team is following your orders when they repeat it. Music that initiates during epic firefights 
 adds to the dramatism.
  
  Value: A lot of your multiplayer games can be tweaked down to the very last helicopter, and I have 
 to try more of it yet but am finishing the single-player campaign. From what I've seen multiplayer 
 is intuitive and fun, there's always someone to play alongside or against.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Being my first Xbox 360 game since I just got the new system (although I am borrowing 
 Dead or Alive 4 at the moment) I must say it's great to see next-gen games going in this direction. 
 Realizing this game actually tore me away from my endlessly-played all Spring Break Kingdom Hearts 
 2 is amazing, and I give this game props.
  
  If you're looking for a great tactical shooter, or are a fan of shooters in general, please give 
 this a try. Rent it first if you want, you may complete the single-player but the best part of 
 Xbox Live is there are so many options. An abundance of content is in this game and you'll enjoy 
 it to, I promise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 666_NOTB
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 2, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is the best shooter on Xbox 360. The single player will last you 
 around 8 hours and is actually fun to play, unlike Ghost Recon 2's single player. The strongest 
 aspect of the game is it's Multiplayer and if you get a good size room, you'll be in for hours 
 of fun. This is the second best title on Xbox 360 behind Elder Scrolls 4 and this title won't dissappoint 
 you! Only thing I can find wrong is that it's a little on the hard side and will be a challenge 
 for people who are new to the Ghost Recon franchise, I've spent about 25 hours to date playing 
 and it's bound to expand. The game itself will take you around 30 minutes to learn all of the controls 
 and concept of the game, which you will find to be easy and the cross-com feature is absolutely 
 awesome and innovative.
  
  Gameplay: Very fun to play, both single player and multiplayer.
  Graphics: Hands down best on 
 Xbox 360.
  Sound: Amazing, but Call of Duty 2's is still better.
  Value: Definitely worth the 60 bucks, this title is sure to give the bang for the buck.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhitePenguin
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 2, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a tactical shooter in 2013. This game was originally 
 set to be released with the Xbox 360, but it got pushed back about 2 months but then it was delayed 
 again to March 9,2006. It was the last wait to get the great game. Now that I have time, I will 
 tell you my opinion of the great game.
  
  The Story - You are Scott Mitchell, the leader of a special Ghost Squad that the U. S goverment 
 treats as their super-secret SEALS team. You have three team members that are equipped with a numerous 
 amount of the coolest weapons in a video game. Your team is sent into Mexico City to rescue the 
 kidnapped Mexican President. When you do rescue him, you find out that the U. S President has been 
 kidnapped as well. You must rescue him too and find a way out of the hot zone, when both Presidents 
 are taken from you again. You must make your way through Mexico City to find both Presidents and 
 "The Suitcase" that can detonate a nuclear bomb and cause a new World War. It is a very fun story 
 that you want to complete over the 11 missions and about 12 hour campain.
  
  The Gameplay - First off, this game wether you play it normal or hard difficulty settings, it is 
 a hard game. This game can challenge you to the point were you are sane or insane. The controller 
 will morph with your hands because you will play it so long because it is just so fun. The controls 
 are just so easy to get used to and it is just amazing how fun it is. It is easy to just hide behind 
 the corner of a building, turn the corner, shoot him, and come back, unless he spots you. Sometimes, 
 you will be against about four times as many guys as your squad, so you will have to instruct your 
 squad and/or a tank or helicopter when available. You can tell your squad to move somewhere by 
 looking at the place on your cross hairs and pushing up on the d-pad, if you have played Brothers 
 In Arms, it is similar. If you push down, the regroup to you. If you are looking at a enemy, push 
 up and they will kill him. If you push the Left Bumper, the will go into attack formation (aka PWNAGE 
 mode) . They will be very cautious and enemy aware, but will not go as fast. If one of your guys 
 got shot and is about to die you can either look at them and push the d-pad up to get one of your 
 squad-mates to heal him or you can do it yourself by going up to him and pushing the Y button. 
 The enemy A. I is smart, but your ghost team-mates game be very stupid at times by not listening 
 to your commands or not moving where you tell them, but theses are rare and minor issues.
  
  The Graphics - Only the Xbox 360 and very-high spec PC can run this game. This game is the 
 true next-gen game that everyone has been waiting for. It is breathtaking to see this game in action 
 sometimes. The amount of detail is absolutly amazing. Every bullet that comes out of your rifle 
 will be shown in the walls and will never leave, the dead bodies never leave, there is so much 
 in G. R. A. W. The explostions are also amazing, just the flame effects and lighting itself is superb. 
 The leaves blow off the treas the sun sets and you see the dust and sand lift from the gravel with 
 the hundreds of detailed cracks in them. The cars in the middle of the street will show evert bullet 
 you shoot at it and will eventually blow up if you shoot it too much. Your team has realistic gear 
 on them and the guns looks amazing too. The graphics are just amazing and show just what the Xbox 
 360 can do at thr early age in it's life cycle.
  
  The Sound - Just as good as the graphics. The rebels you fight against will speak spanish both 
 bad and good about you ( sometimes they will say stuff that may be familiar to fans of Resident 
 Evil 4) Your Ghost Squad all have different personalities and different attitudes. The Corporals 
 and Generals that you meet in the game will all be different. The guns all have individual sounds 
 depending on the large caliper of a SAW machine gun or a M9 Berretta. The composed music is really 
 good and it gives the feeling that you are doing this and you are rescuing the President. There 
 are some rock songs when you're in the Blackhawk sometimes. This game was really meant for your 
 Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound.
  
  The Value - Giving the nice and lengthy campain and excellent and fun multiplayer, you will play 
 this for a long time.
  
  Overall - Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is what the fans have been waiting for and 
 anybody who owns a 360 or is thinking about getting a Xbox 360 should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrVenkman
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 2, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  GRAW as it is called has the best multiplayer system for any 360 game. The graphics complement 
 the great gameplay very well. This game is not a perfect 10, but it is very close.
  
  The campaign mode in GRAW is very difficult. The best challenge I have had in a campaign mode was 
 CoD2 on Veteran. After I beat CoD2 on Veteran I traded that for this game. The campaign can also 
 be done online through coop mode vs. the AI. The single player campaign is the most difficult of 
 all games. I like the challenge that the game holds.
  
  The multiplayer has a great variety of modes and other options. This game is very well done on 
 both sides of the single and multiplayer games/gametypes. The best FPS for the 360. Life selections 
 are Sharpshooter (respawn) and Last Man Standing. The ranking online seems difficult to advance 
 but I literally played a 25 the other day. I had a few decent games and usually led my dumb team.
 
  
  This game is really great, dare I say GOTY material this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twinsnakes007
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 2, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is easily the best Tom Clancy game to date. The action is great. It is much better then 
 the previous Ghost Recon games. The new view com system is great. Everything on the screen looks 
 and works great. You get to see your health, your teammates health, what one of your teammates 
 sees, etc. There is a huge amount of weapons, each one unique in some way or another. Nightvision 
 can be used whenever and is used A LOT. The environment can be good or bad. At the beginning it 
 is fine. The night time levels are very hard to play in, you can't really see anything. In the 
 later levels, there is a lot more action, but you can't see anything because the enemies blend 
 in with everything. That's where night vision comes in handy. The multiplayer is pretty good but 
 can be annoying because people can be cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sputnik824
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 2, 2006 4:56 pm PT
Review:  You ever want to be part of an elite team? Join the Ghosts (which you will as soon as you pop in 
 the disc into your Xbox 360) .
  
  I can only describe this game as immersive, and that's a good thing. By this I am referring to 
 the single player because the multiplayer part is a bit... yeah we'll go there later. Anyway the 
 single player is a great experience which will be apreciated by any fan of shooters. Quite simply 
 if you are stuck without Live you should give this game a rent and play through the single player 
 campaign spanning through about 13 missions each rewarding you with 25 gamerpoints each. Multiplayer 
 can be a blast when playing with friends via Xbox Live, but in my opinion you'd be better off playing 
 something more fast paced like Perfect Dark Zero or Call Of Duty 2.
  
  Graphics for GRAW on the most part are great, you get the occasional bug but apart from that the 
 game is stunning especially in HD.
  
  The sound in GRAW is pretty much bland, barely no voices in the game apart from the occasion "Fall 
 Back on Me" or "Advance". And when you get shot it feels like someone's scrunching up some paper 
 in your ear.
  
  The game should stick with you if you like the multiplayer but that wasn't my favourite part.
 
  
  Overall if your looking for a good looking, action packed sqaud based, futuristic shooter then 
 Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is something you should invest in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 2, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  I must be honest. I had slim and shallow reasons to buy this game. It is the first Ghost Recon 
 game i buy and it might even be the last one i buy, but this has nothing to do with the game. It 
 only has everything to do with me.
  
  I saw the initial trailer months ago and i was overwhelmed with the game and with what it offers.
 
  
  So t some point after buying it, i started playing it (long story, i bought it together with Oblivion) .
 
  
  I must admit, that i am not disappointed in the quality of the game. The graphics are outstanding, 
 the control is a little off for me, but i have to get used to it, and the sounds are pretty awesome.
 
  
  The training is intense and does show that this game is extremely challenging. The AI seems to 
 be quite excellent, and the curve of learning is rather high. This is no game for young players. 
 and this game does not show make believe. This is a game of hard and intense warfare and it is 
 outstanding in that message. 
  
  I must admit that this is no game for me, this is not a bad thing, because the game is no reason 
 not to want it, and i will keep the game as it is an outstanding game in many ways, just not my 
 cup of blood and bullets.
  
  As a non-liker i still find it an amazing game. The game feels so complete in what it offers that 
 it will satisfy everyone who likes this typer of game, and it will dazzle all the other gamers 
 too. This makes for a second 90% plus game in the first month of release. That is a decent track 
 record to have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nitrogenCom20
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  this is defnitly a top 5 xbox 360 game, it is so realistic, i personally hate those shooter games 
 were you have to unload like 30 rounds on another player for them to die. but in this game you 
 die instantly, so you are forced to take cover and hide like a real human being, its fun dramatic 
 and scary. i also like how u can barely here you teamates speaking to you because of the gunfire 
 and the explosians. so they are forced to speak in your ear up close like real combat
  
  overal this game isnt the best but it is certinly a must buy (worth 60 dollars) its better than 
 call of duty and perfect dark. but if you can only buy one game this month i would pick oblivion 
 over this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: URINAL123
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 2, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely my favorite out of all the G. R. It has all the components you've come to 
 expect; good tutorial, challenging game-play, and realism, plus some of the best online play on 
 the 360 yet. I would recommend this to anyone who even has a vague interest in shooters.
  hgf asd as asas da d sadasda as asdasd a sdasdad asd a as asd ad fh g jg kjkj , hjk hjk hjkhj k 
 fg rswtdfg fg dfg hjghj hghf f gf cvnn cvbxc vxc vxcf sd f sdf sd sdas sdf sdfsdf df s dfsdf s 
 asdf sadf as as d a das das d aa DA SSDF ASAS D AASDs df dsa f 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaseyJamesOwns
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 2, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  The multiplayer is what really made me buy this game. With the new features I think I'll have it 
 for a long time. The Campaign mode was also done well, great presentation with some helicopter 
 missions to mix up the gameplay. A tad difficult to the point where you want to shut it off, but 
 still fun to play. The online modes are fun and add some variety. The new ability to slide and 
 dive is nice. It's too bad that you cant slide or go against walls and such in online, but still 
 a good online expierence. Overall I would say that this game is a must have, it looks great, plays 
 great, and runs with out any hiccups, and online mode should keep you busy for a long time as well. 
 Best in the series by far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKretinousQ
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 3:30 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter needs no real introduction because you've probably heard the hype 
 already, and you should believe it. GRAW from the start wil blow your mind away it is packed with 
 realism and genuine prototype US Army equipment. It is this equipment only that gives you an upper 
 hand over the enemy; who are highly trained, well armed and ready to take you out.
  
  Your team plays an important part on GRAW because you must rely on them to do some of your work. 
 You can also command APCs, tanks, Apache gunships and UH60 helicopters. All are easily controlled 
 by the D-Pad and action commands being context sensitive. This makes it all the more easier.
  
  The story is pretty basic but believable; the USA has given Mexico new armaments in a new arms 
 programme and now Mexican rebels have taken these and gone about by taking the leaders involved 
 in the programme. Your mission, get the president out of harms way and quash the rebel uprising.
 
  
  Only a few flaws are to be found which are a few graphical issues which detract the realism and 
 AI may fumble. Apart from that, nothing.
  
  Avoid the current gen versions of GRAW. Get a 360 and get this you will love it!
  
  Cheers 
 for reading TKQ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anstar97
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 2, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  okay so i havent played this game but i have read the reviews seen the pics and know the story 
 this game is good lets start with the graphics witch is flawless you can see the sun on the horizon 
 every thing looks so real. the story this time is a typical terrroist in mexico what ever the enviorment 
 is very flambouyent mexico was an excellent choice for the setting. gameplay is cool u can call 
 in air strikes from above the cpt . has to save the city from the rebeliuos mexicans using shenok 
 helicopters style black hawk witch is pretty cool tanks armored transport to he many things at 
 his disposal. Oyh how can i for get your team is so much smarter this time around they think indently 
 ai has been improved that means the enemy is smart to in conclusion this game is a must buy for 
 ghost recon fans and action fans alike . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowfox231
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  At first I wasn't sure how good this game would actually be, but when I finally bought it I realized 
 how amazing it was. I have played previous versions of Ghost Recon, and I thought that they were 
 alright, but not that great. When I got my 360 I decided I would give this game a shot, and I'm 
 glad that I did. The graphics are stunning, and the game is one of the best shooters for 360 out 
 so far. If there was one thing that could be improved, it would be the adding of ciivilians to 
 the city, but other than that, its perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigt14874
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  I love this game, when i first play it iwas hook. man the online play is fun and there so many 
 weapons. Also the grapic is soo reall, the best looking game i seen so far. I havent play it much 
 but i can tell u that if u own a xbox360, this game is a must own. 
  I love this game, when i first play it iwas hook. man the online play is fun and there so many 
 weapons. Also the grapic is soo reall, the best looking game i seen so far. I havent play it much 
 but i can tell u that if u own a xbox360, this game is a must own. 
  I love this game, when i first play it iwas hook. man the online play is fun and there so many 
 weapons. Also the grapic is soo reall, the best looking game i seen so far. I havent play it much 
 but i can tell u that if u own a xbox360, this game is a must own. 
  I love this game, when i first play it iwas hook. man the online play is fun and there so many 
 weapons. Also the grapic is soo reall, the best looking game i seen so far. I havent play it much 
 but i can tell u that if u own a xbox360, this game is a must own. 
  I love this game, when i first play it iwas hook. man the online play is fun and there so many 
 weapons. Also the grapic is soo reall, the best looking game i seen so far. I havent play it much 
 but i can tell u that if u own a xbox360, this game is a must own. 
  I love this game, when i first play it iwas hook. man the online play is fun and there so many 
 weapons. Also the grapic is soo reall, the best looking game i seen so far. I havent play it much 
 but i can tell u that if u own a xbox360, this game is a must own. 
  I love this game, when i first play it iwas hook. man the online play is fun and there so many 
 weapons. Also the grapic is soo reall, the best looking game i seen so far. I havent play it much 
 but i can tell u that if u own a xbox360, this game is a must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ratty690
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 1, 2006 10:59 pm PT
Review:  ghost recon advanced warfighter is a very good looking game compared to all the other xbox360 games 
 .It is also very fun to play but you only have four teammates other thn that its a very good game. The 
 game is also very realistic the squad based action is also very fun and you can also ride on helicopters 
 on some missions and the xbox360 version has a new multiplayer campaign which is very fun. The crosscom 
 is very well done and you can also use it to navigate around the battlefield and get orders from 
 your commanders not to mention the things you can do in the game like calol a drone to scout the 
 area and inform you about any threats, the explosions in the game are really good . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Happypcguy101
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: It has a very good gameplay. The controls are so good. Everything is just perfect. If 
 you snipe out a guy and hit them in the stomach they actually die, not like battlefield 1942 when 
 you snipe out a guy and they don't die, and then you have to shoot them again.
  
  Graphics: These are the best graphics ever. You can brake the windows of cars and then it shows 
 the broken glass and stuff like that.
  
  Sound: Wicked-awesome music. Good sound when you shoot a guy or some grenade explodes. When you 
 throw a smoke-grenade then you hear it blow up.
  
  Overall: I think its a perfect game. Its just so much fun. Great multiplayer and single player. 
 If it sounds cool to you, you should go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madcatmk3
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 1, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  THis game was perfect in almost every way (except for the frame rate thanks ATI) . I was amazed, 
 your are only limited by the fact that you can't just think commands. On the otherside it was fun 
 except for the annoying fact you couldn't roll grandes really close, only far away, that can cost 
 you a few deaths. Other then these small iritaions the targeting system is great. I like the precise 
 aiming mode, the cover can be combersome in hitting ket to get and and talking cover on something 
 you want to climb over. Another thing is you will die a lot, it usally talkes you about 3 tries 
 once you get pinned. 
  Worth the $60 mostly, would still prefer to pay $50 though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axes03
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 1, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  im not a huge ghost recon fan.... actually i kinda, never cared for the series. none of the other 
 ghost recon's never impressed me. the graphics, sound nothing was any thing "special". besides 
 there were alot of quality shooters on the xbox anyway.
  so when i got the 360, i was kinda skeptical about getting advance warfighter. even after i strated 
 playing the trainning level, i wasnt impressed. THAT all changed after the first HELICOPTER LEVEL. 
 trust me, dont judge this game until u play those levels. the graphics are far beyond what anything 
 ive ever seen. the audio is pretty awesome aswell, but i didnt pay that much attention to that, cuz 
 i was playing custom tracks. lol. The controls take a little getting use to. because the analog 
 sensitivity is kinda slow and you cant adjust it. thats a little downer, but it makes sense cuz 
 this is a snipe heavy game. AND BOY IS IT HEAVY. i like to call it theOut door Splinter Cell 
havent tried multiplayer yet, but have heard great stuff about it, so hope itll be good.
  overall, this is an AMAZING achievement by ubisoft. if you like shooters and have a little patience 
 you should fit in nicely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vivalaneta
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 1, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter has gotten a lot of praise since it's release, and 
 I'm here to tell you, it deserves all of it. 
  
  On the Xbox 360, G. R. A. W. is one of the most exciting, breathtaking, and of course, most fun games 
 you'll experience. And it all starts with G. R. A. W.'s graphics and sound, which are both perfect. 
 
  
  The first thing you will notice about the game is how well detailed the levels are throughout the 
 game, and how much time was put into making the cities and buildings as accurate as they could 
 possibly be. The game also uses a stunning blur effect, so when you're driving around in the helicopter 
 between missions, and you look out and down into the city, it looks AMAZINGLY real. 
  
  The characters in G. R. A. W. are also very well done, and move very life-like, but really aren't 
 up to par with the cities and vehicles, which are outstanding. G. R. A. W. also delivers heavily in 
 the sound department. While the explosions in the game look amazing, they also sound amazing, too. 
 From the perfect sound of every weapon, to Mexican chatter when you get close to a group, the game's 
 sound really makes you feel like you are Capt. Mitchell himself. 
  
  Gameplay in G. R. A. W. is also fantastic. It uses classic Ghost Recon gameplay, and adds a few new 
 additions that make it amazingly fun. You can pretty much stick yourself up to anything for cover, 
 and this gives the game a whole new depth, and as you'll find yourself constantly practicing the 
 right way and time to shoot out of cover. 
  
  While the campaign mode is outstanding, and should take you some time seeing the game really is 
 challenging on both Normal and Hard modes, the multiplayer aspect of the game is a little disappointing. 
 
  
  The online ranking system is very good, but you just can't shake the feeling that Xbox Live could 
 have been so much better. For example, you can not take cover in Multiplayer mode, which will REALLY 
 disappoint you at first, but you'll get used to moving around and taking cover the old fashioned 
 way quickly. 
  
  Overall, Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a must-have for the Xbox 360. Despite 
 a somewhat disappointing multiplayer mode that can still be very enjoyable, Advanced Warfighter 
 truly is a next-gen experience that shouldn't be missed by anyone able to handle it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hcsif
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 1, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  This game graphic and game play wise is the best game for the 360 to date. I would def get this 
 game its worth the 60 dollars. ITs fun not to easy and has a good muilt player. Now im waiting 
 for battle feild to come out. This game graphic and game play wise is the best game for the 360 
 to date. I would def get this game its worth the 60 dollars. ITs fun not to easy and has a good 
 muilt player. Now im waiting for battle feild to come out. This game graphic and game play wise 
 is the best game for the 360 to date. I would def get this game its worth the 60 dollars. ITs fun 
 not to easy and has a good muilt player. Now im waiting for battle feild to come out. This game 
 graphic and game play wise is the best game for the 360 to date. I would def get this game its 
 worth the 60 dollars. ITs fun not to easy and has a good muilt player. Now im waiting for battle 
 feild to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moto19
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 31, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game the night I got my Xbox 360 which was March 24th 2006, only because I didn't 
 have enough money to get both Oblivion and GRAW, anyways to the review.
  
  The game starts out as you Captain Scott Mitchell an elite soldier in Ghost Recon a US military 
 ops. As you easily get used to the controls of the game, the story sets in, Terrorists from south 
 America are trading US stolen technolgy with Mexican Paramilitary Rebels, and it's up to you to 
 stop them and there leader Carlos.
  The Graphics are b. e. a. utiful the lighting in the background is correct on how it actually is there 
 and the light reflects off anything, windows, cars, you, your gun, you name it. Your character and 
 your teammates are also all graphically made to there real life counterparts that in fact will 
 be seen in 2010 or 2013.
  Gameplay is fun and it keeps you hooked, ordering around your teammates to take cover and issueing 
 orders to support vehicles like Tanks, Helicopters and UAV drones. There are also in between missions 
 helicopter missions where you man the minigun of the blackhawk and eliminate your enemy upon rooftops 
 and on the ground.
  The sound in this game is awesome from the explosion of vehicles, grenades or anti-tank rockets 
 to the gunfire from your team and your enemy.
  The only bad thing about this game would have to be the AI, not the enemy AI but your own teammates, 
 sometimes they won't be able to move properly to an assigned position and sometimes just go right 
 out in the middle of a firefight to get the kill but end up being killed themself.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadlybart356
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter a. k. a. GRAW is simply a fantastic game. The single 
 player and the multi-player modes of GRAW is some of the best I have ever seen. The graphics are 
 amazing. If you didn't know it was a game, you'd say that you were watch a movie. The shading and 
 the realistic light and environment features are great. The sound in GRAW in mind-blowing and will 
 cause you to be ecstatic with joy. It gives you this feeling that you're the only thing stopping 
 the evil that is Carlos. All in all, this is a must own if you own a Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TJM_717
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 16, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - The gameplay is graw is great. The single player is significantly different from the 
 multi-player, but they both manage to do a good job. The single player is very intense and realistic, 
 while the multi player is basic and fun. Both types of gameplay can be appreciated, and fit into 
 the game quite well.
  
  Graphics - The graphics in GRAW are mind-blowing. The graphics in the single player and the ones 
 in the multi player are different. The single player graphics look a bit better, and they look 
 a little better, more realistic. The multi-player's graphics are amazing, and you can really see 
 it on levels like 'Rocky Cove' and 'Fishing Village'. Overall, the graphics are stunning no matter 
 what game mode you play it on.
  
  Sound - The sound on GRAW is great also. The singleplayer gives you a sense of realism, having 
 your team with you and communicating. The only problem i had was the rare bad voice acting, but 
 other than that, it was great. The sound on guns and explosions were amazing, and were intense.
 
  
  OVERALL : Overall, this game is pretty amazing. The singleplayer is amazing, and is actually quite 
 difficult, even on the normal difficulty. The multi player is really where its at, and it will 
 keep you coming back for more. This game so far is the "Halo" of the 360, with it's popular online 
 play. This game is a definite pickup, especially if your tired of some online shooters like PDZ 
 and Quake 4.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: philcorey
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  This game is lowly ranked for what it is. This game has the best graphics I have ever seen on a 
 console game before. G. R. A. W. is an underdog because the Xbox and PS2 games were good, but not 
 amazing, where as this game really amazing. The first thing I noticed when the training level loaded 
 (took about 8 seconds) was the clean textures of the walls and floor. The most defining characteristic 
 of the graphics in my eyes was the utter distance you could see. I could probably see about a mile 
 out proportionally in the game. The buildings were very detailed, also, they had a type of hazing 
 effect on them to show how hot it is in Mexico City (its very hot there.) Also, the aerial view 
 from the chopper as it drops you to the LZ was beautiful, encompassing the vast size of Mexico 
 City. 
  As far as game play goes, it has a very responsive engine. The physics are pretty well dusted. 
 When you set off a C4 explosive to blow up a tank, your going to die unless you are behind something 
 at least 15meters away. The controls fit like a glove, very responsive and effective. The sound 
 in GRAW is crisp and clean. However, the best aspect of this game is its sense of immersion. With 
 its familiar architecture, the game makes you feel like you are really there in Mexico City. Killing 
 in this game is very fun, the gun has semi-realistic recoil on the gun's firing, but it is enough 
 that it keeps you shooting as much as you want in order to kill anything in the sights (its bound 
 to hit sometime.) The weapons in this game very diverse, including; smgs with grenade attachments, 
 machine guns, rifles, grenades, and smoke grenades.
  The multiplayer is very much like the single player, but you are in fist person instead of third 
 person. The game types are various, you can play; campaign missions, elimination, and other really 
 cool types, all in 1-16 player on system link, or on XBOX LIVE!!! (if you play alone its third 
 person view.) The maps in multiplayer are dazzlingly beautiful, spanning from the hot inner city 
 to beach levels. I played co-op with my brother and went and eliminated 50 people per round for 
 about 5 hours. I havent had this much fun with a game since Goldeneye 64 first came out. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CasaHova
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 31, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best shooters that I have ever played. It is like a really good movie. You get 
 so wrapped into it that when reality creeps in (like when your alarm for class goes off) you feel 
 like you have pulled out of a great game. 
  
  The presentation is straight Tom Clancy (disclaimer I love all Clancy novels) so the storyline 
 is every nice to me. The briefing while being transported to new locations is nice. I like the 
 Jimi Hendrix --rock music that plays gives the feeling of a Apocalypse Now vibe.
  
  The controls could be a little better switching between weapons, especially grenades. But after 
 playing paint ball with some friends using paint grenades, the delay is realistic. I mean you can't 
 go from holding, with two hands, a automatic rifle and then unrealistically grab a grenades and 
 chuck with precision. Maybe for the next game there can be a quick lob feature.
  
  The graphics and sounds are great. Early in the game when defending the embassy, I felt like I 
 was playing one of the stories that I have heard about being in Beirut in the 80s. The load times 
 are intergraded into the briefings that I had mentioned so there is very few load screens. 
  
  There is just enough sneak and peak as well as straight out firefights that should appease 
 any military shooter fan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddogg44
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 31, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  Second best game I've played on the 360. The Game definitly needs more maps. The drones are great, 
 I love to shoot them down using a high powered sniper rifle, and don't stand there all day shooting 
 at the drone you'll get shot or blown up with a grenade. This game, as other G. R. games from the 
 past, has a variety of game play levels. Call of Duty is a bit better in my opinion, but you gotta 
 love playing both. Graphics are brilliant, game play is excellent, and multiplayer live has some 
 issues, but not all that bad overall. If you like action this game is for you!
  
  Maddogg44 
::::::

::::::
UserName: English_Death
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2006 2:29 am PT
Review:  G. R.. A. W.
  
  Boy have I been waiting for this. I was a huge fan of the multiplayer recon series. I loved playing 
 with my mates on Xbox live. It was why I got Xbox live. I was hugely disappointed when the game 
 did not come out with the 360.
  
  Well, its here. And I have it. So what do I think. Well I aint quite sure to be honest. 
  
 
  Graphics are great. The characters and the scenery are gorgeous, I am not to sure about the light 
 because of the Mexican sun though. Movement is simple, but I am a tad pissed that I cant climb 
 rocks, that I appear to be a couple of feet away from a rock when I want to be hugging it. But 
 hey ho.
  
  Online features. The features that made Summit Strike great to play online appear to have been 
 dropped. I realise that the 360 has a different approach with the X key, but it I cant work 
 out how to join a friend. I can invite them, but not join them. Unless I am doing something wrong. 
 I keep dropping out of games when in team mode with 16 players, no that is upsetting. Some time 
 as soon as the games starts and sometime part way through a game, and normally when I am doing 
 well (or so it feels) . Single play games are no problem. You can even snipe for a while. I love 
 sniping. I have found though that spawn killing is pretty bad though. A number of people spawn 
 at the same site and bang you dead. Or you spawn with a fire restriction for 5 or so seconds and 
 again bang you dead cos some tit thinks its clever. There doesnt seem to be the courtesy shown 
 that I found in Summit. 
  
  Single Player.
  Well, I cant seem to get into that. Dont know why. I am a big BF2 fan on the PC, so maybe that 
 is affecting my views.
  
  I do love the game and I am a big 360 fan. So I recommend you buy this. It really is the only must 
 have for the Xbox 360. BF2 could be the next...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazuki87
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 30, 2006 11:01 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of the games in the Tom Clancy brand series, both those done by Red Storm 
 and the Splinter Cell series. However the Ghost Recon games never really impressed me. The graphics 
 were muddled, the gameplay was borning, AI nonexistant, and so on. However GRAW blew me away.
 
  The presentation is what is most apparant and it is phonomenal. From a tech standpoint the graphics 
 are unbelievable with high res textures, long draw distances, well rendered massive gameplay areas 
 and such. But it is the little touches that really make the game like the way the camera moves 
 and shakes, the way the characters run and how their chest heaves after exertions. Sound too plays 
 a key role with the squadmates and enemies using dialouge intelligently and being able to hear 
 you and your teammates gasping for breath during intense firefights. The HUD aspect is very good 
 as well. At first it seems that the screen is too crowded but you quickly learn that everything 
 there makes gameplay more straightfoward and adds to your sense of immersement.
  Gameplay wise GRAW is great as well due to fantasticly though out environments that allow for intense 
 shootouts and capatalizing on the AI. Each level is pretty straightfoward and sometimes it does 
 get kind of repetitive, but then something new and cool happens or perhaps a helicopter gun sequence 
 occours.
  The badpoints do exist although they are minor. For one the difficulty doesn't increase enough 
 and actually seems to decrease a little in the later half of the game making it a breeze. Also 
 the story is pretty convoluted and lame which at first is ok because the storytelling is decent 
 and your character is likable. But near the end it gets to be a little over the top. None of this 
 really detracts from gameplay though. What does detract form gameplay is the fact that the AI of 
 your teammates is near nonexistant. Enemies seem to be smart but your guys will constantly get 
 gunned down because they simply dont like to take cover.
  Basicly it needs to be said that at GRAW's time of release it is possibly the best game available 
 for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jelleriii
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 30, 2006 9:39 pm PT
Review:  G. R. A. W is awesome it cant be described better than that. I personally didn't like any of the other 
 Ghost Recons until this one. What makes this stand out is the realism of the surroundings and actions 
 of both the enemies and the allies. I also say that G. R. A. W has the best graphics of any 360 game 
 to date so far.. (I think gears of war and blue dragon will have the best this year) The multiplayer 
 is good also .The only dissatisfying thing that i found wrong was no multiplayer campaign on the 
 same box that is a drag hopefully they will fix that with the next one. The overall action in the 
 game is great with a high reply value i would definitely recommend this game for all 360 owners. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rob101
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is very good, and the squad controls are easy to use unlike some other games which makes 
 the learning curve very short. The graphic however fall a little bit short. The gameplay however 
 is very good and the multiplayer action on xbox live or with you friends on the console is very 
 good. The action is also fast pace, and there are a number of co-op modes where you can just get 
 in there and shoot people which is always good, but the AI for some of the characters in the game 
 is a little crapy in these modes and you can mow down a number of them without even getting their 
 attention. The campaign however is very good and the game play is very chllenging which makes it 
 worth playing a couple of times over. The Gamer Points that can be gained from this are also well 
 distributed which is nice, they average about 25 per level. They also ad some very cool features 
 like dromes to fly over head that you can control, and black hawks as well that can be used by 
 you as squad leader to attack positions and monitor enemy movement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mother_farter
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 30, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  --------------
  hmm well where do i start.. ok well starting off with the single player gameplay ill say this.. its 
 pretty much changed alot. the core gameplay is still there meaning that you control you character 
 in the 3rd person perspective, move the character with the left thumbstick and look around with 
 the right. the right trigger still firs the weapons as most games do.. and "B" still switches the 
 weapons while "A" reloads the weapon and if you hold it down for a second you can change the rate 
 of fire of the gun you have in hand. in the single player campaign you will be accompanied by 3 
 of your fellow ghost members in the middle of the levels there will be rally points where you can 
 switch them out for other ghost members.. thier classes with vary such as a rifleman, grenadier, or 
 automatic rifleman. well anyway you could give your squad simple commands in the old GR's and in 
 this one you can do it yet again.. but using the d-pad you can give your squad commands on the fly. 
 for instance if you look at a wall and press up on the d-pad your squad will run over to the wall 
 and post up on it using it for cover and such. if you press back on the d-pad they will regroup. 
 these simple commands make it easy to manuever your squad in the heat of battle so im thankful 
 they are implemented into the game so well. apart from your ghost squad you can also control vehicles 
 such as tanks, helicopters and drones.. which come in handy.. so no more will you be running into 
 battle blind.. you can find out where your enemies are by using the drone or you dont have to.. you 
 can just play the level how you want. the gameplayfor the multiplayer in Gr3 is a little diffrent 
 from the single player campaign.. it feels alot more smooth IMO and its alot easier to aim in the 
 scope.. just let me say if you liked the other GR's especially GR2 then your going to love multiplayer, 
 enough said there.
  
  Graphics
  -------------
  unbelivable the graphics are amazing.. everyting looks realistic and behaves realisticaly in the 
 light i cant even fathom the amount of work ubisoft has put into the title to make it look so gorgeous.
 
  
  Sound
  ---------
  those hardcore GR fans out there could always count on ubisoft to make the greatest sound effects 
 when it came to the guns, footsteps, sound of engines, yelling of enemy troops. the sound is crazy 
 and if you have surround sound get ready for a treat my friends.
  
  Overall
  ---------
  this game is great if you have a 360 you must get this game.. its a must buy in any situation.. even 
 if you havent played a GR before why not start with the best one yet? it has something for everyone.. co-op, head 
 to head, and a great single player campaign.. that could be a little harder IMO =/ but its still 
 great because if you put it on hard its alot more of a challenge 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knightgolfer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 30, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are especiaally good on a hdtv. I just wish you could invite friends to games. the 
 only way to get friends to join is if they join session in progress. and if you try to join a game 
 session and it dosent let you you have to start all over with the search. The search already takes 
 forever and now that yu have to start all over it takes even longer. but besides those small problems 
 the game is perfect. the single player is fantastic. that is what i play most of the time. the 
 cross-com helmet is also a big help because without it i probobly would have been shooting my guys 
 on mistake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John_Stewart
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 30, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Before I begin I just wanna mention the wait is worth it. The game is amazing, stunning graphics, 
 very immersive. If you enjoy first person shooters this is a must, if you have a xbox 360 this 
 is a must, if your a gamer this is a must. If you have 65 bucks to spend wait not more here is 
 the game that'll keep you up and playing and maybe mentally not want to put the controller down. 
 GRAW is slick, sexy, sick, crazy, and last but not least outragiously gorgeous. Lets face it ubisoft 
 pulled this one out of their a$$ and they'll pulled out a editors choice on gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BWSTSW2K
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 30, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  G. R. A. W. is a masterpiece, plain and simple. And anybody who hasnt yet experienced this game's 
 brilliant single player campaign and its revolutionary online platform needs to stop what they 
 are doing right this second and head to a store to pick this game up. Yes loyal War Fighters, this 
 game truly is that good. 
  
  But is it the best of the Tom Clancy series? My immediate answer to that would be: I do not know. 
 Certainly this is the best game in the Ghost Recon franchise, without a doubt. But What about the 
 Splinter Cell and Rainbow Six games? Well, for starters, it is superior to all the Rainbow Six 
 games, and it is better than most of the Splinter Cell games, but I still have a soft spot for 
 Chaos Theory. 
  
  Okay, so now that we have established that G. R. A. W. is indeed a masterpiece, let's investigate 
 its many features. The first thing you will notice upon boot up is of course the game's visuals. 
 They hit you like a slap to the face, and it might take you a few moments to adjust to the spectacle. 
 This game is a rock-solid visual treat for the eyes, which pretty much goes without saying. 
  
  Next Generation it most certain is, but again, this game is only using a fraction of the Xbox 
 360's power, capabilities and overall potential. Mill that over in your mind whist playing some 
 of these levels, and your head might just explode at the thought of what this system is truly capable 
 of. 
  
  Next up, the audio. What would a Tom Clancy game be without stunning, top of the range sound effects? 
 Not much I'd say, as most of his games often depend on aural clarity as much as visual, and this 
 game doesnt disappoint. Just make sure you have a Dolby Digital 5.1 amplifier and a good sound 
 system for this game - oh, and make sure that volume is cranked up as loud as your ears will permit. 
 
  
  Online the game is simply phenomenal, even as good as the mighty Halo 2. Not only that, but there 
 is so much room for additional downloads and add-ons in the near future. There are literally dozens 
 of superb maps to choose from, and countless modes of play. You will spend hours playing this online, 
 and not just for the next few weeks, but for years to come. 
  
  G. R. A. W. is a sensational, breathtaking and utterly spectacular game. As a single player campaign 
 the game shines brighter than the hot Mexican sun, and when you take the game online, you'll find 
 a suitable replacement for Halo 2, and a great filler until Halo 3 comes out. Get it; play the 
 hell out of it, and you'll never look back.
  
  Overall Score:
  
  9.4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sidof422
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 30, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are good but not enough to make me play this game more. The first day I got GRAW I 
 played campain mode and after the 1st few levels I didn't want to play anymore. Maybe I am used 
 to halo where I can absorb a few big blasts before I die, here you die fast quick painless. I thought 
 maybe the online part of the game would be good but I was sitting in menu after menu waiting for 
 someone to start the game and I got 2 frustrated. I dont know, for the series it was good but maybe 
 I am just not into war games. My review is filled with confusion because I just dont know why this 
 game can not keep my attention 60 dollars wasted. just plain BORING 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x-facktor
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 30, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  I have been a long time fan of 1st person shooters and Tom Clancy games have always pleased. When 
 GR2 hit the streets i was the 1st one to run out and play it. We all know how this story will go. 
 Needless to say that i've only played one level on that game and never looked back. 
  
  I'm glad to see that the series pulled itself together and released one of the most fun and best 
 looking games to date. 
  
  Multiplayer is extremely fun and the customizable options will open the door many long days and 
 nights of xbox live frag fests. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arc_Angel2k4
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  G. R. A. W is the best ghost recon game and brought people back into the series. Ghost recon 2 was 
 bad and did not offer what I was after in terms of abilitys in furture warfare games. G. R. A. W does, 
 The cross com ability is the best, being able to control your men and see what they see alows scouting 
 and tatctical planing. When you have drones, Anti tank vehicles, or heavy altilery you can control 
 them and see what they see as well. The movement of troops is very simple and is only a one button 
 thing (VERY GOOD) . The map in the game is good (cool 3d scale and able to see every thing and detaled 
 location points.) . However controling your troops is not all thats in this game there is combat 
 as well. The difficulty is not for those new to war games (there is only 2 levles of difficulty 
 and one is ultra realalistic) . When attacking enemys you can attack in normal mode by just pulling 
 the right trigger or zoom in a little for a mor accurate view and if yor gun has a scope just zoom 
 in. There is a hold breath option for snipers and it helps. When you target an enemy a red dimond 
 shows up at their location and if you put you cross hairs on them you see the % of life they have. 
 Back to the soldiers you fight, they are not total newbs and the AI is not bad, they take cover 
 and can flank you in latter levels. The Controls are simple for relode, weapon swap, toggle fireing 
 rate, movement , and action. The Graphics are amazing and detale is very good for a ghost recon 
 game. The sonds are realalistic and are very good in 5.1. One bad thing is when your taking cover 
 and the bullits from the enemy hit your camera it moves and shakes and get a little satticky ( 
 its cool but very anoyiong when playing online and the oppsing team wont let up) . Online play is 
 very good and adds huge value to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallOfReach
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome. It's got everything that a shooter could want; you can go from third to first 
 person views in the click of a button, one shot and you or the enemy is dead, and real-time physics. 
 I like how if an enemy is hiding behind a car, you don't have to wait for him to pop his head up; 
 you can just blow up the car. I recommend this game to experienced shooters because it can get 
 frustrating when you die and have to start back at a checkpoint. The cross-com is a great add-on 
 to the game. You would think it's unfair to have, but once you see how many guys are shooting at 
 you, you would think the game is impossible without it. I give it a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaTTuH
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  It's about time the Xbox 360 got a couple of must have games. With the releases of Ghost Recon 
 Advanced Warfighter and Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, Xbox 360 owners finally have a couple of games 
 that they can say are "next gen". The launch titles were decent, although a bunch of ports, and 
 the only one that really stood out for me was Call of Duty 2 (which i rated 10 for the Campaign) , 
 which did get old after beating it on Veteran twice and having unbearable lag in every live game. 
 Needless to say Activision did release a patch to fix lag and allow private rooms, but it just 
 came too late. GRAW is the only shooter you need.
  
  I've been a fan of the Ghost Recon franchise since Ghost Recon 2 on Xbox, because I was PS2 owner 
 under I got broadband and then I sold it and got an Xbox for Xbox Live. I can't tell you how many 
 hours I spent the first few days of owning that game. That game was GOD, and still is, but there 
 is a new God in town. GRAW continues the tactical shooting we all know and love, and just expands 
 on the game play in many ways. 
  
  The single player campaign actually matters and plays like a single player game. In the past, the 
 GR games have had weak stories and missions that just seemed to be all thrown together with no 
 real structure to them. This game is much different. Although the story isnt fantastic, it gives 
 you something to play for this time. You arent just destroying enemy vehicles and enemies, and 
 objectives are changing on the fly in all the missions to really keep you on your toes. I dont 
 play Ghost Recon for the single player, but I enjoy playing the campaign now when I dont have 
 any friends online on Live. 
  
  The addition of many new gameplay options really makes this game a true next generation game. The 
 addition of the Cross Com is probably the most obvious update to the series. A little picture-in-picture 
 style screen in the upper left hand corner of the screen gives you intel that you have never been 
 able to receive before. In single player, you can view what you squad and support vehicles see 
 in real time, and give them orders via the Cross Com. Also, you can maneuver the UAV Cypher, or 
 the drone, which is hovering camera that scouts out areas before heading into them on foot. Enemies 
 seen by you, your squad, or the drone appear as red diamonds on your HUD, even if they seek cover. 
 You would think that this feature would make this game too easy, but it is really integrated well 
 in the game and actually evens up the score when youre being greatly outnumbered in a firefight. 
 
  
  When we think of next gen games, the first thing we think of is graphics, and this game looks amazing. 
 The single player looks better than the multiplayer of course, but the lighting, high res textures, 
 character models and environments alone make the $60 purchase worth it. Its hard to put into words 
 how much better this game looks then its predecessors, or any other game for that matter. Theres 
 a lot to say about the graphics, but Ill just say the graphics are some of the best anyone has 
 ever seen. And running it in 720p really makes the graphic jaw dropping. The surround sound, which 
 everyone seems to forget about sound, is amazing as well. 
  
  Amazingly enough, there is much, much more to the game. The multiplayer could be its own game. 
 There are hundreds of possibilities on multiplayer where you can create just about any kind of 
 game you could possibly want. There are 10 maps, 4 of which have co-op campaign missions, specially 
 designed for multiplayer. These are very, very fun and are a completely different story then the 
 single player campaign. The game now supports 16 players in all modes of play, and playing a 16 
 player co-op mission is some of the most fun you can have on Live. 
  
  Although there are only 10 maps (compared to the 20+ in the past games) , these maps kick your mom 
 in the face. They are big, extensive, and have plenty of opportunities for every type of player. 
 Whether you are a sniper, run-and-gunner, or a camper (who we all hate) , you can find a way to 
 play each of the maps with your style. The challenge is figuring out your strategy for each map. 
 You can no longer play each map the same. All the maps are a hefty size, although some like Treasury 
 are huge. Playing LMS on some of these maps is a real rush because there are so many your enemy 
 could be. When you are left with a 1 on 1 situation, the game could last for a very long time. 
 You can enable or disenable drones, and pretty much change anything else. Victory conditions, custom 
 game types and kit restrictions are just some of the things you can customize. You can customize 
 your own online identity with headgear, chose a default class, controls, brightness, etc. The list 
 goes on, simply put the multiplayer part makes this game the most fun Xbox Live game ever. Chew 
 on that Halo.
  
  All in all, I recommend this game to everyoneIt is an amazing game that I know I will be playing 
 nonstop at least until the next Ghost Recon comes out
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nosealot420
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 30, 2006 7:33 am PT
Review:  Games like this are few and in between. A game that includes the action of Hollywood and the intensity 
 of the real world. I can remember when playing the original Ghost Recon for the pc. It was a true 
 amazement to play at the time. This game has taken that really great formula from the original 
 and added all the flair of the next gen. A game to take you back to the days before Halo. Instead 
 of just running full force into the face of your enemy. This game is one that makes every move 
 a important one. I would recommend this game to anyone that wants a game that makes you use your 
 head not just the trigger finger. A true next gen game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JasonEFowle
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 30, 2006 3:31 am PT
Review:  well where to start you only have to look at the screen shots to know this game looks OH MY GOD 
 but trust me it looks even better when running the sound is also excellent i've heard people comment 
 on how good the guns sound in BLACK i've heard both and graw is without doubt a whole different
 
  sport the sound is awesome the controls seem difficult at fisrt but after a while your be running 
 around like arnie killing everything in your path the single player game is very very good but 
 has got faults the biggest i'd say is the lack of civilians in what is one of the most populated 
 areas on earth mexico city also not being able to seperate your ghost members was a little annoying 
 but you can forgive its fault because the game is still great but the game really shines when you 
 click the xbox live button this is without doubt one of the best multiplayer games around you can 
 pick from hundreds of different game options weapon sets time lenghts and the maps are very very 
 well designed and its just so much fun you will cry you will laugh but most of all you'll never 
 put it down awesome i take my hat of to ubisoft 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vnetvnet
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 29, 2006 11:49 pm PT
Review:  The Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! The 
 Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics 
 Is Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics Is 
 Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! 
 The Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! The 
 Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics 
 Is Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics Is 
 Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! 
 The Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! The 
 Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics 
 Is Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! The Graphics Is 
 Good!! The Graphics Is Good!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elemonkey
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 29, 2006 9:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely amazing. There is no doubt about it. Ghost Recon Adanced Warfighter was 
 everything that I wanted it to be and more!
  
  Graphics: Graphics were the best I have seen to date on the 360. Nice textures and character movement 
 is very realistic.
  
  Sound: Nice sound effects. Explosions sound great. Weapons firing are good as well
  
  Gameplay: 
 my only real complaints are in this section. The character controls are very smooth, most of the 
 time. There were instances when my character would become stuck while leaning against walls. One 
 time I could not get my character to leave cover and simply had to restart the level. The teammate 
 AI is a little scary as well. I had a few times when my team members would become stuck in little 
 booth/buildings or would not come up a flight of stairs if I wanted them to and they would just 
 stand and run in place. These things were a little frustrating during the game, but I learned to 
 deal with it after a while.
  
  Overall, this game is outstanding. The minor problems I encountered were not near enough to take 
 away from the quality or experience of the game itself. I recommend this to all 360 owners! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillaMario
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Single player - Pretty fun stuff to be had with this you know... i mean like its all what you expect 
 from a ghost recon game with insane graphics. Theres gonna be some pretty neat moments including 
 getting your ass kicked by the A. I. It's all good... no real complaints.... so ya....
  
  Multiplayer - PWNING NOOBS ONLINE IS WHAT ITS ALL ABOUT!!!! PWNAGE FOR EVERYONE ESPECIALLY NOOBS!!!! 
 PWNING NOOBS WITH CRAZY MAPS AND INSANE AMOUNT OF MULTIPLAYER MODES!!!!! PWNING NOOBS ALL DAY IN 
 TEAM ELIMINATION!!!!!!!!! ILL PWN YOU ONLINE EVERYDAY!!!!! CRAZY MULTIPLAYER PWNAGE!!!!!
  
  Overall - Yes so i never really got into ghost recon games before this one. I would call this a 
 must buy if your into online shooters and well likes shooting people with your standard tom clancy 
 storyline. You wont be dissapointed for the most part so yes ill get back to playing OBLVION!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcbrockport2003
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 29, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  this game is great everything from the graphics to the music. gamespot did metion one thing their 
 is no citizens in this game well it makes since its becuase thier is a cue going on. in the later 
 levels thought you can hear people talking and babys crying. this game is defiantly a changle you 
 will find your self dieing many times but good thing their is alot of check points threw out the 
 game. your sqaud thought is very dumb but if need be they can hold their own to tell you the truth 
 thought my sqaud acutaly beat this game for me witch was very suprising. i havent played mutiplayer 
 yet but if its anything like the game they im sure its great! if your looking for a good war game 
 that is very relistic then this game is right for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chester885
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 29, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  the best ghost recon of the series! you must buy it, if you have a x 360!
  this is a real masterpiece: the graphic is beautiful, the game play amazing!
  this is a killer-application 
 for the x 360, the difficulty is right, never easy and never too hard; you can spent on this game 
 from 20 to 40 hours.
  the game really rocks! the tactics are really evolved.
  another good game is battlefield modern combat, but it's not a tactic game like this!
  
  with 
 the technology of the 2013, you can survive to see the 2014
  
  the multiplayer mode is awesome, you must try it on the xbox live
  
  final comment: amazing 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr-sheep
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 29, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  Finally! A Ghost Recon game Tom Clancy can be proud of! I have never been really enticed by the 
 GR series untill I saw Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter! 
  
  The graphics.....
  are by far the best I have yet to see on the Xbox 360! IT LOOKS SO DROPDEAD GORGEOUS! The characters 
 are nicely detailed and not forgetting the environment too :P! Everything is nice and sharp, you 
 will hardly ever find a jaggie in this game.
  
  The controls.....
  if you have played previous GR games is still the same except there are some new aditions to this 
 one. The controls get a + because the Xbox 360 controller just makes you feel so good. 
  
  The gameplay.....
  EXPLOSIONS! BULLETS WHIZZING PAST YOUR HEAD! The action is non-stop my friends. 
 I repeat NON-STOP! The gameplay in single player is great but, the gameplay on XBL is even better! 
 Shooting other people from around the world never felt so good!
  
  Overall, if you have a Xbox 360 and you don't have this game; SHAME ON YOU! Go run to your local 
 EB Games and buy this game ASAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireBurger
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 1, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay in singleplayer cannot be described as anything but silky-smooth. Movement 
 feels very realistic, your character moves at a beleivable speed and there is no gliding feeling 
 at all. The new cover system is incredibly well implemented and is extremely useful and fun to 
 use. All of your weapons handle very nicely and the scopes are very clean and precise. In multiplayer, 
 the gameplay will, at first, seem a little less smooth,. However, once you adjust to it, the gameplay 
 is still great. You cannot use the cover system, you have a more generic scope, and the controls 
 at first don't feel as responsive, but like I said, you will eventually adjust and it will seem 
 very smooth, which it actually is. Superb gameplay.
  
  Graphics: Holy **** The graphics in singleplayer are absolutely stunning. You can easily just walk 
 around for a half-hour just taking in all the visuals this game has to offer. Reflections, shadows, 
 sun glare, bullet holes, bullet dents, it's all incredible. The most amazing, however, are the 
 explosions. I have never seen explosions like these in any game. They just look so beleivable and 
 realsitic, and when accompanied by the terrific boom, and the trees and ground shaking, there is 
 nothing like this in any other game. In multiplayer, they had to tone down the graphics some, but 
 there is still no mistaking this for a current-gen game. You couldn't ask for anything more.
  
  Sound: All around, the sound in this game is amazing. Each weapon has a distinct, crisp sound, 
 and you will actually feel like you are shooting something. The explosions are incrediibly well 
 done as well. One of the coolest effects is when a grenade goes off, afterward, you can hear the 
 small paritcles and debris falling gently back down to the ground. Of course, there is the deafening 
 effect of an explosion which can make any gunfight seem that much more frantic. All in all, you 
 couldn't ask for anything more from the sound in this game.
  
  My Opinion: GRAW has a fantastic singleplayer to get you started, and then a great online experience 
 to accompany it. The online co-op is simply awesome to play. There is a lot of communication with 
 your teammates and there is an instant sense of comaraderie, something you don't necessarily get 
 playing human vs. human. However, if you don't have Live or someone to play split-screen with on 
 a regular basis, and you are not someone who plays through games multiple times, you may want to 
 just rent first, as the single-player should only last you 10-12 hours. Overall, superb game.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: teh_ghost
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancys Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter is another game with an unnecessarily long title. 
 Commonly known as GRAW, its the next game in the long running Ghost Recon series. The game takes 
 a few cues from previous Ghost recon but feels more fluent and interesting then any Ghost Recon 
 before. Ubisoft creates a mostly realistic Mexican environment for the game and it succeeds on 
 almost all fronts. GRAW is quite simply one of the best games on the Xbox 360 and is a game that 
 you will be sure to have with you for a long time.
  
  Cost: 69.99cdn
  Genre: 3rd/1st person shooter
  Platform: Xbox, PC, Xbox 360 [reviewed version] , Playstation 2
 
  ESRB: T for Teen
  Online: Yes GRAW puts you in the shoes of Scott Mitchell an elite ghost operative in the year 2013. 
 The game has you starting off with a simple security job in Mexico City. Your visiting their because 
 of the Presidents requests while he is at a summit with the other two major leaders of North America. 
 The game then takes a tragic turn for me personally being a Canadian. When you reach your helicopter 
 you discover the US president has been captured by rebels and they have killed the CANADIAN PRIME 
 MINISTER. Well you just cant let that be, they killed the Canadian prime minister its time to 
 fight back oh and rescue the American President as well. The story is there and can be interesting 
 depending what youre into in your stories. But realistically the story is a simple excuse to put 
 you in as a ghost and shoot up a bunch of evil bad guys.
  
  When you first start playing GRAW youll notice the interesting Heads up Display you have. The 
 display has these teal lines around it first of all giving it a helmet sort of look even though 
 you play from a third person perspective. There is also always something going on in either the 
 top right or left hand corner of the HUD. In the top right corner youll either be viewing your 
 squad-mates or the games UAVmore on both later -- . Youll also receive mission updates in top left 
 corner of the screen. These are streamed video in both cases. Despite the fact youll have both 
 of these video things as well as some options and your player the screen never really seems crowded 
 when youre playing. This could be due to that you only see the video updates after a section or 
 it only lasts a brief second but the interface never looks cluttered despite all the action and 
 stuff constantly appearing on the screen. The game goes the same route as Ghost Recon 2 and Ghost 
 Recon 2: Summit Strike in the fact you play from a 3rd person perspective. Whats interesting is 
 how well the 3rd person view works in the game and adds to the game tactical feel. Using the 3rd 
 person it allows to a better views when using the walls as barrier and poking your head to out 
 to make a few quick kills on your opponents. It also allows you have a larger peripheral vision 
 of the level and increase your chances of spotting an enemy or an ambush before they spot you, 
 and allowing you to counter their attack quickly and precisely. Of course youll need guns to counter 
 their attack and the game delivers this as well. The game has a ton of useable weapons that you 
 can actually use in the game. The most common weapon is the standard rifle which has a rate of 
 fire option to choose from a nice subtle touch. The game also has a really cool weapon the countersnipe 
 rifle which can shoot through walls and houses to out enemy opponents. The game single player campaign 
 occurs over a span of 10-12 missions depending on how you look at it. Missions have you clambering 
 around various locales all throughout Mexico City and doing a lot of tasks that can instantly change 
 on the fly. Some of the more common Mission Objectives include charging into and holding various 
 locales in Mexico City as well transporting VIPs who are characters like the Presidents of the 
 USA and President of Mexico. Whats nice is that often the mission objectives will change really 
 quickly on the fly in a mission. In an early mission youll be taking the President of Mexico to 
 the embassy located in the middle of Mexico City. Unfortunately once you get around their Embassy 
 is blown to smithereens and youll be ambushed by a large amount of Mexicans, all the while still 
 protecting the VIP. The missions despite all taking place vary a lot because of the scenery and 
 the sheer size of the maps youre playing on. The maps in GRAW and the city itself are absolutely 
 monstrous in size. You can tell from the game opening scene where you overlook Mexico City in a 
 Blackhawk chopper and can see Skyscrapers puncturing into the sky and the glare of a purple, red 
 and lavish sunset in the background. Even when you enter the first mission youll immediately notice 
 the number of details and different pathways per level and how there are always multiple routes 
 to take, yet there isnt a lot of trial and error in the game because of how its set-up. The game 
 isnt meant to be frustratingly difficult and works well in doing so. Its not that the game lacks 
 challenge but because of all the different strategies and some great squad work A. I. the game never 
 gets ridiculously hard. Your team-mates A. I. is by far the highlight of the A. I. package. They 
 follow your orders pretty precisely and have some crazy aiming in them. They also arent stupid 
 and wont walk around in the middle of a row waiting to be shot. That said there is the occasional 
 time where they will make a seemingly wrong decision such as to run out and revive a team-mate 
 as opposed to shooting away the enemies then healing the team-mate. They work well as a unit and 
 you have a few customization options for them as two their types and weapons they will use. The 
 opponent A. I. though is not as strong as your team-mates A. I. they will run duck and cover but 
 when they are being flanked they will come out into the open and leave them open for pickings. 
 Its also worth noting they often work as a group and are smart enough to duck and cover with a 
 group member is shot but often they are in the middle of streets and picking off the other opponents 
 is still pretty easy. The A. I. tends to be in cover or wide open and will react quickly if they 
 are fired or hear gunfire. They are sensitive but during an ambush they will attack you relentlessly 
 whether it means they are in the open or in cover they sole goal is to flank you.
  
  The action in GRAW is paced as such that you are almost always on your toes. No matter what mode 
 youre playing in your always getting ready for that next attack or ambush on your position. For 
 example in the single player campaign youre moving tactically along walls never sure where an 
 enemy will pop out from next. This pacing is worked to perfection and makes the game more enjoyable 
 as there is never a true lull in the action. In the single player you can pause at times to regroup 
 and prepare for the next section but the action is so well done for the most part that you want 
 more of it and want to keep moving through the level. In the co-op this is especially noticeable 
 in the co-op elimination mode where enemies for the most part and always coming at you. The game 
 has a perfect pacing to its sporadic action and often tense moments and these help to make the 
 game succeed in being the best ghost Recon game to date.
  
  The single player is solid but the multiplayer and co-op modes of GRAW are where the true action 
 lies. The co-op mode is open to up to 16 players in one mission, there are 4 separate and special 
 co-op missions that have very little to do with the single player but are there own separate and 
 interesting missions. When you choose to play split screen co-op like this the game will default 
 to a split screen FPS mode where you dont see your character only the sight of your gun. Similar 
 to the single player youll have the option of choosing a class for your character and there are 
 plenty of these groups. Probably the best choice if youre only playing with one partner is the 
 rifleman as it allows for maximum fire and the ability to take out the many hordes of enemies that 
 flood the streets. Whats also interesting is that as you add more members to co-op session the 
 game scales the amount of enemies based on this. So a co-op with 16 is going to have hundreds of 
 enemies then if it were two players doing the same mission. Its a nice difficulty touch as it 
 prevents the game from being very easy with 16 players.
  
  The game also has several other multiplayer modes to cram in the value and the excitement of a 
 multiplayer session. You can play your standard death match both locally, on a LAN and online. 
 The game gives you incentive to do so by giving several insane achievements in the online and multiplayer 
 modes. Achievements like 500 headshots and large amounts of total kills give players some incentive 
 to stick with GRAW online. The game has your standard CTF and Deathmatch modes all spread throughout 
 the game 10 maps. Like the single player campaign GRAW has some terrific level design in the maps 
 and the maps are extraordinarily large. Head to head matches feel a little out of place on the 
 large maps. They have a slow pacing to them in head to head and take a lot of time to stalk down 
 your opponent and then finish him off. That said the multiplayer part of GRAW is superbly done 
 and is one of the better shooting multiplayer modes to come along and arguably the best on the 
 X360 ranking up with PGR 3, COD 2 and PDZ. The highlight of GRAW is obviously in the game graphics. 
 Its quite simply mind blowing how good they are. From the opening sequence looking out on Mexico 
 City and its massive size you can tell that time and effort was spent into making this game as 
 real and as good looking as possible. The amount of detail put into each single, co-op and multiplayer 
 level is astounding as chairs will be out place, tables set up around everything,. Cars parked 
 and tents up. The characters in the game also a lot of detail into them and each character looks 
 pretty unique considering they are all wearing the typical Ghost outfit of camouflage. The most 
 obvious complaint with anything to do with the graphics is the lack of any civilians in the game 
 whatsoever. Even at the beginning when your own security duty there doesnt seem to be anyone inside 
 the dense population of Mexico City. Outside of this is hard to find any complaint with the graphics 
 of GRAW at all. The frame-rate doesnt ever hiccup and runs smooth throughout the entirety. Load 
 times are 3 seconds at most and the game is the new standard for graphics on the Xbox 360.
  
  The sound presentation in GRAW is superb as well. Unlike the graphical presentation, the sound 
 portion of GRAW isnt perfect. Most of the sound is worked to near perfection, some classic rock 
 songs flare as you fly above the city in the chopper and some halo-esque music will play periodically 
 through the campaign. The sound effects though are what make up the bulk of the sound. The constant 
 thumping of your feet on cement while running as well as the softer more dramatic steps when in 
 a crouch. The bullets sound are done well and have a loud pulsing sound to them adding to the tense 
 situations of being in combat during GRAW. The explosion effects are loud and impactful and add 
 a sense of drama to the situations in GRAW. That said some of the bullet sound can get rather bland 
 after a while and a few guns seem to have no sound or purpose of their fire. The game also benefits 
 from being tactical as running around the city and hearing your footsteps over and over could get 
 rather annoying. The sound as a whole is superb and features some solid voice acting and some terrific 
 sound effects.
  
  Overall Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter is probably the best Xbox 360 game, only topped buy maybe 
 the Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. The graphics set a new benchmark for X360 games and some fantastic 
 gameplay as well as some great sound and value make this easily the best Tactical shooter on the 
 Xbox 360. Taken as a whole Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter is an outstanding game. That any fan 
 of Ghost recon games, shooting fans or even the vast majority of Xbox 360 owners should pick up 
 and give it a whirl you wont be disapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evil_monkey248
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 28, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  This Game Show what the 360 Can Do, I have No Camplaints, this Game is Worth Buying.
  
  GRAPHICS: The Graphics are Ground Breaking, You Can See an Enemey or Other Player, a Mile Away. 
 Dust, Shots, Everything Surrounding you. Graphics are A+.
  
  SOUND: The Sounds are Very Realistic, not Very Common in Some Games, but its not the Standard Shots, 
 and Explosions. The Sound is Really Something.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The Storyline is Original (Not WWII Finally) Its Missions are Good, and not Repeditive, 
 Although its a Bit more Difficult to play, and Controls take a bit longer to learn, like the Minimap, 
 and Other Features. But when a Game is too easy its not fun, so This is Better.
  
  VALUE: The Single Player Missions are Good, and the Multiplayer is Awsome.
  
  Conclusion? This 
 game is Worth Buying, Its Very Fun, Graphics are What you would Expect "Next Gen" If you like Games 
 that may be a challenge, this is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rj1991
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 28, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  This is without a doubt the best damn war game to date in my opinion. The gameplay is just... undescribable.
 
  The graphics are best anyone has ever seen on the 360 so far.
  The sound is so realistic and loud and stuff that at times you'll get so into the game that when 
 an explosion goes off, you will actually squint your eyes and move your body around like your trying 
 to dodge shrapnel... but that might just be me.
  
  On multiplayer there are a lot of weapons, but i just dont think there is enough. Im happy that 
 they have added the A4 and some other weapons, but they have also taken some very good and favored 
 weapons out. The good old SAW is gone and replaced by a newer version which i think just plain 
 old sucks, but that might be just because i am not used to it yet. 
  
  The campaign is awsome, the maps are huge ! but there isn't a single damn civilian in mexico. Anyway, 
 you have some neat features like sticking to a wall, which you cant do on multiplayer, you can 
 dive and slide on your knees 
  
  And in multiplayer sometimes it just comes down to seeing the other dude first,, since the graphics 
 are so good. Like in GR2 you could see the other guy a mile away, but in this you actually have 
 to look for them. But it is highly addictive. All in all, buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBlakerz
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  I had played a few of the ghost-recon games but this is definitely the best one ever made. If you 
 have no played this game yet you must get it now. It has very fun multi-player and an action filled 
 campaign mode. It is by far one of the best games at any retailer. You must buy this game because 
 it is a must have. I love this game and it is worth a lot more than sixty dollars!!! Please buy 
 this game now if you have not already 
  I AM MR BLAKERZ AND I APPROVE THIS MESSAGE
  AKA: PRODIGY CHILD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duh_to_the_avo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 28, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter is quite the mouthful of a title, one of the trademarks 
 that people have come to associate with the Tom Clancy series of games. Another thing that people 
 have come to expect is an incredibly quality game stretched over several, all too short missions 
 based on tactics and stealth, not just brain-dead point and shoot blood fests. Advanced warfighter 
 somewhat steps away from the ultra-technical, somewhat boring formula of games like Rouge Spear 
 and Rainbow Six. It trades in the tactical aspect for an easier to understand third-person view 
 shooter, and manages to pull the whole experience up because of it. The submersive level of control 
 you exibit over everyone and everything in your squad is empowering to say the least. It does take 
 the player one or two missions to be able to execute the whole system perfectly, but once you do, 
 you'll be playing other games wondering why they don't follow in the steps of the cross-com. Of 
 course, a review of an Xbox 360 game wouldn't be complete without a rundown on the graphics and 
 presentation of the game, and Ghost recon surely does not dissapoint. Meticulously detailed soldiers 
 and areas are the stars of the show in Mexico City while the slight overuse of light effects does 
 make it hard to see at times. Another shining point is the sound of the game, when you throw a 
 grenade, if you listen closely, you can hear opposing soldiers yelling, or moving away from the 
 blast radius. Mr. Colayco was not hesitant to point out the fact that there are no people roaming 
 the streets of mexico, now would you be wandering around, going to the supermarket or the beach 
 while bullets are flying around your head and around every corner a troop transport veichle is 
 smouldering? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flavort
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 29, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  I am not big into the series, so I am not sure how this adds up. This game has insane graphix and 
 the effects are sweet, but It wasn't all of that. I was starting to really get into it and all 
 these guys were more aggressive and it was starting to get really good and bam it was over. I thought 
 I was maybe almost halfway through, but no that was it. So as I really got into it it just ended. 
 I thought call of duty was longer and more of a challenge but the grafix of GRAW were out of control. 
 There was less to the AI in this game also. I think that call of duty is better for the money as 
 far as that goes but the visuals in GRAW are very nice. I did get a feel that I was serious buisness 
 playing this and it is a fun game, so unless you are going to play online just rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trunks35
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 28, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  As of right now this is the best looking FPS (or 3rd person) out for any system. The graphics are 
 very crisp and clear and everything is very detailed. The gameplay is great and players of all 
 the other ghost recons will notice the game style hasnt changed. This game has some really cool 
 features to it. You can comand you squad to do whatever you want them to do. Some missions you 
 can command a hipachi helicopter to go reek havek on the enimies, and some have tanks that you 
 can do the same with. The sound is very clear and very well done. The story mode isnt that long 
 but really what shooter has a really long story mode. Some missions on the story mode can get really 
 hard if you try and rush them. This isnt like Perfect Dark or Halo where you can just run in the 
 middle of a shreet and kill 10 guys, its extremely realistic and if you get shot in the right spot 
 chances are, YOUR DEAD. This game is the best XBox live game out to date. There are ALOT of game 
 types you can join or create. If you love playing online get this game, or if you just are looking 
 for a nice looking game with great gameplay and a fun story mode pick up this game, you wont be 
 dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexlexia2000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 28, 2006 12:14 am PT
Review:  i wasnt execting mush from the zxbox 360 so i didnt buy oine, i played this on my friends console 
 and it was amazing, simple as. the detail that they have put into this game is phenomenal, they 
 spent 2.5 years creating this game and it shows, mexico city would be proud. there are a few minor 
 glitches as with any game, but the superior gameplay and detail is overwhelming. a definate game 
 for the xbox360 that you should get. rarely have i played a war game where i actually felt like 
 at of the game, but this does its solid best to make you feel like your there without virtual reality 
 being involved, currently the suits that the soldiers in the game are wearing are being developed 
 idenytically in th usa for real soldiers bu they are too expensive at presnt. a great game therfore 
 a great review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nonsoville2
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2006 11:06 pm PT
Review:  This Game is the Bomb. Great Physics, Superb A. I... The First time i heard an explosion in the 
 Game, I actually Jumped because Of My Surround Sound System.
  
  The Sound: Truely Next Gen, Unbeliveble Explosion sound, Realistic Gun Sounds that vary with each 
 weapon.
  
  The Graphics: Everything is extremely detailed to the core, Making the Outcome look superb. Realistic 
 Body & Vehicle Movement, Very Detailed explosion (Makes Perfect Dark Look Like a Child's Play) . 
 Takes you off your living room.
  
  The Game Play: Actually, It's a bit hard 4 me, but it makes me want to play more. Unlike those 
 other shooters that frustrate you. Tight gameplay, Nice controls, Superb A. I. One close shot can 
 kill you. Very Good On Live.
  
  The Value: A Must Have for 360 Owners. You wouldn't let go off this game in a very... very Long 
 time.
  Can't Wait for "Gears Of War". Hope It'll be better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pen_Dragon
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 27, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Note: this review is for single-player only (as I do not have live connected yet) .
  
  Gameplay: Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter has some of the best gameplay I have encountered. The 
 controls are very easy to pick up on and very intuitive, even the command structure for your squad 
 and support elements, which cover from armored personnel carries, Bradley fighting vehicles, Abrams 
 tanks, Blackhawk helicopters, Apache attack helicopters and a support drone, which allows you to 
 receive advanced intel on locations. The new cover system is great. You can go against the wall 
 and when you get around a corner you peak around to see whats around the corner without exposing 
 much of yourself. The only real complaint I have is that youre squad AI isnt all that smart all 
 the time, sometimes they can do something stupid like run around a corner without seeing whats 
 around it, and the result of that is that youll have to medic him. But it didnt happen all that 
 much so its not that big of a deal. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are some of the best Ive seen ever. The character models look superb, the 
 Ghosts as well as the rebels, and they all have very realistic movements. The vehicles, that you 
 command, not fully control like Battlefield, are also beautiful and pretty close to the real thing. 
 The urban environment also looks great, very realistic, makes you feel like you are in Mexico City. 
 The lighting is also worth mentioning, as it gives a feeling of being in a near-equatorial environment, 
 by having blinding sunlight and high contrasted shadows. 
  
  Sound: The sound is also very good. The weapons all sound different and like how they should. The 
 combined sounds of the weapons, yours and the enemies, combined with the support elements, make 
 for a very great and immersive feel, especially for those that have surround sound. 
  
  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a great addition to an already great series and is a must-have 
 for those who already love Ghost Recon and/or modern war games, especially the tactical kind. For 
 those who dont care for this genre or series, rent it; at least give it a try. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimrod97
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 27, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  I've been dying to get my hands on this game and once i finally did, all i can say is one word. 
 Wow. thats sums it up. This game lasted a long time and i beat it in both Normal and Hard and i 
 still find myself some times replaying some intense battles in Single Player. But ofcourse, You 
 can forget the Multiplayer. The Graphics are amazing. Great Gameplay. Sound is good. Single Player 
 is Sweet, but Multiplayer totally tops its all. You'll be having huge online fights with your friends 
 or strangers on the tons of different modes and tons of different online options. So if you have 
 Xbox Live you need this game. Its still worth it if you dont so dont worry. What are you waiting 
 for. GO BUY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neighbor124
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 27, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  This game has turned out to be the best in the Tom Clancy series without a doubt. this game has 
 great graphics, game-play, sound, everything u need for a perfect shooter game. There are so many 
 things to do in this game and the online is AWESOME. This is easily the greatest shooter on the 
 360 right now even though there arent that many, it will be for a long time, even when the newer 
 games come out. The multi-player is my favorite part in this whole game. Plus every level was extremely 
 fun, even when u are the different game-types. I dont know but the next halo might have some competition?!? 
 many people may disagree with that last comment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeyHawk
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 27, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is one of the best games to grace the Xbox 360 hardware. 
 I has great graphics, fantastic sound, a deep online mode, and controls that take some getting 
 used to.
  
  Let's start with graphics. This game has the best visuals on the Xbox 360 so far. It has great 
 textures, smoke effects, and explosions. The smoke effects are the best I've seen so far, when 
 you throw that smoke grenade, it works.
  
  The sound is definitely the best part of this game. Every gun has a unique firing and reload sound, 
 and the vehicles are great too. The voice acting is spectacular, and so are the footstep and breathing 
 noises.
  
  The online mode really adds some more value to the game, because the campaign is pretty short. 
 The online modes have a huge amount of modes, like Team Elimination, Capture the Flag, Solo Elimination, 
 Campaign (Co-op) , Territories, etc. You can go up in rank, and customize your character's apparel 
 and class.
  
  The controls are very responsive, but take some getting used to, because they'll make you do some 
 extra work. Letting you switch between different views is also a great feature.
  
  Overall, Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is the best action game available on the Xbox 360 to date. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmlg4
Rating: 1.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Wow hay look ANOTHER FPS FOR THE XBOX. What an orginal concept. Honestly. The gameplay is basically 
 the same as every other game in existense so if you really want a game that doesnt suck go play 
 something like Shuffle! or whateva. The graphics are really crappy. You have to stare at the ground 
 the whole time because if you look up then you get LENSFLARED AND YOU CANT SEE ANYTHING. The sound 
 is just a bunch of loud explosions so in the first 15 minutes i couldnt even hear anything from 
 my awesome 1500 dollar speakers. The worst part was that the game was really hard. Every time you 
 jump aout and shoot the mexican drug dealers or whatever they were (its a tom clancy game the story 
 is dumb and boring but this isnt anything new) they would shoot like a million bullets and i would 
 die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiccup
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Unbeliaveble finally a game that is a game. The Ghost recon series had its up and downs the majority 
 was in the good ones now this game is in the really good ones when i started playing GRAW i was 
 amazed of how this game fuctioned it really is a tactical experience. The graphics are improved 
 the gameplay is smoother and the action is better YOU will be converted into a Ghost Recon fan 
 because this is the Best in the Series do youself a favor buy this Game its really good so please 
 do yourselves a favor B UY this GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: modtek
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2006 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Just Finished the game and have to say 10/10 for me, brilliant tactfully shooter and the best i 
 have played to date!! Squad AI could be better but it just makes it more challenging, just what 
 you need. Walking around the city is very realistic, awesome sound, music and a good story to go 
 with it. This game is very challenging especially in the later mission and the helicopter missions 
 rock!! This game is a must play for anyone who loves FPS, better than Call Of Duty 2 & hands down 
 there is nothing out there more realistic than this, this is as good as it gets to next gen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssj4
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 26, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon gameplay is tight but sadly the same cant be said for the AI. The AI can be pretty 
 dodgy at times. In some instances, they would gladly stand in front of enemy fire, riddling their 
 bodies with bullets, instead of taking cover. Then again AI has always been a hit n miss for games. 
 So with that said, I'm going to let this one slide.
  Graphics are king and online play is a snap. To really appreciate the graphics, Hi Def TV is the 
 way to go. If I could describe the graphics on HDTV in one word, it would have to be; sublime. 
 
  Lastly, if you are bored with the campaign, feel free to connect to Live. Cause online is where 
 this game reigns supreme. IMHO.. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RacinJason
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 26, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfigher is the fifth Ghost Recon game to appear on Microsoft's xbox consoles 
 and the first to make the leap to "next-gen" gaming.
  
  The gameplay is pretty solid in GRAW. If you have played Ghost Recon 2 for the xbox you will be 
 somewhat familar with the third person view GRAW is viewed in. It works great and they have added 
 in the ability to press yourself up against cover and peek around corners which you will be doing 
 alot of. When you peek around a corner you can also shoot at your enemys now which a very nice 
 improvment from the side step you had to do in GR 2. The enemy AI is pretty good, sometimes they 
 don't run for cover when they should but they are pretty good shots and it doesn't take many hits 
 to go down in this game. One of the coolest features added in GRAW is the Advanced Warfighter system. 
 When you have spotted a enemy they will be highlighted in a red diamond and when you move your 
 crosshairs over them you will see the outline of their body. This makes it very easy to keep track 
 where your targets are at. There is also a very handy mini map that you can use to plan your attack 
 that you will be probably using alot. There is also a small video feed that will be displayed on 
 your hud of whatever the selected unit is seeing. It doen't really come in that handy but is a 
 cool touch. The controls are for the most part very good, the only problem I has was sometimes 
 there was a slight lag when I would try to zoom in with my scope. I would sometimes press the stick 
 again and then either zoom out or zoom in to close. There are a few simple commands for your teammates 
 that are issued with the d-pad and where your crosshairs are pointed at. Have your crosshairs pointed 
 at a enemy and press up on the d-pad and they will attack, have the crosshairs pointed to a wall 
 and they will move to the wall and hold. Press down on the d-pad and they will regroup on you. 
 That's it, it works but it would of been nice to of been able to tell them to go to a waypoint 
 since now they can only go to what you can see and put your crosshairs on.
  
  The graphics on GRAW look awesome. The levels look awesome and are very detailed. Your character, 
 teammates, enemys, all look great and animate very well. The only problems I've had so far is that 
 some of the dark areas are a little too dark. Once when I walked into the shadow of a building 
 on a bright sun drenched level I had to turn on my thermal vision just to see where to go. And 
 some of the metal surfaces like the A/C and heating ducts on the roof tops have way too much shine 
 and glare to them. Otherwise everything looks really great. 
  
  The sound is great, all the guns sound awesome as do the explosions and voice work.
  
  Overall 
 GRAW is a very good game that I would recommend to anyone with a 360 that has been enjoying the 
 GR series from the start on the xbox consoles. It looks and plays way better then the past GR games 
 and is by far the best in the series to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielausten
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 26, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Im still in the middle of the game but it is the best game ever. the graphics are the best i've 
 ever seen. the sound is so realistic it feels like you are in the army in the war!! i like how 
 its a 3rd person shooter but the cross-com is the coolest feature I've seen in a video game yet!! 
 but i don't like the short life span its like 3 shots and your out. over all this game is the best 
 3rd person shooter fort the 360 yet. it would be cool if you could drive a car or a tank and blow 
 buildings up and decapitate people!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jilarson
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 26, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  I like Call of Duty 2 after you get the feel of it and I have been a fan of the other ghost recons 
 but this one takes the cake!!!
  It really seems hard at first because it is quite complicated and a lot of never-before-seen features 
 that it seems a little overwhelming.
  After you start to play it and understand the drones, vehicle movement, map and other controls 
 then you are hooked.
  BEWARE -- It you are new and enter Multiplayer on-line like I did when I first got it then you 
 will be schooled. I was killed so many times before getting a shot off.
  It is definately worth the money and the multiplayer is a blast!@!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: njnaz765
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  GRAW puts you in the shoes of Recon soldier, Scott Mitchell. As Scott you and your team will disarm 
 Mexican Rebels and terrorists in good old strategic fashion.
  
  GRAPHICS
  This game sports the best graphics on the 360 currently. Now some may argue that with Oblivion, 
 but the reason this wins, is because, even on standard definition televisions, this game looks 
 next gen. But the game is perfect in the graphic department. In helicopter sequences, NPC's to 
 your left glitch out of control. They spaz for a frame and return to normal. A small problem but 
 none the less, something that should've been caught in production. The hud is quite complex, but 
 all of it is used unlike other games with massive HUD's (Full Auto) . Animations are smooth and 
 there is virtually no lag in framerate.
  
  SOUND
  Explosions and guns sounds are perfect. The vehicles and voice acting are done with a certain amount 
 of precision. But Scott sounds kind of like a child molester. It is quite creepy.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  This game sets a new standard in shooter games. Graphically games should be built off 
 this game, but also in the online aspects. The online play is wonderfull. There are hundreds o 
 customization options and not as run and gun lucky gameplay as in Halo2. The lack of a jump button 
 is a little sad, but understandable. I mean really, when a person is carrying half of their weight 
 on their back, do you expect them to jump? Also, the team AI is suprisingly dumb. I say regroup, 
 they stand next to me but out in the open as well. You could be shooting at enemies left and right 
 and they'll look at you like your insane. But hey, after Rainbow Six's horrid AI, this is truely 
 better.
  
  BOTTOM LINE
  While this game is the current best game on the 360, it is not perfect. The graphic glitches and 
 less than average team AI makes this game a buy, but not a game that should be called the best 
 ever. Buy it for it's online replayability, or rent it to make sure, but still, any 360 owner should 
 play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BackThenHoesDwm
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 26, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter has some killer graphics making it seem like your 
 actually there... a fun but challenging campaign, even when the difficultly is set on normal.... Do 
 you have Friends? Do you want Friends? Well G. R. A. W. has a really amazing online multiplayer, which 
 allows up to 16 player matches, in either a online campaign or custom matches..... plus lets not 
 forget the solo/team leadership boards, which you can climb to the top and claim the crown for 
 yourself..... G. R. A. W. is just amazing game and the best in its seris, which should be any true 
 gamers collection..... so get out there and get you a copy today.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e_boulanger
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 26, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  To quote a dear friend of mine: "Come on man! You know the drill...." If you already played tactical 
 based shooters, you know what to expect : order your squad, think before rushing into action, don't 
 be hit by any bullets or you are dead.
  
  This game is technically very good. The surroundings are simply very realistic, the graphics are 
 sharp, the visual effects ( explosion, shadows, etc...) are very impressive, more than one way 
 to approach a situation...
  
  But that's where it stops. The rest of the game looks like any other tactical shooters I saw (with 
 some plus and some minus) . Do not expect this game to be very original. You already know the story: 
 you've got to save politicians (again...) from rebel forces, and prevent a world wide conflict 
 because the US president lost its suitcase (why does he always do that??) .
  
  And that's probably why I give it only 8.1. Graphically it's superb, but I found the gameplay just 
 ordinary.
  
  A note about sounds. The sound is very realistic... perhaps too realistic because at a numerous 
 occasion, you cannot hear what your superiors tell you because there is too much noise around.
 
  
  Conclusion: for fan of tactical based shooters, this game is a must, for ordinary gamers, this 
 game is just an ordinary good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camper_On_Creat
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 29, 2006 1:50 am PT
Review:  This is my revised review after the chapter 2 update. The game is not worth it's 75 dollar price 
 tag. It is official, Ubisoft is full of **** The game is not that bad, it is just REALLY not worth 
 that much money. I am from here on out not buying ANY tom clancy games because they are all going 
 to have the same shit go on with each and everyone of them. They will all have patches that make 
 you pay out of the nose for them, then they throw a full [riced expansion pack at ya. They are 
 purposly holding out on us to make more money. But hey, it is a free country, they can do whatever 
 they want if ppl buy it, but hey it is a free country, and that gives me the power not to buy there 
 rip off products. Also, I like a lot of the Tom Clancy games, but I do feel that they are overrated. 
 They were never that good b4 anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voltage350z
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 17, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon is my first game that i got on my 360 and i have to say it is an extreamly fun game 
 to play, however the stripped down multiplayer is rather dissapointing.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in the singleplayer is absoulutely amazing and fun to play with, however 
 multiplayer is lacking in some parts with not being able to use many of the tactics used in single 
 player.
  
  Graphics: Simply astounding, the detail on the soldiers is awesome along with the textures and 
 lighting effects.
  
  Sound: Nothing extreally special about the sound, however it is great throughout the game.
  
 
  Ghost Recon is a great game to have on your 360 if you have one. The single player is great, while 
 the multiplayer is decent. I would recomend this game to anyone who has a 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F1esh_Grinder
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 25, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Ghost recon advance warfighter or G. R. A. W as everyone calls it, is an awsome Xbox 360 game. The 
 game starts you off as Steve Mitchell a new age soldier fighting in Mexico City, the year is 2013 
 and you are deployed to save the President of the U. S and the President of Mexico and the Prime 
 Minister of canada from rebel forces. The first thing you will notice is the graphics in this game 
 are simply beautiful, a total next-gen experience. The whole game feels like a new IP because UBISOFT 
 has build the game from the ground up so you dont have to play the old Ghost Recon games to know 
 whats going on. The enemy in this game is pretty easy especailly on normal but if you play it on 
 hard they are a little bit more tuff to deal with. Your squad mates do help out occasionally but 
 they mostly end up getting in your way. The true feature to this game will be the multiplayer because 
 its just simply FUN. They have all the typical mutiplayer shoot types games as well as co-campaign. 
 Every host aslo has the ability to completely customize one's game in great detail. The bottom 
 is that GRAW is a must-buy game for a Xbox 360, this game will eat your time for hours.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shooter_elite
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 25, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  As soon as I started playing ghost recon advanced warfighter, I noticed how many new changes they 
 did to the gameplay and all the other aspects like graphics, sound and how they added additional 
 qualities like the HUD screen, which improved the internal tactics. Ubisoft definitely pushed the 
 boundaries with G. R. A. W and all its new elements, and has shown people what a strategic shooter 
 is all about. One of the best experiences I have ever had on a gaming console so far, and I hope 
 ubisoft can continue making superb video games to please gamers alike.
  
  So if you love intense tactical shooters, and have an xbox 360 then buying ghost recon advanced 
 warfighter will definitely be a game you wont regret getting for your console library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TarkSpanky
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 25, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  fix bugs and i would give it a higher score. the game is good just needed more work fixing the 
 large number of issues present in the game from graphical glitches to not always smart AI, to gameplay 
 response. overall pretty solid game. bring on the patches
  
  zzzz zzzzzz zzzzz zzzzzz zzzz zzzzzzz zzzzzz zzzzzzz zzzzzzzzz zzzzzz zzzzzzzz zzzz zzzzzz zzzz 
 z zzzzz zzzz zzzzzz zzzzz zzzzz zzzz zzzz zzzz zzzz zzzzz zzzzz zzzzz zzzzz zzzzz zzzzz zzzzz zzzzzzzz 
 zzzzzz zzz zzzzzzzz
  zzzzz zzzzzz zzzzzzzz zzzzzz zzzz zzzzz zzzzzzzz zzzzzz zzzzz zzzzzzz zz zzzzzz zzzzzzzz zzzzz
 
  zzzzzz zzzzz zzzz zzz zzzzzzz zzzzzzzzz zzzzzzzz zzzzz zzzzzz zzzzzz zzzzzzzz zzzzz zzzzzzzz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoneyInMeTummy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 25, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  First off, Campaign Mode.
  
  Campaign mode is very fun, although there may be some moments where you want to pick up your controller 
 and toss it out of the window. The missions/objectives are fairly easy, but have just the amount 
 of difficulty that makes a game fun. There is a variety of weapons, from machine guns to snipers. 
 Campaign mode has very interesting missions. Most of the action is done from long range, and your 
 under cover most of the time. It's also pretty fun commanding your teammates or vehicles. Another 
 cool feature is that your enemies, teammates, objective points, etc, are all highlighted. Your 
 enemies are highlighted by a red diamond, teammates blue diamond, and objectives by a yellow square. 
 The only thing that I have to say against campaign mode is that the AI can be quite stupid. For 
 example, you order your teammates to attack and they just stand there getting shot at, and you 
 have to go out in the open to heal them. 
  
  Multiplayer mode takes the spotlight of G. R. A. W. It's very addicting, you can spend hours and hours 
 just playing non-stop. In multiplayer, you can select your weapons, grenades, and secondary weapon. 
 There are many modes for multiplayer, but the Team ones have got to be the best. There are ranked 
 matches, if you want to rank up, and player matches, matches that you play just for fun. Multiplayer 
 mode really gets fun when you have a good team, with good communication. The only bad part about 
 multiplayer is that SOMETIMES it may take a while to find a game, but once you find a game it's 
 really fast in between games. 
  
  The bottom line is that anyone who has a xbox 360 should really try this game out. I recommend 
 buying it, but if you cant, rent it. The best experience that you can have from this game is by 
 having Xbox Live. There are very few things that flaw the game: bad AI, and some wait between multiplayer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sfnefreak2002
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 25, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  This is without a doubt, the best 360 game to come out so far. The single player is much better 
 than any past Ghost Recon games. Is is very eas yto control your squad mates. Just point and press 
 up on the d-pad. The cover feature is much better than that of Perfect Dark Zero. The multiplayer 
 semms like a totally diffrent game, which isn't a bad thing. The only bad part of the multiplayer 
 is that you cant take cover, like the single player. The multiplayer has alot of options. Almost 
 overwhelming. if you have any intrest with shooters and you have a 360, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chelsea1290
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 25, 2006 12:34 am PT
Review:  A great game which immerses you from the start, gives you a real feel of what combat might be like 
 in a few years, some minor lighting problems do occur but they quickly sort them selves out. Evidently 
 G. R. A. W is probably the best military game out there. The games multiplayer also successfully keeps 
 you hooked into the game and if your freinds have an xbox 360 so much fun is to be had doing missions 
 and going on against real people. althought quite hard everyone can get the hang of this game. 
 If you want the best military experience in the leisure of your own home get this!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathbal888
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 24, 2006 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Bought this game online and picked it up at bestbuy because i could wait to play it. 
  This is acctualy my first Ghost Recon game but I have played other tom clancy games and as i expected...
 
  this game is so far pretty good and enjoyable. It keeps you entertained for some hours but after 
 2+ hours it gets repetitive so i play about 1-2 hours almost every day. 
  Graphics are very good, and difficulty is a bit challenging but you just have to get the hang of 
 it- giving orders to your guys and backup, taking cover when you can, etc.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 24, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Graphics for this game are overall pretty good. The only thing that took away from the reality 
 part of the graphics is when you get shot there isn't blood on your character and when you go in 
 the water your character dosne't get wet. 
  
  The gameplay online is the whole fun of the game , the co-op is fun for a while , but it get's 
 easy and boring fast. The versus mode , is mostly all just running around the map looking for a 
 single enemy , which gets boring after awhile. There are fun game-modes though , so if you like 
 - really slow shooting games - then this is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aeronautical
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 2, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  You should already be aware that Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter (GRAW) is a tactical shooter. 
 If you don't, then I question why youre on a gaming site. Anyway... GRAW is nicely executed when 
 it comes to gameplay. Most already know the feeling if they previously played a Ghost Recon game, 
 or any tactical shooter at all. The default setting is a third-person point of view, which was 
 surprisingly nice in most situations, considering I'm a fan of first-person shooters. The game 
 does give you a choice between views, which is good since it drastically depends on the person. 
 But I recommend before you hurry off and change it, try out the third-person view.
  
  Through the game, you complete objectives and shoot bad guys along the way, nothing surprising 
 about that. Whats nice is that you aren't a one-man army. You direct your squad to take out the 
 enemy in almost anyway you seem fit. The commanding is done through the cross-com, which also allows 
 you to see what your squad is seeing. This gives you the ability to be potentially the most strategic 
 you can be. Another notable use of the cross-com is that it can be used with several different 
 types of support; such as tanks and recognizance vehicles. While you do have a lot of control over 
 your squad and/or support, it may be frustrating watching them trying to get it right. Your squad 
 mates will do everything they can to get you angry; such as running into the open during a gunfight, 
 getting stuck on walls and doorways, and running in front of you while you are shooting resulting 
 in their death. What Im basically trying to say here is that the AI could have been better, but 
 is just their enough to make it bearable for the length of the campaign.
  
  Those of you that are used to playing games like Halo (Me namely) , will need to become used to 
 the change in difficulty along side strategy. In Halo, if done right, you can be shot hundreds 
 of times and stay alive. This is very different in GRAW; you get one, two, and three strikes your 
 out. Meaning... you have three shots and you will die. Having it set up this way really pushes 
 you to think on how to take on the enemy.
  
  Graphics and Sound
  
  As you may have already heard... and seen, is all the hype about GRAW's graphics. You can be assured 
 that the hype will be up to your expectations and maybe even higher. The single-player demonstrates 
 the game's graphics capabilities the best. Where should I start...?
  
  Characters move (And die) naturally, bullet casings land on the ground next to you, light reflects 
 off of objects and you... all in wonderful HD clarity! To make it short, GRAW is a very beautiful 
 game, and may be the main reason why I bought my Xbox 360 in the first place. But there can sometimes 
 be problems with the hyper realistic lighting. First, when youre aiming through a scope, the sun's 
 glare will obscure your sight. Also, the light from the sun can reflect off objects a little too 
 much, sometimes making it hard to see. But this isn't a major problem, just an annoyance that can 
 be used as a scapegoat after you die.
  
  Okay, now lets talk about the sound, oh the glorious sound! Is there anything better than the 
 sound of gunshots, explosions, and people screaming from their bloody death?! Ahem... maybe not. 
 But don't you worry, you sound critics, there are many good reasons to pick up a surround sound 
 system, but GRAW is a good time to buy one. I was very surprised how the guns sound in a battle, 
 either up close or far away, they sound how they should sound. The developers also did a very good 
 job when it came to explosions, I never thought blowing up a building or tank can be any more fun, 
 but they pulled it off!
  
  Overall
  
  Although difficult, GRAW gives a good healthy challenge to everybody out there. The graphics (With 
 or without HD) will make you proud to own a next generation console/graphics card. I highly recommend 
 Ghost Recon Advanced Fighter to anyone that owns an Xbox 360. So go out there and buy it, you wont 
 regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Petri87
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 28, 2006 1:53 am PT
Review:  GRAW is the third and best installment in Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon series. In GRAW you take command 
 of captain Scott Mitchell of the Ghosts, a special forces thats know for their superb skills in 
 combat. Mostly you get three squad members that you easely control. Some time the squad only gets 
 in the way but when you need them they are there for you.
  
  Story:
  Well there is no real story. You get sent to Mexico to rescue the US and Mexican presidents that 
 are being targeted by a terrorist group who are trying to overthrow the Mexican government. Thats 
 it.
  
  Gameplay:
  GRAW is an extremely tactical and realistic game, witch means that you cant just run thoard the 
 enemy since if a well placed shot hits you your dead. You have to shoot the enemy from cover or 
 use you squad to flank the enemy from behind. You get to choose you squad mates ether at the start 
 of a mission or when you come by one of you own supply trucks. You can choose between Gunner, Anit-tank, 
 Sniper, and so on. All the guns in the game have a great feel to them. You can feel, see and hear 
 how powerfull they are.
  
  Multiplayer:
  The MP is just awesome, the co-op is the best ive ever seen. Its definitely the best part of the 
 game. You can both play localy and online. You can also customise the online experience just the 
 way you want it.
  
  Graphix:
  The best ones ive seen on the Xbox 360, although to be fare i havent gotten the chance to play 
 Oblivion yet. The City is HUGE when you fly over it in the helicopter you can see small details 
 like the stripes on the road and thats amazing. The lighting is just beautiful and totally realistic. 
 Some times the sun can make it hard to see your enemys and that just adds to the realism.
  
  Sound:
  Its just great. The guns all have their own sound and the the explosions are just 
 amazing. If you are near a grenade when it goes of or you get shot badly you lose your hearing 
 for a serten amount of time and that again adds to the realistic atmosphere of the game. The game 
 has a great sound track that gets intense in fire fights, its so good you dont even know its there 
 and thats the way a soundtrack should be you shouldnt notice it but if its not there you miss it. 
 The game even have some licensed music that plays in the helicopter when you going to another mission. 
 Its not all that great but since its only a few times for a short period of time it doesnt bother 
 me.
  
  Last word:
  This is a superb game that shows of the capabilities of the 360 really well and shouldnt be missed 
 by anyone. If you not that into shooters you should at least rent it, believe me its worth it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drinkb0x
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 3:38 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  GAMEPLAY: Controls are smooth and responsive. Ability to use cover and fire is done perfectly. 
 The new "dive to cover" feature is an especially nice addition. 
  
  GRAPHICS: G. R. A. W shows us what "next gen" graphics should look like. From real time lighting to 
 the fire of smoldering vehicles, this game looks fantastic. As good as i thought Call of Duty 2 
 was, G. R. A. W is a step above.
  
  Cons:
  
  SOUND: Its not as if there arent great sounding effects or music, there was just a couple sore 
 sports in my opinion. With the exception of the Black Hawk's chaingun, most of the guns didnt sound 
 as punchy as they could. Also, the addition of the rock music during flights was a very odd thing 
 and didnt fit at all with the games mood. 
  
  VALUE: Most action shooters thrive in the multiplayer department. In G. R. A. W. i felt there was 
 nothing to distinguish it from any other shooter. Some of the more interesting features arent even 
 available in the multiplayer modes. 
  
  And, while the single player campaign was challenging in spots it was extremely easy in other places. 
 Too many of the objectives could be completed acting like Rambo, or just sending your squad out 
 into the line of fire and using them as distraction/shields as you safely picked off your foes.
 
  
  Final Thoughts: While a bit too easy in single player and missing features in the multiplayer mode, 
 there is still a lot to do in G. R. A. W. The incredible environment will draw you in and the intense 
 action should keep you coming back for more. The four coop only levels were a very nice addition, 
 something more next gen games should do. 
  
  Verdict: If you love tactical, action shooters, G. R. A. W. is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiggerboy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 24, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit, when I played the first game of Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon series, I was not really 
 thrilled. I felt that it was difficult to handle, and that if I made one mistake, it could mean 
 the whole mission. I saw that this game was coming out and felt entitled to give it another shot. 
 Thank god I did.
  
  I have to say, I was expecting a good game graphic-wise and gamyplay wise, but I honestly did not 
 expect the game to be this good! I mean the online experience is completely addictive and fun to 
 play. The story line is great, just like Tom Clancy's novels. I have to honestly say that this 
 is almost as perfect of a F. P. S. as they can get! If I had to think of something negative about 
 G. R. A. W., I would think very long and hard and say, the online play could be a little quicker and 
 not kick me out as much, but that is about it. 
  
  Needless to say, its a great game and a "must have" to all 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lubu957
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 24, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon has been around for years, but none of them compare to Advanced Warfigther. This games 
 adds a whole lot of new features to the series. The Best thing about this game is that it has a 
 great online with many things to do. You can play Team deathmatch, Deathmatch of coarse, and other 
 unique games. My favorite is Campaign mode where you can play with other people to beat levels 
 that are not in the main game. Just to tell u that once you die your done, and then you need to 
 watch your teammates play and hope they beat it. This setting could be set for the other online 
 games as well. The unique game play features that the game offers is the ability to peak only leaving 
 your gun or part of your body in your opponents view. The other great ability is diving. When getting 
 shot at or if you want to be sneaky u can move and shoot while laying on the ground. The shooting 
 portion of the game I find can get frustrating. The aiming of some of the guns is extremely hard 
 to control. These guns are mainly the automatic guns, they might shoot alot of ammo at once but 
 most WILL NOT HIT. When you start playing I'd suggest not playing as an Automatic Rifleman until 
 you get more of the feel for the aiming. The ability to command the other Ghosts in the main game 
 is a great feature because u can tell them to go scout or whatever. It is also good that the enemy 
 is smarter, but now I think they are TOO SMART. They will use stealth and other good things to try 
 and kill u. Besides that I find this to be a really great game with great next-gen graphics and 
 sound. This game might take around 1-2 hours to learn all the features down pat or it might not. 
 And if you like shooting games and want to play a difficult game, here it is!
  
  PROS:
  -online and gameplay features
  
  CONS:
  -hard aiming, and too smart enemy's (unless you like 
 a challenge)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: point_blank123
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 24, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  It looked great graphics wise and i thought this game would deliver the true inner power of the 
 360. The game is a bench mark for all its genre. The game uzzes with class in every way. The second 
 you start geting in to the game you think your in the game if you dont believe me go done stairs 
 and play it with full volume and surround sound with an hdtv...... theres a wow factor in there 
 some of you think an hdtv is a bit too much dont worry youll still be left with that same feeling. I 
 was really thinking your in the midst of new mexcio for instance you have to hold position with 
 vip2 and at all cost dont let him die, you start running for cover as you spot oncomming sentries 
 your litreally enclosed in trying to fend them off .Once or twice i was ducking thinking I was 
 in the game. You probably think im mad but theirs something in the air with the sense of you need 
 to do it. Overall ubi brings its A+ game to the table and truly disevrs my 9.7 out of ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BullDogSquad
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 24, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  G. R. A. W is as intense as you would want from a shooter. The gameplay and graphics are the best 
 to date. I am not sure how many changes they made from the potponed launch to the release date, 
 but this game has come together beautifully.
  
  Yes, the solo campaign as the best visuals to ever grace a shooting game. Although it is a very 
 short campaing and an experienced gamer could run through the normal and hard diffuculty setting 
 in about 1 week. So if you do not have Xbox live this game may be sort of like a rollercoaster. 
 Fast, intense, tons of fun, and over way to fast. G. R. A. W alows you to play the maps with you own 
 stratigic feel with non-linear disigns. The greatest moments in the game are when you are given 
 controll of a group of Bradley tanks or a Black Hawk Helcopter. So chose you potion when you are 
 in the midst of a gun fight. Of course these goods can be taken out with a dose of RPG's, so be 
 careful. Third person and Classic Ghost recons view are available, so if (for you) its must be 
 First Person you might want to stick with the Xbox version. Overall the 360 version of this game 
 is a force, with slight hickups in the A. I., framrate, and sometimes the enviroments are all negligible.
 
  
  If you have an Xbox 360 with xbox live this is a must have for your young child. The achivement 
 in my opinion are the best yet and so is the live play. There are times online when the game with 
 make everyones 360 freeze and you must reboot your 360. This is why making friends list is important.
 
  The game would also drop players and can take sometime to get a game going. But these occurences 
 were rare and didnt get me fustrated and any time. Make friends that are good hosts and you will 
 never have a problem. This graphics to take a step back in the online side of the game but it feels 
 right and still looks amazing. You have many modes to chose from and it will be a game to play 
 online for months to come.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Capelus
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 24, 2006 7:29 am PT
Review:  Basically one the best games i've played. Singleplaye storyline is inmersive, surprising and keeps 
 you playing for long. Graphics are simply the best out there... (dont understand why ppl put 10 
 to Oblivion graphics, when these are far better in all ways) . Sound is also great, even more with 
 5.1 system.
  Controls are right, once you get used to them, they work perfectly. And gameplay in general is 
 excellent, you always want to finish or continue... the thing is that there are lot of different 
 situations and gameplays.. you can even command a Stryker, Bradley, Apache or shot from inside 
 a Black Hawk. The lack of loading time makes the game way more inmersive.
  
  Singleplayer is little bit short, but there is online which makes the game value increase a lot. 
 Anyway is still fun to take singleplayer and discover more ways, options or simply make mission 
 again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redmarble
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2006 11:34 pm PT
Review:  This is the first 360 game I purchased outright as oppose to simply renting, and I wasn't dissapointed. 
 The graphics are outstanding, and so is the game's presentation. The game itself is fun, though 
 I am critcal of the fact that some of the missions are entirely dependent on Captain Mitchell who 
 single-handedly (Rambo style) gets in firefights with about a hundred people on some stages -- yeah 
 right! But I guess that's typical in video games. That aside, this game is rich with detail, from 
 the vehicles and equipment to the firearms, and worth your investment if your a fan of the series, 
 or just into the military action genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cantcfaded
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 30, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Great graphics and swesome gameplay i consider this a must buy for all 360 owners. It could have 
 been a little longer, it seems i finished it too fast but that because its sooo addictive. It's very 
 hard to put down the controller once you get started. Hopefully there working on a the next GRAW 
 right now, because i'm foaming at the mouth waiting. GRAW's gameplay is so fluent that it is pretty 
 easy to learn all you need pretty quik. The only thing i have a problem with is the squad A. I. 
 they can be pretty stupid at times, like jumping right in front of your line of fire which can 
 be very frustrating when you have that perfect long range shot lined up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e-x
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 23, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  GRAW has to be the best shooter on the 360 yet. This game has everything you need to keep you busy 
 until the next big shooter.
  
  Graw has a solid single player that was intense to start to finish. it made me angry sometimes 
 to get a checkpoint with a little health, next to alot of guys (such as Vip2 is down mission) and 
 was quite annoying. Though this game is very real you can get past it if you use your head.
  
  The Multiplayer in this game has to be the best in it's series. it has a little faster pace 
 than the others, and seems alot differnt than the single player. though some of the cool features 
 are gone, such as my favorite crouch slide, it does have every little bit of action the single 
 player did.
  
  The co-op was a blast, it might be short, but ubisoft may put out some downloadable levels it seems, 
 it was still fun to have 16 guys running around on the same team and working together.
  
  The Tactics in this game are unmatched, and makes you want to plan some things out with your teamates. 
 I use the drone alot in single player, and it's nice to use it in multiplayer, but it was fun to 
 see people try to shoot it down, and hit them while they weren't looking.
  
  All and all this is a must have for any 360 or future 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: larocabottom1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 23, 2006 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Lets start out with the gameplay which is great except with a little bug that keeps you stuck in 
 the same position but it only happens once or twice throughout the whole game so that's not enough 
 to bring the game down. The sound is great from big explosions to the counter sniper rifle which 
 is one of my favorite guns. The graphics are incredible especially in comparison to the xbox, ps2 
 and gamecube versions. Starting off the game might take a little time to get used since every button 
 on the controller does something but as you go through the game you'll see that it's useful and 
 you'll love using them. Xbox live is great with this game and very fun, the only thing is it's a 
 bit fast pace compared to the single player campaign mode but it's still fun. I give this game 2 
 clips and a rocket launcher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdiD
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 23, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  If your going to buy a Ghost Reacon game get it on Xbox 360 (or PC) . The Xbox and PS2 versions 
 are not as good. The graphics are amasing (thou not as good as the target video at E3 05) this 
 game justifys your purchase of the Xbox 360. I've neaver seen such amazing graphics. The city looks 
 real (enough said) . And no load times just sweetens the deal. It's sometimes hard to see the enemys 
 but a red blip appears and then and it's easy to tell where they are. The combat is fun and involves 
 just enoungh stratagy not to much or to little. It sometimes gets a little teidious telling your 
 teamates where to go. All in all this is easily the best game in the series (you no longer soot 
 blips) and is definatley worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegreenmiles89
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 23, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  The game throws you into the dusty, overheated world of Mexico City. The atmosphere of the single 
 player is super consistent, realistic, and there is a lot of interactive cover. The enemy A. I. 
 isn't half bad, not great in some places, but overall pretty good. Your teamates are mediocre, 
 but important. The multiplayer evolves around the style the other team (or you team) uses, and 
 makes for a pretty solid multiplayer strategy shooter. Plus, its pretty customizable, but not as 
 solid as Halo 2's online (but who's is right?) . ALL IN ALL, I love this game, I think most people 
 would agree. Oh, and the co-op, watch your back, the enemy is pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotapplepie
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 23, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Im here to tell you about Tom Clancys Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, otherwise know as G. R. A. W. 
 Graw is a third or first person army simulation type game from the great Ubisoft. The same people 
 that brings up the PoP and Spliter Cell series. Graw is one of the most hyped games for the Xbox 
 360 this year so far, and Ill tell you now, its deffinatly lives up to expectations. 
  
  GAME
  
  In the game you play as Scot 
 Mitchel, the leader of a elite war squad named "The Ghosts". In the single player mode you are 
 sent to Mexico City to stop the Mexican forces from overthrowing the Mexican President. But that 
 is later on. At first you are there to stop rebbles from runing the Mexican Presidents and the 
 US Presidents meeting at the UN headcorders. Everything starts out well, little enimy force untill 
 you are almost to the UN office. As you are going there, the whole damn thing blows to pices and 
 you have to protect the Mexican President. The game makes you follow the Mexican Rebel Leader, 
 Onteverous and "the football." The football is the plans to build a machine that can block out 
 communication and some other plans. But since it is in the wrong hands, bad things could happen. 
 In some missions you will have your squad of 3 ghosts but in a few missions, you will be alone. 
 The story is actually pretty deep but sometimes things will happen too fast and you are left there 
 questioning what going on. In the game you will have some helpers. There is Bud, you "eye in the 
 sky" and he will tell you some of your objectives and point out enimy movement. Then there is a 
 Captin dude, who gets mad sometimes and tells you to get the football all the time. (I didnt like 
 him) . Then there is another guy, I dont know his name, who tells you about the enimy's tecnological 
 things. Then theres General Potty Mouth as I like to call him. He helps you and yells at you alot. 
 After you saved the presidents and everything, your main objective is to get the football and bring 
 it back. But Onteverous has it and wont give it up. Onteverous is a bad bad guy and lets say he 
 hurts one of your helpers, badly. This made me very mad, and thats when I found out I was immersed 
 in the game.
  
  GRAPHICS
   
  The graphics on this game are something you pretty much have to see to belive. The lighting, textures 
 and movements are awsome. The lighting is like nothing you have ever seen before. The sun can shine 
 down on the land and buildings and trees will cast a heavy shadow on the ground. But sometimes 
 there are too many shadows and the game shutters some. Not in the framerate but the shadows dissapear 
 and reapear and it all get somewhat annoying, only for a second though. The textures on everything 
 are amasing. There is extreame detail on all the enimies and your teammates alike. The trees, buildings 
 and cars all have great textures. The animations are very very great and just made me go pee. The 
 jumping, button activated jumping over things, looks cool. Everything does. But some of the death 
 animations are kindof cheesey but non the less enjoyable. The explosions is what had me the most 
 interested. The sheer amount of deatail in every explosion is staggering. It just goes BOOM! The 
 cars that I didnt blow up it was just fun to shoot out windows, pop tires and just fill it with 
 bullet holes. Now the single player is GREAT but the multiplayer uses a different engine, or so 
 it seems. Im not saying that the multiplayer graphcs are bad becuase they are very detailed its 
 just they arent AS detailed as single player. And the explosions arent as good, but still great.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  This is one hella hard game. I will say that again. This is one hella hard game. This game's single 
 player is at sometimes GAUGE YOUR EYES OUT, HARD. But this doesnt mean that it is not fun. This 
 is a incredible ejoyable game. The tactics that you have to use in even the single player is great. 
 The enimys are easy to kill, if you can get enough time to shoot them before you have to go back 
 into cover. The enimy A. I. is very great and will use just as much cover as you. And you want to, 
 no you HAVE to use cover or your screwed. And if there is no cover then reateat and try to get 
 them from afar. The covering system can sometimes get a bit combersome when there is a slight indent 
 on the building and it makes you get off the building. But overall its a lifesaver. GRAW is no 
 run and gun. This is NOT a Halo type game. This is a very hard game that you need brains to play. 
 This game will kick you ass many times. The levels vary in lenght but all of them lasted me 30- 
 to 40 mintues to beat. And dont think those 30 minutes are easy. Oh no, you will ALOT. I probably 
 died about 5 to 9 times a level. Yup, you heard me right, 5 to 9. Your ghost squad is fairly intellegent 
 but sometimes you just want to hand them a live grenade and run the hell away to see there bodies 
 to explode into pices. In my compleation of the single player, I killed 574 enimies, 31 vehicles, 
 and got hurt 54 times. My teammates did kill 236 people though and thats pretty good. The guns 
 are all very good at different times. And accuracy is the key. You can load a whole round of bullets 
 on a group of people and expect them all to die. No, becuase the more you shoot in a short amount 
 of time, the less accurate the gun is. My favorite gun was the 36K. You can chose bettween 1 shot 
 round or multiple shot round. The cross com is a very helpful thing. You can control your squad, 
 sometimes the drone, tanks, or even helocopters. You can alot get feed from your helpers. Which 
 is all very good. The multiplayer is also a bucket of fun. There are alot of different ways you 
 can make a game but I just perfer the standard Team Elimination. (Team deathmatch) There are about 
 a gillion ways to customise your mutliplayer and about 8 multiplayer maps. There are some I hate 
 and some I love. It all just depends on your prefrence and style. You can also choose your class. 
 The class types are Grenader, Marksman, Automatic Rifleman, and Rifleman. Each one has some weapons 
 that are just for that class and my preference was the grenader becuase grenades=fun. You also 
 get a rank and start out a level 1. As you start to win games your level goes up. It takes a while 
 but it eventually goes up. 
  
  OVERALL
  
  Overall this is a must buy. Great graphics, 
 sinlgeplayer, multiplayer, guns, everything, even a great storie. Go buy this game now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blakey0123
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 23, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  If you love shoot em ups you will love this game its bags of fun and an intellegent game. Its a 
 cross combination of full spectrum warrior, star wars republic commando, battle field 2 and perfect 
 dark zero. The graphics are spot on and the game play is very relistic all in all buy this game 
 and you will not be dissapionted. The co-op side of things can not be played on the main story 
 missions only on little side missions and the game play is different from the main game thats the 
 only down side to this game and the are not enough maps to play on either. The new cross-com feature 
 is just what one off these shoot em up games needed it brings all the action straight to you screen 
 allowing you to see enimes behind walls once you have spotted them of course and then if your snipper 
 rifle is strong enough shoot through the wall :D. you can command apache gun ships and tanks using 
 your cross-com feature which is excellent and you can do all of this at the touch of a few buttons 
 now complicated menus just straight forward fun addictive exciting game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graeme649
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 23, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  When I first laid hands on my copy of Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, I was just so pleased to 
 have it. I had been reading on the Gamespot forums non-stop about this game and it got me so hyped 
 up. So, I put it in my 360 and loaded up the first mission, the Graphics were nothing short of 
 breath taking. The lens flare when you came out of a dark area into a bright area was stunning 
 and the particles of dust were just mind-blowing. I played a couple of missions and started to 
 get a feel for the controls, so I thought Id hop online for a while...
  
  When I did in fact go online I was rather excited. I had played the ghost recon 2 game online before 
 this and I was very pleased with it. So when the game started up and I seen the appalling Graphics 
 (compared to single player) I was pretty Dumbstruck. To me it looked like any regular xbox game 
 and I was not impressed. Why? Is what I want to know? Many games before ghost recon 3 have kept 
 the graphics at their fullest when online but why not this one? I hope this is not a sign of things 
 to come for the 360 and the online system...
  
  As for the sound. When you hook up the surround sound to this game, you actually feel that you 
 are in a war zone. When you shoot a rocket launcher against a building that is far away, you can 
 hear the roar of the blast echoing throughout the city. The sound alongside the graphics in single 
 player made up for the poor Ghost AI, which, if I may say so, was quite poor. At times you would 
 find that the Ghosts would not move on your command and thus making you having to restart from 
 your previous save. It is rather annoying. Plus, when you tell your Ghosts to attack, you must 
 wait for at least 5 seconds before they respond to what you have just commanded them to do
  
  The game also has a few glitches. The game was delayed and I thought that this would have helped 
 many problems and it would be nearly a glitch-free game. I was wrong. Once, when I was in single 
 player I started to use a mounted machine gun. I was on it for no more than 3-4 minutes and when 
 I tried to get off, I could not do so. I was furious, as I had to restart the whole game over again! 
 Also, occasionally you would join someone elses room to find that nobody is talking. This is not 
 however because they all have their microphones out, it is because it is one of the glitches in 
 the game. When this happens, you have to restart your whole xbox, which becomes rather annoying.
 
  
  Overall this is a good game. Nothing more, nothing less. It could have been an amazing game but 
 it was let down because of the glitches and bad online Graphics. I am disappointed. If the online 
 were just as good as the single-player, I would guarantee you; I would be playing the game now...
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Balla28
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 23, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  I 've only been playing ghost recon for about 30min and I'm already surprised with its authenticity. 
 I think the series took a big step forward by taking advantage of the 360's power. To me, most 
 shooting games on consoles just plain out suck, but GRAW seems to differ from the rest of the bunch. 
 If your wondering if the game will look graphically good on a sdtv, the answer is yes. The tv I've 
 been playing with is a sdtv and you will not be disappointed in the way the game looks. I would 
 recommend this to anyone with a 360. Best game out so far for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdub8
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 23, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  I'm some what of a fan with shooter game. I've played and beaten all Halo's, Perfect Dark, Socom's, 
 and Full Spectrum. I hate the "Rambo" type games like COD where you run around taking out a whole 
 army of 1000 soilders. It's unrealistic, and not fun to me. I've never played any GR's before so 
 I was a little skeptical going in. 
  
  After beating it I like to say. Great Grahpics, the first real game that shows the 360. Very addictive, 
 I had to fight to leave the game for regular life. It was a pleasent surprise to see that they 
 were using some of the Full Spectrum Soilder commands to move your teammates. The sound sucked 
 you in, like it was you on the battle field, and the gameplay for the most part was on point.
 
  What keeps this game from being perfect are:
  
  For such great graphics, the lack of civilians really shows. In the game you get to a point were 
 there's someone in the background telling the "Civilans" to "Be calm, we are here to help you" 
 I was like who's he talking too? Anybody I see is a bad guy.
  
  Your Squad's A. I. I've never played a game where I worked with such bone heads.. You have to take 
 full control of these guys, or they are killing themselves: running out into the open when your 
 sneeking; Walking into your line of fire, when your engaged with an enemy. Blowing us all up. Half 
 the time I put them in a corner for protection, while I took the enemies out myself. Sometimes 
 I even use them as decoys. Don't get me wrong, they're not totally worthless. If you plan, they 
 hold their own pretty well. However if you get surprised, and are worried about your butt first. 
 Forget about the A. I. using that "I".. 
  
  The length of the game, for a next gen $59 dollar game, I need the next level of gameplay. I beat 
 it in like 3 days, only playing an average of 2 1/2 hours a day. I don't want to beat a game in 
 less than 10 hours. Give me 20 or 20+. Especially with a game as addictive as this one. I admit, 
 I haven't played Multiplayer yet.. Cause I was too caught up in the Campaign, but I expect the 
 Multiplayer to be Snipers and Rambo's.. Not fun to me
  
  Overall this game was so much fun, I wish it was longer. All in all I highly recommend this game. 
 On to this "Impossible" hard mode I go...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vonkemp
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 23, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  I personally have never liked ghost recon so I wasn't very excited about this one. I heard about 
 how amazing the graphics were so I thought I'd check it out. Am I glad I did! The gameplay is near 
 perfect for a third person shooter. From taking cover behind walls to sniping its amazing. The 
 awesome single player campaign is great too. The huge open Mexico city is great and not ibein restricted 
 to just one route to follow makes it even better. I only wish there had been some easier difficulty 
 level, but its not too bad. The multi player portion of the game is also a blast. It's just as 
 much fun as the single player. 
  The graphics are just as amazing as I had heard, The city is amazing especially on an HDTV, but 
 where are the people. The soundtrack is also nice, it's awsome when your in the middle of a fire 
 fight.
  Overall I'd have to say this is one of my personal favorite XBOX 360 games. It's up there with 
 Call of Duty 2 and Fight Night. All 360 owners should get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PanDamian12
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  The game is superb. The graphics are very sharp and realistic, plus the chance of being killed 
 or killing your enemies with only one shot adds to the realism. Unfortunately you won't be able 
 to adjust the speed / sensitivity of controlls, but in a way this is a smart move from the developers, 
 because your fighter moves with about the same speed as a real souldier would, which once again 
 adds to the realism. At first the controlls might seem a little overwhelming - you have to give 
 commands to your teammates, the occasional vehicles, and to the reconessance drone, but once you 
 get the hang of it, goes like butter and proves to be very helpful in campaign. If you like war 
 games like U. S. Navy Seals or Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Th3_James
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 23, 2006 5:52 am PT
Review:  The Single player is amazing there is so much emesion finish a mission get into a chopper and you 
 fly away it loads for a second then you get debreffed while flying to you location and blowing 
 up cars a fricken fun they blreak apart realisticaly i shoot the tires they come of and roll away 
 i shoot windows they break i shoot doors they fall off i blow it up it looks cool missions are 
 fun and inovative you are always getting new debreifings because things change and you half to 
 adapt to the situation.
  
  all these great feature aside the bad of the game too short it'll take you around 7-10 hours and 
 the multiplayer that wasn't developed by ubisoft redstorm f-ed up movement is horrible you always 
 gett disconected from matches even when i have a t1 lan line. it doesn't even look next gen on 
 car damage modeling it isn't fun and the explosion effects are bad and sound is bad and the multiplayer 
 so bad that the value gets a 6 
  
  overall this game get's a 9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enzima
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 23, 2006 4:09 am PT
Review:  GRAW is what all 360 owners were waiting for: a killer app for their console. The game puts you 
 in the action immediately: you'll be the leader of a special team of soldiers called to take controll 
 of a city under a terrorist attack. Great game (maybe the single-player part is a little short) , 
 very well worth the wait. It would be perfect if it wasn't for a couple of glitches (in the graphic 
 and in the AI) . though it doesn't change my final opinion on this game: greatness is the word, 
 all hail GRAW and the next-gen games: its just the beginning!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krulluk
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 22, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. Totally awesome. 
  
  Gameplay - run and gunners beware this is a tactical shooter, not planning ahead will cost you 
 the game and cost you half the fun of GRAW too! The game is a perfect balance of letting you know 
 that you'll die just as easily as the enemy, you just happen to be a better soldier with better 
 kit! A long way off other shooters where you can survive barrages of bullets while they die in 
 3 shots. It just feels real
  
  Graphics - typical Tom Clancy game... as real as it gets
  
  Sound - not much music, voice acting is ok, guns sound great!
  
  Get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mungen_Jin
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 22, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  I didn't like the single palyer at all, The multiplayer was good though so if you are a big online 
 buff then I would pick it up but otherwise wait for gears of war.
  The sound didn't stand out and the tank and helicopter control sceem is awful 
  I was bored out 
 of my mind and the game was hard (not too hard but hard)
  The multiplatyer is really good but on single player alone it would score around a 5.0 well the 
 multiplayer alone gets a 7.5 so I would get it for a while get your multiplayer fill and then go 
 out and buy a better game like call of duty 2, the outfit or Elder scrolls 4 (if that last one 
 is your sort of thing) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalicArachnid
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 22, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  This game has amazing graphics. The game play is really good too, but commanding your squad and 
 makings sure that they don't die can be annoying. This game is good for someone who likes to tell 
 people what to do. The controls are kind of strange but overall I would sugest buying this game 
 used, because it's one of those games that you'd play when you have nothing else to do. It is fun 
 play multiplayer because of the Co-op and the weapons are pretty fun to use. This game is a good 
 example of what the Xbox 360 can do 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duffy88
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 22, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  This game has got to be a land mark for xbox 360,
  I honistly have to say from been a person who is very hard to please when it comes to war games 
 this game has set an example for game devlopers every where for its gameplay, graphis, sound and 
 a well put togeather story and over all action and the most real-listic war fighting iv ever see 
 in a game. 
  
  Which is why i would recamend this game too any one!! who has an xbox 360 or if you have one of 
 the other platform's that its on .
  even if you havent played these kind of games befor or even if you havent really played games befor 
 only just those little crapy internet caf games which are a load of arse if you ask me, this game 
 is the reson why you whould go out and buy an xbox 360, but this game is a perfect example of what 
 games should be like, well for the war games in anyway.
  
  well there you have it if your looking for good game to play get G. R. A. W . is the way to go.
 
  
  Well thanks for reading.
  happy gameing.
  Colm Duffy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeafFreelancer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 6, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  I couldn't wait to buy this game, at first i was disappointed because I wasn't use to the new gameplay 
 but after awhile it grew on me and now I love it. The multi-player would have to be my favorite. 
 Very strategic you must think fast and act even faster, you also must have a good eye or the snipers 
 will get you so beware! A wide variety of guns and the drone is an awesome addition to the game 
 helps with strategy. The maps are awesome and there is plenty of hiding room. This game can get 
 very frustrating playing other people online do to spawn campers (I hate them) . Great graphics 
 and realistic gun fire 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodhawk_DX
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon: Advanced War fighter is definitely a next generation game. The graphics are absolutely 
 beautiful, from the character models to the environments, everything has its own texture, and 
 reacts perfectly with every little bit of light. I did happen to come across a few plastered 
 or pieces of environment that seemed flat and old school, but they were so insignificant unless 
 you were looking for them you wouldnt notice it. On HD this game is even more visually appealing. 
 The one big problem I had with the graphics was the way the sun seemed to reflect off of everything 
 to give the whole reflective glare feeling. It bounces off so many objects that at the right angles, 
 its almost impossible to see. Which is a hindrance in the single player from time to time. I suppose 
 glare is a big issue in actuality, but the glare off of every single object, even objects that 
 usually dont show glare is a minor pain. Other than that, these graphics are probably some of 
 the best on the 360 console so far. Sniping, use of rocket launchers, blowing up cars, seeing the 
 very sweet effect of bullets tearing up walls around you are all impressive. The explosions look 
 outstanding, makes you want to blow things up constantly! The sound is nice, the guns dont exactly 
 sound accurate compared to the guns theyre modeled after, but still, sound in general, from ricochet, 
 to the sound of bullets passing over head make the action feel right there in your face. Load screens 
 take place in the helicopter along with the briefing, so youre not stuck glaring at ugly and repetitive 
 loading bars. There is a duck and cover function, variable zooms and a impressive assortment of 
 weapons (especially in the multiplayer) but sadly some guns generally feel the same. You can switch 
 between both third and first person views, so depending on preference thats a nice addition. Single 
 player is lots of fun, and thats where the best visuals are. The team AI for the most part takes 
 cover, attempt to work together, cover each other while reloading and actively give you feedback. 
 As a squad Captain you can order around your group of Ghosts, APCs, Tanks, UAVs and/or Helicopters. 
 The ability to tell your squad members just what to attack, to go assault or recon helps according 
 to your style of engaging enemies. Your ally AI can sometimes be stupid, theyll try and shoot 
 enemies hiding behind massive objects that even in theory cant be suppressed. Theyre just bullet 
 hosing down buildings. Ive had AI not follow commands and sometimes get stuck on environments. 
 From time to time theyll run off and do their own thing. Which is annoying because they get wounded 
 and suddenly youve got another chore on your hand. Environments have a few various ways of getting 
 to your target. So it can change tactics as you see fit. The multiplayer is a classic Tom Clancy 
 Multiplayer experience. The physics feel nice and lag isnt really an issue (Not that I noticed) 
 Although very rare, youll run into a pocket of lag. The host basically has control of everything, 
 weapon sets, use of UAVs and such. Other than that, it feels like the previous Tom Clancy shooters 
 with the exception of the UAV use. Which allows you to move around a little drone to locate enemies. 
 Seeing your allies view from a mini-cam on your hud is a nice addition too. There are co-op missions, 
 sharpshooter, hamburger hill, objective, and capture the flag. Overall I was very happy with this 
 game, but the plot felt really corny and underdeveloped at the end. Still a very highly recommended. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dw32005
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 22, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is great in almost everyway. The single player is so much fun to play. At sight of the 
 first level I was extremely excited. The graphics are amazing some of the best for a console up 
 to date. There is a very wide selection of weapons to choice from all having there own special 
 attribute to be used. Every level is loads of fun to play. However it seems like there arent as 
 many levels as I would like. You can also order your teammates around and tell them different tasks 
 to do. However they do not always follow what you say and have a tendency to just run out in the 
 middle and die. There are also a number of times that you will have to master the use of the drone. 
 This device is sent all over the map to do some reckon and it highlights the enemies and comes 
 in handy a lot during game play. Onto the multi-player this is also loads of fun. The graphics 
 being great are not as good as the single player. There are around 10 different levels to choose 
 from so not a bad selection. There are tons of options for the different types of multi-player, 
 including solo, team, and co-op variants. The spawning for the game can become kind of annoying 
 at times because some people tend to camp at certain ones and other times you tend to spawn and 
 start to walk only to get a couple feet cause someone else just re-spawned behind you. One of my 
 major complaints is the lobby system setup. You can either create a match or then wait for people 
 to join what you want or you can go to quick play and hope that there is a game going open for 
 you to play in. Because if you dont find an open game it will put in a room where you have to 
 wait for the current game that the players are playing to get over. While youre waiting you have 
 no idea if the game just started or if it just got done and there is no way to tell. Overall I 
 would highly recommend any gamer to get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackNumonerian
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 22, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  
  Like I said, GRAW + XBOX360 = WOW! Where do I start? The stunning graphics, the amazing gameplay, 
 or the great storyline? GRAW has got all the beef a first-person shooter needs to be just amazing!
 
  
  There are tons of places where I'd like to start, but I'll start with the big one, graphics. One 
 word.... wow. The texture, lighting, everything was spot on in this game as far as graphics goes. 
 I don't think I saw one flaw in the game in this department. The gameplay was just phenomenal! 
 I loved playing against any enemy, especially with the AI being as awsome as it was. Turning around 
 a corner to see 2 rebels blasting me with AK-47's was just great, rather than having them stare 
 at you and then shooting at you! The controls were just great with the options of changing the 
 configuration to basically whatever you want. It took getting some used to but in time it came. 
 
  
  The other thing I noticed about GRAW was the option to customize your character. Changing colour 
 of camo, facial appearance, weapons etc. was a good feature in the game. 
  
  As you all know, with every game, it comes with it's flaws, but with GRAW, there was one slight 
 issue, where is everyone? Where are all the civilians running and screaming in the streets, or 
 taking shelter from advancing terrorists? The lack of civilisation in GRAW was alittle dissapointing, 
 but it's a small price to pay. 
  
  Well, I think I covered all of this games awsomeness. There is little else to say except that this 
 game is truly a great 1st person shooter, and every Xbox 360 owner should atleast rent this and 
 experience GRAW in it's entirety!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anti-gollum27
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 22, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game as i have just said but this time around the ghost recon series actually made 
 a good single player game. The story is very good and the missions dont get repetitive. The game 
 wasnt all that hard even in the hard difficulty, but it was still fun. Even though there was only 
 11 missions in the game, each mission took some time. After i beat the game i looked at how long 
 i had been playing the single player and i was at 10 hours and like 41 minutes so you can roughly 
 say that each misson is like an hour long. The multiplayer is very good to if you have xbox live. 
 The multiplayer levels are set in different places like ship decks, desert, cities, and junkyards. 
 You can even customize the way your guys face, and what kind of helmet you want him wearing before 
 you go on xbox live. There isnt a ton of accessories to pick from for you character but it is still 
 a cool feature. OHH yeah i almost forgot about the helicopter missions, those are the coolest missons 
 in the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raging_Cajun
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 22, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  Apart from a few ugly textures and a multitude of glitches and bugs this game is perfect. The graphics 
 are absolutely amazing and really show off the power of the 360 in a way not seen before. Once 
 you boot this thing up and get your first glance of Mexico City from the confines of a Blackhawk, 
 your jaw will scrape the floor. It really is that amazing. The draw distances are ridiculous (in 
 a good way I mean) and the whole city feels so real. For the first time in ANY game made to date, 
 you actually feel like you're fighting in a big city. Just as convincing are the animations, lighting 
 and level geometry. Most of the time the textures do their job fairly well (although some different 
 mapping techniques would have spruced it up) , but sometimes you run into textures that are plain 
 hideous and look like something from a PS2 game. Luckily this is not very noticeable and never 
 does it detract from the actual game itself.
  The sound in GRAW is a mixed bag, ranging from unbelievable to piss poor. The effects themselves 
 are amazing, especially on a good surround sound set. Everything from gun sounds to explosions 
 to Blackhawks hovering overhead is just marvelous. Music is pretty good, ranging from tense orchestral 
 scores to a wonderful remix of All Along the Watchtower. The one area in which GRAW actually disappoints 
 is the voice acting. It's cheesier than a Saturday morning cartoon and almost as bad as in Japanese 
 games (like MGS for one) .
  Gameplay is solid and feels very next gen. The cross com is a wonderful piece of equipment which 
 fits the gameplay well and never feels like a gimmick that was just tacked on. Cover is also implemented 
 to an outstanding degree and gives the game a very tense and tactical feel. There's also a good 
 variety in the missions and at no point does the game get boring.
  All in all, GRAW is one of the absolute best 360 games to date and worth every penny. Presentation, 
 graphics, sound, gameplay and multiplayer are all excellent and the game has a very nice, solid 
 next gen feel to it. The only real drawbacks are the glitches and bugs that range from minor graphical 
 glitches to game ending freezes. Alas, these appear quite frequently as well, but not enough so 
 to make you worry. In short, a must buy... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vinnylong
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  Wow, the future looks pretty. No really, just look at it's beautiful polygons... What!? There are 
 no polygons in the future? Get outta town...
  
  You are a ghost recon soldier on a mission. You have to rescue the president from the grasps of 
 Mexican terrorists, just you and your ghost team. It's a very basic story, but it does the job, 
 it's not meant to be gripping story quest anyway. If you want a gripping story in this kind of 
 style, go play Metal Gear Solid.
  The gameplay is your typical strategic team shooter, however you can not per se "enter the bodies 
 of your team" but you can control them with the d-pad. It is very similar to Ghost Recon 2 on the 
 xbox. The guns are what you can expect to see being used in the army in a few years time, which 
 shows the effort that has been put into the game. It moves well, but I did find one niggle. Controlling 
 your team isn't very fluid. For example, I tried to order them up some steps, but they wouldn't 
 trun the corner, they tried to run to the area through the steps. Sometimes they don't actually 
 listen to you as well, they'll say "affirmitive" but won't actually move. I shot them out of anger. 
 Teach 'em for not listening to me. It's a let down, but can be worked around.
  The graphics, oOoh, the graphics. It's what you would expect from a powerful console to be fair, 
 but maybe I'm still living in the world of the last generation. They just look so good, it's all 
 so shiny and smooth. The flash of your guns after each shot, when you reload your gun, watching 
 the enemy flail after being shot, it's all poetry, with no slow down. The backdrops are smooth 
 throughout, and very detailed, and look overall very lovely. (Is that good English? Hmph.) They 
 fit the game perfectly, and just look shexy.
  The lifespan isn't long if you're a lone gamer. If you are I smirk at you, as I recently got xbox 
 live. But this review isn't about me, it's about the game. So let's get back to that eh? As I was 
 saying, it won't last being a lone gamer, the story mode won't be enough to keep you coming back, 
 you won't want to repeat the campaign unless it's like a year on or something. But you should've 
 traded it in by then. If you have xbox live however... You could have this for a long time. The 
 online co-op is great fun, taking out terrorists with your clan mates is fantastic fun, and you 
 can always laugh at the weakest member of the team.
  It is 50 pounds retailed, which is a lot of notes, but for around a 5 pound rental, you probably 
 could complete the game. The story will last 4-6 hours tops really. But if you have xbox live, 
 you'll be able to play online co op with your friends, and promised downloadable content you'll 
 make this last a long time, and you'll be glad you shelled out your notes for it. A great game 
 overall. Should be bought if you have live, rented if you don't.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: naik_tushar
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 22, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  graphics are imense i mean i actually though one of the opening clips was a movie but it was gameplay. 
 helicopter rides are the best the cities look so real 
  
  gameplay is just how i like it tactical but really fun
  i guess the only thing that may let it 
 down is that it is quite slow moving and could get on the nerves of those who like CSS or call 
 of duty.
  
  suited for those who like swat series or ranbow six series
  
  buy it it'll blow you away
  
  even better than call of duty 
  
  lost for words over this 
 game
  
  WELL DONE EXCELLENT GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonX_portugal
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 8, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  This game is next-gen! From the single player campaign to the online multiplayer this game is the 
 complete package. Offline missions are very well executed, captivating it's audience both visually 
 and auditorily. I have yet to beat the single player campaign, but I am well on my way and thus 
 far have been nothing but pleased. Note that this game does offer quite a challenge, but with room 
 for some error if only marginal. This game sounds excellent in Dolby Digital 5.1 surround sound 
 and looks breathtaking on a standard 32 inch High Definition LCD screen. Online, this game is truly 
 an experience not to be missed. I have spent countless hours playing away online and to anyone 
 who has played the truly great Call of Duty 2 online, know this and only this. NO LAG WHATSOEVER. 
 And this presents the player with countless options for online play some of which including character 
 customization (it's no EA Sports gameface by any means, but it's still cool) , and 1000's of game 
 possibilities. Among these are Team Elimination, Team Objective, Team Territories, 16 player co-op, 
 Co-op campaign (on and offline with up to 4 of your friends on one tv) , and many many others. I 
 am giving GR: AW a 9.5 out of 10. Pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tusa04
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 21, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  few days ago, we brought you our initial impressions of the single-player component of Ubisoft's 
 highly-anticipated Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter. Generally, we follow up our Out 
 of the Box articles with a full review that touches on all aspects of the game, but I'm going to 
 be doing things a bit differently this time around. You see, while most of the games that we review 
 feature nearly equal amounts of single- and multiplayer content, Advanced Warfighter is a bit different. 
 You'll probably be able to beat the highly enjoyable single-player campaign in 8 to 12 hours (depending 
 on the difficulty setting) , but it's likely that you'll never tire of playing the absolutely addicting 
 multiplayer mode. With that in mind, most of this review will focus on that aspect of the game, 
 but we urge you to check out the Out of the Box article. 
  
  For those of you that have an aversion to clicking on links, here's a brief synopsis of what we 
 had to say about the single-player campaign: it's awesome. You'll play as Captain Scott Mitchell, 
 a Ghost team leader who's been tasked with leading his men into Mexico City to rescue our president, 
 quash a coup, and save the world. The single-player game features a number of interesting additions 
 to the series, including a controllable spy drone and the CrossCom system, which helps the player 
 keep track of what's going on during the often chaotic combat. The game looks beautiful thanks 
 to some high dynamic range lighting effects, and it features some of the best presentation we've 
 seen in a long time. Plus, it's challenging enough - even on the normal difficulty - that you may 
 feel like playing it more than once. Even if you only play the single-player game, there's a good 
 chance that you'll feel like you've gotten your money's worth. 
  
  
  
  Alright, enough with the single-player jibber-jabber, let's get down and dirty with the multiplayer 
 aspects of the game. As was the case with the previous titles in the series, the game places a 
 heavy emphasis on the multiplayer action, offering players an amazing variety of gametypes, maps, 
 and customization options. While you can take on your buddies via system link or splitscreen, Xbox 
 Live is where you'll find some real action. Nearly everything about the Live play is excellent, 
 although initially I wasn't impressed by the matchmaking system. Attempting to join a game by selecting 
 Quick Match proved to be futile, as you'd be put into games that we already under way. After a 
 bit of experimentation, I found that the best way to get into a game was to do a Custom Search 
 and select a game that was still being setup. Sure, it takes a bit longer to complete the search, 
 but you won't have to wait around for everyone else to finish playing. 
  
  Of course, if you don't feel like hopping into someone else's game, you can always create a game 
 of your own. Setting up a match is quick and easy, and I was impressed by the staggering number 
 of customization options. You can essentially set up any type of game that you can imagine, tweaking 
 every aspect until it's just the way that you want it. You can set kit restrictions, limit the 
 number of respawns, change the enemy density, turn off (or on) drones and helicopters, or have 
 the game make you a sandwich. Actually, that last option might not be in there, but you get the 
 point. When players logs on for the first time, they can also customize the look of their avatar, 
 changing their headgear, camo pattern, and facial structure. If you thought Halo 2 gave players 
 a lot of flexibility, you haven't seen anything yet. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XENOmorph00010
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 17, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Ubisoft is no stranger when it comes to delivering technically advanced games. Their most famous 
 games being Rainbow Six, Splinter Cell and Ghost Recon, which are also sponsored by New York Times 
 best-selling author, Tom Clancy. The Ghost Recon series has been known for delivering strategic 
 team-based combat and has become one of the more popular gaming franchises on the market. Ghost 
 Recon Advanced Warfighter is the third and latest installment in the Ghost Recon franchise and 
 is easily the best one yet. In Ghost Recon, you assume the role of Captain Scott Mitchell-a leader 
 of a group of highly-trained special-operative soldiers known as Ghosts. Its your job to command 
 these squad members, insure their survival and carry out multiple and dangerous tasks. Throughout 
 the game youll be skirmishing Mexico City and encounter a seeming endless army of Mexican ground 
 troops. This is where you and your Ghosts come in. Youll need to eliminate soldiers scattered 
 around this large city, getting you and your fellow teammates to the extraction point in one piece. 
 In order to survive, youll need to be as cautious and deadly as possible. One footstep could mean 
 the difference between life and death for you and your allies. Commanding the Ghosts is incredibly 
 simple. Pressing up on the D-pad will have them go to where your targeting reticule is whereas 
 pressing down will have them regroup on your position. You can also have your Ghosts switch from 
 Assault to Recon mode when the area is clear. In Assault mode, your Ghosts will follow you and 
 fire at enemies on-sight. In contrast, Recon mode will have your Ghosts keep a low profile until 
 engaged by enemy forces. While your allies arent necessarily smart; they might get stuck when 
 you order them somewhere else, they usually follow your commands correctly. Its not just ground-troops 
 youll get to command, Advance Warfighter offers many chances for you to use other tools to ridicule 
 your enemies. First of all, theres the UAV-a hovering device that can sneak in and detect enemy 
 positions ahead of you. But youll need to use your UAV carefully. If your enemies find a UAV theyll 
 capture it and your position will be revealed to them. You command your UAV like you would your 
 allies, only the UAV requires you to use your Technical Map to pin-point it to where you want it 
 to go. You take out your Technical Map by pressing the select button and using the left analog 
 stick to select the UAVs destination. You can also use the Technical Map to send your Ghosts into 
 specific locations, but you wont use it that way too often as the regular squad commands are good 
 enough. Youll also get to command Black Hawk Choppers and tanks from time to time to dispose of 
 enemies quicker and rid the battlefield of artillery. Commanding these toys are just as easy and 
 simple as commanding Ghosts; and even more fun as youll watch your enemies fall to the supremacy 
 of your heavy weaponry. Youll be required to take part in various missions and complete specific 
 objectives if you hope to complete the game. Some of these missions include escorting of VIPs, 
 blowing up enemy artillery, taking out reinforcements, and so forth. Theres ample variety in the 
 missions throughout the game; no mission will play or feel the same to you. This also works to 
 the games advantage in that theres virtually no monotonous moments. This helps to make the game 
 more exciting and refreshing. The sections youll explore in Mexico City all look different from 
 each other but capture and compliment the city very nicely. Most of the areas youll battle on 
 are regular, open-city environments such as museum-like castles, military bases as well as urban 
 and rural streets. Aside from the fact that the city seems devoid of life aside from you, your 
 fellow Ghosts and enemies, Mexico City is still captured quite accurately and helps fortify the 
 realism created by the game. Campaign takes you through around ten levels, each with its own distinct 
 appearance. But before you actually start campaign, youll need to complete the games training. 
 This is one of the attributes to Advanced Warfighter that will make newcomers feel right at home. 
 Training will teach you how to do certain maneuvers like leaning through corners, using the different 
 firing modes, navigating through your arsenal, commanding your teammates, and much more essentials. 
 Ghost Recon veterans will be able to breeze through training and get right into the real action 
 with ease. On the other hand, newcomers might need to go through training a few times to get used 
 to the feel of the game before heading into actual combat. When you do get to into actual combat 
 and pass training youll see that the action and challenges are a far cry from most shooters. Just 
 the adrenaline you get from being coerced into the games intense battles is truly something to 
 behold. The missions in Advanced Warfighter are each challenging and will put even the biggest 
 Ghost Recon fan through their paces. This is thanks in part to the games enemy AI. While the enemies 
 will usually just stand out in the open, theyll lay down suppressive fire one without hesitation 
 and likely be done with you in a matter of seconds. Youll also be vastly outnumbered by enemies 
 throughout the game, and not just in the amount of on-foot soldiers. Along with ground troops, 
 your enemies will also use tanks, hummer-like buggies and fortified turrets to bring you and your 
 Ghosts to your knees. As youll usually be with but your Ghosts and equipped your rifle, pistol 
 and grenades, youll need to be cunning and deadly if you hope to survive. Oddly, as challenging 
 as you enemies can get theyll die with just a few good shots to the chest or head. Also, you can 
 destroy enemy vehicles with one or two well-placed grenades if you find yourself going solo. While 
 there will be occasions where youll get stuck and die a few times it shouldnt take too long to 
 get past that part and through the rest of the level. Each mission doesnt take much more than 
 an hour each, so you should be able to get through campaign in roughly ten hours.
  
  Ghost Recon isnt just run-and-gun missions with squad-based shooting tossed in. The action itself 
 is intense and always in-your-face. Theres barely any time for you to catch your breath between 
 the chaotic firefights. As most of the missions require you to dispose of enemy artillery with 
 explosives or oppressive fire, the action remains intense throughout campaign. While not everything 
 is destructible youll find that the tense action will be more than enough to keep you on your 
 toes. Sometimes, your allies might get cornered by enemies after you have them check an area ahead 
 of you and quite possibly bite the dust. You or one of your teammates will have to go over to that 
 teammate and get them back on their feet, without dying in the process. If you wait too long to 
 heal a teammate theyll die and youll get the infamous Game Over screen as a reward. As a result, 
 the action and gameplay itself in Ghost Recon will leave you starring into your TV screen only 
 to be blown away as the intensity and excitement erupts into complete and utter madness.
  
  Now, most of you are probably wondering how well multiplayer fares in the face of Advanced Warfighters 
 impressive campaign. Im glad to say that multiplayer holds up quite well on its own merits, although 
 not as superb as campaign. There are plenty of customization options for multiplayer, including 
 character appearances, mode types, match limits and much more. Perhaps the most innovative part 
 of Advanced Warfighters multiplayer is the character model customization. Youll get to choose 
 between a set of body armor appearances depending on which class of troopers you choose. Youll 
 also get a plethora of options to customize the face of your character, making him look like anything 
 from a terrorist, to a Ghost, a standard solder and so forth. The actual multiplayer gameplay is 
 quite different from that of campaign. First off, you have only a few mode types, including escort 
 and plant the bomb-like missions, which are pretty basic compared to how campaign executes these 
 missions. Also, you are unable to put your back against a wall, lean around corners, or even command 
 allies. And depending on whether you play through split-screen or Xbox Live varies the placement 
 of the camera. If you play through split-screen youll be forced to play through first-person but 
 wont see your gun, which feels and looks pretty weird in-game. But if you play through Xbox Live 
 you can play through either first-person or third-person, so if you have Live Id highly recommend 
 you play through that. This also applies to the games co-op missions. The co-op levels are separate 
 from the campaign missions, and there are four of these maps in total. While co-op is a nice addition, 
 the fact that you play it almost exactly as you would in regular split-screen drains much out of 
 the experience. Multiplayers far from bad, in fact, it can be quite fun at times. But its just 
 that multiplayer seems to lack a lot of what makes campaign so exciting. On the positive side, 
 Ghost Recon sports some phenomenal visuals. When you start Advanced Warfighter, youll see just 
 how great the graphics an Xbox 360 game can deliver. The character models look impressive, youll 
 notice muscle outlines and wrinkles on you, your allies and the enemies. The characters walk, run 
 and act very life-like, AI problems aside. The environments are even more impressive. Everywhere 
 you walk, youll see amazing attention-to-detail on the various sections of the city. Youll also 
 get a good, full-scale view of the city when taking part in the breath-taking chopper turret moments. 
 Most of the time though, youll be walking on streets while passing buildings and cars before entering 
 combat. The streets and buildings look as real as you could imagine them to look, almost like they 
 were taken straight out of a movie or real-life. The cars, when you see them, look very much like 
 their real-life counterparts as well. Also, if you want to, you can shoot at these cars and theyll 
 take damage accordingly, some might even trigger alarms. You can also blow these cars up if you 
 pour enough lead into the engine location. The lighting is even more outstanding. The sunlight 
 effects brighten up the city and could even leave you blinded in some areas, which is actually 
 a nice touch. The particle effects are just as amazing as the rest of the games visual presentation. 
 Youll get plenty of opportunities, but looking at each and every explosion is a real sight for 
 sore eyes. The framerate also keeps up very smoothly with the action on-screen and even creates 
 realistic shaking effects when taking heavy fire. In other words, Advanced Warfighter is easily 
 the best-looking game for the Xbox 360 so far. Ghost Recon even sounds as good as it looks. The 
 voice-actors are fitting and flawless; particularly your enemies and allies. When your allies call 
 to confirm or report the present situation, they sound like they would if this were real-life. 
 The enemies also sound great and their Mexican accents help further compliment the authenticity 
 of the voice-overs. Ghost Recon also has excellent music to back up the theme of the game, creating 
 a perfect mood for every memorable moment. The calm, light-tech music score fits the technical 
 feel of the game and the faster music that picks up in intense battles is just as impressive. Yet, 
 its the sound effects thatll make you want to blast your surround sound. The sound of guns and 
 the whizzing of bullets just inches from hitting you sound outstanding and quite life-like. This 
 is what will really suck you into battle. Yet, its the explosions that are more mind-blowing than 
 any other sound in the game. The sharp, loud bam of a tank or car blowing up just feet away from 
 you is a real shocker and will dazzle you every time. Ghost Recon just sounds so amazing and epic, 
 that it even rivals Hollywoods biggest action flicks audio-wise. The Ghost Recon series already 
 made a name for itself with its last installments, but Advanced Warfighter takes the series to 
 new heights. Despite its success, the series had never reached its full potential. But thats changed. 
 Advanced Warfighter comes out and serves up the best visuals seen in a game and offers exciting, 
 nearly flawless gameplay mechanics. If youre a fan of Ghost Recon, Halo, Splinter Cell, Rainbow 
 Six or any shooter for that matter, you should definitely check out Advanced Warfighter. In fact, 
 even if you dont like shooters but you have a 360 you should still give Advanced Warfighter a 
 shot. Its one of those rare few games thats worth getting a system for just to fully experience 
 what it has to offer, its that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: incendiumx
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  GRAW is what i consider to be the first "must own" for the 360. The balance of a challenging (and 
 fun) campaign and an awesome multiplayer component amke for a very balanced, very re-playable game.
 
  
  Graphics - WOW. If you have an HDTV, DOUBLE WOW. This game looks INCREDIBLE. Your squad, support 
 (tanks, APC's, Helicopters, Drones) , and srroundings come together to make the best looking squad 
 shooter to date, and the best looking game on the 360 i have seen so far. The first time you see 
 an explosion your jaw will hit the floor.
  
  Gameplay - It takes a minute to get used to controlling your squad, taking cover, and shooting, 
 but once you get the hang of it, you're set. Its very intuitive and you should get it down within 
 10 or so minutes. The campaign takes a while to beat the first time through because you will be 
 wicked cautious of snipers and such... And then theres the enemy tank that will suprise you by 
 rolling around a corner and opening fire *eek!* But you should be able to beat it within a day 
 or two for sure. Once you beat the story you'll probably want a break for a while, so hit the multiplayer. 
 Multiplayer is EXCELLENT. Typically there is no lag, but if you have 16 players all throwing smoke 
 and frag grenades, along with rocket launcher fire, you may see some slowdown :) If you want a 
 challenge, go ahead and try the story on hard... ouch. Those little AI buggers have some INSANE 
 aiming abilities.
  
  Sound - Great soundtrack, great sound effects, no compaints.
  
  Overall, can you guess? Recommend.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dannis1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 21, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so we've waited for this game for about 4 months since the Xbox 360 has been released. Is 
 it worth the wait? Believe it. This is arguably one of the most realistic, graphically enriched 
 games ever created, for any system, period. 
  First off, for the gameplay. Amazing. Just looking at your own person walk makes you feel good 
 and gives you a glimpse of what to come for the next generation. Even though the game is set to 
 a futuristic tone, it still plays very realistically. In order to conquor your opponent, you must 
 be tactical about it. Run, cover, run, cover. If you go in guns blazing, on any level at any time, 
 boom. Game Over. It takes as little as 1 hit to introduce you to your untimely death. There is 
 an incredible range of weapons here. There are many different rifles, rocket launchers, gernades, 
 pistols, and even sniper rifles. Although the sniper rifle isnt as great as it in games like, let's 
 say Resident Evil 4 or Sniper Elite, but it is pretty incredible just to zoom on your enemies face 
 and give him a face full of lead. There are only 2 to 3 levels of zoom, which is disappointing, 
 but it's definately not terrible.
  The graphics of this game are incredible. They are arguably the best ever created. The rinkles on 
 the uniforms and the details in the bullet fires and guns are just wonderfull. There are a full 
 glitches to be aware of, but nothing incredibly noticible. One glitch happens when you crawl up 
 steep hills, your character will stand and float, appearing to fly up the hill, very strange indeed. 
 The amount of the city that the 360 allows on the screen is absoulutely amazing. You can see everything 
 on the streets including trees and cars, just as if you were in it. 
  There are a few downsides to the game, but NOT MANY. The game has no civilians anywhere to be found, 
 so it gives you the feeling of a deserted city, which is strange, since you are supposed to be 
 saving a bustling city (Mexico City) from a turn on the military. 
  Even though this game is terrific, i do not recomend it for everyone. If you a fan of tactical 
 shooters, this is definately for you. If not, i would definately label this a rent-first game. 
 
  Thanks for reading my review. I hope it helps you with your decision on what game to buy. Later! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xJdawg13x
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  if any of the xbox 360 gamers out there wanna know what game to buy over the next week oblivion 
 or Ghost Recon well all i have to say most should buy GRAW just because it is the better one and 
 i think Oblivion is almost a more graphic version of rune scape with swords and **** but i guess 
 of your looking for something different in a game oblivion is different but the graphics are just 
 unbelievable and gameplay better then the other versions and the sound is good you can hear the 
 tiny voices and shouts over helicopters and stuff so its preety great game for the shooter lovers 
 this game is third person its kinda hard to play first because you can't really see what your body 
 is doing so its easier if u just stick wih 3rd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmnilimbO
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 21, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Note: This review of Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter (GRAW) is in reference to the XBOX 360 version 
 of the game.
  
  There are two major components of GRAW: the single player campaign and the LIVE (online) multiplayer 
 mode.
  
  First we take a peek at the single player campaign: Advanced Warfighter for 360 boasts incredibly 
 detailed 3D modeling and textures that I could attempt to describe until Im blue in the face, 
 but really, you have to see it with your own eyes to fully comprehend how remarkable it is. Of 
 course there are the effects effects out the blow-hole, from convincing particle effects like 
 torrents of fire, rolling dust clouds, billowing plumes of smoke and explosions that will singe 
 your eyebrows, to stunning lighting and immersive atmospherics, every facet of the graphics are 
 top-notch and life-like. As for the sound design... utterly amazing. The sound is just as beautifully 
 crafted as the visuals, you can hear gun-fire in the distance and a crying baby down a desolate 
 alley up ahead just before all hell breaks loose and bullets zing by your ears from the left and 
 an RPG comes in from behind and blows your eardrums out, temporarily deafening you. GRAW employs 
 some of the most advanced techniques and technologies combined with fluid game play and an impeccable 
 storyline, combined to create a truly stunning masterpiece that is not to be missed.
  
  Next we look at the Multiplayer: There are many who will jump straight into the Multiplayer aspect 
 of the game, which can be played locally, system linked or via Xbox LIVE (online) . The multiplayer 
 component of GRAW is ever so slightly toned down in comparison to the single player campaign, but 
 still outshines every game you have previously played, single player & multiplayer alike. The physics 
 are spot on, if you down an enemy while he's standing on the stairs, his body will realistically 
 tumble down the steps to the ground. The objects and environments are so detailed you could easily 
 find yourself getting sniped if you get too awe-struck and start staring at rain droplets making 
 ripples in an puddle or shiny shell casings rolling on the ground. Every map in multiplayer is 
 well balanced and loads of fun to play, you will have your favorites, but every one of them is 
 a gem. Not only are there many maps to chose from, there are many game modes to chose from like 
 Elimination, Objective, CO-OP, and a plethora of options to create user definable custom match 
 types. Certainly enough to keep you entertained for a long time.
  
  Replay value of GRAW is virtually eternal. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GinjaSy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 21, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  To start with let me just say this game has the best graphics I have ever seen. Even on a standard 
 TV this looks amazing. The clarity and depth of the surroundings and the character models buts 
 anything you've seen before to shame. The sound is just as remarkable, with 5.1 Surround Sound 
 being used fully. The guns sound great with a great visceral boom when things explode (and the 
 will, a lot) . 
  
  At heart this is a very tactical game, just trying to run in a shoot the terrorists will get you 
 killed very quickly. Enemies display an uncanny level of intelligence, they can seek cover, flank 
 your position and flush you out (although this mostly seen on the hard difficulty) . Sometimes the 
 game can seem ridiculously hard and even frustrating but nothing beats the feeling of completing 
 a section that you previously failed.
  
  Issuing orders to you team is also very easy, you just point the crosshair press up on the d-pad 
 and they go there, press down and they regroup. 99% of the time your team act intelligently and 
 follow your orders and find cover, on rare occasions they stand around while you press up until 
 you select a viable position for them to advance to. If you order them to do something stupid, 
 like walk directly into enemy fire, they will ignore your orders. At certain points in the game 
 you get various support vehicles you can command, ranging from APCs, Tanks, Choppers and a Drone, 
 which can be used to scout the immediate area and alert you to enemies in your vicinity. 
  
  The Multiplayer element of this game is also a stroke of genius, ranging from 16-player deathmatch 
 to 16-player co-op. The multiplayer dynamics have been tweaked slightly, there is no cover move 
 but you can use the left bumper to peak left and right which works very well. 
  
  Before playing you choose your default class (ranging from Rifleman, Grenadier, Machine Gunner 
 and Marksman) , but this can be changed in the pregame lobby if you like. 
  
  Death comes very quickly in multiplayer but it does feel very balanced. There are loads of modes 
 to play in, from standard Deathmatch, CTF, Territories and Objective based games, as well as loads 
 of co-op modes.
  
  Overall this is an excellent game, and well worth the delay. If you can put in the hours then this 
 game will reward you well, especially in the Multiplayer. If you own a 360 then you need this game
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: voodoomaster18
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 21, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  This game went more of the way of run and gun than it did in past ghost recons where you have to 
 take more of a slow and stealthier approach. The game's singleplayer has a great storyline and 
 unexpected twists and turns all the way through it. The sense of a militeristic warfare was implemented 
 very well through out the game online and offline. The guys at Ubi perfected the sound system in 
 the game where if you shoot a rocket into the distance, the sound will travel slower to you and 
 will be muffled a bit, hearing the impact first, then the explosion second. Music was a bit light, 
 but thats why we have custom soundtracks. Commanding a team of 3 ghosts had a feeling of playing 
 Full Spectrum Warrior in a Ghost Recon environment. (Thats a good thing) The graphics are jaw-dropping 
 in Singleplayer and are okay in multiplayer. (Yes there is a difference, but not a big enough difference 
 where it looks like a past-gen game.) Multiplayer is great, one-shot-one kill type of gameplay, 
 just like real life. Drones have advantages and disadvantages, so they dont really alter the gameplay 
 too much. Teamwork is definitely needed online if you wish to succeed in every battle. The guns 
 are great too, they have a wide variety of them, suiting almost everyone's needs. Some are a little 
 cheap (MRC with gun camera, ZEUS M-PAR, and any rifle with a nade launcher on it) . All in all, 
 this game is a definite must buy, and is a great rent too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaloMaster21
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 21, 2006 4:43 am PT
Review:  I never liked any of the previous ghost recon games, and I could've cared less if the franchise 
 died, but after being introduced to Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter (GR: AW) at a friend's house, 
 I immediately went out to buy it.
  
  Lets start off with the basics. GR: AW is a millitary shooter, not an arcade shooter like Halo 2, 
 so dont compare the two. In this game, you can actually shoot people with smgs that are more than 
 an arms length away. Actually you can shoot people that are very far away with almost every gun, 
 just like in real life. This is exactly what I was looking for in a game, and it definately affects 
 gameplay for the better. I would compare the multiplayer gameplay to paintballing. Its not as slow 
 or as spread out as real warfare, but rather close, quick and fun like paintball.
  
  The graphics are gorgeous to say the least, incase that matters to you. The character modeling 
 is so real looking, I would bet in the next Ghost Recon you would have trouble telling if a player 
 was real or not. The motions are so fluid and genuine, just like a real soldier.
  
  Multiplayer is fun, but I would say lack of originality is its only downfall. Online co op and 
 objective can provide hours and hours of fun because you can play co op with up to 16 people! Right 
 now I am working on beating all these missions because they are so fun (Hint hint: online campaign 
 mode is the easiest way to get the 4 kills in 4 seconds and 30 kills in a row achievements) .
  
  Fun game, good graphics, great gameplay, great replay. What more could you ask for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QCarver
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 20, 2006 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Enjoying every minute of this tactical shooter. I am about half way through the game and find it 
 to be very engaging. The graphics are the initial stunner. Then, after getting used to the interface, 
 HUD and controls, you will find yourself immersed in a very realistic war environment. I typically 
 don't enjoy games of this type because the control scheme and command system usually sucks... such 
 is not the case here. Its very easy to control the advanced warfighter character, the environments 
 are easy to navigate and it is a pleasure, rather than a hindrance, to control the movements and 
 actions of the up to three comrades. Seems like its going to be a short game though. Oh well.... still 
 lots of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VarsityGamer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 20, 2006 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Oh Mexico how i love thee never have i been so attracted to your beautiful land scapes and sprawling 
 city line i even forgot about how gross the water is. Ghost recon advance warfighter is an amazing 
 experience all around from start to finish. The mixture of real time strategy and action packed 
 gun fights kept making me come back for more and when i was finally tired of the single player 
 campaign i had a whole new experience waiting for me online. This game is well executed and flat 
 out fun to play whether online or off and i can safely say its the first game to really justify 
 a next generation game not only because of its gorgeous graphics but its extremely well done cross-com 
 feature which was done a lot better then i had expected and i was pleasantly surprised how smooth 
 it was switching between an apache helicopter, my squad, and an APC. all in all this is a must buy 
 title for anyone looking for a great tactical shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kgfreak
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2006 7:19 pm PT
Review:  This game has insane graphics, phisics, and gameplay. Online gaming is 
  
  smooth and well designed. The campaign is long and interesting although the 
  
  view controls 
 in campaign mode run a tad differently. Not in the way u control 
  
  things but the speed that it proforms them. Trust me other than Oblivion this is 
  
  a must 
 buy now. My favorite thing is rankings online. Depending on your level 
  
  you get a new ARMY title. For instance I'm only a level 3 sniper so my label is 
  
  SPECIALIST 
 EKAJ7. Pretty sweet huh. I love the camera gun for those of u who 
  
  dont know what that is it is a gun with a small camera attatched to the top of of 
  
  the site. 
 U can use this to hold ur gun away from ur body which allows u to see 
  
  over rocks, around corners, and around tight doorways. 
  
  FLIPPIN' SHWEET!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kayjack
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 20, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  I have spent many hours on this game and at no point in time do I ever seem to become dullend or 
 bored. I have beaten the game on normal and am currently working on hard, because the game is just 
 the damn fun to replay. The online is top line and the presentation to follow is as well superb.
 
  The story is easily the best written yet for the ghost recon franchise and is easy to follow, 
 understand, and grow attached to. The character voice work and presentation is extremely well done.
 
  All in all I love this game and is a must have for any 360 owner.
  Go get this game now if you are one of the 5 people that doesn't have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunmetalman
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 20, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's G. R. A. W is perhaps the best Tom Clancy game in the series. The most amazing feature 
 of G. R. A. W however, is the "Cross-com." The Cross-com give the player huge control over their squad 
 and any other supporting units such as tanks, choppers, and the UAV cypher. The UAV cypher is a 
 mobile satellite that the player controls with the D-pad, and it analyzes the environment for any 
 hostiles. In the story, you play as Scott Mitchel, the commander of the Ghosts (an elite solider 
 unit) . You and your squad are sent to Mexico to quell an uprising by rebels led by Carlos Ontiverous. 
 The game spans over 12 missions with about 3 solo missions. Most of the achievements in G. R. A. W 
 are unlocked by doing the single player campaign on both the normal and hard difficulty. The multiplayer 
 achievements are very difficult however. Some of them include hosting 1000 matches, getting 500 
 headshots (I think they have to be on human players) , shooting down 500 helicopters, and climbing 
 to the top of the leaderboards.
  
  The multiplayer isn't that bad either, there are numerous game types, but the most popular (in 
 my opinion) is team elimination. There is also an online co-op campaign (4 missions long) which 
 can support up to 16 players via system link or Xbox Live. The difficulty of the co-op campaign 
 may vary due to the number of players you're with and their skill. Personally I've had a tough 
 time with the campaign because there are too many hidden enemies, and their A. I is too good. Co-op 
 can also be played on split-screen for up to 4 players. However split-screen forces each player 
 in first person, which is hard to use because you don't have as much overall view as you do in 
 single player. 
  
  Overall G. R. A. W is perhaps second to none (except Call of Duty 2) of all of the 360 games, and 
 most gamers should consider picking this game up (even if you aren't in to realistic games) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukewind
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 20, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard that Recon was going next gen I thought of how the past games were good but 
 never lived up to thier expectations.
  
  Well GRAW has lived up to nearly every single thing they promised in a next gen title.
  
  I 
 just finished playing through the Campaign and I must say that GRAW is the first game in a long 
 time that will probably get at least 3 complete playthroughs of the Campaign (YES ITS THAT GOOD)
 
  
  GRAPHICS : The look of this game is like crack for the eyes, the lighting realism is one of the 
 first things you notice. I never thought HDR lighting could make a game look so gorgeous but in 
 GRAW you really feel like you are outside. Character animations are smooth and I did not notice 
 any slowdown even in the most intense parts. Mexico city is fully realized with epic chopper rides 
 that show off the entire city.
  
  GAMEPLAY : The graphics alone would have been enough for me but ubisoft has created a game that 
 plays as good as it looks. The cover system is intuitive and actually fun to use, it is much nicer 
 than the cover system in PDZ. There are a couple of slight AI issues. Sometimes your team will 
 run out into gun fire but if you are smart about placing them you can avoid these situations for 
 the most part. Other than that the game runs really smooth.
  
  Sound : The sound design is done very well. It covers every element on the battlefield and really 
 helps with the immersion factor. If you have surround sound just wait till you hear your first 
 upclose explosion because you will feel it in your chest. The voice acting is good but not great 
 but VO work is really a moot issue.
  
  Multiplayer : The online for GRAW is amazing, it is in my opinion the best online game that has 
 come out since HALO 2, although it has a much different feel than HALO, and does well do establish 
 a difference on the market. There are so many options on how to play you could play al night long 
 and not play the same way twice. As great as the online is there are a few bugs such as being dropped 
 from games. This seems to happen more to some than others so It might have something to do with 
 connection speed or the hosts connection speed but whatever it is I hope they do fix it because 
 sometimes you will get dropped many times in a row. Other than that the online runs very smoothly 
 and barely has any lag which is soo nice but don't expect the online to look quite as good as the 
 campaign. The multiplayer though is still better looking than any other online game.
  
  If GRAW did not have the small AI issue and the drop issue was resolved in multiplayer I would 
 probably have given GRAW a perfect ten but even with some small issues it still deserves a solid 
 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jessewarren
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 20, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  GRAW could be like many of the other Ghost Recon games that have left me frustrated, angry, and 
 ready to quit them forever. But GRAW takes a step away from the traditional Ghost Recon games where 
 you manage multiple squads on exceedingly difficult missions. GRAW simplifies much of this, and 
 makes it so that the gameplay is quick but memorable. The singleplayer campaign is pieced together 
 beatifuly, with the only fault coming in the night missions. The amazing graphics are put to waste 
 by the night vision goggles, but they still manage to be fun. Some of the best missions are in 
 a helicopter, where you must shoot down helicopters, rebels, and vehicles to secure an area or 
 landing. The graphics make it even better, and the singleplayer gameplay is overall amazing. However, 
 the best part about GRAW is the multiplayer. Playing on Xbox Live is fairly simple, with tons of 
 customizable options to create the perfect game. Lag is very rare, and I have had a ton of fun 
 playing online. Playing with friends on your 360 is also very fun, especially on the few maps that 
 allow for sniping and firefights while playing with only two players. In conclusion, GRAW is easily 
 the best game on the 360 and a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: just4pool93
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 20, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great game. There are a few flaws though. First off, the Ghost AI is lousy. That 
 can really wreck a game. The graphics are pretty good on the 360. I like how you can lock on to 
 enemies with your glasses. This game definitely has some potential. The best series from Tom Clancy 
 is Rainbow Six. It is just more fun than all of the other games besides Splinter Cell. I look forward 
 to playing Tom Clancy's: Splinter Cell Double Agent. Even though I do not own a 360 I have played 
 Advanced Warfighter. The game is not all its cracked up to be. But it earns a solid grade in my 
 book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pummelweed
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 20, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  everything in this game from the shots to the explosions are amazing, theres never a dull moment 
 and is some of the best gameplay and graffics i have ever seen in a game. i recommend it to any 
 ghost recon fan this surpaces any of the prequels in the series by alot you can tell redstorm took 
 there time at this one, it was there first next-gen title and its a hit x10. the story isnt the 
 greatest but the way they tell it is unique, as in like they breef you in a helicopter or in a 
 striker its preety impressive! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FamilyGuyFan507
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 20, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is what i have been waiting for... overall this is what microsoft has been missing for 
 the games... This game is number 1 and set records for sellings on the console... If you have a 360 
 get this game... The graphics, story and characthers are superb. The Camera can be challenging and 
 the missions can be a struggle... Your Teams A. I. is as dumb as a cereal box... When you want men 
 to cover, they go out in the middle and die...
  
  Strengths:
  -Top game for the system
  -Top Notch Graphics
  -More story and superb charachter back grounds
  -Innovative missions and 
 map designs
  
  Weaknesses:
  -Camera shines off sometimes
  -Whached A. I.
  -Missions make you struggle and sometimes cry
  -Bad guy A. I. makes you Kringe
  
  Questions:
 
  
  So, if it is true (laying down makes you accurate) why do all the enemies insiste on laying down 
 in front of you and ricking themselves?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abrussa
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 20, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  I was not a fan of ghost reacon games, until the 360 version came out, the detail that ubi sepnt 
 in developing this game is amazing, the single player mode is a challange and amazing to play, 
 this is a very addicitive game, specially in the online mode. This is a must have, however I didnt 
 gave to the game a 10 star. Why? Because they lack of maps in multiplayer, also the multiplayer 
 and single player are different type of games. But besides that is a very amazing game. My score 
 9.2. I hope ubi comes with new maps to download this will boost their sales as also more xbox live 
 susbscribers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Manly_Fairy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 20, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  What can i say about GRAW well it's the best military shooter I have ever played.
  
  NOTE: I am only reviewing the single player campaign experience.
  
  Gameplay
  
  GRAW has 
 some of the coolest gameplay elements in any game I have played. I loved the fact that you could 
 quickly hide behind almost anything and shoot around corners. It had an awesome squad commanding 
 system and it's cool that you can command air strikes, tanks, and other things. This made GRAW 
 unlike any other game I've played. The weapons and levels were amazing and detailed. The physics 
 were just as awesome and made it cool that if your behind boxes the enemy could blow them right 
 off to hit you. The one thing that I didn't like about GRAW was the fact that enemies weren't very 
 smart and the stealth factor didn't really work well.
  
  Difficulty
  
  I thought this game was pretty hard but that's one of the best parts. I hate how most games are 
 easy and you can beat them in a day or two. 
  
  Graphics
  
  Although I really could care less about graphics and I don't have HDTV this game has some of the 
 best graphics to date. Although I thought some of the character textures weren't that great it 
 was still amazing.
  
  Sound
  
  The sound in this game is incredible. You can hear every gun shot, every wall breaking, and every 
 vehicle exploding. You know where your enemies are shooting from which allows you to get an advantage. 
 The voice acting is also pretty amazing but what really blew me over is the explosions. They sound 
 huge and powerful.
  
  Well overall this game was great and definitely well worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360addict
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games of all time with frantic gameplay amazing graphics and realistic 
 enemy AI. The graphics are the first thing that you notice the lighting is immence and the soldier 
 and weapon models are great. Next the action is mental with bullets flying everywhere helicopters 
 flying around and explosions happening on a regular basis. There are loads of enemies and and buildings 
 making for realistic environments. The game is quite difficult to start but when you get used to 
 the game machanics it becomes slightly more manageable-despite this, the game is very enjoyable 
 and rarely ever seems spoilt because of the difficulty. There are many weapons in the game ranging 
 from rifles to machine guns and grenade launchers. Overall Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is an 
 amazing game and should be played by anyone with an xbox 360! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexistheshitbe
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 20, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  You can trade in Call of Duty 2 and Perfect Dark Zero because you'll never play them again! 
  GRAW offers an amazing, immersive and surprisingly challenging single-player campaign that should 
 take about ten hours to get through. 
  The graphics are among the best I've seen - different lighting effects for different times of the 
 day really add to the realism. For instance, when the sun is setting, there is a golden-red hue 
 on your player which is different than the harsh, white lighting you'll get during a midday mission. 
 Having said that, sometimes the really bright lighting can make it hard to see, but some could 
 argue that it adds to the realism.
  Controls are very well thought out and intuitive. At times, you'll find yourself commanding a tank, 
 an apache helicopter, a drone, your 3 teammates and yourself all at the same time and it works 
 rather seamlessly. The amount of information provided through your HUD is mind-boggling but invited 
 since there is so much going on at once... except for any civilians mulling about but that's another 
 story. One quip I have with the controls is the grenade throwing interface. It's a little awkward 
 and it usually takes two or three throws to actually get the grenade where you want it to go. A 
 more Halo-esque grenade interface would have worked better. And, I must add, using the MR-C with 
 a camera attached to it is simply amazing - you can peak around corners and take out enemies without 
 having to put yourself in the open. This is especially great during multiplayer. You can hide behind 
 an obstacle, reach your gun above it and take out multiple enemies before they have spotted you.
 
  Multiplayer is, without a doubt, the best part of the game. I've never experienced lag, even with 
 16-player games. The maps are well thought out and gorgeous. Not to mention HUGE. Totally customizable 
 options allow you to play exactly how you want to, even during ranked matches. The lobby system 
 is the multi-players main downfall. It can be frustrating. Once, it took me 20 minutes before I 
 could find a game to play. But, if you host your own room, the experience is much less painful. 
 Also, it is not uncommon to get booted for a room for no apparent reason. What's up with that?
 
  The sound is amazing. Guns, explosions and death cries blast out of your speakers in Dolby 5.1 
 completely immersing you in the action. In the Dry Docks map, the rain effects are impressive as 
 well. If you enter a crate, which is guarded from the rain, you hear the drops fade from behind 
 you and then pick up again in front of you as you reach the other open end.
  It's the little things that make this game great. Is a guy hiding behind a car and you can't get 
 a shot? No problem. Shoot the car with your grenade launcher or a couple well-placed bullets on 
 the gas tank and it will explode, taking out your enemy. Or, if you want to be really surgical, 
 you can shoot out the tires hoping it will spook your opponent enough to run out into the open 
 where you can take his head off. And it's like this in multiplayer too.
  The drone adds a new layer of tactical strategy to the game as well. You can float it over any 
 part of the map and have it scan for enemies. Once picked up, they show up on your map and HUD, 
 allowing you to stalk them and eventually take them out without them knowing you're even there. 
 In multiplayer, you can take out the other team's drone but it takes a full clip worth of shooting 
 so you'll give away your position. They can also be disabled in options if you want to stay with 
 classic Ghost Recon action.
  All in all, this is a great game minus a few multiplayer lobby and control problems. Oh yeah, there 
 are absolutely no civilians. It takes away from the realism and, on the sadistic side, who doesn't 
 like mowing down the occasional innocent by-stander? I know I do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parched_son
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 20, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  Games come and go. Campaigns are either played or ignored, but LIVE reigns supreme. GRAW gives 
 you both options and doesn't skimp on either one. 
  I've found that the campaign takes team work and skill to complete the missions. From the men you 
 help lead into battle, to the drone that gives you a purview of the troubles you face, this is 
 a thinking game that requires quick decision making and the ability to handle situations under 
 fire. Enemy AI is intelligent enough to adjust to your fire and counter the moves you are making. 
 You are forced to make calls that put your men in harms way; with you being their only medic if 
 they fail. You die and it's game over. If they die, you loose brotherhood and leadership points. 
 Advanced warriors don't work to just be mediocre. It's your call. Do you have what it takes to 
 acheive an objective without losing a man? 
  Online play is fast paced and fun. The AI, on coop campaing mode, is predictable (in the same location 
 90% of the time) , but if you mix it up (pistols only/no drone/etc) there is stil fun to be had. 
 There are only 4 maps available for coop campaign at this time. Other coop (online or local play) 
 is fun and has a variety of setting for amount of enemy, game type, and map locations. The online 
 is more for solo or team games such as elimination or plots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirRocky
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 20, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  A truly amazing game. Everything about this game looks and sounds great. The graphics are top of 
 the line, the sound is beautiful, the gameplay is great, the stylistic features are well done.
 
  
  I'd say this is the best FPS for the 360 and even the best compared to most other systems as well. 
 
  
  Of course, there are some things to note if you are considering getting this game. 
  
  First, it is high on realism. Perfect Dark fans, even Call of Duty fans, may find this a bit 
 unnerving. If you get hit in the head or in a vital area, you are dead. End of story. A few shots 
 to your extremities, and you will meet the same fate.
  
  You are in a huge environment that seems endless while on the ground. That being said, every corner 
 you turn, every street you run down, there's always a risk of enemies flanking you or showing up 
 behind you. They move, and they go for the kill. Not only that, but they aren't just on the ground. 
 Make sure to look up as you wander past the taller buildings, because you never know when someone 
 will be waiting up high with a sniper rifle.
  
  If you don't mind the realism, than get this game. It's the best. If a more arcadish feel that's 
 a little more forgiving of mistakes is your thing, skip it. But either way, this game is awesome.
 
  
  Playing it so far (a few missions single player, and a few different multiplayer modes) I have 
 found very little bad to say about it. 
  
  My biggest (and really only) complaint would be the control scheme. While its mostly good, controlling 
 your squad along side of APCs or Drones can be difficult at times. Also, covering and leaning out, 
 diving, etc... is a bit rough to get the hang of. Other than that... nothing bad.
  
  Congratulations to Ubisoft on another fine product. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austingamer
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 20, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  I have to start by saying that this game is the best looking, felling, sound, and all round game 
 out right now for the X360. The graphics are astounding in the game ( compared to all other games 
 out right now ) . I still think that the graphics could be better with the hardware that they are 
 working with but I am still impressed. Why I was so impressed with the graphics is they were able 
 to make everything look detailed including people, sorrounding, explosions, the smoke playing into 
 effect, bullets flying, movement, and ect... With every other game I have played up to this point 
 on the X360 was not able to project the entire game as detailed as this game. The sound made the 
 game great ( especially when you have sournd sound ) . They did great work on the little things 
 for example bullets flying past your head, the diffrent sound of each gun which interputs the actuall 
 sound off that gun or machine, explosens, and even the foot steps. They had a great selection of 
 musice but I would have liked to here a little more through out the game not just when you finnished 
 the mission or between cut seens. They did a awsome job with the detail's of sound. The fell of 
 the game is very tight and accurate, which is a must in the gaming world now. The movement of the 
 characters on very smooth even the one's that you are not controlling. The game is not to tuff 
 but you can't just go through the missions with out thing and getting in tight spots. And if you 
 die on a mission when you replay the mission the enemies are not in the same spot or possion the 
 second go around. All in all the game is worth paying full price and it will have you coming back 
 for more even if you beat it, plus there's is multiplayer and online which I have not played yet 
 because I am to rapped up in the missions, but I cant wait to test out the online gameplay. I think 
 that there are going to better games in the future but for what has came out already it is the 
 best out there right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeblofromidaho
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 20, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  From the moment you see your soldier run to the objective area (highlighted by a box on your hud) 
 you know that "nex gen" is finally here. I have never seen more realistic movements and lighting 
 and cant imagine anything looking better, but the good news is things are still getting better. 
 Sound is awesome from bullets hitting your body to powerful gunshots. No lame explosions either. 
 On the level where you are coming up to the U. S. embassy that is supposed to be "secure", a massive 
 bomb explodes just a few hundred feet infront of you rocking the speakers and leveling the embassy 
 as the streets are overtaken by smoke and debris. The best part of all this is that it happened 
 in real time, no cut scene movie you had to watch. You are always a part of the action. 
  Difficulty is what puts this game on the serious level. Your squad is the major draw back in this 
 category. Classic Tom Clancy series A. I. Sometimes they surprise you with a kill that only a sharpshooter 
 could obtain. Then at time the three of them cant see someone 10 feet away and help with some cover 
 fire while you reload a clip. Sometimes I just want to dump them in a alley way to avoid baby sitting 
 in a firefight while the test out their ability to stop bullets.
  All in all the tactical has been around forever. The other so called "military trainers" were a 
 big disappointment, while this game doesnt have a abundance of new and innovative ideas it clearly 
 can be separated from the rest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kimbo_Slice
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 20, 2006 1:34 am PT
Review:  GRAW takes place in Mexico City. You are Cpt. Mitchell, a badass. Basically you drop in on a helicopter 
 with a gun and you start shooting mexican rebels. But there is some great strategy involved and 
 an intense experience if you are playing the game on hard. The graphics stand out the most in GRAW. 
 The amazing draw-distance and detail makes the game feel like a next-gen title. Although the gameplay 
 really isn't anything new, it is still very addicting and very fun. The sound is amazing and the 
 value is great if you have xbox live. The Single-player is the best part of GRAW. In my opinion, 
 the single-player is worth $60 by itself. Tom Clancy fans will love this game as I did. I would 
 suggest purchasing this game ASAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ax_prime_basic
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 19, 2006 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon is a series that started off on the pc but has also found it's way onto 
 the major consoles. The Ghost Recon formula has undergone some changes in its time, and the series 
 has lost fans and gained some too. The games initially had you stuck in a weaponless first person 
 view, but since the advent of Ghost Recon 2 the developers have given you the option of playing 
 in a slick, over the shoulder view. For better or worse, more focus has been put on action and 
 some good pyrotechnics in recent entries. This was off-putting to some diehard fans of the original, 
 but rallied others (yours truly included) to their cause. Now, the newest chapter in the Ghost 
 Recon saga is upon us, and this time on new fangled hardware. To put it simply, Ghost Recon: Advanced 
 Warfighter is a masterpiece, through and through. The game plays incredibly well, looks and sounds 
 fantastic, and features more modes and content than you can shake a Tom Clancy novel at. It's errors 
 are few and slight, and completely overwhelmed by the quality otherwise found here. The good news 
 is that 360 owners no longer have to wait for their "next Halo". It's right here.
  
  First things first. GRAW's story is pretty typical Tom Clancy fluff. It has to do with an attempted 
 coup, civil unrest, military uprising, yaketee schmackety blah blah blah. In fact, "blah" is a 
 pretty good word for the story in general. It's not bad, it's not good, it's just there. However, 
 the fact that it will never, ever intrude upon your gameplay is cause for much rejoicing. There 
 are no cutscenes... everything takes place from your normal, in-game view. This is mainly due to 
 the new Cross-com feature, which is a totally neat addition to the series. Basically, on top of 
 letting you see where your allies/objectives/enemies are, the Cross-com allows you to see through 
 your ally unit's eyes, and also receive briefings from your commanding officer. What it means is 
 that there's generally a lot of info on screen, but what's great is that since info is so readily 
 available on screen, you're never taken away from it that screen. You're never taken out of the 
 moment by cutscenes of doors opening, troops entering, reporters yapping, or anything for that 
 matter. It seems small, but it really adds to the enjoyment factor in that you are that much more 
 "there", in Mexico City.
  
  The game is played in the 3rd person view by default, and though the old-school weaponless 1st 
 person view is available for purists, the 3rd person view works much better generally. There is 
 quite a bit going on on your screen in GRAW, thanks to the Cross-com, but it's not too much to 
 handle. In fact, the whole Cross-com system is very slick. Initially, I was worried that the addition 
 of the Cross-com would make the game a much more run and gun affair, but this is simply not the 
 case at all. While enemies are marked on your screen, they're only marked after you, your allies, 
 or your flying drones spot them. And even when you know where they are, there's still the question 
 of how you actually deal with them. It doesn't make the game easy. In fact, the game is quite challenging 
 even on the standard difficulty setting. Without the Cross-com and its benefits the game would 
 undoubtedly become quite frustrating and really wouldn't be much fun. Thankfully though, it is 
 there, and contrary to initial worries, it actually enriches the strategic aspect of the game.
 
  
  You'll be able to command several different unit types, sometimes more than one group at once. 
 Often, you'll have control over not only your squad, but a group of tanks, an apc, or even a helicopter. 
 It's at these times that the game feels almost like a blend of Ghost Recon and an RTS. It's exhilarating 
 to see a battlefield light up as you command your squad to get behind cover and order your helicopter 
 to stick it to the enemy tanks. One of the few main flaws in GRAW is that your squad has some A. I. 
 quirks that can lead to their untimely and unnecessary deaths. You'll see them standing out in 
 the open when they should be taking cover, and their pathfinding skills aren't that far above the 
 3rd grade level (this problem is doubled when they get in front of vehicles you're also commanding) . 
 A lot of the times you'll find yourself ordering them to basically distract the enemy while you 
 flank them. It's disappointing, as it limits the gameplay a bit, but they're competent enough to 
 generally keep things moving fairly smoothly. The enemy A. I. seems to fare much better, and has 
 never struck me as being stupid or behaving oddly, and all in all it's still a rich, tactical experience.
 
  
  Thankfully though, the developers haven't forgotten that this is also an action game, and they 
 have made sure that the action does not disappoint. Surprisingly, though the game is very tactical 
 by nature, it still manages to out-action games that focus solely on blasting things to bits. While 
 it's definitely not a Black-esque foray into "gun porn", with things blowing up every 2 seconds, 
 it is absolutely explosive when it all hits the proverbial fan. The gunfights are violent and visceral, 
 as your view shakes with every bullet fired and taken. The force feedback is intense, and the explosions 
 are a real payoff for all your sneaking and shooting... as they're big, loud, and damn pretty. 
 
  
  Speaking of which, much talk has been made of GRAW's visuals. While there are a few weak spots, 
 GRAW is, overall, a pretty outstanding visual achievement. Mexico City is massive, and you don't 
 know just how massive it gets until you see it sprawling out in front of you as you're being lifted 
 to your missions via helicopter. In all seriousness, when you are looking out you see hundreds 
 upon hundreds of buildings being rendered in real time, just as if you were actually up high above 
 a city in a helicopter. It's something you have to see for yourself to really understand. Screenshots 
 don't do it justice... it looks much better when it's actually moving. Actually, movement in general 
 is another visual element that GRAW absolutely nails. This is probably the best animation I've 
 seen in any shooter to date. From the way the camera shakes when you run, to the way your character 
 moves, to the swaying of the trees, just about every movement is a visual treat. Occasionally a 
 vehicle might move in an awkward way, but it's fairly rare. The first time you see enemies run 
 out onto a rooftop in one of the helicopter missions, you'll be sold. And even moreso when you 
 see how your chaingun fire kicks up debris with each shot. Amazing. A few visual dissappointments 
 rear their heads in the form of some isolated instances of draw in when you peek around corners 
 (somewhat disturbing) , and some textures that look a little out of place next to the highly detailed 
 ones you will usually be looking at. In the end, it's a pretty graphically stunning game.
  
  As good as it looks, it might sound even better. The fire from all of your weapons is highly 
 distinct, loud, and crisp. The fire from the mounted gun in the helicopter is particularly shredding 
 from an audio standpoint. These weapons just sound like they pack a real punch, and that's a very 
 good thing. There is also some varied music. During the helicopter fly-by's at the beginning of 
 missions, you'll hear some licensed music that some might find out of place, but I find that it 
 works in it's own way, creating a good mood. Better yet though, is the original orchestrated tracks 
 that pop up in key moments. During one particularly intense firefight, some gorgeous music slowly 
 crept in and lent the battle an almost surreal, cinematic, and epic quality. It was a great and 
 memorable moment. The same good things cannot be said about the voice acting, which ranges from 
 decent to slightly annoying and forced. There's something cheesy about the way your character talks, 
 as if he's trying to sound like Solid Snake when he really just doesn't have the voice for it. 
 Some of your commanding officers also sound a titch on the hokey side. Other performances are solid, 
 if not quite memorable. Some dodgy voice acting aside, the game sounds superb. 
  
  GRAW's single player campaign is roughly 10-12 hours long, and is definitely worth replaying on 
 the higher difficulty, as the level design is pretty open ended and allows for different strategies. 
 Also, it's just a good, fun, challenging game in it's own right, and there are things you might 
 have missed the first time through that will make a second play-through. All in all, you'll feel 
 like you got your money's worth even if you never play the multiplayer modes, which can't really 
 be said for the other Ghost Recon games. 
  
  Still, it has to be said that GRAW features some incredibly meaty multiplayer content. There's 
 the expected (and great) competitive modes, which are as good as ever, but also there's a separate 
 co-operative campaign that is basically a compliment to the single player campaign available for 
 local or Live play. Did I mention it was 16 player co-op? Can I get an amen?! These modes are where 
 most people will find their value, as the game has the potential to spin in your xbox 360 for months 
 to come (unless you plan on playing Oblivion of course) . There has been some complaining over the 
 fact that you can't invite friends to a ranked match, but I think it's just fine. After all, if 
 everyone just played ranked matches against their friends, the rankings system would end up being 
 pretty inaccurate due to intentional and unintentional stat-padding. If you must play with your 
 friends, it's as easy as setting up a private game. You won't be ranked, but ranks aren't everything 
 you know. The multiplayer modes are also very customizable, and you can put a lot of different spins 
 on your favorite gametypes. The multiplayer modes are available for online play, system link, and 
 split screen, making for a versatile multiplayer experience that will fit many gamers' unique situations. 
 The worst thing about the multiplayer is that it doesn't look quite as sharp as the single player, 
 but it's still nice-looking, and more importantly: it's super fun.
  
  In the end, Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter for the 360 is the kind of game that 360 owners have 
 been waiting for since they picked up their system. Every mode is executed extremely well, and 
 there's just a ton of value to be found here. It's intense, strategic, yet action-packed and exciting. 
 It has killer looks, great sound, and it plays just as good as its audiovisual presentation would 
 suggest. This is a game that you'd have to be a real shooter grinch not to enjoy, and if that's 
 you then it is truly your loss. GRAW is an outstanding tactical shooter in just about every conceivable 
 regard, and for 360 owners it is an essential purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: platinumrug05
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 19, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  When my friends first got this game, i didn't know what to think. I mean, most of them were playing 
 it, which in turn left me behind to play Perfect Dark 0 most of the time that they were playing 
 Ghost Recon. I was salty, i admit, but now that i have it, i must admit, NOW I SEE WHY THEY PLAY 
 IT SO MUCH now. It's a freaking awesome game. Let's get into the review.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay, OMG, is so immersive, it drags you in with enemies coming from all around, 
 making you forget the knowledge you already know about GR games and learn new things along the 
 way. The Cross Com is by far the most inventive use of the HUD anyone has came up with in a while. 
 The enemies react accordingly, at least on Hard mode they do. Enemies sorta POP up outta no where, 
 which is frustrating sometimes, but I am able to get the job done. Gameplay is superb, especially 
 in the Single Player missions, the gameplay is really enhanced. Although that part would have been 
 used for Multiplayer, it's not. Multiplayer, in my opinion is average at best. Until someone fixes 
 the glitch that it loves to drop you from the game server if there are too many people in the room, 
 Multiplayer will never live up to SP expectations.
  
  Graphics- Top notch. Ubisoft did an excellent job on them. I only appreciate the Single Player 
 graphics though, Multiplayer, NOT SO MUCH. I mean, the graphics in Multiplayer are awesome, no 
 doubt about that. But when compared to Single Player, you can tell of the graphical shortcuts the 
 developer's took in order to make this game work for the 360. I still love them though. The Night 
 Vision in this game rivals Splinter Cell, and THAT'S an accomplishment in it's own league.
  
  Audio- The weapons are the main focus in this game. To me at least, voice acting is FANTASTIC 
 by the way. I love just listening to them speak about the important matters taking place seven 
 years in the future. The weapons sound so wonderful on here, i find myself turning up the volume 
 on my television set, and just firing the weapon just to hear how well it sounds while being unloaded 
 into space.
  
  Value- Great value, will keep you coming back for me. Multiplayer is to be desired though, it needs 
 work, but it is stable until they fix that glitch.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt- Go and get it, if you haven't already. If you love squad shooters, you will definitely 
 like this one. DEFINITELY!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaloHunter86
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advance Warfighter the best recon game ever. The offline campaign mode is so good that 
 I actually enjoyed playing it. I have never enjoyed any of the offline campaign modes in the previous 
 recons. They have never been that great but this one takes it to a whole new level... seriously. 
 It's so awesome the way that you can command tanks, helicopters, and your recon mates. The A. I. 
 has also been improved much more in this one but they are still a little stupid in some ways and 
 stand there like idiots staring at the bullets you shoot at them. But after all... the game is highly 
 addictive and very hard in some levels when it comes down to finding your way out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanjtravis
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  For starters, let me say this -- GRAW is fun. Lots of fun. From the moment I started the single-player 
 campaign and was immersed in such a realistic, desolate city, I knew I was in for a good gaming 
 experience. I have been playing for about a week now (switching it up between single-player and 
 Live play) and I am still having a lot of fun with this one.
  BUT... I am getting very hung-up on the multiplayer in GRAW. This frustration can be summed up 
 very easily -- The lobby system in this game is way outdated. Say what you will about the actual 
 gameplay (it is very good) , but no gamer should EVER have to wait for between 2-15 minutes in a 
 Lobby for the others to finish up a game before you can join. It is simply unbearable. I can understand 
 having it set that way (so you can't join a game in progress) in ranked matches; that somewhat 
 makes sense. But in Player matches? Come on! You can't be serious! I just want to jump in and play! 
 Isn't that what the 360 is all about -- "Jump In?" 
  I hate to say it, but waiting around in game lobbies in GRAW reminds me of waiting around in game 
 lobbies in Quake 4. Needless to say, I didn't do that for very long.
  The worst part about it is that you have to actually enter the lobby to get an accurate display 
 of how much time is left. Once you do that, if you want to leave because you know you won't be 
 playing in that room for about 15 minutes, you have to go back to the match selection screen, and 
 then it searches for games again, which is in itself a long bothersome process.
  Well, enough about that. Bottom line -- great gameplay, especially in multiplayer (when you finally 
 do get to play) . If they would just fix the mess that they call a lobby system, then this game 
 would rate higher than the 9.0 that I am giving it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowsurge
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 19, 2006 4:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is turely next-gen. The first thing you see when you turn it on is the great graphics 
 their truely the kind of thing we want from the 360. Once oyu start playing you notice it even 
 more the characters and scenery is polished and smooth however the best part is the gameplay. The 
 enemies will use deadly tactics to try to get oyu and you have to utilize your chosen squad members 
 unique weapon scelection and use cover to the fullest extent. Most of this game is played from 
 long range making your opponents and you utilize scopes and snipers but this is just the better 
 oppurtunity to show of your ability in certain scenes to command tanks, APCs, Blackhawks, and your 
 unmanded camera drone the UAV. There are some bad points though. First some weapons are useless 
 because their designed for close range, second the squadmates AI is usually pretty good but can 
 make stupid mistakes, and three finding a match on Xbox Live is just freaking painful but hopefully 
 the Live issues are fixed with a patch like we saw some of the issues fixed in COD2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMidget
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Finally, the wait is over! People can now play their copies of G. R. A. W. Personally, I love this 
 game. The online play is sharp and so are the graphics. It's what is is delivered to be: a great 
 game. Almost everybody on my friends list that has this game is playing it. I'm a achievement guy 
 and the achievements are somewhat easy to win. Some are hard to earn such as the "Become rank one 
 on the online leaderboards". The AI in the multiplayer games is a little..... bad. It's like they 
 have ADD or something. Everything else, it's great. What else does this game need? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanteKiller
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon has been a great series since it was released in 2003. The console versions were basically 
 ports of the PC version that came out before it. There have been numerous Ghost Recon updates on 
 the Xbox (i. e. Summit Strike) that have made Tom Clancy a recognizeable name, but not good enough 
 to make newcomers to the genre want a copy so badly. Now, in March 2006, their latest installment, 
 Advanced Warfighter, is the pure definition of a sequel; it looks better, plays better, has a lot 
 more depth, and was built for the Xbox 360 since day 1. For those of you not keeping track of GRAW 
 since E3, let me get you up to date; you play as Scott Mitchell, the leader of a three-man squad, 
 called the Ghosts, and a relentless soldier who shoots first and asks questions later when on the 
 battlefield. Your mission in this installment is to go south of the border into Mexico City, find 
 the president, and safely extract him to the safety of the U. S. The noticeable update in this new 
 Ghost Recon title is the graphical one. Scott Mitchell and the other Ghosts are modeled so perfectly, 
 that you won't think of playing a game for a second. The enemies also look just as impressive, 
 especially in HD. But character models are nothing without impressive environments, and impress 
 they do. The amount of detail given to the world around you is riveting and evocative. Simply put, 
 if you don't have an HDTV, you will be impressed; if you do, you will be immersed. The audio, just 
 like the graphics, have been given a significant boost for the next generation. You will hear the 
 chatter of your teammates telling you what is going on in the current mission. If they are telling 
 you that someone is dying, they need you to go over there pronto! The gunfire sounds realistic 
 and you can not only hear the shots being fired, but also stopping when they hit the wall. Simply 
 put, the audio is the same as the graphics: best experienced on HD. But impressive graphics and 
 audio are nothing without good gameplay, and on that front, GRAW not only delivers that main course, 
 but also gives you a few good desserts as well. The main hook of GRAW is, of course, the brand 
 new Cross-Com feature. The Cross-Com may seem more like a gimmick than a revolution as a first 
 impression, mainly because you can see where your next objective is and who you need to shoot or 
 help. But once you go deeper in, you will see that it impacts the gameplay so severely, that you 
 wouldn't be surprised if it was in all tactical shooters to come. In one mission, your Cross-Com 
 is perfectly fine, allowing you to find your next objective point. But later on in that mission, 
 your HUD will go all FUBAR on you, screwing up your sights and making it required to turn on your 
 heat vision while you destroy the jammer. The only thing that i can say about the controls is that 
 they are classic Ghost Recon, with only a few tweaks made to the already excellent control system. 
 But the changes they did make made the controls go from excellent to perfect. As great as the single 
 player game is, the Ghost Recon series has always thrived on one thing: multiplayer. Not only has 
 the multiplayer been given a next-generation upgrade (i. e. 16-player co-op) , but it is, by far, 
 the best multiplayer experience EVER, co-op or not! The negative? Well, there is only one thing 
 that may be a turn-off to many newcomers: the single player game is too short. This is a remarkable 
 thing that any Ghost Recon fan will ever hear: the single player game is actually fun to play! 
 So far, this is the best game in the series ever, and putting it on the Xbox 360 gave it a full 
 advantage. Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter is, simply put, the ultimate epitome of next-generation 
 games on the Xbox 360 to date. This is where the Xbox 360 is starting to destroy the PS3's competition! 
 You heard it here first! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perryjd1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 19, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  A great game - good graphics and a pretty good story. The single player missions have a good amount 
 of variation to them and the multiplayer will keep you hooked. There are some pretty good co-op 
 missions that go along a 4 part story arc that is not related to the main story, which is kind 
 of cool. The AI is pretty good, and some enemy encounters will have them flanking your postition 
 - which add to the replay. I know it is a "tactical game - but damn the guy moves slow - and it 
 would be great to stop an action in mid stroke - if you are taking fire, not at all realistic. 
 The controls could have been a bit (large bit) more fluid - mainly with control of your squad and 
 with extra units. I would have also liked to have seen more customization for your multiplayer 
 model - like in Rainbow 6 lockdown. A good buy! I hope they rush some more maps out on live - and 
 a way to add more features for multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: txbagz4fun
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  After the lack luster release of Ghost recon 2 Mr. Clancy is back with a new installment in the 
 series with GRAW. The sweet over the shoulder view stays but the 1st person views still lacks the 
 view of showing a gun only a aim cursor. The single player plays nice and smooth most of the time 
 with realistic graphics that will keep you at the edge of seat. Xbox live just like most of clancy 
 games is what keeps you coming back for more. Highly customizable with non-stop action that might 
 make this the best 360 title only looking at the multiplayer side of things. But every game has 
 it flaws and GRAW has just a handfull. The AI a big improvement to gr:2 still seems a little brain 
 dead but then very accurate. Team ghost seems to not follow commands every once and a while. At 
 the end GRAW is a most have for all 360 owners, fans of the series or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timlinson21
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 19, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  I finished this game in 2 days (5 hours max/day) don't get me wrong, this game is very challenging. 
 Once you play it after 3-4 hours you'll get the hang of it. I just wish they added more missions, 
 this game is soo much fun! Also, there's another downside... I've tried playing online and after 
 the game started it would just boot me after 3 sec they really need to fix that. I'd say the biggest 
 asset of this game is the Graphics and sounds especially if you have a bad a** TV and a great sound 
 system you can actually feel like you're in the game. Overall i give this game 9.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenix14
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 19, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  This game is hot, plain and simple. The special features make it not only entertaining, but also 
 highly addictive. Using the narcom makes certain situations a lot easier, and allows you to to 
 use more strategy when you are surrounded by enemies. You also have a wide selection of weapons, 
 picking the right weapon for the right mission is essential to a smooth mission. Whats good about 
 this game is that it's not a run and shoot kind of game. If you use that strategy death is your 
 only option. And when playing you always have to look around, because on some missions there is 
 a sniper in a weird location.
  Playing online is fun once you learn the maps. If you dont know where your going you'll just get 
 abused by people do that. And the 16 player co-op is a lot more fun then i thought it would be. 
 So if you have a lot of friends that have this game you can have fun by competing against them 
 or by playing with them against AI.
  I really dont have to talk about the graphics, but this game really shows of how powerful the system 
 really is. Even the music fits the situtation that your in, which makes it even more enjoyble. 
 
  This game is highly recommended to anyone that enjoys a good shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PillarofFaith
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 19, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  Graphics are amazing, story is solid, and the game flows well. However, this game is most definately 
 for a certain group of gamers. It's not a sit down and have fun game. It's the kind of game that 
 requires skill and focus. I'm the kind of gamer that likes to just sit down and have a good time 
 with challenging parts in a game or games that make you think but this is very realistic and takes 
 some fun out of games. I had to rate it well because it's well made and deserves a high rating 
 but if you're after a sit down and just have fun game, this is not it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murraymint92
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 19, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  wow this game rocks, at first when you get this game and play it, the graphics look incredible 
 butthe gameplay is very dificult and the controls took me at least 2 hours to completely handle. 
 at first i thought, well this game is good then after the 2 hours i had playerd offline and online 
 and it was then  this is worth getting. before i got this i 
 only played fps games but now i am changed, buy this NOW i give it 9/10, the multiplayer option 
 is the best ever! remember this!: When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. 
 Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you 
 may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated 
 with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save 
 it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xternal
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2006 4:22 am PT
Review:  The game: The year is 2013. The U. S. Army has been developing - and can now deploy - the Integrated 
 Warfighter System (IWS) , a complex combination of cutting-edge technologies that transforms an 
 individual soldier into the ultimate fighting force. IWS combines advanced weapons systems, satellite 
 communication devices and enhanced survivability into one fully integrated combat system that is 
 finally ready for the true test of the battlefield. Combining the advantages of next-generation 
 console technology with future military technologies, Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon 3 includes a wealth 
 of groundbreaking features, including the Cross-Com, a communication device attached to the soldier's 
 monocle and powered by satellite technology, which will deliver constant and complete battlefield 
 awareness seamlessly within the action. In addition, Ubisoft will employ increased processing power 
 to its fullest, with breathtaking graphics, lighting and textures, multi-windowing, and state-of-the-art 
 physics. Current-generation versions of the game will be custom-built using top technologies that 
 push each platform to its limits.
  
  In Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon 3, players will embody Captain Scott Mitchell as he commands the Ghosts 
 and Special Forces allies equipped with the IWS in the quest to save the president of the United 
 States, recover stolen nuclear codes and eliminate a vicious band of renegade soldiers hell-bent 
 on unleashing catastrophe. The game unfolds entirely in Mexico City, where numerous, meticulously 
 researched and detailed environments will deliver complete immersion into the future of urban warfare. 
 Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon 3 will also include multiplayer and cooperative gameplay with exciting 
 new elements, continuing the Ghost Recon tradition of setting the bar for multiplayer action.
 
  
  Summary of all-round performance: Ghost Recon 3 really does live up to it's expectations with hard-hitting 
 graphics and gripping intense gameplay, with the sound adding to the tense atmosphere and big excitement 
 to the game. This game will have you on the edge of your seat for a very long time, although some 
 of the achievements are very hard to grasp.
  
  The Graphics:
  The graphics of the game show off exactly what the xbox 360 is about. This game will beat other 
 shooters like call of duty and battlefield: MC hands Down.
  With all of the power in the console being used on this game, as soon as you take your controller 
 and move around you know you will be impressed.
  
  The Gameplay:
  Okay, first i will go onto the movement of the characters and just how realistic It is, They actually, 
 during the making of the game put those "things" all over your body to trace body movements on 
 what it is like when you have equipment, just to get this game precise, they also modeled some 
 real-life guns at put them into this game, the movement of the characters tells you just how much 
 they've efforted this game, and the realism all round is absolutely overwhelming. When online, 
 as warned at the beginning of the game, the gameplay does change, but not exactly for worse, the 
 graphics i must admit look different but the gameplay is just as hard-hitting and it's even more 
 fun when your showing off your kills shooting others over the net, although, I would enjoy a killcam, 
 correct me if i'm wrong but i don't believe there's one on this game?
  
  The Sound;
  The Sound, Is just about level with call of duty's sound level, and believe me that's good. The 
 sound will get you and it will eventually confuse you abit, but i also enjoy the sound, and if 
 your not online the sound works better for me, because on campaign mode it really adds an atmosphere 
 to the game, take for example when your on a mission and your place to get to i think is a tank 
 at the bottom, and just as you reach the wall before the tank the tank blows up, and the sound, 
 graphics and gameplay made me jump right out of my seat, Seriously haha. this game is an all-round 
 classic and it must be bought if you have an xbox 360! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MsHarley_Quinn
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 19, 2006 3:00 am PT
Review:  ive played all of Mr Clancys games and if this is what the 360 has to offer at its early stages 
 then bring on the games, its awesome visually stunning, action packed. its fast paced. being able 
 to take control of other vehicles and call in support is a great feature, and manning the gun on 
 the blackhawk, wooo hooo fab. and ive lost some hours already playing the game and ive only owned 
 my 360 2 days.... cant wait to hit the multiplayer online, and see what that has to offer as well, 
 and the best bit being able to play with your own soundtracks... 
  roll on splinter cell 4...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cujo31
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2006 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter is what I think all Ghost Recon fans have been waiting for. Not 
 only does GR: AW bring great graphics to the table but also it brings a clean refreshing breath 
 of air with it. Since I've had GR: AW I havn't been able to put it down. Great game play and awesome 
 controls come along with this new Ghost Recon and I think fans of Call of Duty 2 for the X360 will 
 be happy with a setup for the controls that you can choose which match the way you play. Personally 
 the classic controls fit fine with me. 
  
  GR: AW keeps you on the edge of your seat right from the start. I have to say the new cross-com 
 is a great feature in this game allowing you to see what your squad sees and control your drone 
 for tactical advantage. Multiplayer Online is as great if not better playing with your friends 
 then Single player and I feel will keep the game alive with replay value for awhile.
  One thing I have to say that I didn't like about split screen multiplayer was the fact that you 
 didn't have the 3rd person view feature. Aside from the split screen multiplayer this game is by-far 
 my favorite to date! 
  
  Ghost Recon fan? Have X360? ...... GET THIS GAME!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjolnir334
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 9, 2006 10:32 pm PT
Review:  To put it simply Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is the best Xbox 360 game to date, well other 
 than Geometry Wars. It combines a stunning single player and an intense multiplayer to create a 
 stunning package.
  
  In previous Ghost Recon games I've often disliked the single player, especially with the 2nd iteration. 
 Ubi Soft decided to change all that with Ghost Recon 3 by making this ones single player just as 
 intense as any other first person shooter. It provides amazing gameplay and sound with great tactical 
 gameplay. The thing that amazes me the most is how they were able to create fast pased action with 
 tactical gameplay. Part of the reason for this is how simple the squad commands are. It as simple 
 as looking somewhere and pressing up on the d-pad and pressing down on the d-pad to bring them 
 back. Two cool moves that help make the game more intense is the cover feature and the dive feature. 
 With the cover feature you can lean up against a wall and peek around corners and then jump out 
 and fire. The dive feature lets you dive for cover. Another cool feature is the cross com. It gives 
 you tactical information such as where friends and foes are. Although it may sound cheap you'll 
 soon find that you need it in the single player campaign as you are often outnumbered and attacked 
 from multiple sides. It reallyGuns all feel wonderful and have unique sounds. The multiplayer is 
 very similar to Ghost Recon 2 so fans of that game should feel right at home. It provides a tactical 
 expierence online, although not quite as much as the original Ghost Recon. They've also added new 
 co-op missions where you and some friends can take on missions with objectives while facing off 
 against a large number of a. i. controlled opponents. 
  
  The graphics in the single player game are simply put amazing. There are a few things I could complain 
 about like the reflections in mirrors or one paticular glitch that I had expierenced while playing (I 
 had a something like a large sky scraper jutting from the ground when it shouldn't have been there) , 
 but none the less they are simply amazing. 
  
  The graphics in the multiplayer on the other hand aren't quite as impressive. It's not that they 
 aren't bad it's just that they pale in comparrison to the single player graphics. I realize that 
 it would've been rather hard to keep that graphical quality while playing online but I still wish 
 they could have pulled it off. Another problem is that some of the cool moves from single player 
 weren't ported to the multiplayer. Both cover and dive features are absent from the multiplayer. 
 Some people feel that it would slow down the gameplay, but I think they should have at least included 
 it for the co-op play. Another problem I have is that in the multiplayer the crosscom is still 
 in tact, too a degree. Instead of just seeing an enemy and tracking him you have a UAV that when 
 it sees it, will track your foes. I dislike this in the multiplayer because it can take out some 
 of the stealthy aspects of the multiplayer. Although you can shoot down these UAVs. The last problem 
 I had with the game is your friendlies A. I. They often make stupid desicions like walking in front 
 of you or finding the cover of open ground. Although I would like to note that the enemy A. I. is 
 quite decent.
  
  Despite my problems with this game I still love it. It provides a thrilling single player and wonderful 
 multiplayer. It holds the title of best Xbox 360 game in my books, well at least until Oblivion 
 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_zombie
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 18, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  They are the ghosts that travel in packs as a team set to protect Mexico, USA, and Canada from 
 a nuclear war. They are Ghost Recon. Testing only 50% of the 360's power in graphical power it 
 is the best looking 360 game before Elder Scrolls: Oblivion comes out.
  
  Graphics:
  Amazing, the lightning, textures, and the details marks a new milestone in console gaming since 
 Halo 2 pushed the Xbox beyond it's limits. Though there are graphical issues like pop ins, cutting 
 and tad bit slowdowns but the lightning of a near equatorial makes this game stunningly beautiful 
 to look at. The shadowing is taken from Splinter Cell thus giving realistic lightning but you still 
 can't hide from enemies in the shadows. The details on the soldiers, enemies, transports and tanks, 
 are simply a joy to watch in action because something like this had never been done before even 
 on PC as they were close with Doom 3 and F. E. A. R. but this is pushing beyond P. C.
  
  A. I.
  The enemy A. I. is extremely smart about taking advantage of using their surroundings as 
 cover. It would be incredibly stupid to take on the enemy as a loner but you will be doing this 
 throughout the game. Why you ask? Because your teammates are stupider than slug as they expose 
 themselves from cover, turn their backs on potential danger and walk into your line of fire. Though 
 I wonder why didn't Ubisoft make them intelligent as the enemy? But the best thing about your teammates 
 is that you can use them as bait to draw out the enemy for a kill. The enemy is smart enough when 
 to use a grenade especially when your cornered and have no other choice but to run into an open 
 battlefield. The enemy even flank your weak spot forcing you to keep moving and stay alert.
  
  Sound
  Realistic as it sounds from the sound of a assault rifle to the sound of the whirring 
 of a mini-gun on the 'copter. Playing this on your stereo will cause your neighbors to duck for 
 cover and call the police because I guarantee you that the explosions is real as it sounds. Every 
 gun has it's unique sound and you can tell the difference between every gun.
  
  Presentation
  Though it is greatly delivered but the glitches in the game kinda ruins the fun. 
 For 10 minutes in the first mission the game will hold your hand then drop you into a battlefield 
 in the second mission. Though the gameplay is amazingly short for a Ghost Recon vet. Vets will 
 finish this game in 7-8 hours as newcomers will finish in 10 hours. Glitches are present in this 
 game from the lying down glitch which your man will stay afloat after crawling above a hill, your 
 camera gun will occasionally float away from your hands, teammates occasionaly walk through walls 
 and on the rooftop mission on your first try the mission will not progress forcing you to repeat 
 the 10 minutes you fought halfway through all over again. The ad placements set by Nokia and Dodge 
 makes the city more of a city. But it is overly used over and over again.
  
  Overall
  Great game nonetheless and is well worth the wait. But glitches, dumb team A. I. and aggressive 
 ad placements prevents a perfection it could've been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ioioe
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 19, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Well Lets start with the good first. It is one of the best games on the 360 if not the best right 
 now. The stroy line is ok but it could have been better. The Grapihs for non HDTV users i think 
 is ok but not fight night good. The AI is one of the worse AI i have ever SEEN there very stupid 
 like last night i was about to take a shot with the RPG when my squad ran in frount of me killing 
 my whole squad. For gods sake when you look at the game comeing out soon TES: IV with AI liveing 
 there own life it think its pretty funny when you have AI as stupid as this in a game that is fun 
 to play. Now XBL i have the gold and it works fine on other games but XBL does not EVEN work on 
 this. It says servers can not connet i phoned 1-800-4-my-xbox and they said "I do not know sorry" 
 That kind of pisses me off that Micosoft could be sony soon not careing what people seem to say. 
 But over all i like the feel to it. The Idea is good. It is fun to play but some what easy on normal 
 and some what very hard on hard. The game play is balcned but it could have been alot better but 
 with these problems its still ok for this early in the system for the games to look like this. 
 Now there are some bad bugs that stop game play and even kill you some times. like jumping over 
 something and falling though the map. But the other thing that is ok about this game is the maps 
 there nice and big and the deatial to the mexio is quit good but for this game to become better 
 they better put out a patch for this game ASAP.
  Well i just foubd something out that i hade a faluty game after i sent it back to EB and got a 
 new one... eveything is better x10 so if you have any problems like me... return the game now.... its 
 much more fun. 
  
  Dylan Harper 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackHawk2599
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 18, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Bought this game on the first Saturday of spring break and oh boy was it jaw dropping. The graphics 
 and sound are awsome. Everything from the deafining explosions to the horizon to horizon view of 
 Mexico City. Single player is fun, and gameplay is very non-linear. My only complaint of the single 
 player is the teammate's AI. For a game that seems so real you have to have seemingly real AI! 
 Multiplayer isn't the best stuff in a game, with spawn camping problems, to slow paced shooting, 
 but the Co-Op is great.
  Overall the game is absolutley worth a buy and if your not really into tactical shooters at least 
 give it a rent and see if you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gizmo_ny
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 18, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  The intro alone is a sight to behold (having a 42" HDTV doesn't hurt, either) . But really, the 
 graphics are easily what separates this game from all other tactical shooters. Although I have 
 to admit, multiplayer can't compete with single player as far as graphics or gameplay. The single 
 player is a sight to behold; the stage to stage transition is sweet. One thing that stood out amongst 
 other aspects of the game is the music. At one point in the game, I had to fight off an offensive 
 assault, and the music that kicked in gave off the feeling of being at the movies. You have an 
 amazing amount of firepower at your disposal, and let's not forget your 3-man ghost squad, a stryker 
 vehicle, a UH-60 helicopter, and a UAV aerial recon device.
  Multiplayer is definitely an addictive experience, especially online play. I've noticed that the 
 computer opposition is a lot less forgiving when you come within proximity of their firepower, 
 but working with 2-16 human players to take over a town balances everything out. This game will 
 definitely become an all-time classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amazingz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 18, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  GRAW is a game that had a lot of hype.. but did it live up to the hype?
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics for ths game aren't as good as i thought it would be, and hasn't used the 
 full power of the xbox 360.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay for graw is very innovative for this such as the cross cam and such. Other 
 than sum tweaking, i dont find it that different than cod2, (except cod2 is more action packed)
 
  
  Audio: this is were i see good things happening for this game, .. when shooting that m-15, u feel 
 like u are acutally doing that as the controller rumbles and such. Music is great and adds awsome 
 action
  
  this game is alright but i still would like to see EYE oppening graphics, if this is the gpu the 
 360 could fullfill than i think i mite have made the wrong choice buying the 360! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360warrior
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 18, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Great single player, Spectacular multiplayer. An all around awesome Tom Clancy game, the best yet 
 that ive played. About 12 missions on single player and tons of variants on multiplayer. This game 
 is a must have for the xbox live and a rent for the single player. The ranking system seems questionable 
 to me because i can never seem to get to a 5. The achievements are based on skill. Multiplayer 
 and single player mission completions, hard and normal. The ghost ai is a little shoty but good 
 non the less. Being an ADVANCED WARFIGHTER you get tons of new ways to support your self on the 
 battlefield, from your team mates, to a helicopter, to a tank, and a drone that scout out your 
 enemies. This game will make you AWE OVER AND OVER. A must have, 9.4/10, a Tom Clancy hit, go get 
 it now.
  
  Gamertag: PHINS FAN 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crippla87
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 22, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Man this game blew my mind. Let me start with the graphics, they are simpily awesome! I really 
 like the blinding effect of the sun in this game and how it can make it hard to see what your shooting 
 at. Now that's what I call realism right there. The sound also backs up the graphics. Everything 
 sounds very real and it all just is so spot on on that you'll be thinking you are really there 
 with the gun in your hands. The new crosscam view is definatly a worthy highlight. It's available 
 in both singleplayer and multiplayer and it is a hug help in distinguishing friend from foe and 
 allows for better accuracy. There's a drone you can also use to help pinpoint enemies on your radar 
 that is also available in both modes. I personally enjoy the multiplayer portion more than singleplayer 
 becuase your allies aren't the brightest people on Earth which is sad becuase I was hoping Ubisoft 
 would use the 360's power to make some magic in that department- apparently not yet. Multiplayer 
 sticks out becuase of it's 16 player Co-op! Now people can start thier own war against the very 
 smart AI. GRAW is definalty worth the $60 purchase so if you dont have it, go buy it! Its the 360's 
 first reason to buy one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrueLnMe
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  The game may only be 11 missions long but they are definitly hard and challenging and more so on 
 the hard difficulty. It brings in a mix of past ghost recon and another great game "BattleGrounds". 
 You control your team but also your own character and there are a variety of weapons at your disposal. 
 It has some great new features too, the newcamera which allows you to see through your squad's 
 eyes. Also the drone which lets you send through your battlefield and find the enemy. The game 
 also gives you control of vehicles in some of the missions.
  Another great feature of this game is the online multiplayer. in my opinion its the best part of 
 the game because you can many different types of games in a sweet bunch of maps. You can play teams, 
 solo, and you can also play against the computer in a campaign, objective, firefight, etc... You 
 can even create your own gametypes to play with your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BongDonkey
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  By farm the most next gen looking game, next to Fight Night 3. Amazing gameplay, incredible tactics, 
 and an online mode worthy of its own disc? Believe it.
  
  Sounds, sights, immersion and firefights. All of it is a wrapped up in a "You gotta see it to believe 
 it." package. From the first mission, all the way to the last, it's a joy ride.
  
  There are some drawbacks... The Ghost A. I. is not exactly somehting to write home about. And it 
 can be somewhat frustrating that there is no longer a "save anywhere" feature. But, this alone 
 does not detract form the gameplay.
  
  Multiplayer... It's awesome. Not quite as good looking as the single player engine, but it looks 
 damn good. Gametypes galore, and an awesome online campaign, it's a GR nuts wet dream.
  
  If you have a 360, and don't have this game... Die. You NEED this game. It IS the next gen.
  
 
  Seriously, what are you waiting for? Go out and buy this game now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackward133
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 18, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  
  Game Review - Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter 
  
  
  Graphics and Campaign
  
  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is the third game from the Ghost Recon series from Tom Clancy. 
 It was planned to be a launch title for the Xbox 360, but they took some extra time to re-improve 
 the graphics, but at the E3 last year they showed a short movie of what was to come and many people 
 would agree that it looked spectacular.
  
  The game pushed the 360 graphics to the max and was the most anticipated game for the Xbox 360. 
 Although it is available for the Xbox, it does not exceed the immense performance of the Xbox 360.
 
  
  The amazing screenshots that were showed off, proved the graphical performance including particle 
 effects to really emphasise the dust and light from the Mexican streets.
  
  In the main game, you play as Scott Mitchell, the leader of the Elite Ghosts and you have to guide 
 your team through a number of leadership and method challenges. The team have guard a summit between 
 the leaders of Mexico, USA, and Canada. in the game you roam around the huge city facing opposition 
 getting more and more challenging as you develop your skills and the game pushes you harder.
  
  The city which was created from complete scratch, looks completely realistic and you won't 
 believe the detail that the makers, Ubisoft, have put into this game, when at a high place it stuns 
 you to see a complete city before your eyes. when in the thick of battle, the explosions and the 
 bullet which stream right past you will amaze you. This game will definitely be a difficult one 
 to beat when it comes to its campaign challenges and graphical details.
  
  Mulitplay Action
  
  Online play is also included, although the graphics have to be downgraded 
 because of the obvious bandwidth implications, but to battle against your friends and strangers 
 in a thick forest scoping their base is something you won't forget. although the night time levels 
 can be tricky to see around, you can really get into the thick of it easily. 
  
  In the multiplayer menu, you can choose from ranked games or you can just have a mess around with 
 some mates. At the beginning you can choose from one of four customized characters, Marksman (Sniper) , 
 Rifleman, Automatic Gunner and Grenadier, but when the game loads you will get the choice of many 
 weapons from all the categories. It definetly deserves the great attention it has gotten.
  
  The Bad Points
  
  the only bad points that you can possibly become aware of are:
  the 
 lighting is poor, the contrast settings cause the game to be very difficult to see when its bright 
 and too dark at night. 
  the AI (Artificial Intelligence) of your team-mates is poor and can sometimes get annoying at times. 
 
  There are no civilians in the city which makes it seem a bit strange.
  My Thoughts
  
  This game was the most anticipated game for the Xbox 360 and i believe that it's amazing, high 
 performance won't be built for some time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilman012
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 18, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  the best game ever , hard at times but great all the time. the fighting the command the best freakin 
 game for the xbox 360. the multiplayer is as good as the game exept the cover and the enemy red 
 thing in multiplayer.
  
  the co op is very fun but even more fun when you have like 10 people playing.
  
  the game is 
 trueiy the best game i have ever played. as good or even better than halo.
  
  which does remind me on xbox live there was a major conversation about halo 3, it is subsosed to 
 come the same day as the ps3 and it is also going to come out on the ps3. us on the xbox really 
 enjoy that the best game before graw is going to be with ps3 .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: happierthanU
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 18, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, what a great name. But name of the game isn't what makes it great. It's 
 the gameplay, graphics, and the deathly realistic sound effects.
  First off, the graphics. The hot Mexico sun creates bright reflections and the amazing heat waves. 
 Playing this feels like you are Captain Scott Mitchell and you are sweating your cute little butt 
 off. But that's not all. Great face graphics are a hit. Dirt, sweat, facial expressions, they are 
 all included in almost every face unless they wearing face protection. But, for the voice over...... 
 the mouth moves like it was a PS2 game. It looks like the mouth is speaking a foreign language 
 or not moving at all while the guy is talking. ICK!
  For the sound effects, well, I'll put it this way. I haven't seen such a masterpiece created by 
 the sound department of any developer of any game. You'll find out in any of the gameplay movies 
 when something blows up. Or if you happen to rent it, in the training mission, when you blow up 
 the bradley tank. I got a major case of the goosebumps when I blew that thing up. Wwwhhheeeewww!!! 
 Truly amazing. It's just the best dam (n) SFX I've ever heard. Period. Bottom Line.
  Gameplay. Nothing like your teammates yelling when they've spotted reinforcements. Or when you 
 have to heal your teammates. But, you know what? You have to use your high-tech equiptment to move 
 through the game. And some of this stuff, folks, is almost unbelievable.
  The multiplayer, if you don't have xbox live, you're left out in the dust. The MP is extremely 
 intense and provides un-measurable realisticness. You have to rely on your brain and real-life 
 tactics if you wish to survive. The servers are nice and smooth so there will not be any noticeable 
 lags. 
  GRAW is a great game that overshadows it's gloomy past. That may make you avoid this game. But 
 don't believe it's past.
  So overall, GRAW is the best in the series and provide essential qualities that other games just 
 can't get a hold of.
  -Final 9.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brainalyzer
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  Well first of all I want to say that this game is pretty fun and has a really good campaign, the 
 only thing that's really annoying is the A. I of your so called teammates. Damn their A. I is just 
 terrible, in most part of the game they are only getting in the way and they will blow your cover. 
 Most of the time they don't listen to what you say and they just do what ever they want. And if 
 they attack the enemy (a really easy one that will take you one easy shot to kill) they usually 
 die. That for the A. I which it's actually my only complainment about this game but don't think 
 ''finally he stops complaining''. Because the A. I is one of the most important things about games 
 especially for this kind of game, and I thought the next gen games would have a superior A. I so 
 that is a big disappointment. But the campaign is just incredible and the multi-player over XB 
 live is great too. As for the graphics they are a little overrated by most I think but they're 
 still very amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 18, 2006 12:51 am PT
Review:  Before I start my review I would like to state that this is the only Ghost Recon game Ive ever 
 played. I dont really ever enjoy 3rd person style games. I prefer 1st person shooters, such as 
 Rainbow Six and other great games of that Genre.
  
  Ghost Recon Advanced War Fighter is a wonderful game. All of the hype leading up to this game certainly 
 did not mislead anyone. It looks great, it sounds great, and it plays great. 
  
  The games graphics are perhaps the games most noticeable aspect. The environments are simply gorgeous. 
 Just looking at the game can fool you into thinking youre watching a movie, or at least a well 
 drawn animated television show. The game is beautiful, and you can tell that a lot of time went 
 into this portion of the game. 
  
  The player models are well done. It is a 3rd person tactical shooter, so you can see youre characters 
 body. Its accurately detailed with everything a soldier needs. One thing youll notice though 
 is that the Advanced War fighter isnt very different from youre common Marine. 
  
  Perhaps the only difference between a Ghost, and a Marine, would be the PIP. This unique feature 
 is one of better parts of the game. You can see your teammates views with a mini screen built into 
 your HUD. This allows you to better your tactics for the mission. It also allows you to command 
 tanks, helicopters, and a satellite camera when theyre available.
  
  Another great aspect about the game is the sound. Everything sounds great, from the character dialogue, 
 to the games music. The sound effects were well done here. The guns sounded like they were really 
 firing bullets, and having a surround sound system really does help immerse the player into the 
 experience.
  
  The mission design is great. Each mission starts you off with a certain objective. Then in an instant 
 your objective may change to something completely different. You can never be too sure when your 
 mission is exactly over, so you may never want to let your guard down here. On another note, load 
 times a pretty much nil, and you never actually leave the campaign mode for a mission briefing 
 or de-briefing. Youre constantly in the action, even when the mission changes.
  
  The Enemy AI is something to talk about. Theyre exceptionally good. Theyre not the best, but 
 theyre good. You really have to consider your tactics when facing them. On another note, with 
 the levels being so openly designed, you really have to watch each corner before you make a pass, 
 or you may get your head blown off.
  
  One of the minor issues in the game would be the GHOST AI. These guys certainly arent the smartest 
 of the best. Theyre actually pretty dumb, regardless of which mode theyre in. You can choose 
 to put them in one of two modes at any given time you please. Attack and Recon modes are your choices. 
 Recon is a more defensive role, whereas attack is a more aggressive role. When in attack mode, 
 these guys can be pretty dumb. Its as if they forgot everything they learned in basic training. 
 They dont take cover, and dont use common sense. Defensive mode is no better either. If they 
 do manage to take cover, theyll often block your line of sight, or stand in a corner so the enemy 
 can barely clip them off. When they go down, you can heal them, or let them die Letting them die 
 is tempting, but having spare ducks around can prove useful in desperate situations.
  
  Its easy to recommend this game to any 360 owner. This is one of the best looking XBOX 360 games 
 out there. It plays great, and its just a lot of fun. You wont regret buying this game if youre 
 the shooter type. If youre looking to get into the genre, then this isnt a bad place to start.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: f18mp
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2006 9:14 pm PT
Review:  nice graphics and awesome game style! i just love it , worth the wait LOVE PLAYING ON LIVE!!! SUPERB! 
 StK Archer ESA II Stk II LOVE IT AWESOME GAME! i just love to get like nasty head shots on no-bs 
 je je just love to own them! It`s like one of the best games I have ever bought it has the tactics 
 nice graphics awesome game play and sick sound its just ... perfect no more words to describe it. O 
 And live gaming it`s some kind of sick crap bro just insane and sick. JUST CRAZy and superb and 
 nasty and crazy and awesome and perfect!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theman1126
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 17, 2006 9:06 pm PT
Review:  I just got a 360 and I bought a few games for it. The best one out of the five was Ghost Recon 
 Advanced Warfighter. (I prefer GRAW) The graphics are amazing and the details in explosions are 
 really something to see. The campaign is long and pretty difficult but it's nothing yo can't learn 
 in about an hour. You never seem to expect things so there are a lot of suprises. Commanding your 
 men around is simple but works very well. Sometimes the animations of reloading guns is weird but 
 that doesn't happen much. If you just got or had a 360 I definitely reccomend this to you. It has 
 the best graphics hands down. If you do like the old GR's there is an instant action mode that 
 looks like the old ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinrf12345
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 17, 2006 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Wow! That is about all I have to say. I have had this game for under a week and I am already amazed 
 at the kind of enviorment this game has created. I have played a few levels and am on level 7 and 
 I have to say that the graphics are the best that I have seen in quite a while. Glitches is something 
 that I have not run into yet, no black screens and no freezing up. The multiplayer has to be the 
 most releaving thing of the game. I played COD2 for the longest time on my 360 and thought that 
 it was great but after being able to host my own matches and set modifications I am not sure that 
 I am going back. This is a must have game for ALL 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toogood101
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 17, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  i do not have an xbox360 YET!!! but i have played it on a friends xbox360 and it made me wanna 
 get one!! so im working on getting one the only thing that i dont like about it is...... if u slike 
 on ur stomach and u are just sliding to another cover area i hate it when u slide WAYYYYYYYYY out 
 in the open which is just like saying im getting tired of living shoot me shoot me!!! or u dont 
 slide far enough, which is the same thing so u really have to role alot which is (Y) i think, i 
 cant remember. but other than that im getting an xbox360 just because of that game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elitemarine5
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 17, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  I have never before played a game makes a fire fight seem so epic, and so intense.
  
  Gameplay : Whether you're hiding in thick brush, covering your teammates as they move across an 
 open street, or fighting to go down with honor in a firefight you know will endup with you dead, 
 this game has it all. 
  SIngle player is magnificent, from the sqaud based tactics to the firefights in which enemies are 
 pouring in from all sides and you know you have no cover this game performs magnificently. With 
 (so far) no "laggy" gameplay, and an awesome storyline, you will never get bored.
  Multi player: imagine black hawk down on a game, but better. With realistic health, and maps that 
 provide real balance, This game will never leave you dissapointed. multi player will never get 
 old on this one, garunteed. But XBox live is almost a must, i have it, and have been on it in ALL 
 of my spare time, get that to if you dont have it.
  
  Graphics : Very good, but could be a tad better. Your player model looks good, however your teamates 
 faces (and other peoples faces) could look better. The surrouondings look real, and so does the 
 over all effect. Flying over mexico city 1 mile above, looking at the perfectly rendered city, 
 is amazing. I litterally felt like i was gonna fall sitting in my couch. Another thing, when your 
 behind cover and bullets are whizzing past you (damaging your cover) and hitting the screen, your 
 in for a treat.
  
  Sound : Bullets sound real (it tom clancy, what else do you expect) and backround noices, whether 
 they are crickets or bullets and explosions in the backround (even the mexican propaganda) it all 
 truly makes it seem real.
  
  Value : You would be stupid not to buy this, get it, and you will praise the mexican rebels for 
 allowing you to fight them
  
  Overall: GET THIS GAME, or you will regret it for a long time to come, especially when everybody 
 on your friends list is playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8bitantichrist
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 17, 2006 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Well, well, Ghost Recon, we meet again. While I never knew the series for awesome graphics, the 
 blocky, washed-out landscapes of the previous games have been replaced with a finely detailed Mexico 
 City. The human-looking blobs I was used to shooting at are now realistic as can be, although it 
 seems they only learned a few new tricks in the past few years. It goes without saying that Ghost 
 Recon 3 is undeniably one of, if not the best looking games on the 360. Character models, such 
 as your squad, look unbelievable, and even move much like a human. The premise of the game is this: 
 There's been a coup d'etat among the Mexican government, and two valuble pieces of military hardware, 
 as well as fifty M1A1 tanks, have gone missing. The Canadian Prime Minister is dead, and the Mexican 
 and U. S. presidents are missing. The U. S. Army sends in the Ghosts (obviously) , and task you with 
 resolving the situation. The campaign is solid, and filled with many memorable moments, whether 
 it be gunning down rebels from a Black Hawk helicopter, or defending the U. S. embassy from wave 
 after wave of aggressors (my personal favorite) , Ghost Recon keeps the adrenaline flowing and your 
 trigger finger happy. The weapons are your standard near-future arsenal, with givens like assault 
 rifles, machine guns, and grenades, and some cooler toys like rocket launchers and the new counter-snipe 
 rifle, which allows you to tag enemies through thin cover. The new Cross-Com system is a clever 
 idea, too. Enemies and allies appear with various colored shapes, and also denote each one's respective 
 health, making it easy to see how close your teammates are from dying, or how many more rounds 
 a certain enemy can take. Gameplay is fundamentally solid, allowing you to stick to walls for cover, 
 snipe enemies, and blow up many cars with ease. Several cool touches were added, as the screen 
 shakes violently when bullets hit your cover, or a vehicle explodes nearby. It reminds me a lot 
 of Black Hawk Down, and I love it. Sound-wise, it's your usual  
 but the music carries the mood out well, even though some cues are recycled. As much as I can sing 
 Ghost Recon's praises, there are a few holes in its Kevlar. First off, ally and enemy AI could 
 use some tightening up, as my gun-toting comrades often stood out in the open while being shot, 
 and a few enemies try to run through solid objects. Also, there are plenty of cheap deaths, usually 
 due to an enemy suddenly appearing directly to your front or side, unloading fully-automatic rounds 
 with infallible accuracy. It frustrated me enough to turn the game off now and then, but it didn't 
 dissuade me from finishing off every angry rebel I could find. The campaign is generally well done, 
 and comes to a satisfying conclusion. Multi-player, especially co-op, is a blast, with a fast-paced, 
 almost Counter-Strike-like feel to it. The weapon selection in MP is huge, with all the guns from 
 the single-player mode and classics like the M4/M203 and AK-47. The maps are well thought-out, 
 and look as beautiful as the Mexico City levels, especially the Dock Level and Desert Canyon. Ghost 
 Recon Advanced Warfighter is a very fleshed-out and complete package, worthy of its high score, 
 and your hard-earned dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warfighter101
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 26, 2006 8:52 pm PT
Review:  This is the most amazing game I have ever played. It is everything that one can imagine in a military 
 shooter. The graphics look better than real life. When flying in a UH-60 Black Hawk, you can see 
 details out on the horizon. The lighting is jaw-dropping. The Sound is simply brilliant. When an 
 explosion happens, you can hear every little particle of dust and dirt hit the ground. The storyline 
 is very well thought up. The controls are great. The AI is also great, but there are occasional 
 errors that friendly's make. Sometimes they kill each other or dont do what you order them. But 
 overall it is great. There are also some occasional glitches. Sometimes bodies fly far when shooting 
 them with a standard rifle from average distance. This is the best of the Next Gen games and will 
 be hard to beat by games to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevo_the_gamer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 25, 2007 1:07 am PT
Review:  Finally, I get my hands on Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter; Yes! This game has to be the best 
 out of the Ghost Recon series, definately.
  
  Gameplay wise, its sweet. The gameplay is so fun and so addicting. However, what I do not like 
 is that Ubisoft might have crossed the line a little bit with the realism. Frankly, it plays very 
 nice and smooth, but its like the game feel of Ghost Recon is different now. They made the game 
 very realistic such as the Night vission will get on your nerves, don't ask why, you'll see.
  
  The single player is very immersive and keeps you at the edge of your toes. The voice acting 
 is top of the line, which adds to the coolness of the single player. The helicopters missions is 
 something new to Ghost Recon but hopefully will keep coming in the Ghost Recon games; first off, 
 they are great, you get to shoot down enemy helicopters with the mini-gun in the blackhawk, and 
 you get to blow up cars and kill soldiers.
  
  The sound is VERY good, the guns and sound effects are superb, top of the line. The vehicles sound 
 very good and when the tank fires or when the Bradly tank fires its weapons, your hud gets scrambled 
 from the noise and vibration from the tank; pretty sweet.
  
  The graphics of this game really shows the power of the Xbox 360. The graphics are very good from 
 the fire of the weapons to the vehicles exploding and to even the soldiers being shot and dying. 
 Ubisoft really did it with this game.
  
  Overall, the best game on the Xbox 360 and certainly blows Perfect Dark Zero into a million fragments. 
 If you own a Xbox 360, you will not be dissapointed with this game, this game needs to be in the 
 game library! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: for_the_horde
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 17, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  GRAW starts out in a simple, easy training course which gives you the time to get used to the controls.
 
  
  Once completed, and revieving a nice 25GP you are in Mexico city. This is where it gets hard. Tons 
 of enemies everywhere and tactical thinking is the only way to succeed.
  
  The missions get harder as you go and it takes a few goes before learning the enemies positions 
 in the map.
  
  The graphics are the best on the 360. The sheer detail put into buildings, cars, players etc is 
 mind - baffling. You could snipe someone from miles away. The night-vision is remarkabley realistic. 
 The bluriness as you move is superb.
  
  The online play is the key to the game. Online co-op is my favourite choice. With 8GP per mission 
 online.
  
  The multiplayre matches are top class with levels and ranks to get you aiming high. There are clan 
 matches which rises the competition even more.
  
  The downsides to GRAW are the GP. Some may see it as a challenge, others would just give up. Only 
 20GP for becoming world no 1 on live!!
  
  10GP for getting 1000 host matches.
  
  This is ridiculous, although there are a possible 500GP from single player campaign. (normal and 
 hard) .
  
  All in all GRAW is a great game and is a definate myst buy for any Xbox 360 owner. Good luck, and 
 enjoy the game. 
  
  Please, recommend my review. 
  
  Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seekanddemolish
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 17, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  When you want action, adventure, shooting, blood, death, and the ever popular virtual sniper, then 
 GRAW is the right game for you and your worldwide online buddies. GRAW is a massively great online 
 multiplayer experience, and it makes me go wild. My favorite kind of games are shooting, strategy, 
 and blood, blood, blood. I reccommend this to anyone who likes war games, shooting games, online 
 games, and most of all, able to appreciate a good online experience. It is amazing and everyone 
 should get it. So everyone head over to your local Gamestop and pick up this game, because you 
 know you want to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m8705
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 17, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is well worth all the hype it has been given. If youre not a fan 
 of the franchise, than prepare to be recruited into the armys first response strike team. GRAW 
 is great! The game play is unbelievable, the graphic are nice & the voice acting helps set the 
 mood. In last Novembers Official Xbox Magazine their was a GRAW ad that mentioned assault rifles 
 that shoot around corners. At first, I thought they meant something like the gun from Fifth Element 
 where the bullets could turn the corners, but so far I havent seen nothing like it. I did notice 
 that when youre in the ACP Striker with the Mexican President his lips dont move when he is speaking, 
 & the xbox live feature is easy to figure out for newcomers which for me is a good thing since 
 Im one of then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTfan1883
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 18, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Before I get into this, let me start out by saying... Holy Freaking Crap! This game looks good. Apparently 
 it's so good that while I was playing on Live, somebody said he should masturbate to the explosions. Ummm 
 weird, but whatever floats your boat.
  The camera that follows you from behind gives a kind of Black Hawk Down feel, and yes I'm talking 
 about it making you feel like you're watching Black Hawk Down. The graphics are clearly the best 
 gaming has seen to date.
  The gameplay is very addicting even if you suck like me. I couldn't shoot a fish if it were out 
 of water on this game. Now don't get mad at me if you play this, and you don't see fish. There aren't 
 any.
  The sound is very well done. The gunfire sound changes by where you stand, how you stand, and if 
 you turn around. This sound has to be the realest in a war game yet.
  While you still get the whole shoot a window no breaky thing going on, it doesn't really take out 
 the fun. The real fun is filling someone with machine gun bullets and watching the blood pop out. Just 
 imagine shooting a ketchup packet with a BB gun.
  The campaign, to me, is very challenging. I havn't even finished training yet though. The commands 
 you give to your retarded soldiers are very responsive.
  Overall, if you love this series get it, because it's the best in the series. If you've never played 
 Ghost before I reccomend you rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nymphetamine15
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 17, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  I bought this game to hold me off till Oblivion comes out and i must say it was a good choice. 
 The game takes place in Mexico City during the middle of a war you play as Scott Mitchell the comander 
 of a squad known as the ghosts as you play an important role in this war.
  
  Graphics are beautiful they really take advantage of the 360's power lighting effects and bloom 
 are bright and vibrant and explosion effects go up in a cloud of smoke and flame. Not to mention 
 the smoke trail that follows bullets as they go wizing by. There are a few flaws and errors in 
 the graphics such as times where your character doesnt look like hes holding the gun or floats 
 across ground but these are rare errors.
  
  Sound is great as well with the sound of explosions and gun fire in the distance, the shots of 
 hidden snipers, and tanks driving down streets. The gunshots all sound great and different and 
 voice acting is well done. Music which only comes up at critical moments or while in the helicopter 
 is enjoyable.
  
  Gameplay is great there always is a sense of emersion and the story keeps you hooked. You get to 
 choose your weapons and even your teamates which doesnt make that big a difference but its a nice 
 addition. The inbetween missions parts are enjoyable as well with sutch parts as you bet breifed 
 while flying over mexico city its a beautiful. The take cover function done very well in this game 
 and is the most used function in the game you will find your self always taking cover. Some flaws 
 are your teamates arnt that bright and will die alot and sometimes will just stand in the line 
 of fire which is kinda aggrivating. And the multiplayer function feels old and is totaly different 
 from the single player infact it feels like the oldd Ghost Recon 2 gameplay which is dissapointing 
 i was hoping for it to be just like the single player but its not tho it is still fun.
  
  Overall this game great and was deffinately worth the wait with its stunning visuals and great 
 sound and indulging gameplay. It is a must have for any Xbox 360 owner. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 17, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon has always offered great realistic warplay to me, but this game really takes the series 
 up... far up. This is by far, my favorite game for the 360 thus far and the only reason I refused 
 to let myself give it a 10 is due to a few stand out reasons. For one, the enemy A. I. is great, 
 however I just wish the same could be said about your fellow squad mates. They're a bunch ol' dummies 
 that run straight into enemy fire instead of taking cover. Dumbasses. Second is that during Xbox 
 Live play, you will experience fequent booting. For example, you will be playing a game with other 
 people then all of a sudden your screen goes back to the Xbox Live menu and tells you the game 
 session is no longer available when in truth it really is. WTF? Hopefully that bug will get smoothed 
 out thanks to the auto updates. But listen, though I started off with bagging the game doesn't 
 mean that much. Now to the good parts, and let me tell you theres loads of them. First of all, 
 the game sports photorealistic graphics that make you drool at the very sight of it. The lighting, 
 everything looks so damn real. And these explosions are the best explosions I've ever seen, I mean, 
 the trees sway back when an explosion hits next to it. How realistic is that? The enemy A. I. is 
 great, and all the missions you will run into are all intrigueing and keep you coming back to save 
 the president or whatnot. You feel as if YOU really are Scott Mitchell. I will tell you that this 
 game is hard as hell indeed. However, whats a realistic war game without it giving you a threat? 
 During the missions you will not always have to be a caretaker for your three companions, you also 
 have solo missions, and you will occassionally have support like you can control an apache or a 
 tank. And the little camera attached to your eye is genious. But the campaign is just half of the 
 goods when you have a great online play to match. This is the best online game on the 360 by a 
 long shot, and definately one of the best online games period even if there is occassional booting. 
 Playing through a campaign mission with 15 other people is just so damn fun. And choosing your 
 character class can really change your character's fate in the game. Anyone with a 360 must, and 
 I mean MUST own this game. If you do not, then you are crazy mental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultra5240
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 17, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  Overall, Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter (GRAW) is an intense and immersive game. The graphics 
 are awesome! The best yet for the 360. The AI is not too bad, could be better. The enemies in an 
 immediate area surrouding anyone you are shooting at do react to you, although some of the enemies 
 right around a corner that should hear or see something is going on do not always react, which 
 is kinda dumb. The sounds and music are very well done. The cutscences are a little choppy at times 
 but overall tell a good story. If you are fan of military FPS, then this game will definitley be 
 a good one for you. Fans of previous GR or Rainbow Six games will really enjoy this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grooveregulator
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 17, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  The Graphics are fantastic and the action is very real, I luv to control my team and other stuff 
 in the game. I just been playing it for 3 or 4 hours but i already love it. The online game its 
 kinda slow because the maps are so big but when u find ur blank its so exciting. The thing is that 
 I live in Mexico and the stages have really real caracteristics of my city but the maps arent that 
 real, I mean that they are not real part of Mexico city. If they were it would be really awesome. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfjeNL
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 17, 2006 5:15 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome, there is only one problem for me. It's to hard! I like the game but the enemy 
 is just to good and your GHOST team members are not so clever after all. They just walk behind 
 you and wait to see what's next to happen. And when they shoot at the ground they don't point there 
 gun down but just shoot forward and still hit the ground-target. The guys of GRAW created a great 
 game that is suitable for 16 year old guys but for kids any younger my advise is: don't buy it. 
 (I'm Dutch so I am sorry if i typed some words wrong) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flandrien
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2006 4:15 am PT
Review:  It's hard not to be impressed when popping in your disc of GRAW for the first time. From a visual 
 point of view, GRAW really shows what the Xbox 360 is capable of in this early stage and puts some 
 of the launch games to shame. The graphics are what make this game so immersive in the first place. 
 You'd really think this IS Mexico.
  
  It's tactical warfighting at its best, so if you're looking for a fps where you can rush through 
 the maps with your guns blazing, you better stay clear of GRAW and its campaign mode. Since it 
 doesn't take a lot for you to bite the dust, you'll be looking for cover constantly, and you'll 
 only want to cross open areas after having made sure the area is completely clear.
  
  So far I like this game. Yes, it can be frustrating at times when you're in the campaign mode because 
 you can die from one lousy headshot from a sniper that you never even noticed, but even if you're 
 suddenly outgunned there always seems to be a solution in the shape of better cover, an alternative 
 route, or good old backup put to better use.
  
  There are a couple of problems with the gameplay though. I found the shooting from behind cover 
 to be rather clunky in some cases. Sniping from behind cover can be annoying especially, as you 
 have two levels of zoom which you can access by clicking on the right stick. The problem is that 
 you cannot go back to cover immediately when in your first zoom level. You'll have to click on 
 your right stick again to enter the second level, and then click again to go for complete cover. 
 Plenty of time to take a bullet in the head. I found myself resorting to switching weapons if I 
 wanted to go back for cover immediately while sniping, which really shouldn't be the solution at 
 hand.
  
  I don't like the night vision in this game either, on account of it being too blurry, but hey, 
 maybe it's authentic so I won't be complaining too much about that.
  
  Campaigns seem to be a bit short. I mean, I barely played the game for four hours (restarting from 
 checkpoints because of dying including) , and I'm already half way through. Luckily there is the 
 online mode. It really is a lot of fun and amongst the best multiplayer games you can get on the 
 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UB1SOFT
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 16, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  First off I have to say this game is simply amazing. The graphics are beautiful and realistic. 
 Sound is as real as its going to get. Got to love the uuhhh when you snipe someone right in the 
 face. Game play is very good. There are great controls for the your squad and yourself. Even the 
 night / night vision has been tweaked to be more realistic. After the first hour you should have 
 the controllers down. I read the manual but its easier just to learn from gameplay in this game. 
 Last the multiplayer on LIVE is great with the exception of the waiting time to find a match. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cr_pettit
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 16, 2006 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Online is the cat's ass... But campaign is a real pain in the cat's ass. Graphics are the top of 
 the line, and the controls rock, it's just so hard on single player. No t to say that this is a 
 bad game, by far- it's the most in-depth, multi-player online came to this date (in my opinion) . 
 All I can say is that if you have a day off of work- GO PLAY THIS GAME. It can have you drawn in 
 for hours on end.... It brings toghether all of the online features you would expect. The classic 
 Team Deathmatch is as good as you would would expect it to be. Awesome Maps, and really cool game-play 
 would make this game one of my top three games on the 360. Game on all... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clinton015
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 16, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a graphically unbelievable game..... and it has gameplay to match. 
 Taht is simply the only way to describe GRAW. It is a beautiful game that sends you through Mexico 
 city on a variety of escort, rescue, search & destroy, and Fly By Helicopter missions to stop a 
 rebel insurrection in Mexico.
  What I said was more or less what gamespot, IGN, Xboxreviews. com, OXM, and Game Informer pretty 
 much backed up. "Advanced Warfighter is the best-looking game to date on the Xbox 360, and it offers 
 exceptional tactical shooting action to back up those great visuals." - Gamespot. com
  Only COD2 was a better game, not graphically but as far as gameplay. (COD2 had some sweet graphics 
 too.) I especially liked the Helicopter attacks.
  
  STORYlINE- Gamespot
  You take the role of Scott Mitchell, a captain in the elite Ghosts -- the light-infantry unit whose 
 members are renowned for their skill and heroism in the face of long odds. You find yourself in 
 Mexico City as part of the security entourage tasked with guarding a summit between the leaders 
 of Mexico, Canada, and the US. Disaster strikes when Mexican rebels attack the summit, killing 
 the Canadian prime minister and causing both the Mexican and US presidents to go missing. Over 
 the course of the campaign, you'll explore the massive city -- fighting rebel infantry, armored vehicles, 
 and helicopters from within the dense, high-rise areas in the center to the dilapidated shanty 
 towns on the outskirts. You'll do this solo and with the help of three teammates -- who you can issue 
 simple commands to -- and supporting vehicles. Major landmarks, such as Chapultepec and the spire 
 at Angel Plaza, are represented fairly accurately in the game's depiction of Mexico City. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: booyadude
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 16, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  So, here's Ghost Recon for the next-generation.
  Let's get do to all of the little nit-picking that a lot of people have been having. First off, 
 I've read that a lot of people think the controls are too complicated and hard to manage, that's 
 bull. The controls are perfect and realistic, making it an extremely tactical yet somehow never 
 boring experience.
  The only thing I would say that's a little annoying, even though it is realistic, is the aimer, 
 even when your close, is really wide when you are moving. Even if you are extremely close to your 
 foe, you can't hit them because the aiming reticule isn't even on the screen.
  Then there's the graphics. Oh, man are there the graphics. Everything in the envronment is extremely 
 detailed and even distinguishable from the rest of teh environment. The character models are perfect 
 representations of hardened-military vets, and if you zoom in on some of your squad mate's faces 
 when you just start a mission and are waiting for something to happen, you can see them chewing 
 gum and then spitting it out, then getting into the ready position. This is just a minor description 
 of how detailed the graphics are, especially with all the lighting and long-draw-distance.
  The single player is fairly short, but very challenging and exciting. It will make you want to 
 play more than you think you should, believe me. It took me only about six-and-a-half hours to 
 blow through the campaign, but that was a great 6.5 hours. the story is handled very well, with 
 the interactive cutscenes being a nice touch with the Narcom basically showing or telling you the 
 story.
  The multiplayer is where it's at. There are (as the back of the box says) over 1,000 multiplayer 
 options to completely customize your multiplayer experience. It's as much fun to host a game as 
 it is to join one. There are so many little details and fun little options to play around with, 
 that you can combine them all to endless combinations (and I know that that's redundant... that 
 too) . 
  You have the "solo-elimination" mode (read: variations on deathmatch) , the "solo-objective" (everyone 
 out to complete the same objectives) , and the "solo-territory" (think you trying to defend one 
 point on the map while others, who are also trying to kill eachother, advance on it. Yeah, that's 
 insane) .
  That's it for the solo modes. The others will have you working together with your team to complete 
 objectives, eliminate the other team, and occupy and defend certain points on the map. The modes 
 are called the same as they are in solo, only with "team" in front of them. There are also different 
 variations on those modes, too. 
  Then there's the co-op, which I have found myself playing more than just a few hours straight a 
 couple of times. Whether it's "co-op elimination" (you and other humans against the A. I., whose 
 density on the map is varied by how many player are in the game) , the "co-op territory" (the same 
 as team and solo, only you with other humans against the A. I.) , the "Campaign" (a whole seperate 
 mission-based game, only with you and 7-15 others working to complete objectives like those found 
 in the single-player. It's singe-player... only multi!) , and "co-op objective" (you guessed it, 
 it's the same as solo and multi only with you being on the human side and... you get the picture) .
 
  That's and exhaustive amount of modes that rival my previous favorite mult-player game, Perfect 
 Dark Zero. Even in the co-op, you'll have a blast because the A. I. in the game is top-notch, and 
 will definately give you a run for your money, although it's no where near as difficult as it is 
 in the single-player or even sometimes in Campaign mode.
  Just too add a little to the customization front, there is also an opportunity to customize your 
 multi-player model's face and headgear, along with face-paint (read: camoflage) . There are also 
 classes: Rifleman, Automatice Rifleman, Marksman, and Grenadier. Each class gets little bonuses 
 for doing things like firing while in the prone postiion, standing still while firing and others 
 similar like that. The Rifleman specializes in single-shot rifles or rifles in the rifleman class, 
 where as the Automatic rifleman specializes in (no way!) automatic rifles. The Marksman is basically 
 a sniper, and the Grenadier likes to blow stuff up with his rocket launchers and grenade launchers. 
 
  With all of these classes, there's got to be a lot of weapons in the game, right? Correct. There 
 are tons of weapons in the game, and you will love to experiment with different ones, just to shake 
 things up a little.
  All in all, Ghost Recon for the 360 is how games evolve to the next-gen "arena", and become true 
 competitors there. It offers and excellent single-player experience with incredible graphics, as 
 well as an absolutely insane multi-player mode with even more insane options. This game will keep 
 you busy... forever.
  Or, at least, until the next Ghost Recon comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rgreenawald
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 16, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  I am not going to take anything away from GRAW, I just don't think it is the game for me. I was 
 expecting something more, and what I got was an enhanced version of the GR series. I do not play 
 Live much, so I rely on the single player campaigns/missions, and this one just didn't do it for 
 me. Luckily I have COD2 and that is keeping me VERY happy. BUT, for all of you who like the squad 
 based tactical shooters, this one is definately for you. And let me tell you, the graphics are 
 right there at the top. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Itsdewdewbabiee
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 16, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is awsome, man I was blown away by the graphics alone... Its a must buy if you have a 
 X360 this was the only ghost Recon which I actually liked. 
  The only prroblem I had with it if I had to be nit picky is you can't really be all that stealthy 
 once you shoot someone thats it enemies know where your location is. But the game gets you so entertained 
 that you can't put down the controller. It had me remembering certain scenes to black hawk down. 
 This game is really good.
  Also, with the stages where your hud is unusable by frequency jamming couldn't he just take of 
 his helmet? I don't know if that were to happen to me thats what I would do, just thinking outside 
 the box. But the online game is just as good. I truely enjoyed this game and I'm still not done 
 with it. Awsome job ubisoft! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bam11bam
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 16, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: This game is just awsome.. at first when i first started playing it i was a little discouraged 
 by all the different controls and i thought i would never memorise everything, but after about an 
 hour or 2 playing none stop everything starts to come together and you wont even remember how hard 
 the controls were at the begining...
  
  GRAPHICS: These are without question THE BEST graphics for a 3rd person shooter i have ever seen!! 
 This game has THE BEST explosions, and THE BEST fire graphics i have seen aswell!! SOO impressive! 
 the bullet holes on concrete walls look amazing!! the cars on the streets look so real and are 
 completely distructable, everything from as little as shooting out the windows or the air of each 
 single tire (little detailed things like this are important to me) , or as much as blowing the thing 
 to a million peices!! the only flaw i find in the graphics is the lack of facial expressions when 
 people are talking to you... they just move their arms around and their mouths move a little but 
 no emotion what so ever.. guess this could be a 10 but it is still early in the life of the 360 
 and i must leave room for a 10 :D
  
  SOUND: AS REAL AS IT GETS!!.. explosions sound beautiful.. everything sounds perfect and even the 
 helicopters flying over you... you know exactly where the chopper is just by its sound!
  
  VALUE: worth every penny!!! 
  
  FINAL THOUGHT... MUST BUY FOR ANY GAMER... DONT MISS THIS ONE!!
 
  this game really blew me away (literally) and i did not expect it to live up to the hype but i 
 guess i was wrong, so i bow down to ubisoft and their mastermind developers!! the only thing i 
 ask is for better AI for your squad and some emotion on the characters faces and its a "10" no 
 question
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Titan22
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 16, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  I've never been a HUGE fan of the Ghost Recon series but this has to be my favorite of them all. 
 These are, in my opinion, the problems, complaints, mistakes, whatever you want to call it, that 
 seperates this game from perfect.
  
  I gave gameplay an 8 for a few reasons. There seems to be no obvious improvements in the AI. The 
 same old stand out in the road and shoot at you or, sit behind the same box forever tactics. I 
 also found SOME of the levels we're more of a pain in the ass than fun. The ending wasn't exactly 
 really horrible, but it just wasn't that great either. I didn't even get to kill the last guy, 
 my team mate did before I got the chance. Oh well.
  
  There's a few things that kept me from giving the games graphics a ten. The first is the shadows. 
 Some of them look real nice, especially from a distance, and they all seem dynamic. But others, 
 like the ones often in the helicopter, are just super, flat out, too jaggy for next-gen. I desire 
 softshadows in this game a lot. Enemy animation movements sometimes looked horrible from a distance. 
 And your soldier still doesn't pull out his magazine from the gun. Just an arm gesture. I just 
 can't help but LOVE the use of tons of polygons, HDR, and pixel shader 3.0 though.
  
  Sound just barely missed a 10 too. Some guns just don't seem very loud and powerful. The chaingun 
 in the helicopter sounds cool, but once again it seems to lack the big badass gun sound I wish 
 it had. It also seemed like while firing the game couldn't play all the sounds at once. (The helicopter, 
 the brass, the enemy yelling, bullets hitting the ground, ect.) So sometimes I could only hear 
 every other bullet leaving my gun making it feel even weaker. Filling people with lead is what 
 will satisfy you with the guns. As long as you have a large, powerful subwoofer you won't be too 
 disappointed, especially with vehicle explosions.
  
  Remember, those are just the problems of the games in my view. Everything you didn't read about 
 and can't even think of at the moment is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: den1233
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 16, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  After playing through the game twice once on normal and once on hard I still cant get enough of 
 it. the game has the best Graphics I have ever seen at this present time. the city is highly detailed 
 and makes you feel like your really in Mexico city. your team has ok Ai but the enemy is sometimes 
 smart sometimes dumb. sometimes they will take cover and is hard to get at without getting hit 
 but most of the time I have found that they just stand out in the open this was the only minus 
 i could think of in the core gameplay. the controls are easy and you should get the basics down 
 from going through the 15 minute training at the start of the game. It will take over a half hour 
 though to really fell confortable with the controls. the sound is outstanding but not the best 
 out there in a game. the explosions and the sound of war are almost perfect. it you get to close 
 to a explosion but not close enough to get hurt you will lose your hearing for 20 sec. the vioce 
 acting is great dispite the player models barly moving there mouth when they talk which you will 
 only notice in a few parts of the game. the game has 11 missions, 12 counting training. there is 
 coop with special made missions and maps. also system link and xbox live options. Online play takes 
 time getting use to after playing the main story part. but after a few games it will feel right. 
 the story is ok. the us pres and canadian pm meet up with the mexican pres to sign a agreement 
 to control Illigal alian and drug trade between these three countrys. the program is called nasja. 
 when the canadian pm is killed and the mexican and us pres go missing the ghosts are called in. 
 the full story is great but short and like i said before make you wanting more. dispite that its 
 one of the best games around and i recomend it to any one who likes shooters or anything to do 
 with war games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mori_Daemoni
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 16, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Good:
  Great storyline
  Amazing graphics
  Novel game play
  Wonderful soundtrack
  
  Bad:
  Multiplayer forces long waits (5+ minutes for a 2 minutes game)
  Difficulty with X-box 
 live microphone
  Support characters are very fragile
  
  By far one of the best shooters Ive seen in a long while, the single player game is engaging and 
 new, as well as having a wonderful blend of scenery. The variety of the missions forces a player 
 to have fluid tactics, thus keeping monotony a thing of the past. 
  The ability to have mortal support characters allows for a person to either use group tactics to 
 play a squad based game, or play by themselves by killing off the support. The storyline is easily 
 followed, and well maintained in the game, making this an all around single player masterpiece.
 
  
  The only bad thing I could find about this game was the multiplayer; with an ill defined ranking 
 system, as well as numerous flaws in X-box live and sometime interminable waits to play a short 
 game, this is not a game to play solely for the multiplayer aspect. While enjoyable if you can 
 find a group of close and trusted friends, in the open world in is plagued by lag problems, random 
 shutdowns, and faulty auto-starts that make finding a good game both difficult and often impossible.
 
  
  Overall, this game is worth the money, being both enjoyable and replayable. The faults of the multiplayer 
 can, and probably will, be ironed out, and will hopefully make this one of the better games that 
 Tom Clancy has released.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoneSierra
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 16, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  I've never liked any G. R. game, and this game is absolutely awsome. I can see how people have their 
 own opinions on games.... but anyone who says the graphics aren't that great, seriously don't pay 
 attention. The game looks real. On top of that, its a really fun game, and its not too involved 
 commanding your troops or various other types of support which I like becaue you can pay attention 
 to what you are doing. 
  Gameplay takes a few minutes to get used to. You can't change any look sensitivity, but you get 
 used to it quick enough, and it feels right.
  Anyway, the game is rediculous! You should definately get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n3oS7oRm
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 16, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing apart from the few glitches i've noticed such as the v-sync issue and the 
 graphics dragging to unbelieveable portions on screen which mind you only happened on 1 level so 
 far thru 7. I love this game and I highly recommend it. So go out and enjoy this game oh and make 
 sure to put on your helmet before you go into battle. Apparently I have to write more boo yah. 
 I have nothing else really to say but this is an amazing game, since it's forcing me to talk more 
 here I am dwindling on about nothing. so go have fun and where your helmets again.... please.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pimpbot76
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 16, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  This is the best XBOX360 game so far. I can't wait to see what else comes out for the 360!!!! I'm 
 glad they waited to release this game to get it right. yes there are some minor bugs but that's 
 fine. it doesn't effect what I think of the game. It's a great Single player and even better multiplayer. 
 Now let's see some patches and downloable content for the game!! wAHOO!!! I can't beleive they 
 make you put at least 100 words in the test review.. WTF is that all about.. I'm just typing in 
 BS at this point so I can submit this.. . blah blah blah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dthwish09
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 16, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  this game is probly the only half decent game for the xbox 360 at the moment, if you haven't played 
 it yet make sure you pike it up! you will not regret it!
  
  this game is probly the only half decent game for the xbox 360 at the moment, if you haven't played 
 it yet make sure you pike it up! you will not regret it!
  
  this game is probly the only half decent game for the xbox 360 at the moment, if you haven't played 
 it yet make sure you pike it up! you will not regret it!
  
  this game is probly the only half decent game for the xbox 360 at the moment, if you haven't played 
 it yet make sure you pike it up! you will not regret it!
  
  this game is probly the only half decent game for the xbox 360 at the moment, if you haven't played 
 it yet make sure you pike it up! you will not regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e-pro
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 23, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Well, in my humble opinion, GRAW is a great game. not the bombshell it's hyped to be, but easily 
 the best to date on tha 360. 
  
  The GOOD: amazing graphics, cool weapons, great controls (for your player, at least) .
  
  The 
 BAD: dumb AI partners, low character development, no civilians. Also, enemies see you too easily, 
 causing the ability to sneak up to be hindered.
  
  i dont know, it just seems like it is missing something. i dont find the shootouts all that intense, 
 and they all seem the same. not much reason to be too covert, like in ghost recon 1, at least in 
 the beginning. in this one, just peak and shoot. maybe i havent played enough, but as of now, i 
 am wanting a bit more. 
  
  Although i have talked some trash, this game is still pretty damn cool, and worth playing for a 
 while. 
  
  On the 5th mission now and still waiting to be amazed... 
  
  OK-i get it now, this game is da bomb!!!
  
  cant beat it if you got a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StupidHenchman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 15, 2006 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first off, Im not a big Ghost Recon fan or even a fan of the Tactical Shooter Genre. But this 
 game blew me away! From its stuning graphics to its captivating story, and unforgettable multiplayer, 
 this game has got it all in spades:
  
  Graphics:
  First off, dont go into this game expecting the best graphics you have ever seen. But still these 
 graphics are simply stunning, from the city of Mexico City, to the charcter models, even the nature 
 in this game looks incredible. HDR is new for games and GRAW uses it perfectly and executes it 
 well. Just imagine what games will look like by the end of this year.
  
  Gameplay:
  Oh god, where do I start. This is not a game for a casual sit-down-and-play gamer. This game will 
 make you think, maybe even make you frustrated. But there is never a dull moment you are always 
 on your toes. The controls are pretty simple, and the new over the shoulder view is a blessing. 
 The levels are also very impressive, unlike past Ghost Recons (where you were practicallly thrown 
 in a big box with only one way to your objective) these levels are massive, there are so many ways 
 to get from point "A" to point "B" and you will have a blast no matter which way you take.
  
  Sound:
  Simply AMAZING, expecailly if you have 5.1
  
  Online:
  Arguably the best part 
 of the game. The online has many modes to choose from ranging from Team Death match to the Co-Op 
 Campaign missions. This is where most of your time will probably be spent, you can spend hours 
 maybe even days trying out all of the new modes.
  
  Final Word:
  This is the 360's first killer APP, it has its flaws but is deffinately worth the $60 price tag. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OMGFINE
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2006 9:59 pm PT
Review:  I was very anxious to get this game, I was willing to trade in 3 games for it, but I found it at 
 blockuster to rent, so I could buy it later, I finished the campaigne in about 6-8 hours & online 
 differs from it greatly, all I have to say about the single player: perfection, I could not see 
 one flaw, nor no way to improve the game. The multi-player is great to, but it is not like the 
 single player at all, I often find my characters head in the way when I'm trying to shoot & the 
 ridicule for multi-player is smaller, the scopes are differant, the character models look a little 
 worse & overall the graphics arent as crisp, but never the less, it plays great & is alot of fun... 
 Several times I've jumped out of my seat when I blow things up, & the car sirens arent very annoying.... 
 But this is the first time I've played a squad based game & I actually wanted to use my squad.... 
 It's very tacticle & the commands arent half-ass like the normal d-pad options... But after wittnessing 
 the full campaigne & 2 hours of xbox live on this game, all I have to say is Wow, just wow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tischla
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2006 9:56 pm PT
Review:  this game is definately the reason i am so glad i got an xbox 360. it also made me really glad 
 that i got xbox live gold. because even though this games single player isnt all that fantastic 
 it is still amazing and the mutliplayer makes up 4 anything lost in the single player. unfourtunately 
 the AI is completely braindead in single player but if u r good enuff u should be able to make 
 up for it and kick some ass. multiplayer is where the real game is at though. thats y this game 
 was made. its got alot of great modes, very low load times, fantastic gamaplay, and it makes u 
 feel like u r real soldier. nobody likes to observe games, and in most of the game modes, where 
 u have no respawns, it really gives u that incentive to play with startegy and skill instead of 
 run and gun crap. if u dont have t his game, buy it in stead of the outfit or full auto. this game 
 is the sh*t. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rob2223
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 15, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  single player is very immersive, graphics are astonishing!, gameplay is great!, the only complaints 
 i have is that i was playing single play and dove, and there was a weird glitch and i started floating 
 and that took away from some of the intensity, and i was dissapointed with some of the multiplayer 
 aspects, like the point of view (first person no gun) and how you cannot cover. But the co-op mode 
 makes up for it, the weapons are awesome (like the counter-sniper i love the customization, choosing 
 your face, equiptment and class. In my opinion this is the best tactical shooter ive ever played 
 if you like this Genre this is a MUST buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSnakesoul
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is nicely done...... so nicely done that I like to play it again and again even though 
 i beat it already on normal and hard. The game lets you command a small team and also vehicles 
 such as choppers to tanks to little camera dones that will find the enemies for ya.
  
  The game is like the other ghost recon having the option to go third or first person but disappointment 
 has arrived to me when in first person you can't see your gun.... which makes the game a little 
 unrealistic and also takes alittle fun of watching your hands load another clip into the gun and 
 reload...... but then again I love to reload during a battle........
  
  Anyways the story is set not to far into the future but near the point where we have a little more 
 new toys to play. The Mexican Government has signed an agreement with the U. S. A which has the U. S. A 
 giving the Mexican forces some tanks and weapons..... But like all agreements there are people that 
 will dislike it..... Some of the Mexican army goes against the idea and starts to fight back with 
 United States own weaponary that was given to them. Your then place in to protect this agreement 
 to put an end to these disfollowers. 
  
  The game is hard but it's due to your rushing and hoping to be like rambo.. The game forces the 
 player to sometimes use his teammates or the special units to complete objectives or clear the 
 way to make his or her life easier. The graphics are nicely done and also having maps large enough 
 to pick your route to complete your mission..... no this isn't a mmorpg style map where its all 
 open, there are limits but not as much like the old war games where you are forced to take that 
 path to complete the objective.
  
  The game also has breaks where you can listen and sit onboard a chopper or in a tank and relax 
 while the story unfolds. The game also has news updates and video update about what is going on 
 in the war these triggers are activated different times in the game and also gives you the chance 
 to see whats going on if you missed anything.
  
  Overall a must buy for those owning the xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daprecha
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 15, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  After a few 'tactical' delays, Ghost Recon Advance Warfighter, (affectionately known as G. R. A. W.) 
 has reported for duty and is ready for combat. This chapter of the Ghost Recon story takes place 
 in Mexico City, Mexico where you take on the role of Captain Steven Mitchell; the squad leader 
 of four soldiers. Your mission is to locate the President of the United States and other political 
 leaders who have gone missing. With this vital mission in mind, the game immerses you with the 
 feelings of being in live combat with its new features such as the NosCom. the NosCom is a HUD 
 that displays what your squadmates are seeing by way of a camera attached to each soldier's helmet. 
 It also brings the action to life by showing up to date Intelligence and News Flashes right in 
 the middle of combat, (nothing like getting shot at and seeing it on CNN as it happens.)
  The enemy has also gotten alot smarter than any of the previous titles enabling them to take cover, 
 actively flank, and to toss smoke and frag grenades like they are in a high school cafeteria food 
 fight. Getting shot in this game is far more frustrating than being shot in other shooters as you 
 can't take more than three shots and the enemy will take head shots at harder difficulties. When 
 you get shot the realization of your mortality from the quick and sudden vibration will make your 
 heart drop. This realism doesnt make the game extremely difficult, but it will make you take your 
 time instead of running around like Rambo. 
  With the details of the character models and the surroundings, G. R. A. W is one of, if not the best 
 looking games to have come out for the Xbox 360. The game's learning curve is around ten to fifteen 
 minutes tops; that time being spent learning how to use your Ghost Team to your advantage. It wouldn't 
 be a Tom Clancy game without a multiplayer option, and G. R. A. W. has this in spades. From Xbox Live 
 to just split screening it with some friends at your place, Ghost Recon Advance Warfighter captivates 
 your attention with several different modes. In Fire Fight missions, you and your friends can battle 
 it out against the AI that plays just as smart and in some cases smarter than in the single player 
 game. In multiplayer you pick your class of soldier that you wish to be; Rifleman, Automatic Rifleman, 
 Grenadier, and Marksman. Each class has tons of weapons with advantages and disadvantages of their 
 own, but play Marksman at your own risk as the enemy tends to throw smoke grenades in your line 
 of sight if you're getting too happy with the sniper rifle, (trust me, I know, remember this is 
 no Halo!)
  Whether you are looking for a shooter or just that next great game with an awesome story, I recommend 
 Ghost Recon Advance Warfighter to anyone who is even remotely interested. It has lived up to its 
 hype and deserves 5 out of 5 Spikes for a job well done.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xupex
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 15, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  The good
  The game is just beautiful 
  Realistic sounds effects (e. g. the sounds of the Velcro when he opens his pocket to get a grenade)
 
  Campaign can be a real challenge at times 
  A good and believable story
  Objectives change on the fly instead of one set objective (e. g. infiltrate camp)
  Mostly Urban 
 warfare
  Helicopter scenes are a nice break and are well done
  They kept the lone wolf missions
  Co-op missions
  Command of tanks etc is really cool and 
 easy to do in the middle of a battle 
  The bad 
  I dont know why but I hate the multiplayer 
  Not enough of the co-op missions
  The squad 
 of ghosts are mostly useless and just stand around getting killed
  
  Overall the game is great and well worth the wait the action is slow but intense and so much fun. 
 Even though I hate the Multiplayer it not enough to lower the score of the game because I find 
 offline so much fun and is a unique experience. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rigopr
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 15, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST 
 HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE 
  MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST 
 HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE 
 MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST 
 HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE 
 MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST 
 HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE 
 MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST 
 HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE 
 MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST 
 HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE 
 MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST 
 HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE MUST HAVE 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ketchken
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 15, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  from the start i was amazed when i put this game on see the xbox 360 is a good console but up until 
 now cause i wass happy with the console but not heavely impressed well this game has realy done 
 just that with games this good you actualy have to look real good to find some well i have and 
 some are : 1. dumb teammates even the enemy has beter ai 2. the chopper makes impossible moves sometimes 
 3. my teammates get stuck sometimes in walls or somthing annoying this are the only 3 things i can 
 say after 15 hours of gameplay that is the shortest list of flaws i had ever enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxdusty
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  This is it. The flood of true next gen games has begun. Okay, the first one was really Fight Night 
 Round 3, but this is the first one that lets you hold a gun.
  
  If you have a HDTV, you're in heaven when you pop in the disk, SDTV users will have a glimpse of 
 this but be prepared to squint a little bit to read the text. (Make it a little easier for yourself 
 and play it in widescreen mode - trust me...)
  
  Graphics: to be brief.... it's awesome. the draw distance is far, much detail to behold, effects 
 etc. Only thing.... where's the people? Okay, we'll wait for the next iteration for that one.
 
  
  Sound:- Passable. Could use more incidental radio chatter for effect. 
  
  Controls:- Takes a little bit of learning but it is responsive. Tend to stick to walls a little 
 too easily. 
  
  Length : - 10 hours or less.
  
  Playability:- Best GR to date. Graphics are blindingly beautiful in a desolate, shell torn kind 
 of way. AI of team members not too bright at times though. Run and Gun players please check in 
 withCall of Duty 2", patient & methodic is the rule of this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mumotuma_man
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  I thought Call of Duty 2 was next gen, but this game completely blows my mind graphicly. I honestly 
 could not believe it... And im not even playing on an HDTV... honestly some points look completely 
 real to me... its just amazing. And the reality of it I just love. I HATED HATED HATED the old 
 G. R. games because they were boring, you get shot once and you die. But this, I love. Theres so 
 much to hide behind in Mexico City. And by the way, that slide move you can do when you're sprinting... 
 well when I heard about it, I was like OK, thats neat I guess but I LOVE that move I do it alll 
 the time and it really does help. Controling the other ghosts is very simple, and they aren't as 
 dumb as some games are. If you have to ask to regroup twice because one got caught on a corner, 
 you really don't mind Because its just too much fun. The Thing that reeeeally got me like in the 
 game that makes me want to buy it was when I had a Rocket Launcher, and there was two cars paralled 
 parked end-to-end... Well I couldn't resist just destorying the first one.... And you wouldn't 
 believe It was the best explosion in any game or movie... yeah... I said movie... It was the most 
 unbelievable thing ever. The look of everything, the sound, just everything was nailed perfectly 
 by these guys it all just makes the whole experience amazing. And guess what? YOU CAN SHOOT THROUGH 
 WALLS!!!! but realisticly though... Walls that could actually be shot through in life are able 
 to be in the game (like the metal trains are made of, and doors, etc.) so it doesnt make it too 
 easy. And the enemy AI is great (especially enemy snipers)
  
  This Game is truly worth that next gen price and I have no doubt this will be the best game for 
 the 360 till Gears of War comes out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChAlDo205
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Hello Yes So im going to talk about outfit the gayest fricken game ever, i mean this game will 
 kill it, what the hell is wrong with the people that made that $%it, ghost recon will beat this 
 game any day, that piece of S%it outfit, and peter if your reading this, i just wanted to say that 
 i have a Big Huge, Humongous, D! CK, and zoey 101 is hot as hell, so peace,  
 The OUTFIT IS  Hobla shobla dobla Mobla Kobla skl; fjksdfjdkfjdkfjdkfjd, 
 Dobla West  
 ARab ARAB ARAB ARAB ARAB ARAB ARAB ARAB skjdkfjdkf jk jdk jdfk djk dj kd jdk jdfk djk djf kdfj 
 dkf jdkf jdfk jdfk .................... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acesion
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 15, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  I have played all the tom clancy games socom and many other realistic shooters and none give you 
 the utter feel of urban warfare as Ghost recon does. Almost in a bad way it reminds me of the near 
 desperate times during urban warfare in Iraq. The single player is jaw droping that i would compare 
 it to that of Halo, though they are not alike the impact is more or less the same. Online is amazing 
 as long as you have a good team that communicates and really makes you feel like your working together. 
 Single player is realistic though sometimes the enemy AI seem to accurate for being untrained and 
 using inaccurate guns. Ranking seems a bit messed up and there are frequent drops from games for 
 seemingly no reason since there is no lag. Also a Jump or at least climb button would have been 
 apreciated, and many of the guns we are used to such as the M16 and M14 are MIA. There are Many 
 glitchs to boot but these are all minor things which keep this game from acheving a 9.8 or 10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmoorton
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 15, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Been playing this and The Outfit. This is sure to piss people off but I prefer the outfit. I work 
 a crap load of hours and its a easier game to jump into. And when is Tom Clancy going to put a 
 jump button in there games. I come up to a patch of pebbles and my guy has to stop and walk around 
 them. I mean pebbles come on!! I did like the game though if I have a lot of time to play the game 
 which is rare. So I would recommend this game if you have the time to put into it. Still looking 
 forward to HALO 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blaze0506
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 15, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  From the graphics to the gameplay this game is great! The only flaw is that your teammates arent 
 very bright but you can get over it. You can really take advantage of the battle by using drones, 
 tanks, and many more to destroy the enemy. Even with all this high tech stuff it still seems very 
 realistic and not sci fi. You have this thing called the cross-com and you can gain intelligience 
 on the fly in real time. Another great part about the singleplayer is the varied mission objectives. 
 Like in one mission you have to meet at the embassy and help the mexican president but right before 
 you get to it it blows up and you end up having to defend the embassy. Another mission has you 
 meeting up with a ally but as you continue through the mission he is spotted and illed then changing 
 the objectives. The multiplayer is great with 1000s of different customizable game modes. the GRAHICS 
 ARE AMAZING! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecrow_fan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 15, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  this games is the best first person or third person shooter for the next generation. this singal 
 player campian has 12 mission you can play in to diffcult setting normal or hard. the game should 
 take you about 6 to 9 hours to beat it depends on what diffitcult seting you have on it. the only 
 draw back of the game is the ai the is probely the teamate ai have i seen an example is one you 
 are walking down the streets on you or ambushed and you teamate just stand up when you tell them 
 to take cover behind a car or wall one of them or all them well just stand out in the open and 
 take cover. the multiplayer is by far the coolist feature in the game besides the co-op mission 
 you can play with two or more people and you go hunting for the bad guys. or you can skip of all 
 that and go on live. in closeing if this what next generation graphics and gameplay look like this 
 going to be exciting for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quyhoang
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 15, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  The game of the Year has come;
  The game of the Year has come
  The game of the Year has come
  The game of the Year has come
  The game of the Year has come
 
  The game of the Year has come
  The game of the Year has come
  The game of the Year has come
  The game of the Year has come
  The game of the Year has come;
 
  The game of the Year has come
  The game of the Year has come
  The game of the Year has come
  The game of the Year has come
  The game of the Year has come
 
  The game of the Year has come
  The game of the Year has come
  The game of the Year has come
  The game of the Year has come;
  The game of the Year has come
 
  The game of the Year has come
  The game of the Year has come
  The game of the Year has come
  The game of the Year has come
  The game of the Year has come
 
  The game of the Year has come
  The game of the Year has come
  it's already there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitsel
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  I dont have alot of time here so let me just state the bad and what the game doesnt have.
  You cannot shoot-up and destroy vehicles peice by piece in mulitplayer like you can in single.
 
  You cannot hug against objects in Multiplayer like you can in Single.
  You cannot see your weapon or other body parts in FPV (Like All GR) .
  
  There, you have your 
 Cons, just imagine being able to play the best game ever for the Pros. I havent played any Head-To-Head 
 MP yet but Co-op is almost better than the Single Campaign. So stop freakin' reading these reviews 
 and go buy the damn game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billybob1992
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 15, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  When I was younger I picked up the secend ghost recon for the PS2 god it sucked anyways I saw this 
 game Graw and played it at a frends house and said to my self could this relly be a ghost recon 
 game. So I just had to buy it
  I played the first mission and loved it. FIrst off it has some of the best graphics i have ever 
 seen backed up by great gameplay and even a intresting story. Its a must buy for any 360 owner 
 play it for your self go Run go Get it now.... Anyways back to thew reveiw. The game can be challenging 
 but most of the time its preety easy but thats just me decide for your self. The only bad part 
 orf the game was the Ai on the squad the enemy Ai was good but not the scaud I felt like I was 
 babysitting them. Overall the scaud relly didn't help that much but hey still a great game. Now 
 to the multi player This to me was the funnest part of the game theres so many options you could 
 play it forever and not get bored.\
  
  Well in conclusion its a great game and hope you people get its the reason to get a 360 best game 
 for it period 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: revolution12
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 14, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  From the graphics to the gameplay this game is great! The only flaw is that your teammates arent 
 very bright but you can get over it. You can really take advantage of the battle by using drones, 
 tanks, and many more to destroy the enemy. Even with all this high tech stuff it still seems very 
 realistic and not sci fi. You have this thing called the cross-com and you can gain intelligience 
 on the fly in real time. Another great part about the singleplayer is the varied mission objectives. 
 Like in one mission you have to meet at the embassy and help the mexican president but right before 
 you get to it it blows up and you end up having to defend the embassy. Another mission has you 
 meeting up with a ally but as you continue through the mission he is spotted and illed then changing 
 the objectives. The multiplayer is great with 1000s of different customizable game modes. Overall 
 this is one of the best looking and the best game overall for xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: underoathswsfoe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  
  
  Ghost Recon was already quite possibly the best video game series from the Tom Clancy name, and 
 now that Ubisoft has released its next installment, the series has gotten a heck of a lot better. 
 Ubisoft takes full advantage of the 360's power showing us some simply gorgeous visuals and a smooth, 
 highly polished gameplay experience which seems like it could be the best 360 title out yet. 
 
  
  Story
  In Advanced Warfighter, you play as Scott Mitchell, a captain of the elite ghosts. This time around, 
 you are sent to Mexico City with tasks such as guarding leaders of areas such as Mexico and the 
 US. Basically, some mexicans came in and attacked the summit, killing the Canadian Prime Minister, 
 causing both the Mexico and the United State's Presidents go to missing. Throughout the campaign, 
 you will be looking for them, guarding them, and taking them to extraction zones. But don't worry, 
 you won't have to worry about the presidents on every mission. Advanced Warfighter features many 
 mission where you and a squad of ghosts are either hunkering down at a specific point defending 
 it, or just clearing out parts of the city in general. The game gives you a really good mix of 
 infantry combat, and smaller, more tactical battles scattered through the campaign. 
  
  Gameplay
  In the original Ghost Recon, all it featured was the weaponless first person view. 
 Then, in Ghost Recon 2, Ubisoft gave us a whole new view on the game using what is called the OTS 
 (over the shoulder) view. In Advanced Warfighter, it also features this OTS view, as well as the 
 classic first person view. So, this is probably the first thing you'll notice. For you Ghost Recon 
 2 lovers, you'll be pleased to know they haven't changed that part a bit.
  
  Except for the OTS view, you'll notice a few little details they added in the game, one being the 
 new HUD. The HUD in Advanced Warfighter is incredibly interesting. We now have a useful little 
 tool in the upper right and left hand corners of the screen called the cross-com, which let's us 
 see exactly what our squad mates are doing. So on the upper left hand side, you'll see what's happening 
 through your team-mate's eyes, whereas on the upper right corner, you will see a screen which shows 
 you your captains throwing new objectives at you all over the place. Here's an example of the cross-com: 
 Say you call for a backup chopper to come give you some machine gun cover fire. When that helicopter 
 arrives, the cross com screen will pop up on the left hand side, and you'll see that one big area 
 of the city through the eyes of a soldier manning the minigun from the chopper. You give it the 
 order to shoot, and the soldier shoots the crap out of any soldier he can see from the air. The 
 cross com not only works for this, but it also helps out alot when you can't find enemies. If you're 
 having trouble seeing where some are, call for a chopper, then look on your cross com and you'll 
 notice them right off the bat.
  
  The subject of finding hidden enemies leads to another major addition to the Ghost Recon series, 
 and this one helps out quite a bit. Enemy soldiers are now highlighted in red diamonds, whereas 
 fellow soldiers are highlighted in green diamonds. This will help out alot, as Advanced Warfighter 
 will throw many, many enemies at you at once, and sometimes it can get tough trying to find them 
 all to pick them off with your rifle. This red diamond feature works on the cross com as well. 
 If there is an enemy in the distance, ask for a chopper to hover over the area, and you'll see 
 all the red diamonds scattered throughout the buildings. 
  
  A very minor, but still cool improvement was some of the camera movements. Like I said before, 
 the OTS view hasn't changed, but when you are running as fast as you can across the city, your 
 HUD shakes a little bit, giving the game a very immpressive, realistic touch. The HUD also does 
 this kind of static effect when you are getting shot, like it's about to malfunction or something, 
 but it quickly goes back to normal when you get back to cover. Both of these things are really 
 cool additions that just make the game more immersive in general.
  
  Player control is quite easy to handle. A couple of the controls have changed but that's about 
 it. Instead of using the D-Pad to crouch, you now click down the left thumbstick. And now, you 
 can walk into anything you want and your soldier will cover behind it, and you can peek around 
 the corner, shoot, and quickly lean back into cover with ease. This feature works very smoothly 
 as well. 
  
  One more minor tweak they came up with was the change of the aiming reticle. It's alot larger than 
 it used to be, but when you start running, the large, yellow circle dissapears, leaving you to 
 aim with your gun alone. Its a little hard to explain, but it's just another thing you'll notice 
 when looking at your HUD. The gun recoil works just fine, so it's nothing to worry about at all. 
 I personally like this aiming reticle better than the original.
  
  As for guns, Ubisoft certainly knows how to make firing one very satisfying. The vibration of the 
 controller goes just perfect with every shot, and the gunshot animations and sounds are fantastic, 
 so you'll really feel like you're firing a gun. Simple as that.
  
  
  
  Graphics
  The graphical achievements of Advanced Warfighter really amazed me. Put it this way, you won't 
 find a game that looks this good anywhere. Not on your pc, not any other 360 games, nothing. This 
 game looks beautiful and I for sure have never seen anything like it. 
  
  The main thing you'll notice about the graphics is how well the city is detailed. You can tell 
 they put so much time into Mexico City because it looks flat out amazing. The draw distance rocks, 
 so you'll see humdreds of buildings and skyscrapers blocks and blocks away, and there is just so 
 much originality in each of the building models and everything. It really does make you feel like 
 you're walking around a massive metropolis. The only kind of strange thing about the city was that 
 it contains no civilians walking around. I mean, there's plenty of random cars around, and as I 
 said, hundreds and hundreds of original building models, but there's just no people walking around 
 at all besides you, your squad, and the enemies. I don't think this much of a big problem at all, 
 but it's just a little thing I noticed while playing. Even still, the city looks incredibly realistic. 
 I've never seen anything like it.
  
  After that, there's still all the character models and let me tell you, they are stunning. All 
 of the ghost's and enemy's outfits are extraordinarily detailed and they just look completely flawless. 
 Even the shadowing and lighting is incredible, and most of the time gamers barely notice stuff 
 like this. All of these jaw dropping visuals really immerse you into a whole new world of gaming 
 like it's never been done before. 
  
  Sound
  Sound effects in Ghost Recon are pretty decent for sure. Explosions are pretty frickin' loud, as 
 well as the gunshots. I think the best thing in the sound department would be the voice overs and 
 the explosions. The gunshots are good, but just not as good as listening to the embassy exploding 
 and crashing to the ground, or listening to your soldiers bark out orders to you. 
  
  Replay Value
  Ghost Recon = TONS of replay value. This is true because of its very addicting 
 online multiplayer. It features 16 players over xbox live, and most of the gametypes are team based 
 stuff. Like CTF, Team DeathMatch, and also online co op missions which are really enjoyable as 
 well. If you've played Ghost Recon 2, you'll know how it is. It's pretty tough though if you've 
 been playing games like halo or perfect dark zero. You can't get shot 76 times with a gun in this 
 game. It's like Call of Duty 2 on Veteran, but all the time. 2 shots, and you're gone. It's as 
 quick as that. Victories are earned by being tactical and using strategies with your team, rather 
 than trying to run and gun your way through, because trust me, it won't work one bit. 
  
  Say you don't have xbox live? So what. The single player is so freaking enjoyable that you can 
 go back and play over and over and it can't get old. Since the enviroment is so massive and non 
 linear, you can beat missions many different ways using tons of different paths to complete objectives. 
 This also gives you a chance to explore the huge, gorgeous city some more. 
  
  Conclusion
  In the end, it looks like Ubisoft has released another hard hitting, perhaps the 
 hardest hitting Ghost Recon title yet. All of these awesome new gameplay features like the cross 
 com, added with the revolutionary graphics, then throw in the addicting online multiplayer and 
 you have yourself a solid tactical shooter, which is a must buy for any 360 owner out there. Especially 
 if you're already a Ghost Recon 2 fan. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vipervv
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Wow! That's one word describes the first few hours of playing this game. 
  The graphics are real and vivid the action is tense and the story is definitely worthy of the Clancy 
 name. The extra time spent on this game was really worth the wait. Still once you beat the campaign 
 and head to the multiplayer things change dramatically. 
  The online co-op and team play is perfect in every sense, but the PvP modes are really just not 
 what they could've been. For example the first five games I played were all won by the team who 
 could spawn camp first. This is because your team only has three locations to spawn in. even with 
 respawn invulnerability turned on, you simply don't have much of a chance. Not only that but the 
 host has way too much control over everything! He can even boot players mid game! I was kicked 
 from numerous games simply because I was tearing the host's team apart. On another note, if you 
 have a team killer on your side there is no way of booting him or avoiding him unless the host 
 decides to kick him.
  I could go on but I think the point has been made. These are absurd issues that could've been avoided 
 very easily. In all though this game is still a blast all the way through the campaign and co-op 
 modes. I highly recommend picking this one up just for that. But, if you're looking for the ultimate 
 online shooter there still isn't anything that can touch the power of HALO 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mackilroy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 14, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  I picked up GRAW from Best Buy the first day it was released. As it was the last copy, I was exhilarated 
 to get my hands on the game. Needless to say, I rushed home and threw it in.
  
  This game blew me away.
  
  Incredible graphics, great storyline, excellent online multiplayer 
 GRAW had everything I was looking for in a X360 game. 
  
  Gameplay Takes a second to get used to, but by the end of the training mission it's second nature. 
 Feels intuitive and fits the pace of the game well.
  
  Graphics  absolutely oustanding. HDR is great, and the character and gun models are extremely 
 detailed. When flying over Mexico City in a Black Hawk, you really feel like you're there in person 
  it's that good.
  
  Sound guns actually sound like the weapons they mimic. Helicopters, tanks, APC Strykers it 
 all brings you into the experience of urban combat.
  
  Value  Excellent value. Good single player campaign, and the online co-op is endlessly replayable. 
 Plus, it's always fun in the adversarial mode finding new human players to best in combat.
  
  Tilt  Not sure what this is, but the final verdict:
  
  Instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HEMI2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 14, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  AWESOME sound and graphics, shooting is so satisfiying and the explosions (if you have a sorround 
 sound) will literaly scare you.
  
  The experience of the game is wonderful and if you have friends online, the campaign and co-op 
 mission are so fun to play.
  
  Recommend this game to anyone who likes shooting, Im more into the first person shooter, but this 
 game is really fun.
  
  buy it, buy it, buy it, buy it, buy it, buy it, buy it, buy it, buy it, buy it, buy it, buy it, 
 buy it, buy it, buy it, buy it, buy it, buy it, buy it, buy it, buy it, buy it, buy it, buy it, 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebjunior
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 14, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is no doubt AMAZING. I actually wasn't very impressed at first... but then i started 
 and almost forced myself to play more because of everyone else saying how good it was. So once 
 I got into it, it was great. It is VERY realistic in the way people move and react in the game. 
 When you put your gun away in doesnt dissapear you actually place it on your back or when you reload 
 it doesnt just automatically reload your guy actually takes it apart and manualy put the ammo in 
 the gun. 
  The online play is one of the best... well this is the BEST online play in a Third-Person shooter 
 ever. WOW... it just amazed me. This is a def. must bu for any shooter/action fan out there.
  
  UPS and DOWNS
  +Some of the BEST Graphics I've ever seen
  +Best online play on the 360
 
  +JUST PLAIN OUT FUN 
  
  -NO civilians!?!?
  -Easy to kill AI most of the time... but they are VERY smart
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedarkone12
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 14, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Captain Mitchell's back in the third installment in the great Ghost Recon series. GRAW is a great 
 game all around from gameplay to graphics the best title for the 360 to date. 
  
  You take control of Captain Scott Mitchell in war stricken Mexico City him and his team of Ghosts 
 must protect the Mexican and American President from certain death in the hands of the Mexican 
 Army Rebels. You fight through the very graphically detailed Maxico City finding a way to put a 
 stop to the Rebels and save the Mexican and US presidents. 
  
  Graphics, sound, Gameplay, everything is great about this game a must buy for any hardcore gamer 
 or any other gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: St_Stu
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 14, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  First things first this game looks incredible. The horizon or depth of view is so detailed its 
 not even funny. The atmosphere really pulls you in and wants u to continue playing. For a tactical 
 game this game is pretty loose in the sense that its almost run and gunish. Also all you snipers 
 out there take note alot of the blood shed will be from further distances so keep your scope eye 
 ready you'll be killing alot of enemies from long distances. The squad control is pretty easy, 
 you don't have to know any real military jargon to navigate your squad. 
  
  Apart from delivering a solid single player campaign the game offers a pretty good multiplayer 
 mode. Lots of game modes and a unique multiplayer option that allows you to go through the campaign 
 with people online is pretty inventive and original.
  
  All in all this game is just solid it may not be a pure next gen title but its games like these 
 that push for the horizon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthDravvid
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 14, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  What can I say, I noticed every crisp visual and audio detail in this game and there's not much 
 to complain about. So, to make a long review short, I'll just point out the few nitpickies of this 
 thing. I noticed a few very minor texture problems in small areas, but what game doesn't have those? 
 There's a few difficulty shifts, but it's typically progressive, so I can't complain. I haven't 
 even tried the multiplayer yet and I just love this game, the value is incredible... just awesome. 
 Everything else is, well, simply put, godly... GO GET THIS GAME BECAUSE IF YOU HAVE A 360 AND DON"T 
 HAVE THIS YOU WILL REGRET IT LOL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smeach
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 14, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon 2 was one of the best games ever made in my case. But now you can throw that copy of 
 GR2 away, get a 360, then get Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter. The single palyer experience is 
 immersive and sucks you in. But for those XBOX LIVE owners, you might never see the single player 
 experience. Multiplayer online is awesome. It almost has no lag and is easy to play. You have a 
 number of weapons to choose from and you can customize your characters head gear and facial features. 
 But that's not the best part. Are you a good sniper? Maybe a Rifleman? It's your choice what you 
 are and how you play. Pick up a copy if you have a 360. It costs about $60 right now because it's 
 a new game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RipaX21
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 8, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Im going to start off with the overall presentation of this game, and im going to sum it up in 
 one word, Flawless. From the music and sound effects to the graphics and mission briefing, the 
 title achieves player emersion very easily. During the mission briefings you are either in a blackhawk 
 hellicopter or in an APC and this doubles as a loading screen, you are still in the game, and it 
 feels as if you are actually being carried to the next LZ. 
  
  The Gameplay is intense, as tactical shooters should be. Take cover or you're dead, thats all there 
 is to it. The squad commands are easy to get used to and you can control an array of allied vehicles 
 including M1A2 Abrhams and AH-1 Apaches. The controls are simple enough to pick up quickly but 
 may not be too appealing for a person who doesnt play many games.
  
  The online play is some of the best around. A bunch of gametypes, all of which I enjoy playing, 
 plus online co-op in various forms make this game a reason to get Xbox Live. You will notice, especially 
 online, that all of the guns have different feels to them and you will need to get aquainted with 
 each one to find you favorite.
  
  Overall, this is the best Xbox 360 game out at the time, and one of the best shooters in a while. 
 This game will be played online for a while to come, so I definetly suggest getting xbox live if 
 you want to play this game fully, although the single player campaign does kick some major booty. 
 There were a few little extras that I would have liked to see, which is the reason for my tilt, 
 but they really don't matter too much and definetly won't be missed by many. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fisticuffs
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 14, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Waited a long time for this baby and it was worth the wait.
  I also want to give credit where it is due to gamespot for a "right on" review of this title since 
 I usually complain about their reviews because I think they were dead on this time.
  There is so much good with this game I just don't have time to go into the good stuff so when I 
 mention what I don't like keep in mind that the good out numbers the bad by at least 10 to 1 and 
 is so good makes some small hicups that one would never notice in most games more noticable.
  
  Personally I never noticed that there were no civs on the streets until I read gamespots review- 
 and once I did notice I couldn't help but think how much neater the game could have been with them 
 added as a factor now and again in certian street missions. Something for UBI to think about in 
 the sequal methinks.
  
  The graphics are breathtaking and really make one wonder in awe at not only what the 360 can do 
 but what it will be able to do in the future.
  The bad guys ai is pretty tight as games go and you gotta watch out for those sneeky buggers.
 
  
  The multiplayer is hit or miss really. If you find a good server with good people it easily shows 
 that it is the best live title so far for the 360, but all that said, I am afraid in reality that 
 it is sometimes very hard to find a good match.
  I wish game devlopers would all just swallow their pride and copy the matchmaking set up of bungies 
 with halo2.
  Still when the multiplayer works- it is a lot of fun.
  Got a 360? Then you better get GRAW man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sweendrix
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 14, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  G. R. A. W. is a brilliantly crafted futuristic military action game. The game plays much like a first 
 person shooter with a camera that switches from behind the back to over the shoulder for firing. 
 Set in Mexico City, the game immerses you into tactical military warfare and the world Ubisoft 
 has created for you will very much feel like a part of your own.
  
  Pros: G. R. A. W. plays like a champ. Gameplay in this game is probably it's biggest selling point 
 even with some of the finest visuals seen on a home console. The gameplay is fun, often surprising, 
 and always exciting. The intensity of this game will keep you at the edge of your seat, keep your 
 neural pathways firing, and is two heaping spoonfuls of ecstasy dipped in sunshine. The Graphics 
 speak for themselves as u begin to play the game. The HDR lighting really makes the setting of 
 Mexico city come alive. The graphics definately look next generation and are the finest on the 
 Xbox 360 at the time of this game's release. The 5.1 surround compliments the gorgeous graphical 
 presentation and gameplay to give the player a level of immersion in a game world that is rarely 
 seen.
  
  Cons: Occasionally it is difficult to brace your character against the wall, though this is a very 
 minor gripe for me. Graphics aren't quite as great with online play which should be expected for 
 most games. 
  
  Overall: If you own an Xbox 360 then u should own this game. G. R. A. W. is an outstanding game that 
 belongs in every gamer's video game library. G. R. A. W. is a great example of the reason you bought 
 the Xbox 360 and hopefully a sign of things to come from Ubisoft's Splinter Cell. If you don't 
 own an Xbox 360, this game is a great addition to a very strong and growing library of solid Xbox360 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disbadaszfool
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 14, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  The most highly anticipated game for the xbox 360 has been released with a boom. Atleast that's 
 what I think. The game is all around amazing. What really stokes me is the graphics, anyone else? 
 Anyways, The graphics, and the gameplay in this game are simply well done, and that's all i can 
 say about it. Here is an overview of the game:
  
  Graphics - 10/10, Simply amazing
  
  Gameplay - 9/10, Online could be a little better, but they'll work with it, other than that... 
 great gameplay
  
  Sound - 10/10, The voice-overs and the gestures are as real as they come
  
  Value - 10/10, 
 This is a must have game for the xbox 360!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostNC360
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 14, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games I have played for the Xbox 360 so far. It's good to see that 
 we are finally starting to see some truly next-gen games. Some of the launch titles (PDZ, COD2, 
 etc.) were good looking but it was nothing compared to this. At first I didn't think I would like 
 the over-the-shoulder view but after a while it is easy to get used to. The multiplayer on this 
 game is very good as well but there are some minor glitches as far as being able to find games. 
 I think that I can say most of America agrees with me on this since 85% of my friends list is G. R. A. W. 
 I have only rented this game so far but as soon as I take it back I'm heading to my local retailer 
 to pick up a copy of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaDizzel
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 14, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  has some serious annoyances, Like respawn. If your enemy's team floods your spawn area you are 
 f*$&ed. You have and you will get people online line that will do this. Trust me its horrid. They 
 just sit there and as soon as you respawn your dead and its nothing you can do about it.
  
  Another thing is waiting in the lobby for a game to end. You should at least be able to view the 
 ingame action instead of sitting in the lobby looking and waiting for the for the clock to expire.
 
  
  Sometimes you have to fight with some serious lag, hey but thats with any game.
  
  Now the good.
  I can not explain how tight this game is. The in game visuals are unbelievable. 
 The sound is amazing and the great gameplay is there all shoved into a blender and the final result 
 was GRAW the G O A T (Greatest Of All Time)
  
  I give this game a 9.3 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evilfred22
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 14, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Listen up all! This game is just not superb. Its a keeper. This game show all of you 360 owners 
 WHY you brought a Xbox 360. I hope that seeing this game all other games that do come out are just 
 as great as this. G. R. A. W. is superb offline and online. And the best of it all is no lag. Especially 
 when you come across good host. This is a definite buy and you will not regret getting this game. 
 Dont get bother by the Drone that you get online and also seing other people screen to scout. This 
 is all good features. Man I cant beleive this game is so awsome and is definite a game you can 
 not say no to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultradrawjoe
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 15, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  GRAW, being a tactical shooter has you commanding a team, support vehicles, or sometimes even going 
 solo. This a realistic game.. that has you amazed. About one - two shots and your dead. After about 
 being shot in the foot, you'll be limping around. The support vehicles come in very handy in this 
 game, not only do they look great, they provide cover and fire support. 
  
  The graphics for this game are Breath-taking. The whole thing looks gorgeous. The city is really 
 well done and looks great when flying over it in between levels. The dynamic lighting looks really 
 awsome. The player models are very nicely done and crisp. A great realistic aspect of this game 
 is the rain. Yes, I said the rain. The rain in this game is state of the art. It is great looking 
 rain that is really pretty to look at. The bullet marks in this game is great. When you shoot a 
 wall, it looks like you shoot the wall. When you shoot metal, it makes a dent. These little things 
 makes the games look great. 
  
  The sound in this game is perfectly done. The first thing you'll notice is the footsteps. They 
 are nicely done and make you feel like your there. The bullets piercing metal, walls and your body 
 sounds realistic. The explosions look awesome and sound perfect. The moans of you or your teammates 
 being shoot. All of these things are great. The sound of tanks blow up right in front of you. Oh.. 
 the great joy of hearing a big explosion
  
  The gameplay in this game is really nice. It makes you feel great where other tactical shooters 
 fail. You feel like its complex but find it easy to use and overall fun. The one truly bad thing 
 about the game is A. I. Its pretty stupid. Well its smart on somethings, but other things, you 
 are like "what the hell are these guys doing." But overall the game's gameplay is really nice.
 
  
  The multiplayer in this game are some of the best gameplays you will find very enjoyable. With 
 over 1000 changeable elements, youll never get bored. Theres coop, campaign, Team elimination 
 and many more. There is even a little drone that will help you find enemies, this really helps 
 you alot. You can shoot them down and every thing. Overall the multiplayer will keep you playing 
 for a long time.
  
  If u have a 360 this game is a must buy game to all people trust me you will not regret buying 
 this, you will have lots of fun!! so pick this up and enjoy urself !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surferboy2177
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 14, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  This game is really the greatest Ghost recon game to ever hit shelves. This is the reason why I 
 bought a 360 to begin with in order to play games like this. The game takes place in Mexico City 
 where a conference is being held between the U. S. and Mexican Presidents and the Canadian Prime 
 Minister. Your squad is sent to the City to overlook everything and make sure nothing goes wrong. 
 Of course something does go wrong and during the conference a group of rebel insurgents launch 
 a Coup in order to overthrow the Mexican President. Since you are already on the scene your job 
 is to stop the coup and restore order to the Mexican Govt. 
  Graphically I've never seen anything so awesome. Mexico City is brought to life in beautiful detail. 
 The character models are so realistic and animate so well. The game sports a griddy look which 
 is perfect for this game and man the urban environments are so awesome.
  Game play in this game is fun, but extremely difficult. Not so much that I wasn't having fun, but 
 at times situations seemed almost impossible to pass until you figured out that one thing you have 
 to do to pass the level then you feel an awesome sense of accomplishment. Ordering your units around 
 can be complicated, but done right the outcome is so rewarding. Seeing your men shoot a rocket 
 launcher at an enemy transport while your helicopter cleans up the troops on the ground is truly 
 a thing of beauty This is a game that requires you to think fast or die.
  Sound in the game is awesome. You will hear bullets flying, rockets exploding and the shout of 
 your commands all at the same time. The sounds are absolutely incredible and so immersive.
  Value is good since the campaign is difficult and the Multiplayer is so much fun. You can have 
 several different game types like territories, objective base and your basic team death matches. 
 Theres also a great co-op mode that is a great addition to the game and adds a lot of value to 
 it.
  Overall this is my favorite Xbox 360 game I own right now and I would easily recommend it to any 
 360 owner right now. This is a must buy for those who love tactical shooters or any kind of Tom 
 Clancy game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xsplinter
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 14, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  This is game is amazing. The satisfaction of mowing down the "bad guys" is fantastic. The sound, 
 especially when you are holding a machine gun, is amazing. It feels like everything around you 
 is real. This game definately lived up to my expectations and added alot more. Its gob-smacking, 
 the beauty of this game is fantastic and is definately the best looking game made to date. This 
 game is a definately must get if you have a Xbox 360, even if you don't own a 360 this is a excuse 
 to get one! Buy this 
 
  I dont have anything more to say  
::::::

::::::
UserName: massacre20xx
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 14, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  This game is (in my opinion) the true start to next gen gaming. Amazing visuals just as amazing 
 audio and probably the most immersive title just short of Condemned. Its everything next gen should 
 be and will build upon.
  
  The single player is superb. It maintains the realism of previous GR games but throws in some cinematic 
 flair. One of the early missions demonstrates that, where it has a building in real time blow up 
 right in front of you. Soon after you find yerself among the debris with various other soldiers 
 and your squad protecting a president. Smoke feels the screen bullets whiz by in all directions 
 as gunfire and explosions give your ears a good run thru. The music starts to get grim and dramatic 
 as hopelessness sets in, when suddenly a blackhawk helicopter flies in to provide airsupport ( 
 a helicopter you can give commands to) . Its just simply amazing. 
  
  My only negative about the single player is this is a massive city, however theres not one single 
 civilian around. Wouldve added a little extra to have crowds and what not here and there.
  
  After completing the SP theres oh so much more for those who have a Live account. The MP (altho 
 taking a slight hit visually) is equally amazing and very open in options. 10 uniquely designed 
 maps, 100's of hosting options, 16 players, and a good variety of modes. The only negative about 
 MP is that its obviously meant for team MP as the maps arnt quite as vast as previous GR games. 
 So if you play solo dont expect to last long as spawn points are reletivily close. Aside from that 
 its just as great as the SP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomsten
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 14, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  my god i just came off this game and i must admit i love it. the graphics are mind blowing when 
 playing it look at the city it's just never ending very highly detailed buildings for miles! also 
 the gameplay is mind blowing just picture this taking cover behind a wall when you poke your head 
 over bullets just miss your head and you look a bit to your left and see you men checking each 
 other to see if they had been shot and really acting like real humans. the sounds of the game are 
 mind blowing too when a bomb goes off my god do you hear it. also it pretty long too if you complete 
 single player you get a nice little co-op mode and online games for example capture the flag, last 
 man standing, sharpshooter and Meany more. if i have anything to say bad about the games is that 
 the A. I seem to leave you thinking is that it, got any else to throw at me! and other times they 
 seem too smart. its a good game and anyone with a xbox 360 should buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thEsl1ck3st1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 14, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  This game is probably the best release on the 360 to date. The gameplay is outstanding, with the 
 capability of switching from third to first person view. Gameplay is easy to pick up, and it is 
 much easier to order your troops around than in previous Ghost Recon games. Graphics are outstanding, 
 as well as a storyline that is easy to follow and well integrated into the game. Online play is 
 awesome, with coop and campaign capabilities through Xbox Live. If I were to recommend two games 
 to a new buyer of a 360, I would recommedn Call of Duty 2, and Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoke89
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 14, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfare or GRAW is the latest addition to Tom Clancy's arsenal and definitely 
 the most impressive. You are thrown into Mexico City to protect and end up saving the presidents 
 of the United States, Canada, and Mexico.
  
  The campaign in GRAW is very solid other than the fact Ghost AI is relatively stupid. GRAW also 
 offers beautiful and enormous level design in the campaign and multiplayer. The lighting is also 
 very impressive even though it can make visibility a problem at times. You wont have to endure 
 loading times either except at the beginning to load your game. All loads take place in a APC or 
 helicopter as you are transferred and briefed on your next location. The squad command is a bit 
 of a mix between Republic Commando and Brothers in Arms and works quite effectively when you squad 
 carries out your orders properly.
  
  GRAW offers a lot on the multiplayer aspects as well. Co-op, solo, and team variations along with 
 all the kits and weapon variety create a vast number of multiplayer options. Some maps are far 
 too large to play with just a few friends at home in versus but co-op is always entertaining. 
 
  
  All in all GRAW is an outstanding game and is something Xbox 360 needed. A great third person shooter 
 showing what this consol can really do. Pick it up or at least rent it and give it a try.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingboywonder
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2006 6:51 am PT
Review:  graw for xbox 360 is by far the best game i have seen graphic wise for the system yu get realy 
 used to the controlls and you will love the 3rd person mode it make it more lifelike now if you 
 have xbox live the game gets even better you can have 8 of you friends and compete a campain mission 
 to gether or thers ctf and my favorite death match in the story mode you will get to shoot a machean 
 gun out of a black hawk and thats pretty cool the team comands are so easy i love it cuz i was 
 never good at that this game makes that fun to use u will run in to smarter ai when you get about 
 half way through the game but it get even better you can get gamer points online and off and change 
 you persons look only for oline play so go buy this game every one will love it your brother even 
 you friends will want to come to your house because thats were the party is at 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaBy_69
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 14, 2006 6:47 am PT
Review:  G. R. A. W is arguebly the best for Xbox 360 right now (can't wait for ES IV: Oblivion!) The graphics 
 are amazing specially when your riding in the Apache and u can see basically all Mexico city. The 
 detail is perfect except for a few pop on pop off graphics then and there. The gameplay fits the 
 game nicely but can be just a little bit frustrating. The sound is great but not perfect. The replay 
 value is only an 8 because there isnt a great amount of it. Online play is great. The storyline 
 is also stellar and u can almost figure out whats going on but its just one of those games that 
 u no the storyline has been worked on with alot of effort. All in all G. R. A. W is a great game and 
 is a must buy for 360 gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Howard23
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 14, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  This is my first time playing the Ghost Recon Series. All I can say is wow. I love this game. I 
 am a huge Splinter Cell fan so I figured I would give this one a try. I was not disappointed at 
 all. The graphics are incredible and the game play is challenging. Being that this was my first 
 time playing, it took me a little longer to get the controls down. In particular commanding my 
 squad, but WOW! was it fun will I learned. I'm looking forward to the online tournaments. I've 
 lost a lot of sleep with this one and loved every minute of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingSwampy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 14, 2006 5:58 am PT
Review:  Ok this is a review of just the single player as I haven't been able to get online yet. Also this 
 is a very short review as I have to go out in a minute.
  
  After playing it a lot over the last few days I'll give the single player 9.0/10
  
  Things 
 I don't like,
  
  Not being able to choose your own weapons when you select a mission from the mission list is very 
 annoying.
  
  The AI is pretty bad.
  
  Enemies are always in the same place every game, making second and third replays of the game very 
 easy.
  
  Things I like,
  
  The graphics and sound are awesome, special mention goes to the explosions, the recreation of Mexico 
 city and the animations of the main character.
  
  Shooting people in this game is very satisfying.
  
  Wide open levels with plenty of different 
 routes to take, nice.
  
  A nice variety of levels, and the game is long enough I think at about ten hours.
  
  Told you 
 it was a short review... to sum up this is a good shooter that is rightly being called the first 
 "next gen" game on XBOX 360. If you like any of the previous Clancy games like Rainbow six or Splinter 
 cell I would recommend you get this, as it's better than those I think.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ij2band
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 14, 2006 4:32 am PT
Review:  Why do they keep throwing Tom Clancy's name around? He was an INSURANCE SALESMAN people. His knowledge 
 of the military is about as good as my knowledge of brain surgery. I'm a submariner, and his books 
 that mentioned US Submarines were just laughable. Back to the game...
  I had a few issues with this game, first off, you can't just duck behind something and use it as 
 cover. Once you move close enought you kind of get 'stuck' to the wall and have to push a button 
 or move the controller a little extra to leave cover. You can only pull off a leaning move while 
 stuck to cover as well. This can get annoying in a firefight.
  My next dislike was switching weapons. It's just not intuitive. I love being one button away from 
 using a grenade or zooming in with my scope... well not in this game. You actually have to hit a 
 button, select the grenade option, THEN select what type of grenade to use... in the middle of getting 
 shot at, this can tend to be annoying.
  My last problem with this game is the night vision and how blurry it is. I hate to spoil this for 
 people, but our current night vision is leaps and bounds beyond this... and this game is taking 
 place in 2013? So for some reason we went back to almost Vietnam Era night vision? Come on... it's 
 the future, enough with the blur.
  On the plus side... the graphics ( aside from night vision ) are astounding. Playing this game on 
 a big screen HDTV is phenominal. If you haven't had a chance to do it, find a way... even if you 
 have to go to BestBuy or some other store to do it... it IS worth it.
  The digital surround actually makes you feel like you're in a firefight. You can hear footsteps 
 from behind, and bullets flying by.
  The story line is believable and engrossing... although some of the missions are ten different shades 
 of frustrating ( and there are tricks to them ) .
  This game is challenging and can be frustrating at times, but it's NOT the next Halo 3. It just 
 doesn't have the ease of control/fluidity that Halo manages. It's a good game overall, but I'd 
 give the edge to Call of Duty 2, just a more natural use of the OUTSTANDING 360 controller.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: quelafook
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 13, 2006 9:35 pm PT
Review:  if you dont have this game then u need to get it.... its by far the best game out for the 360.. the 
 graphics are real nice and the fighting is awesome.. its like old ghost recons but better since 
 u get support from the air and the ground with high tech weapons that help u defeat the enemy.. 
 missions are relatively hard but with time they can be beaten... and wow online is even better 
 the levels are great not so much lag and cheating.... there are some bugs in the game but they do 
 not ruin the game... there are many gametypes to play on and the game is just a blast.. get it and 
 go online for some fun!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T00HuMaN
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 14, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  This is defintly the Best Ghost Recon game ever!! The graphics are amazing, the sound is awesome! 
 everything is great! the game runs very smoothly! The story mode is very fun and keeps you in the 
 action. A wonderful tachical shooter bu controlling a squad can get annoying after a while but the 
 story has mixed missions so you dont always have to controll ur troops! And for the online... superb! very 
 fun team play!!!! awesome maps! The only small problem with this game is that the light from the 
 sun can be a bit bright at times but nothing game stopping! so no worrys! great ranking system! 
 everything is sweet! this is worth the $60 all the wayyyyyy.... so go get your copy of this game 
 right now! my gamertag is: ball3pthotshot if you need help or just want to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaboose111
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 13, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  ok well to start out its nothing like the old Ghost Recon its so much better. its kinda like a 
 mix of socom and full spectrum warrior those are the two games i can compare it to. the game is 
 difficult to learn but its a good pace learning game very quickly u can understand and then hone 
 ur skills after practice. squad commands are easy and the ability to command tanks apaches and 
 apcs is awesome. the no squad missions are a little hard they throw alot more enemies at u and 
 darker areas kind of annoying but its ok. the one thing i like bout the game is u dont get annoyed 
 when u die cause u learn something not to do. o and i think its the first military game that u 
 can slide and dive behind cover o and did i mention this game is unbelievablely realistic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatam
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2006 7:02 pm PT
Review:  The Good!
  - The Graphics are the best i have ever seen.
  - The controls are close to perfect.
  - Single player and multiplayer are both amazing.
  - 
 The details in the city and lighting are the best ever.
  - Hands down the best 360 game yet.
  - The game sounds wicked in both stero and surround sound.
 
  - The story is really brought out well.
  - The multiplyer and co-op levels are really well made.
  
  The Bad!
  Are you kidding me?
 
  
  If you don't already own this game, go buy it cause it would be a crime not wo own this next-gen 
 gem. Great sound, controls, and graphics, what else do you want? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eppy105
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Ok, let me start out by saying this. I did not like the 360 when i first bought it. I had gotten 
 a whole bunch of games for it, and I didn't see how they looked that much better then the original 
 xbox. Well, no games came out for a LONG time, and then this came, as the fourht new game for the 
 360. I bought it. I thought "This will dicide everything. If I like it, I will keep my 360, If 
 I dont then I sell it." I was considering selling my 360. Well after playing it for 3 days straight, 
 i couldn't believe I was going to trade my 360 in. The game is just compltley stunning. The graphics 
 are incredible. The gameplay is spectaculer. The sound is stopendous. Everything is just great. 
 The entire game is solid. No, it's not solid, it's beyond solid. It's perfect. If you dont have 
 this, go get it. What are you waiting for. Clancy fans and shooters fans alike will love this. 
 Better then any other Tom Clancy game, better then, dare I say it, Halo. It is not only a shooter, 
 it also involves strategy. If you read some of my other reviews, you will see that I love games 
 that involve startegy. Sure, blowing people up once and a while is fun, but the strategy adds a 
 completly new twist for the old shooter. So calling this game perfect is an understatement. This 
 is definatly one of the best games I have ever played. Possibly the best. Go buy this now, lock 
 yourself in a room for 3 days, and play this. You will not be able to stop playing this. The ghosts 
 are back, and they are flawless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youtha5
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 13, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  G. R. A. W. is probably the best game out there for the xbox 360 this game combines realism and intensity 
 together to bring you the best gaming experience ever. After playing this game it felt so refreshing 
 to play such a great game when now days there are so many mediocre games out there. In GRAW you 
 fight as a Captain of a team of Ghosts in Mexico City in the year 2018. In Mexico City you fight 
 mexican rebels that are fighting to take over the embassy and capture the presidents. The gameplay 
 in GRAW is simply amazing and you feel like your actually fighting for the military and feel like 
 your using military tactics as you take cover behind a building and fire pot shots at the enemy 
 while you order your ghosts to provide cover fire. There is nothing like running through the streets 
 of Mexico City and taking cover from wall to wall and peeking around the corners to check for enemys. 
 And then running to the next available cover with your Ghosts only to find the enemy and you quickly 
 fire a couple of shots from a broken down car which you take cover in. The enemy fires back causing 
 chunks of metal to fly out and pieces of broken cement flying out at your face. THIS IS GRAW trust 
 me th is game is worth getting, plus the multiplayer is also great and allows hours of fun play. 
 And did i say the graphics ARE AMAZING and there are no load times AT ALL!!! The city is amazing!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chiefinator
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 13, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  This game first of all is the best game out for the 360 and will be for a while so if you are thinking 
 you may want this... or wait for another game, get this one because it has great graphics and the 
 gameplay is awoesome! The guns are relatively the same from summit strike but considering its only 
 a few years into the future not many improvements should be made. This game has some subtle improvements 
 like being able to dive or slide instead of stopping and getting into crouch/prone. The missions 
 are very addicting and keep your attention through the game. The multiplayer is great, i have encountered 
 absolutely no lag and i have a fairly slow connection. I haven't found out if this game has clans 
 or not but it is on game battles and for only 400 microsoft points you can put ur clan tag on ur 
 name. You also don't loose many of your privelages from the campaign, a very neat feature is the 
 ability to watch your team mates in a small screen on your t. v. this game overall is great and 
 worth the 60 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdangel
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 13, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Ubisoft has been a company that for years has prided itself on tactical millitary shooters, Splinter 
 Cell, Rainbow Six, and the Ghost Recon Series. The Splinter Cell games really took off, and so 
 did the Rainbow Six titles as of late, but Ghost Recon has stayed quite, now it comes back in all 
 it's glory in what is now the deffinitive Xbox 360 Title.
  
  Singleplayer: Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a bit different from all it's predessor's. Sporting 
 a new 2nd Person view and major graphical upgrades. The campagin follows Ghost Captain Mitchell 
 and his squad as they franticaly try to find the Mexican and American presidents after a terrorist 
 attack at a confrence in Mexico City. The first thing you will notice is just wow, everything looks 
 amazing, these are some of the best graphics in any game to date, Fear, Half Life 2, Doom 3, just 
 one look and you'll be convinced, Ghost Recon is the best looking game on the block. The new second 
 person view had me questioning this title, but it's really a plus more than a minus, the cammera 
 is at just the right spot where actually it's better like that than in first person. You get a 
 large array of weapons, which Ubisoft nevr let's us down on, the M60, PSG-1, the new MC-R all return 
 in this latest intallment.
  
  Multiplayer: Though it's not the heart and soul of the game, it's most deffinently one of it's 
 vital pieces. It has Live support, which is never a bad thing, your standard deathmatch and other 
 modes. But perhaps the coolest online feature is the objective based missions that will have teams 
 competing against one another to complete certain objectives (destroy that, cature this, etc.) 
 that mode is probably what makes the online shine the most.
  
  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a much needed update to a forgetten about franchise, and is 
 the reson that everyone should own a 360. Although this game won't explode into a Halo phenomenon, 
 it is a title not to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaincompost
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 13, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  GRAW has a good campaign, awesome multiplayer, and even cooler xbox live games. It is a test of 
 true skill and brains. It requires both strategy and aggression, just as Halo or Halo 2 does. However, 
 GRAW needs to allow the player to change the look sensitivity on the game, to me it seems too fast. 
 The computer slows the sensitivity when in zoom but I think that the game would improve in multiplayer 
 if that aspect was variable. Also, I think that close range fire needs to be tweaked to where you 
 can end up running beside each other. It makes the game less enjoyable and bases kills on luck 
 rather than aim. Another problem that GRAW is having is with xbox live games that have 12-16 people 
 in them. Since this game isn't as popular as Halo2 maybe xbox live didn't plan on such massive 
 multiplayer games. I do love the fact that ther are so many weapons and maps, but I think there 
 could be more support weapons, sniper rifles, and hopefully in the future maybe some new maps. 
 Not that these are getting old, but with such simple design and symmetry, these maps can easily 
 be memorized and give many people an unfair upper hand to new comers. I think that this is one 
 of the best games ever made and I will be happy if they leave the game as it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kutmen55
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 29, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is damned good. Graphics are top notch, sound is perfect and it was most definitley worth 
 the wait. If you are a GHOST RECON fan, it is most definitley worth buying. I love it and play 
 it all the damn time... well almost all the damn time. The campain is cool and the multiplayer is 
 addictive. And it is soo much more difficult to survive too. There are a few features in campain 
 that you cannot do in mp. In campaign, you can "stick" to cover like in Perfect Dark Zero but you 
 cant do this in mp, you can run and basically perform a baseball slide which is not possible in 
 mp and you can dive pretty damn far, you can do this in mp too but not near as far. Anyway, the 
 one and only thing that drives me nuts about this game is when you reload, the clip or the box 
 magazine will not eject and your character puts nothing in your weapon either, he'll just move 
 his hand and make it look like there is something in his hand. I figured this would be gone since 
 it's on the 360 but its not. Other than that, it is a solid game. And whatever happened to those 
 other visions that you were supposed to get? And i have no clue why they even have the word recon 
 in the title. it should be TOM CLANCY'S GHOST FIRE TEAM: ADVANCED WARFIGHTER. You do more firefights 
 than any kind of recon. I hope that they come out with a patch where you can go in water too, for 
 mp. you can go in the water but not very deep. on a mp map called rocky coast, you can walk a few 
 feet out into the ocean but not into a medium sized puddle on the map. Well, thats it. BUY THIS 
 GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterchief0292
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 13, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  The long awaited sequel to ghost recon 2, the game has changed alot from the last ghost recon, 
 it is set in the not to far future in the year 2013, the prime minister's has been captured the 
 country is war torn same predictable war video game excuse to blow stuff up. But what makes graw 
 so much different it how much fun it is, I have never played a game where it felt so real you will 
 be walking thinking the area is cleared "boom" the car next too you blow up it is almost a draining 
 experence how intense the combat is. The weapons are the same ak47, 36k's but you have a special 
 hud in the game where you can see what your teamates see, you will get video feeds from your friends 
 in the sky. The game it appsolutley a must have everything from singal player two multiplayer co 
 op seems polished and has that ubisoft touch this is a must have for any xbox 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youdie15
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 13, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Ahhhhh yes graw. I know what your thinking this game isnt as good as the hype sais it is. Well 
 thats where you are wrong my friend this game rules. The one flaw of this game is the slightly 
 dumb AI. Everything else is amazing. The graphics are phenomanal the sound is booming and the multiplayers 
 addictingly fun. The single player is tough but not to tough. I could go on and on for many paragraphs 
 about how good this game is but you dont need that. This is al you have to know BUY GRAW now. Nuff 
 said Nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desaimastaflash
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 13, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  GRAW is a great game. It is better than I expected. I have played the other games in the Ghost 
 Recon Series and thought that most were good, but I wasn't overly impressed with any of them. I 
 am impressed with this game. The graphics are great. The buildings and the vehicles are really 
 realistic and the city itself is amazing. One review said that it felt erie that there were no 
 civilians, and that is true because the graphics are soo good. However, you forget about this quickly 
 when the first bad guys start shooting at you and you realize that it is pretty easy to die if 
 you don't tread carefully. Any complaints I have with the game are minor. I wish they would give 
 you more information on each of the weapons you can choose so that you could compare them to each 
 other. Each weapon does come with a description, but if two guns have the same description, it 
 would be nice to have a rating of each attribute so you know when it says both are mildly accurate, 
 you know which is more accurate. Also, I wish it were easier to control individual team mates. 
 I actually haven't figured it out. Of the three men that are part of your team, I want to be able 
 to send each in different directions, instead of all three going together. This game is really 
 good and looks great on my HDTV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mafia217
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 13, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a kick butt game lol!!! If you are a Ghost Recon fan who has 
 all of them, this is a great addittion to your collection! The graphics are awesome and smooth, 
 along with everything else!! The gameplay is way more awesome, the AI units are so frigging awesome 
 and smart-er! lol. The environment is more real-interactive. The multiplayer is also an upgrade 
 of awesomeness. The sound effects are also neat Yay! Well if you are thinking on buying this game, 
 go ahead, BUY IT! lol. This game will knock your brain out! What are you waiting for go check it 
 out!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fallen_Zen
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 13, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  There is really no need to say a lot. This is must have for all Ghost Recon's fans out there and 
 for those that love military games. Graphics are really jaws dropping and multiplayer just rocks. 
 If you're not sure about buying G. R. A. W. then download from Gamespot all of the HD videos which 
 are simply amazing. Too bad this game was not a starting title for Xbox 360. Pitty the PC players 
 as they'll have to wait until May to play this amazing game! I know one thing for sure, I am gonna 
 play it for very long time! Move out soldiers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenjaminhoppe
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 13, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is the best looking and just all around best Xbox 360 game to date. 
 The graphics are the best out of any Xbox 360 game that I have played. The single player games 
 will take you about 10 hours to finish, and if you want to get all the achievements you could play 
 it through a second time on hard (if you didn't do that the first time) . The single player was 
 so much fun that I can see myself playing through it again anyway. The cross com shows you what's 
 going on through the eyes of your squad or other assets you have like tanks, drones, a helo, and 
 so on. On your heads up display (HUD) , you will be able to see red, green, or blue diamonds that 
 show where you enemies (red) , team mates (blue) , and vehicles (green) are. At first I thought it 
 would cheapen the experience, but grew to love it. But, if you don't like the feature it can be 
 truned of via the x button and slecting the diamond, which I did for a few levels to try to make 
 things a bit more challenging. There are a couple problems I should note with the single player. 
 For starters I ran accross a problems with my Ghost vanishing. It only happened once, and after 
 I went back to my last save and never ran into the problem again. The other big thing is the Ghost 
 AI. They will do what you tell them for the most part, but they won't really take actions like 
 going for cover unless you tell them to. But, it really didn't kill the game for me at it. The 
 game is fun it play while keeping them on the side lines more of the time, but you won't have a 
 bad time if you let them ride along, you just have to mind what they are doing if things get hot. 
 Now, moving on to multiplayer... I've already said so much about solo I don't want to go on and 
 on. Well, lets just say there are a ton of options and it is a bunch of fun. You can even play 
 up to 16 players in co-op. The co-op adds 4 levels that you don't get in single player and the 
 difficulty and number of adversaries scales with how many players you have. The rest of the multiplayer 
 is what you would expect from Ghost Recon. There are tons of options, the maps are great and well 
 thought out (even though there are only 8) . This game is not a run and gun game, it really pays 
 to think about the situation you are in and use cover when the option is there (which is almost 
 everywhere) . Not only is this the best Xbox 360 game, but one of the best games I've played in 
 a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BenSr
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 13, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Ghost Recon for some time. Started playing on pc, have all the series I believe. 
 I am a fan of the game. 
  It's expected that there be something add new ot a game when a new series comes out as some changes. 
 As I experianced with GR2 and GR Summit on Xbox. 
  So what happened with Ghost Recon Advance Warfare? The game has some cool graphics, but isn't the 
 360 suppose to have great graphics? Wasn't that the hype about the 360 ? So Why should 360 owners 
 expect anything less than great graphics?
  From watching the trailers I got the feeling of a tight team. Where did they go on my game disk? 
 I do more running around trying to keep them out of trouble, than I have to with my grandkids when 
 they come over!! These so called teams are pretty bad. This wouldn't be so frustrating if the enemy 
 was as dumb, but they're not, the enemy is pretty much on with their stuff. 
  In GR 2 you were able to play missions with Mitchell wearing thiss pretty neat advance warfare 
 outfit. What happened with the uniform in this so called Advance Warfare. I don't feel it's anywhere 
 as impressive as in GR2. 
  Oh Ya! The cool things to do . That radar thing isn't any good unless your on top of the enemy 
 yourself, so what real use is it ? Tanks and Armored vechcles, sure they're fun to chase around 
 , while your chasing your teams down like little kids that are lost. You kind of like got to put 
 everyone in one spot and check an area out before moving in with your team. You need to find a 
 good spot to fight from and watch your team mates to keep them out of trouble, and in the mean 
 time kind of like tell the vechiclesHey, Shoot something". 
  The infered body heat seeking vision, is more like Ghost Buster's Blob vision, not to impressive. 
 Like the weapons the enemy has that can shoot over hills and around corners. I really like the 
 fact that I can FLY! Yes I have a fly mode, pretty cool. It happens while in the prone position 
 and I crawl forward, the next thing I know, I'm flying threw the air spread eagle, be cooler if 
 I could shoot.
  Asides from it's few faults, the game will keep you on your toes. It's all up to you ! Not the 
 other fools! I don't expect to blow threw this game as I did the others. Might be able to move 
 faster if I didn't have to baby sit, Kind of think this game could be called Ghost Recon's Captin 
 Mitchell and his Misfits HaHa! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: byrdnerd
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 13, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  The Good: GRAW is a beautiful action shooter for the Xbox 360 that no gamer should miss (if you 
 are a fan of the genre) . The graphics on this game are simply amazing. From it's fantasic enviroments 
 and realistic character models every player will feel like they are in urban warfare. The sounds 
 in this game are hard hitting, the explosions will rock your sound system. The voice acting is 
 superb, which is what you expect from a Clancy game. Commanding your troops is fun but commanding 
 Apache helicopters and tanks are awesome! I've never played the Ghost Recon games before but judging 
 by this one I'll be checking them out for now on!
  
  The Bad: Well, I've guess you've noticed that I didn't rate this game a 10. Here's why: although 
 the graphics are fantastic in GRAW, sometimes due to the detail and lighting it is very difficult 
 to see. I found my self being killed many times because of difficulty trying to find the enemy. 
 I know this adds to the realism but when you don't get many checkpoints it can sometimes be very 
 frustrating. Which leads to another complaint, there simply aren't enough Ammo boxes and Relay 
 points (which both replenish health) through out missions. The AI of your troops can be very dimwitted, 
 like standing in your line of fire or not follow orders do to a glitch. Also, I wish the commands 
 could be issued more like Freedom Fighters were you can send commands to indivdual soilders. While 
 the comrade AI is slow witted the enemy AI can sometimes be to smart. They have almost perfect 
 aim rarely missing a shot so you'll find yourself struggling to stay alive through long missions.
 
  
  The Ugly: Having to start an entire mission over due to lack of check points. You'll see what I 
 mean. 
  
  Final: This game is good, real good. So if you find yourself hungry for a nice tactical shooter 
 for your 360, GRAW will not disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derrico_8448
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 14, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  To start it off, the graphics are amazing. The helicopter rides are probably the best showcase 
 of graphics to hit the 360. Th streets are perfectly textured and so are the buildings. Your comrades 
 are also fun to look at.
  
  The game too is surprisingely fun to play. I dislike all of the other ghost recon games. They were 
 just to strategic. This game requires stragtegy, AND a trigger happy gamer. ^_^ The online however 
 has a few issues. Starting off with how frggin long it takes to load the servers! And then when 
 they FINALLY load up, you'll often go into a server thats in-game so you wait around 15 minutes. 
 Plus, all of the stratehy needed to go through the single player camapign is LOST. You just fire 
 before the other guy. IT's still fun though.
  
  The sound is good. You hear helicopters, tank shells exploding and cool sounding rifles. What more 
 is there to Say???
  
  G. T.
  darth norris84 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErikB0869
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  I like it in general, but the AI leaves a little bit to be desired. I especially found the AI of 
 the civilian characters to be frustrating. Here I am trying to protect the Mexican president in 
 a firefight, and what does the idiot do? He walks out (and stays) in the line of fire! Uh, hellloooo... 
 Don't you think that most civilians would be smart enough to duck for cover even after taking a 
 peek? 
  
  I didn't have as much of a problem with the fact that there aren't any civilians roaming about 
 the city (of 9 million people, no less) , as I could go with the theory of the whole city being 
 under martial law, or something like that. However, I do have to admit that it is a little weird 
 in that there just aren't ever any civilians in the game (other than the VIP's) . The presence of 
 civilians would have made the door-gunner missions even more challenging, especially if there was 
 mission failure as a result of tagging any of them. Again, though, this is still a very good game, 
 and it should definitely be on your wish list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DesmondPills
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  First off I think its important to bring up any issues that I found could have been a little more 
 thought through or implemented a little better. For the record, any gripe I have with anything 
 in this game is so minimal that I really don't pay attention to it once playing. However, constructive 
 criticism is a good thing when it comes to video games.
  
  The Slightly Less than Amazing part (s) :
  
  In multiplayer I find it frustrating usually that 
 I can not back up against a wall as in single player for cover or for stealth reasons. Peering 
 around a corner without being spotted etc. Some of my online friends have said that this was done 
 to reduce the amount of camping and have the online play be faster paced. This makes zero sense 
 to me as GR is not supposed to be fast pace like your Halo or CS. Any GR fan can attest that careful 
 planning and teamwork is the most exciting part of the multiplayer experience (for me atleast) . 
 This plays true all the way back to the first GR.
  
  More character customization would have been greatly accepted. Nothing like suiting up your own 
 character the way you want during both single and multiplayer. This feature could possibly affect 
 the difficulty of the mission depending on what setup you have configured for ammo storage etc. 
 on your character. Just a thought though.
  
  Now for the Amazing parts (which entail the entire game) :
  
  Everything in this game really 
 stands out whether its the explosions from vehicles or rockets... down the the texture on the building 
 walls in Old Town. Or how the environment darkens when those clouds pass in front of the sun (see 
 the level Nowhere for a great example of this) . Every aspect is polished nicely and completely... if 
 you see it in one level... its going to be in the next making the virtual world your in seem a little 
 less virtual. All the visuals and draw distances are great. The reaction to entering a bright area 
 outdoors from a dark indoors spot is really something... the pupil dilates as it would if you walked 
 outside on a sunny day. Overall the visuals are what the next-gen games should look like. Stunning.
 
  
  Aside from visuals, sound is the next important factor. There is literally a different sound for 
 each wall, car, bench etc. If you shoot a street sign your going to hear what shooting a street 
 sign sounds like versus shooting a brick wall. This is executed extremely well and again just adds 
 to that real factor. You will hear firing in the distance which is muffled making you feel like 
 your in the middle of a warzone (you are) surrounded by enemies. Its very cool to have it be pouring 
 rain and you crawl inside a pipe and hear the rain drops hitting the pipe versus the sound you 
 would hear if you were out in the rain. Lets put it this way... the sound alone is enough for me 
 atleast to love this game just as much even if the visuals weren't right on.
  
  Gameplay is solid and easily, I would say learned in about an hour of constant play, understood. 
 Switching from your squad to vehicle commands are easy and straightforward. The weapons are all 
 easily accesible in the heat of a fight. Remember, depending on your character class, reloading 
 and accuracy are affected when playing. Just think of the original GR's, now use a controller instead 
 of Keyboard and your set. 
  
  A final thought is this on G. R. A. W., if you are an avid tactical shooter fan, you have no excuse 
 not to get this game. My trivial issues that I addressed are in no way a deciding factor for purchasing 
 this game. Do yourself a favor and stay occupied till later this year easily with G. R. A. W. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  I had been looking forward to playing this game when I first read about it, probably about 9 months 
 ago. It was pre-ordered at the same time I pre-ordered my 360 and I was very disappointed when 
 it was not ready at launch.
  
  But I can say that the delay has been worth the wait, this is the game that the 360 needed to show 
 everyone the potential that the system has. It is great, in every sense and one that will keep 
 you coming back for more and more for a very long time.
  
  The first thing that hits you when you jump into the campaign is just how amazing everything looks. 
 It is set in Mexico and the developers have done an amazing job with the look and feel of the environment. 
 It really does look realistic and gives a sense that you really are wandering around these hot 
 and desolate streets.
  
  Then the action starts happening. In single player you can't just go running into a situation, 
 you have to think about your every move and then plan and then think some more. I have never been 
 in a war but I imagine this is how it would be. Always on edge, never letting your guard down for 
 a minute and always trying to find a way to move forward without exposing yourself or your team.
 
  
  It is very exciting wandering around these streets. The AI of your team members and the enemy is 
 spot on and it is amazing to watch them running around, diving behind cover and trying to flank 
 you all the time. Giving orders to your team is as easy as pointing to where you want them to go 
 with the cursor and clicking a button. You also get to control a UAV (like a remote controlled 
 flying camera) , helicopter gunships, tanks etc and it is very simple to do.
  
  The controls are very intuitive and do not take long to get to grips with. So the single player 
 campaign is very good, plenty to do and as I found, it is not a chore to go through and do them 
 again, just to get a better score.
  
  Now we come to the multi-player side. This is absolutely stunning. It is a totally different style 
 of gameplay, here the more agressive and gung ho you are the better the result you will get.
  
  All the maps are different and cater just for the multi-player game and there are plenty of 
 different game types to choose and play. My favourite so far has to be co-op missions where you 
 and your friends can help each other to work through the missions. It is just great fun.
  
  So this, in my opinion, is a masterpiece and just what the 360 needed. There is so much to see 
 and do it will keep you coming back for more for a very long time indeed. If you own a 360, you 
 need to buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjenkins78
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  I'll keep this to the point, GRAW is the best game on the XBOX 360. It does, however, have a few 
 minor issues that seem to have escaped every review I've read so far. None of these are very serious 
 mind you, but I was a *little* disappointed.
  
  1. There was a lot of talk from the press regarding this revolutionary UAV. A flying drone that 
 can scout ahead for you. I agree, it is awesome and adds a new dynamic to the gameplay BUT you 
 don't get to use it very often in the single player game.
  
  2. Controlling your squad, the UAV, a tank, and a helicopter at the same time is tricky. I found 
 that switching between all your support people wasn't fast enough, the screen takes too long to 
 animate.
  
  3. During multiplayer you lose the ability to press up against walls and objects for cover. What's 
 with that? This is by far one of the most innovative aspects of the gameplay and we don't get to 
 use it? Not cool.
  
  4. If you're used to playing Ghost Recon 2 (or Summit Strike) , the controls are going to challenge 
 you while you get used to them. This was probably a lot worse for me because I played a lot of 
 GR2 right before I picked up GRAW.
  
  5. Every once in a while, you'll start off a new level and not be able to pick a new primary weapon. 
 You'll be stuck with whatever weapon you had at the end of the last mission.
  
  6. There are no rifle statistics, trial and error are the only ways to figure out what kind of 
 weapon will fit your play style. This is even more apparent in split screen multiplayer.
  
  7. I did experience one glitch where I was stuck in the crouch position and had to restart the 
 mission. It only happened the one time. I have heard, however, that other people have also experienced 
 an odd issue with the game.
  
  So that's about it. Yes, some of those are petty... but they all either surprised me or disappointed 
 me. With all that being said, GRAW is the best reason to own an XBOX 360. I highly recommend this 
 game to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apoc112
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 13, 2006 8:39 am PT
Review:  The new Ghost Recon is one of the most innovative and technically sound games I've ever come across. 
 Granted, it has a few bugs that people have found in the multiplayer, but they are patchable (i 
 assume) , so that won't be reflected in my review.
  
  Graphically, this game is one of the most realistic looking presentations ever. The city is ridiculously 
 expansive and the draw distance looks great with the haze and fog effects. The shadows leave a 
 little to be desired, but they're such an afterthought when you see the crisp textures they're 
 being drawn against that it doesn't matter much anyway.
  
  Gameplay is amazing and the level of control of your character is nearly flawless. Ordering your 
 team to correct positions and actions takes some practice if they battlefield isn't flat, but it 
 all comes with experience. I wish there was a little more customizability in the controls.... every 
 other game i play, X reloads, A is the action button, Y changes weapons, etc... granted, this isn't 
 just another FPS, but there's really no reason these buttons couldn't be swapped. Unfortunately, 
 Ubisoft thought otherwise, so going back and forth between COD2 and Ghost Recon means that for 
 the first minute of a match, i feel like a g** d*** retard (jumping randomly while toting a gun 
 with no bullets) . You'll have that...
  
  The sound in the game is top-notch. The battle sounds like gunshots and explosions are mapped really 
 well for surround sound and they come across clean and distinctive. someone shooting across the 
 map really sounds like they're shooting from across a field. There's a slightly noticable delay 
 and echo that just makes it eerily realistic. Guns all have a disctinct tone and you can tell they 
 did their homework when creating the weapons... even the different classes of the same rifle sound 
 different (lightweight models sound like you're shooting a smaller casing from a less powerful 
 rifle, etc) . Environmental sounds are also awesome. I love the flies in your peripheral when you're 
 lurking in allies with garbage bags and wet streets and the way even footsteps are dampened by 
 the rain in Dry Dock. Your team gets a little repetitive when given multiple move orders, but there 
 are only so many things you want to hear on the battlefield anyway. They're curt and professional, 
 just like a highly trained soldier should be.
  
  All in all, i think with a simple patch (which ubi has always been good about in their PC games, 
 so i expect one for 360) , this could easily be the best game i have ever gotten my hands on, simply 
 because the experience is so realistic and visceral that i find myself swearing at the enemies 
 in single player and sitting in multiplayer for hours on end (multiplayer is absolutely amazing, 
 by the way) . I think any fan of a realistic war game with a fun and fair feel to it will be hooked 
 immediately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hilldd
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 13, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  Graphics..
  The graphics are really good.. Alot of attention to detail here.. However, if you don't look really 
 close you will forget to notice that there are no civilians.. Everything looks really good..
  
  Music and Sound.. 
  Well I usually just turn off the music but after playing it for a couple 
 of days now it is still on, so the music must be bearable.. There are some good games sound effects.. 
 If you play really close attention you can hear shell casing hit..
  
  There is no doubt that the game is a solid winner, however here is a list of things that I have 
 struggled with..
  
  A group of fanatics had a session first thing so no one would have an advantage over the other.. 
 We found it limited in play.. There was only like 4 campagin maps to play.. And not many more CO-OP 
 mulitplayer maps.. I guess through single player you unlock more.. Another thing, we liked looking 
 at our stats, couldn't figure out where that was or if it has been omitted.. We couldn't go from 
 map to map without changing the settings.. Couldn't find the automatic swicth.. 
  
  There is no doubt that I am going to continue playing the game.. Maybe I can find the missing features 
 then.. 
  
  There alot of new additions to the game.. You can control tanks, and helos.. You don't drive or 
 fly them just issue commands to take out tank, APC, or other vehicles.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steff3121
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2006 7:04 am PT
Review:  I thought Call of Duty 2 had good graphics... these are some of the best ever. You play a guy on 
 the ghost recon named Mitchell, and you're the captain. As the captain, you command a group of 
 subordinates (which you pick) to fight for you. The game can become quite confusing, because some 
 of the buttons do similar things. You'll get the hang of it, though, and when you do, it turns 
 into a wonderful experience. The enemy A. I. is pretty smart; they'll take cover, lob grenades to 
 move around, and even try and flank you. Sometimes YOUR squad members are a little dumb, but that 
 just means that you have to retry. My reccomendation; play the game on hard mode; you'll go down 
 after one shot, just like in real life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Untitled-One
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 13, 2006 6:27 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advance Warfighter absolutly blew me away, i thought it was going to be a game like 
 cod2 and pdz but its more then i expected congrats for you GRAW dunno how they do it but i love 
 this game, but the other series wasn't as good as GRAW - Ghost Recon Advance Warfighter absolutly 
 blew me away, i thought it was going to be a game like cod2 and pdz but its more then i expected 
 congrats for you GRAW dunno how they do it but i love this game, but the other series wasn't as 
 good as GRAW - Ghost Recon Advance Warfighter absolutly blew me away, i thought it was going to 
 be a game like cod2 and pdz but its more then i expected congrats for you GRAW dunno how they do 
 it but i love this game, but the other series wasn't as good as GRAW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DirtyAl
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 13, 2006 6:01 am PT
Review:  Whats Good...
  After a night of struggle and extensive footwork, I managed to get a hold of an XBOX 360 and a 
 couple of games... I am having a blast... I traded in a bunch of games and had store credit and 
 then I ran into an issue- what game should I buy? I took a game and picked up ghost recon. I am 
 mainly a sports guy and maybe a fighter but I gave it a shot. I can tell you from start, I am not 
 ready for war and I realized that being a solider is deeper than grabbing a gun and running and 
 shooting.. I entered the mode, cut down a few insurgents and pretty much died shortly after... 
 2 hours later, I still found myself getting offed quickly but I surely look good doing it... Graphically, 
 its almost frightening how much technology and video games have changed.. There is not much more 
 I can say because many before me have already said it. I can just assure you, BUY this game. Its 
 worth whatever cost... You will become one with this game. I am not a fan of these types of games, 
 but this is greatness right here.. Once I spend some more time with the strategy aspect, I will 
 get a little further... Give it a shot... 4 real!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havokmaster
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2006 5:53 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter, recently released for XBOX 360 is a killer app and should be 
 owned by every XBOX 360 owner...
  
  The game puts you in the shoes of Cpt. Scott Mitchell, leader of "The Ghosts", an elite anti-terrorism 
 unit in the US Army. The main Campaign takes place in Mexico, where the US, Canadian and Mexican 
 president are about to sign a treaty involving illegal drug smuggling over their respective borders, 
 but the signing is interrupted by mexican rebels, who kill the Canadian premier and kidnap the 
 US and Mexican leaders.
  
  After the training you are immediately thrown into battle in the huge mexico city, where you try 
 and rescue the 2 leaders held captive by the mexican rebels.
  
  You have 3 members with you at all times, and you must look after them and try and keep them alive. 
 They come in handy for clearing rooms, buildings etc. The bad thing about your team-mates is that 
 sometimes their AI can be a bit bad.
  
  The game boasts a vast amount of weaponry, Including Sniper Rifles, Machine Guns, Grenade Launchers 
 and the ZEUS MPAR, a massive rocket launcher.
  
  Another great part of the game is the Multiplayer. Online the game is really fun, but still remains 
 very tactical, which is a good thing. You don't see people running around shooting. 
  
  The Graphics in the game are some of the best seen on 360, there is a real gritty feeling to the 
 visuals, which really adds to the atmosphere...
  
  Overall, the game is very tough even on normal, and will take you 10-15 hours to finish. The acheievments 
 are tough also, with ones like 10,000 kills in multiplayer and 4 kills in 4 seconds.
  
  I would suggest to anyone to get this game... It is a must buy... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuttybar
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 13, 2006 2:01 am PT
Review:  The Graphics are mind blowing. Animations are just truly great. This is very good stuff.
  Next is single-player: If you thought COD2 was intense, then this is just beyond intense. Its great. 
 The enemy a. i. is good, but they wont be flanking you or anything. Your teammates ai is the only 
 let down of the single-player. The tanks, helicopters and other vehicles work fine. But your teammates 
 have odd moments of insanity. For intance at one point my team were in the middle of a road, and 
 a rebel fighter started firing from behind cover at the end of the road from a corner, i ordered 
 my team to run behind a building for cover, they ran and then stopped to fire at the rebel. And 
 they just stood there firing, behind no cover, they killed him, but all three were wounded. The 
 single-player runs out of steam towards the end but by then youve already had an unforgettable 
 experience.
  Multi-player is incredible. The amount of options is just beyond mind blowing. The maps are ALL 
 good and fairly big, there are loads of weapons, there are 4 different classes to play as e. g rifleman. 
 Do not miss out on this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1valiantknight
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 13, 2006 1:38 am PT
Review:  I'm going to start of by saying I did like this game and it was fun. The multi-player is a real 
 blast but I'll get to that in a moment.
  
  This is my first Ghost Recon and I have no doubt it's much better than the other GR games, but 
 there is room for plenty of improvement. Your AI team mates are complete morons and joined at the 
 hip, unless one of them gets stuck, which will happen in several places if your not careful. Their 
 pretty easy to keep alive and they can be handy, but it's really just as easy to complete every 
 level with out them at all. Some times it's nice to not have to worry about them running in front 
 of you while your shooting or doing something completely random that you did not tell them to do. 
 This is the next generation you'd think they could have some decent collision detection. It's also 
 worth noting that you cannot split your three team mates up, they must be together at all times. 
 Although it is kind of funny when they shout "were taking fire" and you turn and look to see them 
 just standing out in the open.
  
  As luck would have it the enemy AI is better than your three stooges, but really not that much 
 of a challange even on hard mode. I had thought the game would be a bit harder once I stepped up 
 the difficulty, but it really isn't. If you can finish the game on normal, which is pretty easy 
 to do, you can probably finish the game on hard. It took me 8 hours and 20 minutes and I was going 
 very slow.
  
  Despite all it's faults the single player is still pretty fun, but the multi-player online and 
 co-op is where the game really shines. The multi-player game allows you to customize almost every 
 element you can think of. You can even change the look of your avatar to a limited degree. Also 
 note worthy is the fact that you can set up matches using the online maps with bots so you can 
 practice and really get ready for online fun.
  
  The online levels is where the games graphics really shine. You can romp through jungles and ancient 
 ruins, fishing villages on the beach, a junk yard, and quaint old villages. Each level has a great 
 amount of detail and character and is a lot of fun to battle in. Also you wont see any of the games 
 awesome water effects in the single player campaign. I have to admit to dying once or twice while 
 checking out the games awesome water.
  
  All in all the game is a lot of fun, especially if you like multi-player. If you don't have xbox 
 live and dont want to get it this game is really only worth a rental. 
  
  Bugs I have found: 
  1. C bug. Main character gets the shakes although amusing it takes away 
 from the experience.
  2. B collision bug. Main character becomes stuck in a solid object and slowly slides out. This 
 is annoying and can get you killed.
  3. C bug. Team mates become stuck behind objects and sometimes cannot be un-stuck. 
  4. C bug. 
 Main characters body becomes stuck in awkward positions. This can be fixed by squatting or leaning 
 against a wall.
  5. C audio bug. Team mates will some times constantly repeat over and over again that they cannot 
 get to your location, I repeat cannot get to your location sir, cannot reach your location sir, 
 cannot get to your location sir.
  6. C bug. Some times while shooting from cover main character will fire his weapon with out aiming, 
 bullets appear to fly out of the side of the guns barrel.
  7. Q bug. Apparently the advanced warrior of the future has never heard of a silencer.
  
  These 
 are very minor bugs, they get waved all the time in games, but you should know that they are there. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SithProphet
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 13, 2006 1:22 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying Wow on the multiplayer side. Gameplay wise its really good. The game 
 also allows for many different match types to make every game almost different from the last. Once 
 you really sit down with it you wil see how wide of a range of options it has for game types and 
 they all seem to work with tweaking. I would highly recommended the multiplayer to fans of Counter 
 Strike and Halo, its a good mix of the two.
  
  The single player game is fun as well as frustrating due to some AI glitches but still worth playing. 
 I fell it really gets you used to the controls before you go out and get killed online. For every 
 time in the campaign that your teammates do something stupid there a moment when something cool 
 happens and you forget how stupid they are.
  
  Overall the game is really solid but I have to only highly recommend it to Live users and those 
 with a bunch of local friends. This game is a must play for shooter multiplayer fans. After a few 
 good games you will feel like your back in the days of Goldeneye or Perfect Dark.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pugman812
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2006 1:07 am PT
Review:  This is one the best games i have ever played. It really feels like a next gen game. The title 
 was well worth the wait. The AI is a little sketchy sometimes but there is not a single soul that 
 has gotten it just right just yet, but in my opinion they are so close it hurts. This game is definitely 
 a game to set standards to for other games. The detail of the city and the games structures are 
 unseen on any other console. I think ps3 is going to have to try really hard to contend. This has 
 been one of the most enjoyable games i have ever played. I feel emersed in the city it seems as 
 if i was there. Great Game. Hope to see alot more with great features as this game as put on the 
 table. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: showtime420
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 13, 2006 12:44 am PT
Review:  The best of the Ghost Recon series hands down. I can't stop playing, Single player and multi-player. 
 This game is too much fun and "Highly addictive". Don't rent it, buy it. Can't wait for new levels 
 to download, Please make more levels.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wayofthestee
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 13, 2006 12:39 am PT
Review:  Great gameplay, great sound, I don't see why everyone thinks the graphics are awesome because they're 
 not. They are typical graphics maybe just a little bit better on the 360. The only really GOOD 
 looking games are only for 360 and pc, if they're on ps2 or gc then the graphics will be mediocre 
 if that. Also the game was really and I mean really short. I beat it in 7 hours. Now don't get 
 me wrong it has good replay value but come on that's a little short for a game. While playing it 
 my heart beat faster and I got an awesome adrenaline rush (something that a game hasn't done to 
 me for awhile) I haven't tried the multiplayer but I don't think anything can surpass Halo 2 or 
 Battlefield 2. All around solid game but the graphics are way overratted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nextgenc
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2006 10:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is great im playing the game on hard and it is really "hard". Ubisoft and Tom Clancy 
 know how to make a great game. This doesn't compare the the xbox or pc versions. and even ps2 whenever 
 its coming out. I hope they come out with a sequel. If they don't ubi will be kicking themselves 
 in the a**. I think this is a contender to HALO. OMG. Now as for the multiplayer you will be experiencing 
 great multiplayer. Then comes to co-op that is awesome. I had 12 people in my co-op and they didn't 
 know what they were doing but they finally got the hint that they don't need to kill themselves 
 all the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bl4ckAdDer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 12, 2006 10:29 pm PT
Review:  This game not only looks great but is crazily fun! The levels in the game look almost real, the 
 campaign is really well made and fun to play. The abillity to call in tank and helicopter support 
 is great. The Multiplayer is fun like all the other Ghost Recon games with the xbox 360's abillity 
 just makes it better. But there are somethings that needed to be worked on, at times people playing 
 online will get disconnected from server tney're in. In the campaign the AI that you control really 
 just plain suck. They can't fight for themselves and can more of a burden than anything. With these 
 downsides the game is still fun to play and the graphics are awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zonage007
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2006 10:23 pm PT
Review:  this game is the gretest war game ive played in a long time. full control over the soilder and 
 surroundings has never been better. gameplay is great and is challenging at times. of course the 
 graphics r top notch. especially on hd tv. but we should all know that these reviews r very individual 
 so dont go by what i have said and make a descicion off of it. anyways graw is a fantastic game 
 that will not let u go. youll want to get full gamerscore off this game for sure. ive beat 5 missions 
 so far and am still having a great time. hopefully i can get through it so i can get on with co-op. 
 great game go buy it for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heydawg321
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 12, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter for Xbox 360 is a game that I deep down expected to 
 be released, but prayed to god I would be wrong. Let me start by saying, I never had Xbox Live 
 for the original Xbox, i played PS2 online, that was it. With that being said, let's jump into 
 this.
  
  Graphics ~ Graphics are great, I was impressed with the level of detail they had. Buildings look 
 fantastic, and i was actually quite impressed with the marks bullets made on walls. Character models 
 are solid, enemys are good looking too. They have a implemented feature that the Mexican Sun reflects 
 giving a different colour spectrum that we North Americans see, basically, alot of yellow/orange 
 and red. 
  That being said, the graphics do have some flaws. There is clipping that sometimes upsets you because 
 it's disappointing to see. For example, some gear on enemys will go through the walls and it's 
 just annoying, but no big deal. Another thing i noticed is that the characters mouths don't move 
 a whole lot when they talk, they just go up a down a tad, not too realistic. All in all though, 
 the game looks tight.
  
  Gameplay ~ I personally didn't have that much trouble with the controls other than that there is 
 alot of things you can do, but not enough buttons. It will take you over an hour to get a good 
 feel for it. 
  There is no easy mode, which may disappoint some, but i did like the difficulty level. The only 
 upsetting things is when you get in close quarters with an enemy.. they will kill you one or two 
 hits and up close, they don't miss. It may be frustrating, and more save points would have been 
 nice. 
  The animations are solid as well, some clipping sometimes, and your teammates sometimes don't listen 
 to you which is a pain. You will experience the poor A. I of the ghosts.. not the enemy, your teammates. 
 They are quite terrible, they don't take cover very well and they will not duck a whole lot either. 
 Some flaws, but no major problems.
  
  Sound ~ Sounds great. This is one of the best features. The bullets whizzing by are excellent and 
 it's a great perk to hear the bullets clang on metal when it hits, and explosions are especially 
 beautiful sounding. I did notice a lack of battle crys of communication between terrorists, if 
 you start shooting them, they don't really say anything, just fire back. All in All though, solid 
 sound as well.
  
  Value ~ This is the reason why this is an honest review. This game isn't worth your money. The 
 single player, for as long as it lasts, is pretty fun and you'll enjoy it, but after that, the 
 replay value is horrible. If you try to play 2 player splitscreen, it forces you into FPS mode 
 and it doesn't show the gun. On top of that when playing splitscreen, the characters handle like 
 there running on ice, skidding forward even once you stop pressing up on the joystick. 
  There are some missions you and your friends can play, but you have no respawns, and the missions 
 aren't very fun, basically just.. go here, kill these terrorists and that's it.
  Online... The most disappointing Xbox 360 moment for me all this time. I was only expecting a Socom 
 Experience but with GRAW. This you will not acheive. Im honestly failing to comprehend the reason 
 why Xbox live is praised. You have a few options.. Create a public game... Create a Private game.. 
 Join a game. That's it. The games aren't all that fun. And the worst part is, there is no "Best 
 of Series" matches. So you can't play 11 rounds and then the first team to 6 wins. After every 
 round, you must restart the entire game.
  
  Overall, read value to see why this game is not reccomended, RENT THIS GAME for sure, but do not 
 buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alphawolf102
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 12, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  An amzing game with Amazing graphics. This game is flat out fun and feel next gen out of all the 
 gmaes i have played for the 360 none have felt any different from playing on the xbox orginal this 
 game is hard and flows. The graphics are truely amazing from the lighting to the city itself the 
 city looks like the real thing cause well i looked it up in google everthing look like they snatched 
 it right out of the real world this game is the best game for the 360 so far so if u need a game 
 this week this is it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaming_Deity
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 12, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  GRAW is a resurrection for the series. 
  
  The single player is long enough and tons of fun. The constant onslaught of enemies is daunting. 
 When in a heavy fire fight GRAW becomes less of a shooter and more of a puzzle game. It forces 
 you to ask questions like, "who should I shoot first. Where should I take cover, where should I 
 set up my men," and a million other things that you have to think about in a matter of seconds. 
 The friendly AI was spotty once in a while but most of the time it was fine.
  
  The graphics in this game are absolutely gorgeous. The light effects make everything look real. 
 Your eyes have to adjust when moving from dark to light or light to dark areas. Looking down a 
 street is like looking at heaven. The light reflects off of light surfaces. The shadows contrast 
 with the bright light very well. The models also look amazing with lots of objects and folds in 
 clothes that cause shadows to be casted. Sitting behind a car as it is being ripped to shreds is 
 exilarating to say the least.
  
  I have some problems with the sound. Sometimes gun-shots and reloading sounds ring hollow. But 
 that is a minor grievance. Otherwise hearing APC's and cars exploding beside you is ear splitting, 
 as it should be, and the Mexicans constantly yelling at you is cool. I found it amusing that when 
 they have you pinned down they comment on the size of your "cajones."
  
  Multiplayer is a blast, though I was disappointed to see that they toned down the graphics drastically 
 and the cover mechanic is no where to be found. But that doesn't mean it's not fun. The UAV helps 
 especially considering how hard it was to find people in the previous games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 12, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Truly next generation in every sense of the term. Ghost Recon 3 is a must buy & an indiciation 
 of where games are going. I could go on for hours but I will just keep it short and sweet. If you 
 like first person shooters, want to see what generation games should be and where games are going, 
 then buy this. Its that good and will most likely sell the Xbox 360 through word of mouth alone. 
 Ubisoft made the first Xbox 360 game to scream about. This is it people. Buy this game and be amazed. 
 This game is innovative, immersive, amazing, all its cracked up to be, so on and so fourth and 
 I could go on for hours telling you why you need to play this game but just go out and buy it and 
 see for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zarfus
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 12, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must have for people that like guns in games and have a 360. Sell anything and everything 
 if you must for this game, because it blows everything out of the water. When I reviewed PDZ, it 
 was my highest score with a 9.1 I believe. I wish I didnt do that after playing this game.
  
  This game is far from perfect, however, because of teh flaws:
  -Team AI in campaign are idiots. 
 You tell tehm to go someplace, they end up running in place by a wall. 'Nuf said, eh?
  -Enemy AI is genious in campaign compared to your team. All you have to do is look at the enemy 
 hundreds of yards away, and they start full out auto assault on your ass. It's almost too hard 
 sometimes given your team.
  -Online lobby system is lacking. It's a very slow process to find a good game, then when you do, 
 you always seem to get booted right when you have fun.
  
  THE GOOD STUFF!
  -Graphics are beautiful. The continuous motion between missions in the campaign are unparalleled. 
 You're getting briefed while flying over a buring war-ridden Mexico City, complete with detailed 
 fires, smog, smoke, and flashing lights. It's gorgeous.
  -Music is great. There are actually REAL SONGS in this game!
  -Controls are perfect for this 
 style of a game. So smooth...'Nuf said.
  -Online is amazingly fun once you actually are able to stay in a game, especially when you're with 
 people that talk.
  -This game is the best single-player campaign shooter I've ever played in my life, you simply cannot 
 miss out on this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poopedfungus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Ever since I began playing and loving Halo and Halo 2, I have always set that as my standard for 
 all games. I know that the different types of games cannot really be compared on the same level. 
 I like to compare apples to oranges. Despite this, no game to date has thrilled me, ensnared me, 
 or made me play for hours, like the Halos did. When I first picked this game up I was a little 
 wary. It took a little while to fully understand the controls, but I thank the game developers 
 for making it seem Halo-like. The controls were a little intuitive, but they were a bit different. 
 After learning the controls and playing a little, my friends and I decided to go online with it. 
 When we were in the lobby, I was shocked. The makers of this game say that there are some 1000+ 
 game variants. I disagree. In the little time playing this game it seemed to me that we had played 
 the same exact thing over and over with the only exception being that we changed the A. I. density 
 and the time limit. This is a huge load of steaming **** I expected much more from the developers 
 than what they gave me. Now i have not played all of the game types, and i have not completed the 
 full campaign yet, but i am nonetheless disappointed. Maybe it's my fault for comparing this to 
 Halo, but it just needs more multiplayer help. More gametypes and scenarios in the future will 
 persuade me into not selling this game. My fear is that they won't and as soon as I am done with 
 the single player adventure, it will just sit on a shelf. I don't want that to happen. I am not 
 trying to find all of the faults with this game, but this also happened with Call of Duty 2. The 
 campaign was amazing, yet the multiplayer was ugly at best. The gameplay was good, but the fact 
 that I could not host a room with my friends that they could actually stay in after the game, like 
 Halo's room system. They had to rejoin after i made another room. These two games both left me 
 with a sour taste in my mouth. I love both games very much, but the multiplayer is lacking. i think 
 that the developers spent more time on the campaign that they did on the multiplayer. I think that 
 developers in the future should focus on the aspects of their game that will make it a timeless 
 classic. Halo will always be that for me. Unless the makers of G. R. A. W. can give me more types 
 and variations i will not be happy. Variety is the spice of life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: netsgiantsfan24
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 12, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is the best game that ive played for the 360 so far. The graphics 
 are amazing and the characters look real. The clothes are very detailed as well. The smoke effects 
 and explosions are amazing. Everything looks great. The gameplay is great as well. It is a hard 
 game and takes some time to beat certain parts of missions. I was uncertain about if id like the 
 3rd person view but after playing it i love it. There are a few problems however. The GHOST team 
 is more trouble then they should be and are more of a hassle than a help. If you look at a window 
 it shows the same reflection on every single window. Also, my game has frozen 2 times but im not 
 sure if thats from the game or not. If you have a 360 then buy this game. It is amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazmacfaz99
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 12, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  this game is very good. the reason i dont use a better word is because its so bloody difficult. 
 It has astounding graphics and sound. Cntrolling your "ghosts" is easy as pie. And taking out some 
 mexican bumb is made all the sweeter with a headshot. 
  
  There are quite a few weapons but you wont have much need to switch from your standard assault 
 rifle. 
  
  Where this game really excells is online. Less tactical and more run and gun (which i have to say 
 is more my style) . 
  
  overall if your loking for the hardest best looking most popular (i sound like a girl..) game then 
 you should buy this now!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masterpooper
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  if you like games like this get it now
  
  buy now
  buy now
  game-play is great 
  buy now
  visual are great 
  buy now
  everything is good about this game 
  buy now 
  if 
 you like games like this your must get it .
  
  i love the ranking thing is good . but their is one problem the AL is bad
  other wise its good 
 worth the the 60 bucks
  coop mode is great to buy this if you have the the money .
  if you don't and you want something like this for 20 bucks get summit strike. 
  
  FOR MORE 
 GREAT REVIEW GO TO LEMON PARTY .ORG
  IF YOU WANT TOPLAY THE DEMO GO TO LEMONPARTY. ORG 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiskyTango
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 12, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Ghost recon is an excellent looking game and has many wonderful aspects. The new aiming system is 
 really neat. There is an aiming circle the tightens to a smaller circle when you pull the left 
 trigger and that make it more acurate. I think it is a good idea the way the have a fast aim system 
 and a scope system (only on guns with scopes) . I think it is genius the way they have the peak around 
 the corner and shoot setup. Unfortunately you can not do that on co-op mode or any multiplayer 
 which ruins the lonewolf gun because in this game you peak around the corner with the gun and there 
 is no peak in multiplayer. 
  You have to do 1st person view and they do not have a good 1st person view. It really take away 
 from the graphics when you are in 1st person. I tried this game online and everyone is using the 
 night vision (which is very realistic) and that makes is so you can't blend into the really well 
 designed foliage. That kind of ruined the online for me. 
  Another problem I had with the game was how I was by myself most the time. I like the lonewolf 
 stuff but I also need my hommies with me to feel like I am in a battle zone. Although your buddies 
 are not very good. Some times they make excellent shots but other times when you tell them to shoot 
 at some one they run out in the open to do it or simply charge that area like a bunch of jack-asses. 
 I can't count how many time my team let people walk up to them or me and shoot us.
  The levels are supprisingly linear and short. the old game, I feel, had better levels. I thought 
 I would have a whole city to blow up and lots of bad guys to kill. 
  They are some awesome aireal views but you don't get to call in airstrikes like in the other games. 
 
  The game is very short and only has 2 really fun shoot outs. The rest of the time you kill 3 people 
 and move on to the next 3. It just is not to the calibur I usually expect from Ghost recon. I never 
 felt like I got to the action. The game only has like 7 levels give or take.
  Loading time is good if not completely ebliterated. But that doesn't make up for the short battles. 
 I still had fun with the game it's just my expectations are alway high or at least as much as I 
 expected compared to the last game. I still recommend this game because it is a beautiful game 
 and has many fun aspects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcorwin
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 12, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  I'll try make this short but sweet, GRAW is possibly the best military-themed game on the market, 
 and for all that I think, the best military game ever. Everything works out perfectly in the game. 
 the controls are spot-on and feel like you are truly commanding a soldier and his team. The amount 
 of weapons, while not huge, provides with enough choices to satisfy anyone with an itchy trigger 
 finger. The graphics are the best for the 360 yet, with really high poly character models, and 
 enviroments that still blow me away. The haze of the city really adds something to the game, and 
 even the missions set outside the city or in the slums look astounding. The sound is amazing as 
 well. The guns really sound like hard-hitting firearms, and the dramatic music plays in right at 
 the perfect moments, making this game an emotional experience at times. The squad A. I. is not the 
 best, but it works, as sometimes they will run out in the open or do stupid things that are really 
 inexplicable. The difficulty of this game is perfect as it offers any fan a decent challenge while 
 being accessable enough that a complete newb could pick up the game and complete it. It is a bit 
 short, but thats why you have the amazing multiplayer. The multiplayer is absolutly the best multiplayer 
 for 360 right now. it fleshes out perfectly with killer graphics, sound, amazing array of options 
 to customize your game experience, and a respectable choice of maps that offer hours and hours 
 of extra game time. The online coop is brilliant and a feature that more games should be offering 
 these days. Overall the multiplayer will keep you coming back for more long after you have beaten 
 the campaign. Speaking of the campaign, this games story is well-thought, intruiging and very well 
 presented through the use of the cross-com, and very intuitive squad controls, which make the game 
 a combination of a thir-person shooter and Full Spectrum Warrior. The squad controls really imerse 
 you into the fight, and nothing is quite as intense as you and your squad taking cover behind some 
 busted cars, only to unload at a rebel behind another car and to watch the car explode with a brilliant 
 explosion that are some of the best in-game explosions I have ever seen. Moves like the slide-into-cover 
 all make the game more realistic and the whol, e taking cover thing on any static object really 
 makes the game seem like a real military operation is happening. The gadgets like the cross com 
 and the drone all present unique and interesting ways to approach the levels and offer you many 
 ways to play the same areas over again. They do everythnig that they should be doing. The levels 
 themselves are fairly open ended providing players with large areas of the city to embark upon 
 and do your objectives. The whole campaign really kept me going, and i played it non-stop for 3 
 days and was not even bored of it when i was done. 
  
  All in all, you cant get any better than this for military-themed games. It is almost perfect in 
 every sense and is easly the future of games and is a good sign of what can be done on the xbox 
 360. If you have to buy one game for the rest of the year, and are looking for some har-hitting 
 war action, then go no further than GRAW. For once the hype has been surpased by the sheer blinding 
 radiance of this game. I cannot say enough good things about this game and i am anxiously awaiting 
 a well-earned sequel to one of the best games of the year. (A couple more weapons or maps for multiplayer 
 wouldn't have hurt, as well as maybe making single player a bit longer.)
  
  you can take my review to heart or not, but i am truly impressed with what Ubi has done with this 
 awsome, brilliant game.
  
  Dan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angelosand
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is with out a doubt the best lokking 360 game so far. The graphics are lsuperb and sound 
 is first rate, however some of the lighting can be a bit to tricky to see in. Having never played 
 a ghost recon game before i wwasnt keen on getting it only for the graphics, but once i started 
 playing the game experience was amazing. You play as scott mitcheel, ghost team leader. Who, he and 
 his team are in Mexico city for a summit meeting between the U. s president, Canadian prime minister 
 and Mexican president. This however is short lived with the kidnapping of the U. s president and 
 the killing of the Canadian prime minister. You have to save the mexican presidents life when the 
 U. s embassy is blow up only a few hundered metres in front of you. I wont tell any more but this 
 game is astounding and well deserves my score for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xraystar
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 12, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  The Ghost series has only gotten better with every installment, and Advance Warfighter is no exception. 
 Both the visual and sound department provide some of the most intense moments the series has yet 
 seen. Veterens to Ghost will find the gamplay almost unchanged (which is a good thing) , with exception 
 to some tweaks such as the slide and faster reload times. The new Cross-Com is a welcoming gameplay 
 mechanic that adds more to the tactical nature of Ghost Recon. Extremely user-friendly, the Cross-Com 
 gives you more control of your unit (s) without sacrificing much control of your own character. 
 Ordering your fellow Ghost and shooting down enemy tanks with your helo is as simple as pressing 
 left and up on the d-pad. The only gripe I have is the lack of co-op missions. Hopefully, there 
 will be downloadable missions - to add to the already exisiting four. The single-player campaign, 
 however, is a blast to play - even if I've only spent the first two or three hours into it. Is 
 Advance Warfighter the best in the series? That's difficult to say. Advance Warfighter landing 
 another hit for an already-great shooter; hell yes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebiddybop
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 12, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  it's a great game but still one in many games to come to the 360. I'm sure there would be many 
 ghost recons that will blow this one away.
  The only main problem that I have with the game is that it all seems pretty linear. This is a GREAT 
 game but don't go crazy for something you kno will be topped by next year or even 2 weeks. just 
 many 360 users are so desperate to get a NEW game that anything better then an xbox games is considered 
 greatness. I'm going to tell you what this game should be rated as of now. (9.3 ish) , but I'm 
 going to give this game a rating that would probly hold true in about 2-3 years from now. It's 
 just a great game and a great first step to the true next gen. 
  
  I loved the game and I'm still loving it, I'm just know there will be many many games soon that 
 will make you forget about this one. especially since ghost recon is a title that has a new chapter 
 every 2 years or so. 
  
  GREAT GAME, probly the only game out RIGHT NOW, that is a must buy. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halochampian
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 12, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  GRAW is a game that I had high expectations for and after a long wait... DELIVERED. Right when 
 you turn on the game and play the the Single player, you will see the beauty of this game.
  
  GRAW, being a tactical shooter has you commanding a team, support vehicles, or sometimes even 
 going solo. This a realistic game.. no Halo in this. About one- two shots, your dead. After about 
 being shot in the foot, you'll be limping around. The support vehicles come in very handy in this 
 game, not only do they look great, they provide cover and fire support. The support ranges from 
 Apache heli's to Bradley tanks.
  
  The graphics for this game are Breath-taking. The whole thing looks gorgeous. The city is really 
 well done and looks great when flying over it in between levels. The dynamic lighting looks really 
 cool. The light is sometimes really bright... but then a cloud come over it and you have shade. 
 The player models are very nicely done and crisp. One little problem. Not a big one was the little 
 glitch on this one level. I would get in the prone position and move forward and then be floating 
 in the air. Bad but funny. Also, another great thing is the rain. Yes, I said the rain. The rain 
 in this game is state of the art. It is great looking rain that is really pretty to look at. The 
 bullet marks in this game is great. When you shoot a wall, it looks like you shoot the wall. When 
 you shoot metal, it makes a dent. These little things makes the games look great. The games overall 
 graphics deserve the 10.
  
  The sound in this game is perfectly done. The first thing you'll notice is the footsteps. They 
 are nicely done and make you feel like your there. The bullets piercing metal, walls and your body 
 sounds realistic. The explosions look awesome and sound perfect. The sound of Mexicans screaming 
 at you. The moans of you or your teammates being shoot. All of these things are great.
  
  Now for the game play. The gameplay in this game is really nice. It makes you feel great where 
 other tactical shooters fail. You feel like its complex but find it easy to use and overall fun. 
 The one truly bad thing about the game is AI. Its pretty dumb. Well its smart on somethings, but 
 other things, you like "what the hell are they doing." But overall the gam's gameplay is really 
 nice.
  
  Finally, the multiplayer. The multiplayer in this game some of the best. With over 1000 changeable 
 elements, youll never get bored. Theres coop, campaign, Team elimination and many more. There 
 is even a little drone that will help you find enemies that adds complexity to the game... in a 
 good way. You can shoot them down and every thing. Overall the multiplayer will keep you playing 
 for a long time.
  
  If you have 360, this game is a must or a must rental. I can understand you may not like tactical 
 shooters, but you may love this one. Pick this one up and have fun!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jenssus
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 12, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is exstremely impressive, fun to play, and challenging, 
 which is good.
  The graphics are the best i've ever seen and the voice acting is quite good.
  
  Although I 
 haven't played much multiplayer, the amount i've played is impressive and all the levels are very 
 sharp.
  
  It is hard to find something negative, but if I have to say something, it might be, that I sometimes 
 find my team mates in the singleplayer campaign walk right out infront of the enemies
  
  All in all GRAW is a very good game with fun gameplay and a good single- and multiplayer
  
 
  - Nekton 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OtisTheBunny
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 12, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  The ghost recon series has always been know for its awesome tactical combat but GRAW takes its 
 to a whole new level. It is the best 360 the come out so far and it is leagues above the other 
 entries in the series. 
  
  It has a very advanced 3rd person controll sceme, there are just tons of strategies and moves to 
 do in this game, its very very deep. Thats what makes it so cool, the fact that its realistic, 
 high tec, and very strategic. No real run and gun here. The campaign is the most significant upgrade 
 to the series, for the past ones sucked, but this one has an actuall story and a great new environment. 
 Your in Mexico City in 2013 and you have to protect the president form terrorist, and you go through 
 a roller coaster of events-its spectacular. You also have the new cross-com sytem to help you. 
 The multi-player is damn good as well, its almost the same as previous ones, cept for a graphic 
 upgrade and the cross com. 
  
  My only complaints against this game is that there are a bit of loading times and that it can take 
 a while to get into a good match in Xbox Live. Also, the mulitplayer game doesnt look quite as 
 good as the single player game for some reason. Technically, GRAW is the best looking game for 
 the 360 so far, which pretty much means the best looking game period. It really is a spectacle 
 to play. Awesome game. Must buy for 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulust2002
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 12, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  Man, this has taken me a good solid days playing to get into. Loved the orginals, loves GR2 and 
 Summit strike, although the graphics were Sh*t* the atmosphere was incredible and the sound dynamic, 
 It made you jump when you got shot with 5.1 surround. 
  
  This only takes getting used to because it is the game its prequels didn't have the power to be, 
 and with some other stunning looking xbox games I am considering it was due to budget and not hardware 
 that was the problem. But the pay cheque has paid off. This is stunning, and after remembering 
 how long GR1 took to grow on me I beg of you to give this a chance.
  
  It's the first game on 360 that has felt unrushed and perfected, thanks so much Ubisoft for putting 
 back the realease and not dogging us with PDZ like flaws, (why has no one mentioned how bad the 
 "walking" animations are in MP PDZ, prince of persia perfected this years ago!)
  
  All in all the single player is the length you'll expect, ten hours is perfect for me on any game, 
 although this is often considered too short I consider it on comparisons with a DVD, to be value. 
 The SP is engrossing and suprising and awe inspiring with its intention to detail.
  
  The multiplayer is what makes it too good to be true.
  
  I spent a whole lot of time on coop 
 campaign on GR2 and loved it. It felt like a war, 16 players going against 50+ enemies was the 
 most cinematic gameplay since halo 2, and this had been improved ten fold here with a set of 4 
 maps specifically designed with coop play in mind. Plenty of teamwork and outflanking is needed 
 and you can adjust how many enemies you like to. Try taking on an army with a mate as a drinking 
 game. 
  Tennants super never been so much fun, 
  
  I mean, war ain't never been so much fun
  
  PT
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoobo117
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 12, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  This game is the best game till now now on this platform. I think if you really want to se how 
 mexico looks like, u can just play the game. Ghost recon is a best game in the series because it 
 has features. PLay co-op and play online upto 16 players. I think most of the great multiplayer 
 gamers are going to like multiplayer features because this game is excellent in that section. The 
 campaign is excellent and very challenging and it will last pretty long. Thats why, this game 
 is masterpiece and anyone who likes a shooting game should try Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sardaukar87
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 12, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  This GRAW is simply perfect in everything: graphic is the best on X360 now and gameplay whit the 
 cross com is very fun!!!! This game is also realistic and full of weapon....... especially the 
 multiplayer offline and online mode are very fun! The only crap of this game is the single player 
 campaign because is really too too short!!!! I think this is the game I have never finished in 
 less time!!! In normal mode is too easy while in hard I took only 11 hours to finish it!!!!! However 
 this is a MUST HAVE!!!! The possibility of playing the campaign with also 3 friends is very exciting 
 but the campaign becomes easier than single player!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThorNF
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 12, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed playing this game a great deal, but the fact that the player's avatar clips through your 
 teammates is a bit odd and should have been tweaked. Also, I am not sure why the developers didn't 
 fix the glitch that makes your character float around in a crucifix position about two feet off 
 the ground when he should be crawling. I should have known Ubisoft wouldn't polish their game like 
 most devs would (look at the multiplayer issues in the Splinter Cell series) . All in all, the technical 
 issues really pulled me out of the immersive environments, and really hampered the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muzzer77
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  I see that one person rated this 2.5. Ignore that review because its a rubbish review going on 
 about tricky controls etc. The controls are not at all tricky and i can only assume people who 
 have trouble pressing buttons and looking at the screen at the same time are the people who struggle. 
 The muliplayer needs patching though as it can be a pain getting into a game. But this game is 
 well worth a look and easily one of the top titles out there. Get it..............
  Needs to be played on a HDTV to get the most out of its looks....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TBLacK457
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 12, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is the BEST Xbox 360 game currently out right now. It is highly 
 immersive, addictive, and just plain fun. 
  
  Gameplay
  
  It can't get much better, the controls are great, and very easy to get the hang of.
  The Gameplay 
 is so intense, you really feel that your there.
  
  Graphics
  
  Easily the best looking game on the 360 to date. From afar, you feel like looking at a photograph, 
 and thats without a High-Def TV.
  
  Sound
  
  The sound is great, with 5.1 surround sound. Hear stuff from behind you, in front of you, anywhere!
 
  
  Value
  
  Overall, GRAW is a must buy. If you don't have Xbox Live, then this game is the reason to get it. 
 So far, I've spent most of my time in MP games. There are many choices on Xbox Live too. Team Elimination, 
 Co-op Elimination, and Campaign are just a few. All of the options allow 16 players.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toni1991999
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 12, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  What did you expect? Ubisoft to make a bad game, I doubt it. Though lacking on team commands G. R. A. W. 
 still has plenty of fun and exciting things to do. You fly in a Black Hawk helicopter from place 
 to place and shoot enemies with your mini-gun. The UAV (Unmanned Arial Vehicle) is a nifty little 
 tool. With it you can detect enemies and get a birds eye view of things. The effects and sound 
 are great. There are some bugs but the game is not much affected, its still very fun. If you have 
 or plan to get an XBOX360 this is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boom_6
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 12, 2006 6:12 am PT
Review:  Got a chance to play this last night and it is everything everyone says it is. The tutorial in 
 the beginning takes a little while, b/c you have to really concentrate in order to memorize and 
 learn the controls. 
  
  After that, the game is great. Great AI, realistic, and strategy is necessary. This isn't your 
 'Run and Gun' game. That's what make it so much fun, you have to think about what you're doing 
 and where you're going. 
  
  The graphics are great, which adds even more to the game. I haven't got into the multiplayer yet, 
 but I'm sure it follows the rest of the game in being great as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshismetal
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2006 12:17 am PT
Review:  This game has only one way to describe it and that is perfect. i dont care what the lameasses at 
 gamespot have to say about it with there 9.2 but i think this game is perfect. the story is good, 
 campaign is fun and multiplayer is by far the greatest i have ever done. if you are into military 
 games then this one is for you. once you learn the system of it you will be killing left and right. 
 take my advice this games is worth every penny. also just like to point out that yo can customize 
 the way your character looks online and their class. damn i love this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnmenezes50
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2006 11:50 pm PT
Review:  This awesome single player game is even more fun as a multiplayer game. The breadth and depth of 
 options is amazing both online and off. I just finished with an 8 person LAN party of 2 boxes over 
 system link with 4 players/box ! Everyone was amazed at how fun it was and it now has put Halo2 
 on the backburner for multiplayer. We tried some coop against the computer AI which was great, 
 then switched to team slayer and the like. All fun and fresh. Even capture the flag was made more 
 interesting by choosing to have an neutral armed officer for a flag. We played it with one "flag" 
 in the middle. The officer will follow you home for the score if you go to him. But if you get 
 shot he starts wandering back toward the center. A flag with AI ! Amazing. While the graphics are 
 not as complex as the single player game, as expected, we still found ourselves admiring the graphical 
 details, especially the shipyard level with the rain and the lightening. Great lighting and water 
 effects. Beyond the graphics is the sound. Surround sound is also superb as are the weapon sounds. 
 The sound of a sniper round sounds more impressive and very different from an assault rifle round. 
 The details are amazing. including the chatter of the enemy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TaunTaunto
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 11, 2006 11:07 pm PT
Review:  This review is not one of those that has a perfect score and what not, due to the obsession over 
 the game. This game is really, really good if you play it, and very much deserves this grade.
 
  
  Gameplay: This game has increadable gameplay, due to the increadible single player, and the outstanding 
 multi player. In my honest opinion it has multi player that rivals, if not more superior than that 
 of Halo 2.
  
  Graphics: Now there isn't much to say here, except that this game is downright gorgeous. Nearly 
 every object in the game has some sort of reflective surface, and the heat waves and color scheme 
 portrays Mexico City beautifully.
  
  Sound: This game's sound is outstanding, from the explosions of cars in the streets, to the loudness 
 of a s. a. w. shreading everything in sight apart. It all sounds beautiful.
  
  Value: If you own a 360, you should own this game. if you have never played a ghost recon, it would 
 be recommended to rent it first to try it out and see if you like it. More than likely you will. 
 The single player is great, and the multi player is as addicting as a drug. Positively amazing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZombieInABox
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Finally a game that lands on the 360 that lives up its stuff. Only this game loses some of its 
 cool features in Multiplayer which is the biggest downfall of the game. The coop campaign is WAY 
 too short its only 4 leveles. Though the game makes up for this lack with a lot of different coop 
 missions you can enjoy with friends. Once again the ranking mode is Destroyed by the True Skill. 
 Also mobility is kinda dumb especially when you cant go in some of the water and yet some of the 
 water is ok. Windows on cars to not shatter and several things need to be ironed out. Graphics 
 are really good though trees still look like 2 pieces of cardboard. Pretty much the rest of the 
 game is really really cool. Levels are really cool with some nice graphical effects. Water looks 
 nice and all and all this game is everything the older ghost recons strived for and a little more. 
 All around the best Xbox 360 title to date.
  
  Future Edit: This is not the first nextgen title for 360 and to be quite honest its a lame effort 
 that gets stale very fast. The detail in the single player was good but the effort in the multiplayer 
 was like playing a standard xbox multiplayer, and even though the game should have had more content 
 at release they have some very expensive downloads to add to your game with... and I find this the 
 biggest scam that companies are doing these days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LowJo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 11, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  One of the first games I ever played on the first XBox was Ghost Recon. I love it's whole aspect. 
 It felt like you were out in the wilderness, just you and your fellow soldiers by yourself in a 
 vast open area against countless enemies.
  
  Welcome to Advanced Warfighter. A whole new look and feel on the soldiering aspect of games. I 
 honestly was blown away as soon as I turned on my 360. The whole entire presentation is grade A. 
 Everything about this game has definatly be worked on pretty hard. The Next Generation is here.
 
  
  Graphics- 9/10
  
  I am playing GRAW on an SDTV and the clarity is still amazing. I've never seen explosions, backdrops, 
 debris, bullet holes, muzzle flashes as well as this game has implemented it. Think the screen 
 shots are nice, or the videos are jaw dropping... well wait till you fire this game up in person. 
 Forget PGR3 to show off your 360, this is the game to load up.
  Some subtle effects are when you zoom in through your scope, you can see the vapor trails that 
 the bullets leave behind. As far as I've tried, I haven't notice any bullet holes magically dissapearing. 
 There is sparse blood in this game, I haven't noticed much, but it definatly hasn't deterred away 
 from the game at all.
  The only negative I had with this was that it was hard to read the white text in the game against 
 the white sky backdrop of Mexico. Maybe because I have SDTV, (and am purchasing an HDTV just for 
 this game) but it isn't something to terrible at all.
  
  Sound- 9/10
  
  True story... and it sounds very cliche so it is hard to beleive, but I had my game playing on 
 my SDTV speakers, cranked up to about 80 % volume... by dad called me from the basement and wanted 
 to know what the hell was going on. He honestly thought I bought surround sound and was watching 
 Black Hawk Down on DVD.
  Sound is an important role in all games, but even more important when it comes to war games, especially 
 realistic. Everything from the ping of bullets hitting car hoods to the reloading clicks and voice 
 chatter all sound authentic. A perfect example is when your squad has been undetected yet, your 
 teamates whisper and talk in very low subtle voices. As the action heats up, you can hear their 
 tones raising and Mitchell shouting commands over all the explosions and gunshots instead of whispering 
 them.
  I was waiting for a game like this. I always found it annoying when in BIA for XBox, the main character 
 would shout orders while it would be a mission where we are trying to be undetected. It's not a 
 very important part of the game, but it's just the small touches that make games gems. Ya know, 
 they always say... the difference between ordinary, and extraordinary... is that little extra... 
 (Waiting)
  The HUD is definatly amazing. The game is presented almost as if you're a reporter following a 
 soldier in the middle east. The HUD shakes just a bit as you run, making it seem as if well... 
 you're viewing through a reporters camera.
  The pop-up screens where you can view other soldiers views are a very nice touch. I haven't exprience 
 any slow down at all while taking out countless enemies and having the second soldier screen at 
 the top left.
  
  Control- 8/10
  
  Don't you hate when your character feels weightless... or there is no gravity what so ever... or 
 when your guns feel like peashooters (ahem... Doom III ...) Well GRAW is your prescription. Mitchel 
 feels great in motion. He has a central mass to his body, and it feels like you're actually controlling 
 him. He can't stop on a dime, and it doesnt feel like he can jump through flaming hoops. It actually 
 feels like you are controlling a 210-pound man, with 20+ pounds of gear on them.
  Squad control seems to have taken a page out of BIA, so if you've played any of those games... 
 You'll feel right at home. You use your aiming cursor to point in a direction, and just press up 
 on the D-Pad to order your squad to head in that direction, or down to order them to regroup. You 
 can select tanks and vehicles to command as well by pressing right on the D-Pad.
  There is also a tactical map where you can send your troops along the map. It's a far cry from 
 Rainbow Six on the PC where you can set how you want your squad to preform, but then again this 
 isn't tactical swat team firefights.
  It is somewhat tough to aim with the scope. Not impossible, but so far, I have been missing alot 
 of my targets while using the scope. I'm sure it'll come with patience and skill though.
  
  Overall- 9.2/10
  
  I could go on and on about the game, but that's GameSpots job. This game 
 is definatly the must own game for the 360, and if there was ever any contemplating any reason 
 for owning a 360, here is your reason why you should. I know this short review doesn't answer all 
 your questions, but it is just a little something until GameSpot puts up their own review.
  Let us not forget, I didn't even review or SPEAK of the multiplayer portion of the game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: psycoticpothead
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 11, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion G. R. A. W isnt the best game ever made. nowhere close to it but it does have its spots 
 where it shines. the lighting and graphics are some of the best on the system so far. but you teamate 
 A. I. is about that ofa small child theyll run out in the open and sotp in the middle of the street 
 when coming under heavy fire it gets annoying especially when you need to send another teamate 
 out there to heal them. The multiplayer is great except from when your dropped from games due to 
 lag or the insane waiting time you have to indure every once ina while. but other then that its 
 a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fliip
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 11, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Although the graphics are great i find that the actually gameplay is very unrealistic, and does 
 not deserve the 9-10 rating that everyone seems to be giving it. I am going to concentrate on the 
 bad points of the game seeing as everyone else is concentrating on the good points.
  
  I find that the AI is the most important part of this game. Both your teammates and the enemys 
 have poor scripting when it comes to combat. 
  
  The enemys are stupidly observant. You can be looking down on a area from the tiniest of gaps and 
 somehow they manage to see you and every one of them starts shooting. 
  
  Also when you are a marksman and you decide to take a potshot at someone and your in a hidden location 
 as soon as you fire, they know EXACTLY where you are, and being as you could be over 300m away 
 i find that unbelivable. 
  
  As for your teammates, well.... I just let them die and be done with it. To put it frankly they 
 are dumb. You can only control the whole team. If you want to use a sniper every other teammates 
 opens fire aswell. 
  
  All in all the AI is S*%T. I belive they could have done a hell of a better job seeing as they 
 can work AI well in games like SplinterCell. For the poor AI this game only deserves a 6/10.
  
  Oh and since the price of games in the UK is 50 then the value for money is going to be 1 
 for every single game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rammstein01
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 11, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  After playing Advanced Warfighter after a few hours I can say that it is definitely worth the wait. 
 The first thing I noticed when the training level started was the graphics, they are superb and 
 so is the sound. On the single player the AI can be quite hard at times to beat, but the hud supplies 
 all the info you need about your enemies and where they are. To get the Gamer points in Advanced 
 Warfighter can be quite hard, so its a good challenge unlike completing King Kong for 1000 points. 
 The levels are also designed really well and your not boxed in all the time. The fact that you 
 get to control your own squad is also great on these open maps as they can do many things for you.
 
  
  Online with Warfighter is great. There are so many game types to be chosen and its easy to find 
 the game you want. Ive only came across a few problems in multiplayer and they were in the co-op 
 modes where the game disconnected because of too many NPC's, but other than that ive had a good 
 time on it.
  
  Overall, a great single player with a good story and a multiplayer that you can have hours of fun 
 with once your done with the single player. This one needs to be in your collection, even if you 
 don't like shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dodgefan91
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 11, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  the fact that there are no official servers online means some yahoo is going to try to host a 16 
 player game with a crappy connection and there are a few other problems with the online set up 
 too. but as soon as the game starts there are no major flaws. the controls take some time to get 
 use to but once u do it's hours upon hours of fun. the one real downfall in gameplay is the high 
 contrast in some bright spots can make it hard to see. i would rate the online a 9.0 and the singal 
 player a 9.0 as well... but because of how addicting the game is i some how put those numbers together 
 to put an overall rating of 9.6
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stejmatty
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Although I had just bought the game recently, it has been a big hit on me.
  To shorten this review and make you wanna get so badly youll wet your pants, im going to put it 
 into 5 categories.
  
  Offline Gameplay
  I believe this to be the thing that lets this game down, the story and how this "war" thing is 
 complete, and utter Bull. It maybe good, for about the first mission, but 2-3 shots, you die and 
 have to start again.
  This ill give a 6
  
  Online Gameplay
  This is what GRAW should be like, intense and more online goodness.
  To put it simple, this game 
 Rocks!
  10 out of 10
  
  Graphics
  Stunning, shiny, best looking game so far.
  10 out of 10 again.
  
  Music / SFX
  Great, all thumbs up to that, but the action music is 
 not my piece o bread.
  9 out of 10, o well, they cant get everything perfect.
  
  Acheviments and points
  Some acheviments are too demanding, but I mean come on! Get World Champion 
 on leaderboards.
  7 out of 10 for it being to hard to get only a few points.
  
  All in all, this is the best game to come out so far.
  Dead Rising, BF2 Modern Combat and Huxley 
 will be fighting for this position in the Xbox 360 rank.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4BiDDeN1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly the best fps game out for the 360 and it's also the BEST looking game. The single 
 player is very immersive and exciting. The areas you visit are very detail and breathtaking. There 
 are quite challenging missions and smart A. I. The new "cross-com" HUD is really cool and helpful. 
 The new gadgets are cool and helpful too. The multiplayer is very fun and has quite a replay value. 
 This is definately the best Ghost Recon in the long coming series. If you hated the other Ghost 
 Recons this is the one to buy. This is also definately why you must buy a Xbox 360 (well also for 
 Oblivion) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killocity
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 11, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter, I was very skeptical. I 
 did try out one of the earlier Ghost Recon's (can't remember which one) and it didn't do much for 
 me. However, I quickly have heard this game compared to Full Spectrum Warrior, a game that surpassed 
 my expectations for it and really provided a good gameplay experience. So, due to the drought of 
 360 games, I decided to go ahead and check this one out. Before I start my review, I would just 
 like to say that I've read tons of the other reviews already posted by other gamers on here. In 
 nearly every review on this game, it's D. O. A. 4 syndrome all over again. "This game looks amazing" 
 and " (the) graphics are incredible!" resound throughout nearly every review, including Gamespot's. 
 This is one of the very disturbing trends I see occuring with this "next-gen" of games. Developers 
 are cramming together a game, polishing it to look amazing in trailers and demos, and then selling 
 it even though the gameplay has more issues than Sports Illustrated. If I had a dollar for every 
 person who said they loved this game because it just "looks so cool", I'd be a rich man. The thing 
 to remember is that if a game looks good, you can thank Microsoft's hardware for that. The heart 
 and soul of a game, if good, is what credit game developers should get. Fluidity of control, story, 
 characters, entertainment value, and yeah ok sound too... those are the things that developers should 
 be getting recognition for IF they are done right. What we have with G. R. A. W. is not so much a 
 war game, but an extreme test of patience. In fact, the game nearly changes genre from Action/Shooter 
 to all-out Wrestler... simply because that is what you are going to be doing with your controller 
 the entire time you play this game. Here's my detailed breakdown of the game as a whole:
  
  Graphics: The graphics are good. For that I thank Microsoft and IBM for providing quality hardware. 
 Alot of people have said that this is the best looking game on 360 to date. In this reviewers opinion, 
 it is not. I don't know if everyone but me is playing in HDTV (can't fork out that kind of money 
 right now) , but the graphics here are just as good as the other titles. I expected to really be 
 amazed after hearing how great they were supposed to be, but in the end, I felt let down. I'm not 
 saying the game looks bad in any way, I'm just saying that with all the hype, I was thinking this 
 would be a real revolution in this department. And that is just not the case. Character models 
 look good, as do vehicles and weaponry. The game does manage to capture the feel of being in an 
 urban environment. BUT, there is one problem with that. On the first non-training level, the first 
 vehicle I came across, I ducked behind. Only after a brief shootout did I realize that it happened 
 to be a Dodge Ram pickup. But hey, that's fine right? Realism is a good thing. So, I walk five 
 feet and on a building to my right is a big banner for the Dodge Charger.... ok now what's going 
 on here? Did Microsoft sign a deal with Dodge or something to cram their P. O. S. cars into every 
 game or what? If you've played Fight Night Round 3, you know what I'm talking about. In that game, 
 you had the Dodge emblem being displayed on the crowd and at one point, you even have a title match 
 where the winner drives home in a 2007 Dodge Caliber. Fast forward to G. R. A. W., and here's Dodge 
 one more time. And this is not the only instance of advertising in this game. You will find loads 
 of similar-looking Dodge Rams throughout the levels. EA's Need for Speed series has been nailed 
 by reviewers ever since Underground 2 came out for having too much advertising. Well, I don't know 
 how many Dodge pickups are in Mexico City, but it's not this many, I guarantee. Back on topic, 
 the buildings look good. Yes, the city is void of civilians, but I can look past that easily if 
 gameplay is good enough... in Full Spectrum Warrior, I didn't even notice the lack of civilians.... but 
 an engaging game G. R. A. W. is not.
  
  Sound: The sound is good. Once again, I don't see what everyone is overly impressed about. C. O. D. 
 2 had much better sound I think, but that's simply opinion and my score on this review will be 
 based ONLY on my experience playing G. R. A. W. Guns sound good, and frag grenades are pretty loud. 
 The smoke grenades are questionable... I have yet to be able to use them effectively but they do 
 sound nice I guess.
  
  Control: Do you have Carpul Tunnel Syndrome? You will if you play this game. Honestly, I think 
 it's simply a matter of the gamer being expected to do too much. Yes, you can command your squad. 
 You can also order air strikes, command a cypher scout, etc. But the enemy is not going to stand 
 around and let you do that. Until you have tried to command an airstrike while shooting at enemies 
 and preventing your squad from breaking cover and getting owned by firing at a friggin tank like 
 they can kill it (oh it happens... ALL THE TIME) , you have not suffered frustration. Alot of times, 
 I was up against a wall, and I wouldn't even be peaking around the corner, yet I would be taking 
 damage from an enemy I couldn't even see and when I pulled the left trigger to aim my weapon, my 
 guy just jumps around the corner, out in the open, begging to be shot. The A button reloads... it 
 also, when held, allows you to change the rate of fire on your weapon. Isn't it funny that when 
 you pickup that submachine gun that the enemy was just firing at you in full automatic, it is set 
 to single shot JUST so you have to use this feature to change it back? And normally you don't realize 
 it until you're in a firefight you already can't win, and are expected to take the time to switch 
 the stupid rate of fire. The control for this game in one word: Frustrating.
  
  Gameplay: To anyone who said this game's difficulty is just right: You should be more honest so 
 that people don't get suckered into this game thinking it's actually playable. Seriously, I died 
 at least 30 times on the first real level. Mostly due to the control (again, it's your worst enemy) , 
 but also due to the ridiculously little life you actually have. I thought I was playing as some 
 advanced warrior... but apparently I don't have any body armor because yes, you can die from a single 
 shot. And this is perhaps the most disturbing trend in next-gen games: There is NO EASY SETTING. 
 That's right. Want to learn the game? Jump in and get owned by the A. I. multiple times until you 
 get it right. The training at the start of the game is a joke and hardly prepares you for the unrelenting 
 difficulty. I have nearly every Xbox 360 game in my library. Of them all, D. O. A. 4 included, this 
 game is the most frustrating. The bad thing is, the game isn't good enough to keep you playing. 
 There's a story that's loosely tied together with between level cut scenes, but I never felt driven 
 to force myself through another level of b. s. control in order to see how it progressed. If you 
 are a gamer who is of average, or even somewhat advanced skill, this game is going to test you... hard. 
 If you're someone who's looking for an action game to pick up and play and only play games here 
 and there, save your money and skip this one. It will frustrate you to no end and you'll just wind 
 up trading it off or selling it.. which I'm probably going to do and I'm an extremely avid gamer. 
 I just don't put up with cheap A. I. and horrid control in any game. Another point of mention: If 
 you die (which you will) , the checkpoints in this game are few and far between. I mean 15-20 minutes 
 of work far-between. Usually if I die 2 times trying to pass a point, I shut this game off and 
 plug in something else not out of anger, but out of dismay that they would put people through that. 
 
  
  ONLINE GAMEPLAY REVIEW: I put this in caps because people seem to think this game has awesome online 
 play. I'll start by saying that yes, it is better than the single player. It's sad, but I actually 
 learned the controls by going online and messing around with it until I got it right (somewhat) . 
 I can not stress enough how important it is to NOT play the co-op split-screen campaigns. If you've 
 played the single player, you know where this is going. It's hard to stay alive when you have the 
 whole screen. With half a screen, it's impossible. And each of you only have one life so if you 
 die, that's it unless your buddy can complete it by himself. No respawns. Nothing. You can go into 
 a different mode and challenge up to 40 enemies split screen, but they move like zombies and are 
 extremely easy to mow down. You do have respawns in that mode. The one thing that ruins the Xbox 
 Live experience is the ability to turn on enemy indicators. What's the point in taking a marksman 
 (sniper) into battle when everyone will be able to clearly see where you are thanks to the big 
 marker pointing you out to everyone? Big time mistake I think. It's possible to turn that off, 
 but most game hosts play with it on and it totally ruins the experience. And the create-a-mode 
 SUCKS. This game was, and I hate to say this yet again about a 360 game but it should be said, 
 apparently rushed because the only part of your guy you can actually change is his face paint, 
 face skin tone, and add a hat and sunglasses or earpiece. You have to pick from about 15 different 
 head gear setups that you can not change and that's what Warfighter calls creating a character. 
 No editing the uniform... nothing. Just head gear and skin tone basically. W... T.... F... is that? 
 
  
  All in all, this game could have been awesome. However, the extreme difficulty and your moronic 
 team mates who seem intent on getting themselves killed (btw, when they do go down, it's up to 
 you to heal them. And when you do, they only stay on their feet until they get hit by another bullet... then 
 it's rinse and repeat until you just don't heal them and they die. Another very annoying fact.) 
 contribute to this game taking a steep and quick slide from greatness. If you're desperate for 
 a game with alot of action, and have C. O. D. 2, I suggest buying Quake 4 or something else because 
 this game is just too frustrating to play to be recommended. For $60 I expected much better. And 
 while the graphics may have won Ubisoft the battle with some gamers, in my opinion, the poor gameplay 
 and overall experience have lost them the war with many others. Officially, I do not recommend 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlbertPerk
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 11, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Okay guys, when I first heard about this game, I must admit I was pessimistic about checking it 
 out. But later my friend from work kept talking to me about it, and I was swayed into getting it... and 
 WOW let me just say that he wasn't lying about the hype of this game... it goes BEYOND the hype. 
 This game is quite possibly one of THE BEST shooters I've ever played in gaming. It requires intellect, 
 intelligence, and recon all at once. And it tests your patience as well.
  
  The graphics on this game are AMAZING. Especially if you own an HD TV. This is the best looking 
 XBOX 360 title to this date.. BY FAR. Check out the beginning movie in the game and it looks REAL. 
 It's ridiculous what this console brings to the table. 
  
  The difficulty on this game is kind of difficult at first; as you will quickly learn that you cannot 
 just rush into a fire fight like it is some kind of melee... the game makes you use your team & 
 also other resources that may be at your disposal depending on the situation at hand.
  
  The sound on this game is on point if you have a surround sound system (if you don't, get with 
 it!) You can hear explosions and gun fire all around you and sometimes it even helps as a hint 
 on where the enemy can be located. Simply innovated work by Ubisoft.
  
  Overall this is the type of video game that will make a consumer want to have an XBOX 360... on 
 the real it's THAT GOOD. So what are you waiting for? Get out there and get on the battlefield!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 670179139
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  This game can't be described it is so good the graphics, the gameplay, and the sound are all the 
 best ever the storyline is awesome it has guns that shoot the walls to kill enemies tanks airplanes 
 different missions actually has a really good storyline do not believe the people who sais the 
 game is bad or sucks or even decent this game is even better than Halo or Halo 2. I loved this game 
 from when I first startwed playing it plus I was addicted to the game. Well thier is no bad things 
 to say about this game only really good things the game is set at a perfect diffulcty for a gamer 
 who can beat Ninja gaiden not as hard but i didn't think ninja gaiden was hard though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raptorrogue
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 11, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  I just beat the single player game this morning. -And Wow. In my opinion, this game is by far the 
 best on 360 that's out right now. -Not to mention, the best looking and first to really feel worth 
 that "next-gen pricing". 
  
  The single player campaign was a tactical blast. -Most definitely a game to pull a Halo-style all-nighter 
 with. Alongside the great and exciting combat, is a level of detail of Mexico City that is simply: 
 awesome! It really feels like a city.... well, except there aren't any civilians to be seen... 
 which I consider a good thing. I mean, the game is already challenging enough (even of normal) , 
 so I figured the developers ruled that they'd just get in the way. 
  
  Speaking of getting in the way... while I did notice some glitches here and there, the only thing 
 really bugged me was the AI of your squad. They definitely are not the world's best. I found myself 
 the majority of the time just ordering them far *away* from me. Anytime they were remotely close, 
 they would "stand in front of" or "run in front" of my sights. No wonder the superiors over the 
 radio congratulate *you* by name and not your team. 
  
  On the other hand, I did enjoy the mechanical toys you could order around. Such as: Copters, Cyphers, 
 APCs, and Tanks. They were all very well implemented into the gameplay and really did make the 
 fighting more intense and tactical. The first time one of the copters blew away a tank and saved 
 my butt... it brought a tear of joy to my eye. 
  
  Without spoiling anything, the campaign is a roller coast ride. -Lots of fun surprises during missions. 
 
  
  Unfortunately, I don't have a gold membership, so I can't play online. However, the game did come 
 will a 48 hr. trail... so I guess it's better than nothing...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ray13021
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 11, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  What can you say the best game so far for the Xbox360 is of right now is GWAW. But sure that could 
 change down the road. First person shooter games are great. This game everything looks sounds and 
 plays great. Have not played online yet but will soon. If anyone reads this that would be nice.. 
 tell me what you think on hundres words humm. writing is hell at this point.. Ok i liked it very 
 very much.. next generation games should look this good on it.. only wish the price would go down 
 on the games... I have at least 6 games now of the system. Awesome huh i think so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightmonkey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Tom Clancy games are widely known and favoured, but despite this fact... some may argue that there 
 has never really been a truely 'killer app' entry in the series. That had to change though right? 
 Ubisoft has shown us what lots of devoted time and hard thinking could achieve. And that Ghost 
 Recon: Advanced Warfighter.
  
  Graphics are what people tend to judge a game on first, so let's start with that. The lighting 
 effects are superb, it's probably the best example to date, and was the first aspect to make me 
 go "Wow". It's so well done, the realism is amazing and it makes the game a treat to look at. Character 
 models glow underneath the rays of the sun with unique blends... night time levels have superb shadowing 
 and lighting contrasts, and the lightning effects are grand. The water effects look good from far, 
 but they are less impressive when seen up close, as they animation does tend to look unrealistic, 
 but it still looks good. The attention to detail is satisfying indeed, and you can really tell 
 Ubisoft put alot of effort into the subtle but important aspects of this game. 
  
  Ragdoll physics are done very nicely in this game, it ain't no 'Perfect Dark Zero', as it's all 
 done realisticly. Never do you you see over exagerrated deaths, and or any bodies moving around 
 like limp string dolls after dying.
  
  As for the AI in this game, it actually had me and some friends outwitted a few times. And it was 
 because we understimated the AI. Yes, it still does have it's problems, your drone will sometimes 
 hover in circles, and you do get allies running into your line of sight (not your soldiers though, 
 but people you may need to protect) , and you soldiers do tend to sit down facing a corner in shame. 
 However, it's still done quite well, and definately well enough... your soldiers won't be stupid 
 in a battle. When they follow you, they are very precaucious, as they run from cover to cover while 
 following you. Enemy AI is also no pushover, they are abit slow to shoot sometimes, but they can 
 be quiet annoying... as they can be really good at covering, running to safer places before you 
 kill them, or even sneaking closer to you unnoticed.
  
  The gameplay here is really well done. Cool little ideas really makes this game shine with fun. 
 Being able to slide to cover, being able to command helicopters to obliterate armoured vehicles 
 and soldiers, being able to roll grenades gently and silently into enemy territory, smoking places 
 unexpectedly and laughing as your opponents realise too late that they can't see- giving you time 
 to get where you want. These are just a few of the cool niggles that make this game a treat to 
 play. Another good thing is that you don't have an unreal amount of health, hence making you think 
 before you move, and restricting you from being a run-and-gun person. Being tactical can be alot 
 more fun than just going crazy blasting everyone to oblivion in a room full of 16 people... especially 
 when in third person view. Which brings me to my next point.
  The guns in the game are, well, excellent, you never get to see the models up close though. They 
 handle really well and realisticaly, for example, you can't shoot a rocket launcher while your 
 moving (unless you're in aiming mode) , you have to hold your breath in sniper mode to steady your 
 aim and zoom in abit closer, if you shoot while running your accuracy won't be as good as when 
 your standing still and shooting. And so on. There is a large range of weapons to choose from, 
 and they are all grouped up accordingly. The 'Grenadier' group contains machine guns or rifles 
 that have the ability shoot out grenades, but each one is unique, and it also contains the infamous 
 rocket launcher, which is the only one without a rifle. The 'Marksman' category contains the sniper 
 rifles/precision guns of the game, again, each one is unique... some are stronger, while some are 
 more accurate and others have more rounds etc. The 'Rifleman' category is self explanatory, as 
 is the 'Auto-rifleman' category. The only guns that have secondary functions are the 'Grenadier' 
 guns (except rocket launcher) . There does seem to be a lack of pistols though, I only noticed two, 
 a silenced pistol and a non-silenced one.
  
  Now, in multi-player, you may not be able to do all the things you can do in single player (like 
 slide, command troops etc) ... but it's still wicked fun. The modes of play are superb, and are probably 
 the best so far. Co-op elimination is hilarious fun with your buddies online, waiting at certain 
 spots for bots to come, then picking them off from afar with scoped weapons and watching the bodies 
 pile up is pure fun. It's also gets really intense when a whole whorde of soldiers rush at you, 
 while you try to kill them in time. Seek and Destroy can create really frantic moments; if your 
 the target, you may be crapping your self, if you are with others it can get really competetive 
 as people try to be the first to kill the target etc. Campaign co-op is one of the best parts of 
 multiplayer, your team cooperation and tactics are essential to completing levels. It's also realistic 
 and tense when one of your allies are dying one by one and there are fewer of you to complete the 
 objective/s at hand.
  
  Overall, this game is tremendous fun both in multi player and single player. It's got the graphics, 
 the gameplay, it has it all... and I doubt this game will be collecting dust, ever. This game is 
 worth the money, and believe me, it's a purchase you won't regret. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SantaMayCry
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  This is a MAJOR step up from any ghost recon game before it. With the perfect mix of action, and 
 tacticality (*adds that to list of Santaisms) this beautiful 360 game will be on my most played 
 for a while. The Sound is amazing, the graphics are orgasmic, and the gameplay is smooth as sex 
 with a ky marinated condom. The online play is equally as friend, but for some reason it uses a 
 different engine then the multiplayer. In turn it doesnt look as good, and there are some odd control 
 differences. My only problem besides that would come with the AI, they sometimes enter your line 
 of fire, or take cover in places that will get them shot... immedialty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UKRecon360
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Even words can not describe how good this game is. If anyone thinks that there is something wrong 
 with this game or do not give it 8/10 at least, they should be kicking themselves. The Gameplay 
 and Graphics give you a feeling as though you are really at the battlefield. It only takes you 
 around 30-45 minutes to learn the controls. Ghost Recon 3 is seriously intense. Even on the online 
 campaign on easy mode it can be quiet difficult. Then again thats what Ghost Recon 3 is all about. 
 Nothing is easy. The Single player campaign even gives you the ability to command tanks, helicopters 
 (with turrents) , everything! As the video says: if they have got it, you can command it and the 
 guns, firepower and your team mates are much better then on the previous Ghost Recon 3.
  
  I would only NOT recommend this game, if you are new to first or 3rd person shooters. Try Call 
 Of Duty 2. Apart from that, there is nothing wrong and you will simply enjoy Ghost Recon 3 and 
 get quickly addicted to it.
  
  Overall, Tom Clancys Ghost Recon 3: Advanced Warfighter is a must have. Especially on the XBOX360.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: juicymongoose
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 11, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  First off, I will start with the bad things. The controls definately arent for everyone and unfortuately 
 the didnt make a southpaw setting for those few that use it. Its worth it though to get use to 
 the controls. Second, your squad mates can be reall retarded sometimes, but that kinda is expected. 
 Anyway, its time for the good things. The sound is absolutley killer. You hear bullets at different 
 angles and amazing surround sound is present. Another positive aspect is the over-the-top graphics. 
 You wont find any other game with graphics at this level that is out right now. And something else 
 I liked was that I actually felt like I was a Ghost in that squad. Overall, it is an awesome, real 
 feeling experience and is a must buy for Xbox 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stlrain95
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 11, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  This is not your typical 1st person shooter.... it attempts to add strategic and in your face tactics 
 making it an elite shooter. I am not one to boast about this type of game, but must say that I 
 am thouroughly impressed with the feel and patience you must exhibit within the missions. You can't 
 just go in "John Wayne" style on your enemy.... you must be crafty and cunning. 
  
  On the short, the AI and team members could use some tweaking based on how they approach a situation 
 and environment. This comes into blaring evidence when you are depending on them most for their 
 tools and weapons based on the situation. I have found times when I was having to eliminate most 
 of the opposition around me. 
  
  Overall, a complete game and one that has made XBOX 360 proud to be next-gen!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoSockin3
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion games don't get much better than Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter. The gameplay is 
 astounding, in both multiplayer and singleplayer. The graphics are crisp, the lighting is beautiful. 
 The sound is also very well done in the game. You can't forget about the explosions. GRAW has the 
 best explosions of any game I've ever played. If you have an Xbox 360 and don't own graw, you need 
 to walk out your door right now and get it. This game is well worth the sixty dollars you have 
 to pay for it. Even if your not a fan of tactical games you should still go out and grab this game. 
 GRAW has the best graphics out of all the current Xbox 360 games out right now. So get up and grab 
 GRAW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jyo4life
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 11, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  This the best game out there for 360 as of right now! The controls are extensive and kinda difficult 
 to pick up, but once you got them down, you feel awesome commanding your squad and utilizing all 
 of the technology at your disposal (which is a lot!) . Graphics are mind-blowing, all of the little 
 details make it all feel real. The sound immerses you and makes you wonder if the pap-pap of gunfire 
 in the background are just background noises or enemies aware of your presence! The situational 
 music overwhelms at just the right times to make for cinematic fire-fights. All in all, buy, love 
 it, tell others to do the same...
  BTW, I hate tactical shooters, but this one is done so well that you have to love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seankennedyut
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  GRAW is the best shooter available on the 360. The graphics are unbelievable and the sound is just 
 as amazing. The city is huge and the game always feels fresh, with new landscapes and missions 
 requiring your constant attention. Taking control of tanks, apache helicopter, and ghost teammates, 
 gives the feeling of absolute control in this game. In addition to controlling allies, the many 
 options available to your character help the feeling of actually being there. Did I also mention 
 the graphics are incredible? The helicopter sequences are exciting and well-done. This title in 
 the series seems a bit more action oriented than the last two, but that is a good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NikeStud17
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  I knew as soon as i saw the previews for the game it would be awsome. I didn't think it would be 
 this good. honestly i am in a loss of words to describe how awsome this game is i've been playing 
 it for the last 2 days STRAIGHT as soon as i bought it i got home and ive played it only turned 
 off the 360 once and that's because it was starting to get hot. the graphics in G. R. A. W are FREAKING 
 AWSOME. The special tactics you have to use to get to ure enemies the accuracy of your shot has 
 to be pin point. The sounds to it are awsome once again the graphics are AWSOME!!! I've only got 
 another level or two till i beat it and as soon as i beat it ill switch the difficulty up and ill 
 play it again and after i beat it ill take it online and host some games all in all i give this 
 tom clancy's game a 10 of 10 if I were you and i had $65 to go spend I would go buy this game and 
 I would enjoy it!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmitc01
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 11, 2006 12:18 pm PT
Review:  I think I built this game up a bit in my mind.
  Panning from left to the right feels like slow motion. It's maddening! If you enjoy a good PC shooter 
 avoid this game! I nearly cried out of frustration. There is no adjustment for x or y speed. 
 
  Third person means that even though you think you're aiming at the enemy, chances are that you're 
 just shooting at the brick wall you're using for cover in front of you. First person makes the 
 game even harder to control. 
  Why in the world would you make the crosshairs yellow when the backdrop for the game is roughly 
 that same color most of the time? It's hard to tell where you're shooting in the daytime. How about 
 a red cross-hair? Or green, I would take green, but there is no adjustment for this. 
  Your team is very dumb and will tend to do what they want even after being ordered to heel. They 
 forget their orders. If you try to heal one of them you'll generally pay the price by being killed. 
 You can ask a teammate to heal another teammate but he may not feel like it.
  Shooting a machine gun from a helicopter sounds fun, but it isn't, it's like one of those dreams 
 where you're trying to defend yourself but you're stuck in slo-mo.
  It looks great and the framerate is consistent. Cross-com is cool. UAVs are sweet. The "reflections" 
 and "shadows" are a graphical cop-out. You'll have to try it to see what I mean on that one. 
 
  Loading times are very reasonable.
  Haven't tried multi player yet. I'll probably just sell this game on ebay first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FantasykeyX
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2006 12:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is on of the most amazing ive seen on the 360. It has amazing graphics and sound, and 
 the gameplay is just awesome. Take about 30-45 minutes to learn all the controls and such but thats 
 just me, and I'm new to Ghost Recon. The levels are extremely difficult. Normal mode is almost 
 the equivalent of veteran on Call of Duty 2. The gameplay is almost the best I have seen in any 
 war game I've played. The way that it gives you so much control over your team and vehichles is 
 awesome.
  For those of you who enjoy FPS games more than 3rd person shooters, you can switch modes in the 
 menu. Personally i enjoy FPS's more but not in this game. The FPS mode doesnt show your current 
 weapon or anything so it is a bit confusing Currently i haven't tried XBL play but i can tell it 
 will be awesome.
  My only complaint with GRAW is how stupid your teammates can be at times. If one is on the ground 
 and needs help, the other ones will just stand there until you tell them to heal him. Overall this 
 is an almost perfect game, and a must-own 360 title.
  BTW, what the heck it Reviewer's tilt? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lauryn2000
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 11, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  leadership will depend on your tactical ability.
  
  Welcome to Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter were we move into the future and smack dead in the middle 
 of Mexico City, where chaos and unrest has run rampant, this is "urban warfare".
  
  In this vamped up 360 version we get "realtime" picture in picture so you can keep abreast of your 
 squad. The commands have been simplified to move your squad to fall on you or go to the destinated 
 area you command.
  
  One nice addition is now you can command the UAV drones which will appear in your cross-com. You 
 can send the drone ahead to gather intel. But becareful, they can be easily shot down. There is a 
 virtual 3D map that you can also use to control your squad.
  
  At times you can run into some problems with the A. I when it comes to getting out of your "safe" 
 cover positions.
  
  This game received a T=Teen rating, I've played all of the Ghost Recon many of them with the M=Mature 
 rating.
  
  And it feels this game was missing that extra something.
  But it's a excellent addition to the Ghost Recon series!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-Mac1H
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 28, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  This is a pretty good game. A challenging single player, and a moderately good multiplayer. The 
 single player game takes you through around 11 missions in Mexico City, where rebels have taken 
 over. These missions are usually long and entertaining.
  I agree with the GameSpot review. I think that there being no people in the city other than terrorists 
 is a little odd. I believe that this game would be much more fun and challenging if there were 
 civilians in the streets.
  In this game, you command a squad of 4 soldiers including yourself in the single player game. You 
 can command your men to take out certain targets, run to cover, or follow you. During the game 
 you also get other support such as helicopters and tanks. The missions are challenging and you 
 can approach them from many different directions. However after you have completed the missions 
 they become boring after you replay them multiple times. 
  If you do have XBOX live, you will be able to play 4 co-op missions, and a variety of other games 
 such as deathmatch and capture the flag, online with up to 16 people. The online multiplayer is 
 very entertaining. By playing ranked games you can increase your rank. There are 25 different ranks. 
 You doing good or bad will determine whether you get promoted or demoted. A bad thing about the 
 ranking system is that it doesn't tell you what you need to do to get to the next rank. You don't 
 know if your performance in games is helping or hurting your rank. This becomes confusing and it 
 doesn't keep you motivated to get your rank up.
  Overall this is a very good game. A few small flaws prevent this game from reaching its absolute 
 potential but it is still worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malowqb16
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 11, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  This is by far the best game out on the 360 so far. Campaign is pretty good, but not the best. 
 Graphics are just plain amazing. SO many weapons to choose from makes u find one just for u. Lots 
 of fun. Online is where it's the best, also 2 players on the same console is pretty cool. The only 
 bad thing isa your team is campaign mode isnt all that smart, they dont really help. But i love 
 this game and it is by far the best game 9on the system to date.
  df jdh hf hiu huh g fg f gg f gerg r er vf f 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spragoo52
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 11, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  All in all I am VERY impressed with this game. If you're into being tactical when it comes to combat 
 this is your game. I'm home on spring break and it still looks great on my old TV. I'm looking 
 forward to putting it on my HDTV at school. I really can't say anything bad about the game. One 
 thing I noticed is that sometimes your teammates aren't responsive to combat, but issue an attack 
 command and they quickly snap out of it.
  
  I haven't played the multi much yet. I noticed there's not alot of people on it right now. So when 
 I get going on that maybe I'll write another review in here for you all. I have however played 
 the online co-op with one of my friends and we had a blast against the CPU.
  
  I highly recommend this game to anyone who likes modern combat games and anyone who just wants 
 to have a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcwadsworth
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 11, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  I have said it before so I will say it again Ubi Soft are the best games developers at this moment 
 in time and they keep pushing back the boundaries raising the mark etc
  
  Ghost Recon series has been let loose on the 360 and WOW my god I wet myself!!!!!
  
  The bad 
 points:
  
  Ok the bad points, the control system can be clumsily at times can be difficult to get used to 
 but once you have you will be able to rain death from above 
  
  And a word has to be said about the HARD difficulty setting  it is very hard at times you 
 will swear and curse but once you have complete the level and collect you 25 points for your game 
 card you will be smiling oh yes you also get 25 points for completing the same level on normal 
 whats that all about????? Can some tell me why? Or will I get all the points when I finished the 
 game??? Any who really cares???
  Multiplayer is fantastic he levels are miles long there huge!! So be warned if there are only one 
 or two of you dont bother you never find each over so many game modes to choose from in multiplayer 
 the only other thing is you cant join a game in progress so you have be warned but dont worry 
 this is truly a great game much better then all the other Recons put together dont waste your 
 money on renting this out just buy it!!!!
  
  Complaints over the good stuff
  
  Easily the best game on the 360 at this point in time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mightEone
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 11, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  I played GR2 and Summit Strike so I had a good idea of how this would play. At first the aiming 
 from cover is a little wierd but I quickly got used to it. Just like the review says, when you 
 start the mission your flying over Mexico City. And it's amazing just to see it. If this is what 
 next-gen is going to look like then I say keep it comin! Controlling your squad and other things 
 like the UAV, helicopters, and tanks is actually easy. Simply click the d pad and they move in 
 that direction. Or to be more precise use the 3D map. So I definetly recommend this as a BUY to 
 all 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a1023c
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  iuh iuhui hiuhiuhiuhi uhuihiuhui uhui huihuihui h huihui hui iuhuih ihuihuih iuh iuhuih iuhuhuih 
 ihiuhiuhiu iuhiu iu iuuhiu iuhiuhiuh iuhi uhuihi uuihuih iuhiuhiuhiuhiuh iu iuhui iuhiuhui iuhuih 
 iuh uihiuh iuh uh uih iuh iuhu ui hiu hi iuh ii ui hiuh iuhiuhuui ihuiuhi ihi iuh uiuhuui huihui 
 hihu ihiuhuihiuhiuh iuhu hiuh iuh iuhuihuih iuhiuhiuhhhuu uhuih iuhuh iuhui h uih iuh iuh iuh uihuih 
 ui iuhuihh iuhuihui iuuh uih iuhuih iuhuihuih iuhiuhui uhuihui huh uihiuhui uhuih ui huih iuhiuhui 
 iuhuh uiiuhu u ihui iuhuihui huihuhuih uihuih uh uiiuhu uiu hu u u uiuihui huihiuhuui huihiuh iiuhhuihuih 
 iuhuhiuh iuhiuh iuhhiuhu ihiuh uhuihiu hiuh iuhiuhiuhu iuhiuh h iuhi huihhu ihiuhi uhhiuhh huh 
 uh ihuihu 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Streetballfan21
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 11, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  G. R. A. W is the best game i seen so far for the 360. this is a more slow technical shooter. so you 
 can go around running and shooting. the game is more realistic b/c you die in one or 2 shots. being 
 a ghost is what you need to so. the single player modes are harder then most shooter. and you will 
 die alot. but it''s so fun. the story is great alot of cool things happen. mutiplayer is great. 
 but there are some flaws in it. every thing in the game is really fun. the maps are the best. this 
 is a musr get game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silver_Fire
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 11, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  GRAW is finally here, and it was sure worth the wait. First of all, the graphics are the best I've 
 seen on a 360 game so far, Mexico City looks amazing and incredibly realistic. The helicopter portions 
 let your eyes see buildings as far as the eyes can see. I do find it a bit disturbing how it seems 
 like a ghost town. The character models are superb (although I've noticed some glitches) .
  The gameplay is great. Intense action makes up a lot of it, and the fact that a couple shots will 
 kill you give this a level of challenge even on the lowest difficulty. The sound effects are great, 
 explosions are deafening. The enemy AI is quite capable of sending you to your grave. Your ghost 
 AI leaves something to be desired though. Controlling them is rather simple, a bit like Brother 
 In Arms, but they do things like standing in the open getting shot too often. They're be useful 
 in a tight spot though and can hold their own if you guide them.
  The multiplayer is great. Expect to die a lot of times. The co-op campaign is really fun too.
 
  Overall, if you own a Xbox 360 you owe it to yourself to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_wilcox
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  Tactical without being aggravating and stylized without being gaudy, Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced 
 Warfighter (the kids these days call it "GRAW") is being billed as the first truly great action 
 game on the XBox 360, and rightfully so. It's an undeniable sensory treat, making the best use 
 to date of those next-gen capabilities we've all heard so much about, but it's also just damned 
 enjoyable from the get-go.
  
  GRAW puts you in the shoes of operative Scott Mitchell and drops you right into Mexico City, which 
 purposely or not, takes on the appearance of a war-torn ghost town and throws all kinds of baddies 
 at you as you move deftly (or not) from obstacle to obstacle in pursuit of various well-defined 
 mission goals. The game's strengths include its well-designed HUD and tactical map, both of which 
 mitigate the somewhat ungainly control scheme. You'll need a little time to adjust to the feel 
 of these games if you've not played this series but it's an investment you'll be willing to make 
 as soon as you poke your way past a couple of the early objectives.
  
  More impressively, the game conveys a real atmosphere of discord and turmoil. Buildings burn in 
 the distance (and the draw distance is amazing, incidentally) and rock songs mix with the chopper 
 blades as you fly across the landscape. News clips are patched into your HUD for an extra little 
 bit of gravitas. A Clancy title isn't a Clancy title without some level of political intrigue designed 
 to inspire your derring-do, is it?
  
  If you don't enjoy GRAW, it's not because of any limitations in the game itself, but because of 
 your own proclivities. Those who liked Call of Duty 2 because it combined historical richness with 
 the spirit of the modern melee might be disappointed here, because this game doesn't rely on strafing 
 and firing on the run. Conversely, those who enjoy the SOCOM games on the PS2/PSP will embrace 
 the finer elements of GRAW.
  
  The XBox 360 needed a boost, and quickly. GRAW serves it up, and in style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZimpanX
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 11, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Very intense, tactical, quite challenging, and great enemy and ally AI. The best graphics 
 yet for the Xbox 360 by far, and near perfect soundtrack and soundeffects. Co-op campaigns with 
 up to 4 players or even up to 16 players via Xbox Live
  
  The Bad: It's kind of strange that a city of 9 million people have no civilians and the AI of you 
 squadmates have some minor flaws
  
  The Review:
  In GRAW you will once again be put in the shoes of captain Scott Mitchell, but this time in Mexico 
 City in the year 2013. You start of by doing some basic assignment but then you'll suddenly find 
 out that the Canadian Premier Minister has been killed and the American and Mexican President has 
 gone missing, and it's your job to find them and bring them to safety.
  The gameplay is neat and have a very next-gen feel to it, for example you can always monitor your 
 squadmates or controlling vehicles via your cross-com positioned over your left eye, the cross-com 
 will also give information about hostiles, allies, mission objectives, range etc. and kind of makes 
 you wonder how you managed to go trough the previous Ghost Recon games without it. Apart from the 
 your cross-com you can also give commands to your squadmates or controlling vehicles, commands 
 like attack, move, regroup, offensive/defensive formation etc. Occasionally though your squadmates 
 might get stuck sometimes, but thankfully that rarely happens, The weapons you will use trough 
 the game can be anything to pistols, grenades to rifles and rocket launchers, and you can also 
 pick up dropped weapons from your enemies by pressing the action button. Some of the rifles have 
 scopes with makes it easier to take out target from longer distances and you also have the ability 
 to hold your breath for a couple of seconds to greatly improve your aiming.
  You can also take cover behind walls or objects to avoid getting shot witch is very good because 
 one single headshot will take you out witch results in mission failure.
  The graphics are marvelous, actually the best I've ever seen so far in a game I think, and it sometimes 
 feels like you're controlling a characters in a well animated movie than more than actually playing 
 a video game, The light effect are basically perfect and helps bringing you a realistic atmosphere.
 
  The sound and soundeffects are just as good as the graphics witch also improves the realistic 
 feel you get from the game.
  The singleplayer campaign will take you about 10 hours or more to finish, but is well worth going 
 trough again thanks to the greater difficulty setting and achievements you'll get by doing that, 
 but also because of you can get to the mission locations in the game in many different ways. When 
 you are done playing singeplayer the multiplayer option will keep you busy for a very long time, 
 mostly because of the co-op missions, witch can be played locally with up to 4 players and also 
 up to 16 players via Xbox Live. You can also customize the multiplayer modes pretty much in every 
 way you want, However you can't use the cover ability in multiplayer witch maybe will disappoint 
 some of you, but I think it's good actually because it's makes it more action phased and more relied 
 on skill.
  Well GRAW is one of those game that has pretty much everything, the game isn't perfect however 
 but it comes extremely close, and I can almost say that GRAW for the Xbox 360 is what Halo was 
 for the Xbox
  //ZimpanX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomTask221
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon has always been a pretty average experience for me when it comes to gameplay. Ghost 
 Recon 1 was pretty horible, and yet many people loved it for some reason, I guess you could call 
 me a Rainbow Six kinda guy. Anyway, when Ghost Recon 2 came out and had the whole "3rd person" 
 point of view, I decided to give this series another shot. Ghost Recon 2 did impress me with its 
 good visuals and fun online, but it really never hit the spot for me like Rainbow Six 3 did, so 
 I never played it that often. 
  
  Now on to G. R. A. W, this game is very enjoyable, lets start with that. The single player is very 
 well designed and pretty tough, even on normal mode. The graphics are outstanding, obviously, and 
 the sounds are pretty good aswell. Overall the single player is just flat out amazing when it comes 
 to what you want in a game, so for that, I tip my hat to you Ubisoft! 
  
  Now, for the thing most important to a game, its multiplayer. I heard somewhere that this multiplayer 
 was created by a different company, under the Ubisoft Licence, I think it was Red Storm. I don't 
 know why that is because Red Storm did a pretty crappy job with it. Don't get my wrong, its a fun 
 online game, but its almost IDENTICAL to Ghost Recon 2 online. The movement is the same, the phyicals 
 are the same, everything about it looks the same to GR2 except the highly updated graphics. Ofcourse 
 they did fix the menu screens and the online lobby, which is AAA truthfully. But the gameplay modes 
 and style are nothing new to us GR2 players, plus where is the great animations from the single 
 player?... its like a totally different game.... 
  
  Overall, G. R. A. W is a good game, it has all the right elements to make it a winner. One word of 
 advice though, anyone who hated GR2 online gameplay, you will want to hold off on buying this game 
 just for the online, its pretty similar. Other then that, enjoy!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pistolpete9500
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 11, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  I noticed some clipping issues when I first started playing the game... like your character would 
 basically be running through your teammates.. also the controls are clunky and annoying... the graphics 
 are what made me get this game and may be enough to keep me interested for a while... all in all 
 not bad but could have been better. The door gunner misions I think are the best part of the game 
 when you really feel your in a helicopter flying above the city of mexico. Yeah it's a pretty game 
 but a little frustrating.. buy it for the looks but play it for ??? Anyways thats mt review.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wowgod
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  G. R. A. W. is without question the best in the serious, commanding your team and vehicles is easy 
 (just like it should be) and the variety of weapons is outstanding, and don't get me started on 
 how smart those little Mexican rebels are. Then there are the graphics which are amazing and the 
 fist time I saw an explosion in the game I creamed myself it was just that good.
  
  There are some problems with the game and they are all related to the online play, many of the 
 good things you can do on solo like take cover and shoot through car windows to kill you enemy's 
 are gone! to be honest this puzzles me and I think it really can wast co-op play. Then there are 
 the connection issues on almost every game I have played at least two people lose connection when 
 the match starts and to be honest that is **** and should just not happen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LHoke
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 11, 2006 7:10 am PT
Review:  As predicted by most 360 gamers, this is the best game by far out for the 360. From stunning graphics 
 to awsome gameplay. I could go on and on about how awsome this game is, but it does has its flaws.
 
  
  1. Your A. I has the IQ of a 3 year old, They will often stand out in the open and just take bullets 
 from any direction, even when they are orderd to take cover.
  2. There are still some glitches but this can be fixed by patches VIA X-box live.
  3. The last 
 complaint I have is that the single player can be incredibly fustrating sometime, this is coming 
 from the average gamers view point of course.
  
  Besides that, this game shines amazingly. Where This game is trully amazing as always though is 
 the multiplayer. It gives hours and hours of trully addictive gameplay. 
  
  Verdict, if u have a 360, Get this game. By they way my gametag on live is Sharpgun360, come play 
 somtime 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nas-tmayne2k6
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 11, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  I was very excited about this game but after playing it for two days its pretty obvious that this 
 is a letdown...... bigtime
  
  gameplay-its solid, doesnt offer anything really new but some cosmetic and superficial features 
 like cross com
  
  graphics- single player is pretty with all the lighting effects and heat blurr effects, long draw 
 distance, HD looks great, Multiplayer on the other hand looks like rainbow six black arrow color 
 palette, basically no effects, summit strike beefed up
  
  sound- this is topnotch, lots of ambience like sirens and dogs barking, sound staging is excellent, 
 though i wish they didnt take so many sonds like the death sounds from GR2
  
  controls- boy o boy, single player, clunky unresponsive, only two options for controlling your 
 squad leaves you very mad , you will see why, no way to tell them to duck, take cover, no control 
 over escorts. Multiplayer somewhat better but aiming is clunky and no way to adjust x-y sensitivity.
 
  
  value- short single player campaign, beleamic , small 10 MP maps, whereas GR 2 had 24 + 10 DL and 
 SS had 24 + 3 DL, on top of that no blind siege, no search and rescue, no heli hunt, small collection 
 of weapons, no claymores, no satchels, coop campaign is a joke. all this for a rediculous 60 dollars, 
 folks this is a gamefly game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: abanks
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 11, 2006 6:46 am PT
Review:  Graphically this is the most realistic game available to date on the 360. 
  
  Everyone raved about the graphics and gameplay of CODII but move over COD G. R. A. W is now here.
 
  
  Later this month we will see FarCry and Battlefield 2 who will challenge for the number 1 slot 
 but G. R. A. W is going to make sure it is a strong contender.
  
  Gameplay is fluid with the perfect mix of combat & graphics. 
  
  Its not action action action 
 so you get time to take in the Mexico sites and man do they look hot !!
  
  People have moaned about the enemy being displayed with red diamonds thus making it un-realistic, 
 but the title is "Advanced Warfighter" so just play it and cann the moaning !!
  
  This is a great game for both the old and young whether you have Live! or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jorge_16
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  usually i'm not into war games but i picked this game up because i wanted a new 360 game and it 
 was worth the 60 bucks. the graphics actually look better than fight night graphics. the gameplay 
 is good and the weopons are great to. the only thing thats kinda wierd is that when your running 
 around mexico city its like a ghost town. there are no pedestrians walking around and there is 
 no traffic on the streets. all there is are the terrorist. and another thing is that the movement 
 is pretty slow. but other than that the game is great and its worth 60 bucks. the controls are 
 easy to get used to and its fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spike3oOo
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2007 11:12 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advance Warfighter absolutly blew me away. I was expecting an excellent game, but what 
 I got was an amazing game. The Graphics are some of the best on the 360, the gameplay is rock solid 
 both in its single player campaigh, and its multyplayer modes. This game has it all. It is without 
 a doubt the best 360 game, and also the most Next-Gen game yet! The difficuly is also extremly 
 challenging and thought provoking (which I love) you have to use stradegy and think out your actions, 
 instead of just gunning your way in the field. Overall I love G. R. A. W and cant wait for GR4! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Code
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 11, 2006 2:23 am PT
Review:  I bought this game to hold me off till Oblivion comes out and i must say it was a good choice. 
 The game takes place in Mexico City during the middle of a war you play as Scott Mitchell the comander 
 of a squad known as the ghosts as you play an important role in this war.
  
  Graphics are beautiful they really take advantage of the 360's power lighting effects and bloom 
 are bright and vibrant and explosion effects go up in a cloud of smoke and flame. Not to mention 
 the smoke trail that follows bullets as they go wizing by. There are a few flaws and errors in 
 the graphics such as times where your character doesnt look like hes holding the gun or floats 
 across ground but these are rare errors.
  
  Sound is great as well with the sound of explosions and gun fire in the distance, the shots of 
 hidden snipers, and tanks driving down streets. The gunshots all sound great and different and 
 voice acting is well done. Music which only comes up at critical moments or while in the helicopter 
 is enjoyable.
  
  Gameplay is great there always is a sense of emersion and the story keeps you hooked. You get to 
 choose your weapons and even your teamates which doesnt make that big a difference but its a nice 
 addition. The inbetween missions parts are enjoyable as well with sutch parts as you bet breifed 
 while flying over mexico city its a beautiful. The take cover function done very well in this game 
 and is the most used function in the game you will find your self always taking cover. Some flaws 
 are your teamates arnt that bright and will die alot and sometimes will just stand in the line 
 of fire which is kinda aggrivating. And the multiplayer function feels old and is totaly different 
 from the single player infact it feels like the oldd Ghost Recon 2 gameplay which is dissapointing 
 i was hoping for it to be just like the single player but its not tho it is still fun.
  
  Overall this game great and was deffinately worth the wait with its stunning visuals and great 
 sound and indulging gameplay. It is a must have for any Xbox 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joecool7188
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 1:18 am PT
Review:  GRAW is one hell of an excellent game. Both single player and multi-player maintain their own identities 
 while perserving the awesome presentation. 
  
  SINGLE PLAYER
  The story is nothing compelling but the way it plays out is very well done, just what you would 
 expect from Ubisoft anyway. Campaign is a fair length and is full of action, suspense and even 
 a little emotion as the music kicks in. The environments look amazing, best graphics on the 360 
 so far. And the sound is outstanding, if you have surround this game is a must. All of the guns 
 and environments just sounds so amazingly crisp it pretty much feels like you are there.
  
  MULTI-PLAYER
  Multi-player runs extremely smooth online and via system link, splitscreen. For 
 some reason the graphics are different than in singleplayer, but this does not take away from the 
 experience as it sounds just as good and plays very similar. The co-op campaign is short but hopefully 
 will continue on with downloadable content.
  
  This game is flat out amazing. Dont even bother reading the bad reviews theyre mostly PC and Sony, 
 God complexed idiots who just hate Microsoft so in turn dislike X360. The gameplay is excellent, 
 campaign (both of them) challenging and the graphics are beautiful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elfoin
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 11, 2006 12:36 am PT
Review:  Though it's Ghost Recon, Ubisoft has made some major modifications compared to old and now boring 
 Ghost Recon 1. The much speculated cross-comm system works so perfectly that you won't even notice 
 it's absolute ingenious and intuitive use in the field of battle. All information is at your disposal 
 all the time, which encourages player to use different tactics in order to make through of an ambush 
 for example.
  Xbox 360 has so far lacked a mind-blowing game eperience so far, but looks like that Ubisoft has 
 succeeded in delivering us one. Graphics are awesome including beautiful rendering engine creating 
 very similar "hot yellow horizon" feeling like in movie "Traffic".
  It's also suprising how much game squeezes out from Xbox 360's gamepad. It allows player to deliver 
 very useful commands to his ghosts but also allows the use of different vehicles like AH-64 Apache 
 or M1A1 Abraham.
  G. R. A. W is so far the best game to hit Microsoft's new console, and definetely the best tactical 
 shooter to date. Rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harry-boy
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2006 12:26 am PT
Review:  To play a game like this was one of my dreams when I was a child about 10-15 years ago.. and today 
 that dream has becomes true..
  Years and Years I played games from Grand Turismo, Final Fantasy, to Ninja Gaiden, World of Warcraft.. 
 but none of those can compare to this one.. Its just unbelievable..
  
  The gameplay is really realistic, its so much intense in the game that u can feel it in the air.. 
 the multiplayer is not as fun as single but nothing wrong about it..
  
  Graphics and Sounds in the game, yeah what can I say its so amazing and revolutionary, u should 
 hear the sound on the 5.1.. never a game has been this real. actually I dont have a HDTV, I wonder 
 how great it will look on it..
  
  Value well this is a game actually live up to the price..
  
  so a full 10 point from me.. !! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tnagehote
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 10, 2006 10:42 pm PT
Review:  ok, SHORT but SWEET! This game is awsome! the best on 360 so far... NO JOKE!!! Only complaint is... i 
 think it is too easy to kill in multiplayer! I am a fan of one shot kill games.... but it seems 
 like you hardly have to aim..... too easy! but other than that... i LOVE IT! If you have any choice 
 of any game right now... this is the one to buy! so get off your butt at buy it now! NOW NOW NOW 
 NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW 
 NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shujou
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 10, 2006 10:16 pm PT
Review:  This game manages to keep up what has made these types of games thrive over these years, but at 
 some point, can we get something new? this game is great, but its still some of the same old stuff 
 we've come to know and play. The graphics are so far the best the 360 has to offer, and it does 
 make up for some of the repetitive gameplay because its so gorgeus to look at. The sound is nothing 
 amazing, but its great. There is some replay value, but not enough to keep you in for the long 
 haul. Online play is the selling point of this game. Overall, this really seems like an old imported 
 version of other recon game's. Theres just nothing new. This game is one that you master it, put 
 it away for awhile, and just randomly some day pick it back up when you have nothing else to do. 
 The only real selling point: Graphics and Online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tenorio_rotc
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 10, 2006 10:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. First off, what most people will notice is the graphics and with good reason. 
 The game looks incredible. The character models and the city detail are unbelievable but what will 
 blow you away is just the look of the game, there is just something in the air, the haze, the dusty 
 look the game has. When you look up at places where the sun is shining bright, you get that glare 
 and can really tell the sun is out in full force. It has the usual tricks with HDR and shader effects 
 for nice water. My only complaint about the graphics is that you might notice some really low res 
 textures on walls but only if you take the time to look, this game looks absolutely amazing.
  The gameplay is rock solid. You have some new moves like the wall sliding and the switching between 
 weapons and devices becomes second nature after about an hour of playing. It is very satisfying 
 to use a more tactical approach in this game than run and gun. The firefights are very intense 
 and the whole story mode is exciting and challenging too.
  The sounds in the game are great. Each weapon has its own distinct sound and the explosions are 
 worth hearing aswell as seeing. The music is subtle but it just heightens the whole experience, 
 kicking in at the right times, and even during multiplayer, it somehow knows when to turn up the 
 tune for that added intensity. You are going to want to turn it up and be ready to walk to your 
 front door to tell the police what you are doing when they come after someone has complained about 
 those sweet sounds.
  The campaign is not an extremely long one but is worth playing through a few times, expecially 
 on hard, just because it is so much fun. You have more options on how to approach missions and 
 more abilities so the strategy goes way up here. Sometimes you will have many allies and tanks 
 helping you out, other times its just you and the bullets you have. It does help you can pick up 
 guns off the battlefield. Be ready though, the friendly AI can be frustrating sometimes, with one 
 of your fellow ghosts getting stuck somewhere, or the person you are supposed to protect, just 
 feels like walking out of cover. It is fun though because things shift and change so many times, 
 you got to think on your feet and there are many ways to do a mission.
  The multiplayer is what will really keep you coming back though. With other people, this game is 
 like no other. I can honestly say, this games multiplayer component tops that of Halo 2's. Though 
 more realistic in the fact that guns lose accuracy and only a couple of shots, or one in the head, 
 can drop you, it is just so fun and can be really fast paced. For this game alone, it is worth 
 it to sacrifice getting another new game and pay for a year of xbox live, because it will feel 
 like you would literally want to play for a year. No sleep included. The biggest fault with multiplayer, 
 though, is not with the in game experience, but getting into one. It is sometimes cumbersome to 
 get into a game and I would not recommend anyone use the quick match feature, as many times you 
 may get sent into a game that has started and it would expect you to wait until it is over, which 
 could be anywhere from 10 mintues to an hour. So to fully enjoy this portion of the game, make 
 some friends quickly so that you can get into their games and have some place available to play.
 
  This game is nearly perfect and it really shines as the best game on the 360. It has the intensity 
 of Call of Duty 2 and a better multiplayer component than Halo 2, what more could anyone ask for? 
 More 360's so more could enjoy this game I suppose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnkio2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2006 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is a next-generation game in the fullest sense, whether it's the 
 loaded package of impressive graphics and special effects, the top-notch sound, or the tactically 
 enhanced gameplay. Red Storm's four-plus months of extra time have served the game incredibly well 
 and you can see the difference in the screenshots and you will feel it in the gameplay. It's still 
 Ghost Recon, which is to say it's still a rather acquired taste in first/third-person shooters, 
 but as the series goes, this one is easily the best one yet. You'll be impressed with the stunning 
 single-player game, and when you're done, you'll finally get to play long sessions on Xbox Live 
 with an online game that's fully equipped to deliver a next-gen package. My advice, get this gaThe 
 continuity and seamlessness of the missions creates an intensity and realism few gamers have seen 
 before on consoles. Extremely well doneme, Top-notch everything -- character models, interactive 
 environments, special effects and lighting. One of the few really impressive Xbox 360 games on 
 the market. or get thee to a nunneryLots of audio talk, chattering Mexican AI, and then there's 
 the sonic boom sniper rifle, oh myThe rocking single-player campaign is out-done by the deep, customizable 
 online game. Great controls, level design, and vehicle support -- all integrated to create cohesive 
 gameplayThis is the first real online game to party over -- the co-op, offline or on, is worth 
 the price of admission alone. GET THIS GAME WHOEVER U ARE... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StoptheRobots
Rating: 4.7
Date: Mar 10, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  First off, I could read any of the controls on screen so it took me forever to figure out what 
 to push to do what it wanted me to. Secondly, I just hated it. I mean, it just annoyed me when 
 I played it. There was no re-enforcement of controls either. Do it once and you are expected to 
 remember it. The controls are my biggest complaint, too many functions to too few buttons.
  
  On the first level after I got my team I couldn't get past the wall to get to the rally point, 
 then I got attacked by some guys. Come on, give me a hand. Don't even get me started on that stupid 
 PDA interface. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyheyn
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  That's not too much of an exaggeration. I was wrapping up a mission and running to what I assumed 
 was the final checkpoint of the mission when that whole stinking building blew up. It was so shocking 
 and unexpected that my body had one huge synaptic response -- every nerve went off in me in absolute 
 shock. I really winced. Then came the follow-up ambush on 'my squad' with everything but the kitchen 
 sink... it was nearly traumatic.
  
  (SPOILER: I'm talking about the level where you clear out the Mexican president from the U. S. Embassy.)
 
  
  Anyhow, the point is that this is not only a visually exciting game, but it's very well planned 
 out in terms of storylines and events. These guys wanted to create unpredictable chaos, and they 
 succeeded.
  
  In most games, you turn a corner and hey, look, there are twenty bad guys you have to kill. While 
 the enemies' actions here are naturally scripted to an extent as well, it feels much more dynamic. 
 You really feel like the little guy in the midst of a much larger affair.
  
  I have played every single Ghost Recon for the Xbox series (as well as Splinter Cell and Rainbox 
 Six) , and out of all of those Ubisoft games, this is by far the best. It even succeeds in an urban 
 environment -- a tough challenge since the GR series is known for being more realistic and spatial -- i. e. 
 not just being a turn-the-corner-and-frag-'em game.
  
  I was surprised twice by GameSpot's score. At first, I thought it was too high -- before I played 
 the game. Then, I wondered if it shouldn't be higher, given that Halo 2 got a 9.3, I believe. This 
 is a 9.4/9.5 game in reality... just shy of breaking ground a la Halo 1.
  
  As the editors say, this is a must-have title. Forget PDZ (was that not terrible?) , forget Call 
 of Duty 2 (glitches-are-us -- "what, you actually want us NOT to corrupt your saved games and achievement 
 progress?!") , this is the game for anyone who enjoys the concept of an immersive game environment.......... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yao_ming42390
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  This game ownz. It iz da best game there is on da 360. It'z my Halo 2.5 right now. GET THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!! ! ! ! ! !!!!!!!!! ! !!! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! !! 
 ! !!!!! ! ! !!! ! !!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!!! ! ! ! ! !!! !! !! ! !! !! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!!!!! ! ! !!!!!!!!!! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! !!!!!!!!!!! ! ! !! !!!!!!! ! ! ! ! !!!!!!!! ! !!!!!!!! ! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!! 
 
 
  
  P. S. I gave da game a ten cuz it deserves it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lexxdiamonds
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 10, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  The graphic are the best on 360, but that not saying alot.
  They are using the same graphic engine as GR2 and GRSS. Single player campaign is to short and 
 has framerate problems. Mutiplayer runs lag free but, not as detailed graphis. Aiming and zooming 
 feels to clunky and large and not as precise as previous.
  
  Overall- GRAW is overhyped, it a good game but not a classic like the previous Ghost Recons for 
 alot of reasons. Overhyped graphics, single player feels to bogged down to be fun. Mutiplayer lacks 
 detail. Overhyped gameplay, cross-com is to small to make out anything useful, leaning was implemented 
 badly, no rolling while prone. The city looks like a bunch of blocks, the cars look like garbage, 
 bad textures. Not alot of options as previous Ghost Recons, only four co-op maps, just not as deep 
 as GRSS as far as maps and options. AI is retarded all the reviews say so if you don't believe 
 me. It's a definite rental, trust me I own it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Silly
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter really is a next gen game. The graphics are the best ever seen 
 on a console or PC and the gameplay is amazing. There's so many things other games don't have, 
 such as the cross com which is very useful and the ability to shoot through certain walls/objects. 
 You can slide or dive to get to cover quickly and the action is always there. Fans of the original 
 or Ghost Recon 2 won't be disappointed. THIS IS A MUST HAVE GAME! The little details make it even 
 better, like if bullets are tearing apart at your surroundings or flying past as you sprint for 
 cover your character will react to it and the screen will wobble and such. Best game in the series 
 and of its genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xrmotodude13
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 10, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  I was amazed when i first put COD2 in but i was freaking out when i started playing GRAW.... If 
 you have a 360 you have to have a copy of this game... graphics are beautiful, great story, and 
 awesome online play... you will not be disappointed if you pick this one up guys... i have played 
 through the first three missions and everything about it is perfect, the way you control your squad, 
 the strategy, the reinforcements, the difficulty, even the third person view which i used to hate 
 has grown on me if it looks this beatiful and plays this well.. perfect amt of strategy and shooting... beautiful 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STS_Anubis
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  What can i say the game is freakin awesome. there is nothing wrong with the game. online is amazing. 
 G. R. A. W did their thing and made the best game so far. I dont think their will be a game to compete 
 with it in a while. But for now it is a must own game for 360 owners. if they dotn have this game 
 they better get it before its too late. The graphics are amazing and the story mode cant get any 
 better. Ubisoft did their thing making this game i give them a bunch of thumbs up for making this 
 game so awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 10, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is a MAJOR WOW. I can say we have made it to a true NEXT GENERATION gaming experience. 
 This is fun, looks very, very, very nice... sounds great! The price of the game, the cost of the 
 XBOX 360.... Makes this game worth playing over and over and over! If you have any chance to play 
 this on an HDTV... DO IT! THIS GAME ALONE WILL SELL YOU ON TECHNOLOGY! I have concluded that the 
 XBOX 360... with time spent on the hardware... that UBISOFT can do whatever it takes to make sure 
 the XBOX 360.. will not let Sony push this console around with any talk of a Playstation 3. Anyone 
 that would say otherwise... well, I don't know what they would be thinking. Gameplay takes a little 
 to get used to... but once you get the hang of the controls... the game becomes something else. The 
 NEXT GENERATION has in my opinion started with GHOST RECON 3 ADVANCED WARFIGHTER.
  
  ONE MILLION THANKS TO UBISOFT FOR MAKING ME A BELIVER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prioritymail
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  This game takes the tactical shooter genre to the next level. Not only is the AI above my expectations, 
 but they can be set to a higher level. The whole presentation is like that of a high budget hollywood 
 movie, surround sound, high definition graphics, and great explosion and smoke effects all combine 
 to take the xbox 360 hardware to its fullest potiential so far. If you like shooters, (any shooters) , 
 this game is for you. The online mode creates the highest replay value of any game in my collection. 
 If you are reading this then that means you already past some great reviews, I have a few words 
 for you:
  WHY ARE YOU STILL AT YOUR COMPUTER? GET YOUR @$$ TO THE STORE AND BUY THIS GAME NOW! IF YOU DONT 
 GOT A 360, GET ONE BECAUSE THIS GAME IS WORTH THE PRICE.
  BELIEVE IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielson
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 10, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  first of let me start by saying that Im a fan of the original Ghost recon on PC and sense then 
 have hated everyione since adapted to console but after this i like the last ghost recon that came 
 out on current gen consoles simpley because its not as bad as this GRAW as the idiots call it for 
 the people that never played the PC version of ghost recon and the several xpansion packs this 
 is not a tactical shooter its you with idiot teamates getting killed don't get me wrong its beautiful 
 to look at and online is superb but its like the single player was just left to suffer looks mean 
 nothing when the gameplay is not even close to mediocre id rather play lone wolf mode on ghost 
 2 and actually i think its a much more solid game online did suck though 
  ubisoft has suceeded in completely making completly stop playing single player campaign not cuz 
 its to hard im actually 4 levels into it but because of the gameplay department or lack there of 
 any "gameplay" you have a tactical shooter with no tactics .... 60 dollars wasted 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotty0123
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutly awsome, everything from running in guns blazing (Which isnt the smartest 
 thing to do) , and not being spotted while sneaking round the back of a tank is in here. The games 
 graphics are the best out for the 360 and the lighting and detail put into this must have taken 
 up alot of time, The guns are pretty cool and also most either have grenade launchers or scopes 
 attached onto them. I think the gameplay is bang on because when ever you see an enemy, no matter 
 how many of them there are you always make a plan in about 5 seconds flat, send them to the position 
 and wait and see what happens, its basically like trial and error. The voice overs are great and 
 also i like the IWS ( Intergrated Warfighter System) . This will let you see anything and i meen 
 anything that is on the map, if you spot him then hes screwed because you can always find where 
 he is, even if hes behind cover. 
  Over all i think the game is brillient, and i havent even mentioned multiplayer, this is a purchuse 
 every one should make. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heartagram_03
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  Damn this game is off the hook, the graphics, the new weapons, the new tech. this game is just 
 so amazing. There are alot of new features like sliding on your knees, diving forward, leaning 
 toward walls and cars, the blue, red and green outline to show who's on your side and who's on 
 the enemys side. Once I poped this game in my xbox 360 and beat the training session and the first 
 mission, the first thing poped in my head that this game is the next generation of gaming. This 
 is the best 360 game out to date and probably the most beautiful, amazing, challenging, awsome 
 game ever on 360! You have to pick up this game if you have a xbox 360, it's worth it, you will 
 not regret buying this game. I'm a proud owner of an xbox 360 and Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter. 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sykodude4523
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  I got it today. And I pop it in and my enjotment begins. First mission (not training) find Ramierez 
 is sheer delight. Explosion are even better than the outfit demo. The Graphics are so amazing you 
 can't put them in words. And surprisingly moving APC's and Tank's are quite fun. The new Nar-Com/Cross-Com 
 HUD is very well intergrated. The weapons are amazing. Overall Totally what I expected and more. I 
 give a perfect 10. Its awesome awesom awesome awesome awesome AWESOME!!!. Okay 100 words. The Bazooka 
 is amazing on the second mission. Just take a few minutes to just blow the s**** up. Its Amazing. The 
 effects are mind blowing just blowing crap up with the Bazooka is sweet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sneakerfreaker
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Honestly when I went into this game it made me think of all the other GR before it which made me 
 hesitate to shell out 60 bucks... Now I feel like this is the best 60 bucks I've spent in a loooooong 
 time... The visuals are some of the best I've ever seen... The action is deep and tons of it... The 
 control is pretty responsive if you know what you're doing... The CrossCom system is easily one 
 of the most inventive things I've seen in video games since the target lock in Zelda : OoT... And 
 if you do get tired of single player (I doubt) there is online play... MOST ADDICTIVE GAME I PLAYED 
 SINCE WoW..... hands down if you own a 360, you owe it to yourself to buy this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pythonxz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 10, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  The game starts with a nice tutorial which gives you all the info you will need to know to be sucessfull 
 in the game's missions, this is a relief because many games leave you to rot. The Ghost AI is almost 
 laughable, but you won't be laughing when they give the enemy a bead on you position. The enemy 
 AI on the other hand is VERY good. One thing that makes me get addicted to the Single Player is 
 the cover move, when in cover bullets from enemies whizz by you and sometimes come within and inch 
 from your characters head...
  Multiplayer is fun and is a great addition to Xbox Live, to be honest I am not that great at it.... lol
 
  To wrap this review up, I'd like to say Red Storm is and will always be the greatest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RBolduc1231
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  There is nothing bad I can say about this game. When I first started playing, it was kinda choppy 
 controls when I was in the tutorial. But after about 5 or 10 minutes it felt very intuitive.
  
  The feel of the gun and the sights on the gun felt very realistic, not super steady like some 
 other games (Halo for example, not that that's bad) . You really have to take cover as much as possible 
 to get through the game alive. There's no rogue style where one guy takes out an entire battalion 
 by running out in the open. You have to rely on your squad to get you through most places.
  
  The multiplayer is totally fun and can get crazy when all sixteen ghosts are fitghting together, 
 but it keeps that feeling of being a team very well.
  
  I would recommend this game to ANYBODY that likes action or strategy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antoniowatson
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 10, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  I recommend this game for the simple fact that there are no other first (or third) person shooters 
 out there to play. We shouldnt be surprised that it was better than what was on the regular XBOX, 
 we should have always considered the fact that the 360 is technically a superior system. And anything 
 created on it should be superior to that of the XBOX. First impressions will make us forget all 
 of this.
  
  Dont get me wrong, they did an awesome job, but shouldnt that be the minimum for a game created 
 on this system by this game developer. Additionally, let us not forget the system cost $400+ and 
 the game $60+. My point is, we are paying for  and thus should expect  great work, and maybe 
 for once we got it. 
  
  As for my concerns: I would have expected to have more options for the teams; their weapons; more 
 team members to choose from with different skill levels; more detailed command options during missions; 
 ability to use the ghost team in off-line gamemodes; access to all weapons and all vehicles to 
 choose from to prepare for any and all mission.
  
  Other than that, it was exactly what I expected. and nothing more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsweens24
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 14, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  We've been waiting for ages for this one, the first true next-gen shooter. And here it is!
  
  And what a shooter it is. The very first thing that struck me was the incredible graphics, 
 the detail on the characters is amazing, from their realistic facial movements, to the body movement 
 animations. All excellent. The one small annoyance (and the reason for not having 10 for graphics) 
 is that the weapon animations are all but non-existent; when you reload, he grabs the clip but 
 it doesn't come out of his gun, and the weapons are mostly static, when you'd want to see some 
 kind of movement of the mechanism when it fired. We know it's possible, as we've seen it done in 
 Perfect Dark Zero, so it's a little disappointing that GRAW didn't get this incorporated. Apart 
 from that, absolutely fantastic, graphically.
  
  The next thing; the sound! I'm playing it on our home theatre, and I don't think I've heard better 
 sound since Halo 2. It's amazing! The dolby surround kicks in immediately, and you honestly think 
 that there are actual bullets zinging past your head. And the explosions are HUGE, just what you'd 
 expect explosions to be like! They actually made my floor vibrate!
  
  The gameplay takes a little while to get used to, and with no way to adjust the sensitivity of 
 the sticks, you're simply REQUIRED to adapt to the game, instead of making the game suit you. But, 
 with this minor niggle aside, once you've started blasting Insurgents left right and centre, you'll 
 not notice.
  
  The squad system is easy to pick up and implement, and the variety of weapons is excellent. The 
 levels are very close to being non-linear, however occasionally it does feel like you're being 
 led by some reins, even when you seemingly choose your own path. The enemy AI is pretty good, without 
 being spectacular. They'll move coherently, throw grenades etc. but very occasionally there appears 
 to be what can only be describe as a glitch, and they just become incredibly thick.
  
  Overall, simply a massive amount of fun, with only a few tiny letdowns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasukedevil
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 10, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Captivating and one of the greatest ever! This is one of those games that you and others must play 
 and buy! Never has this game let me down so far... If it does you must not be trying it at all! 
 Shame on you if you give this rating less than a 7.5 or less! This game deserves more than that. 
 Anyway about the game. It's the best Xbox 360 game out for a shooter! None the less it has outstanding 
 visuals and graphics. Gameplay seems to be better than the other Ghost Recon games and it is more 
 fun by yourself and with friends! Must buy so go now and stop reading this if you haven't bought 
 the game yet!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danny123532
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 10, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This is a spectacular game. Good graphics and game play which you dont get often. The controls 
 take a bit of getting use to you know what I mean if you go on it. In this game you play as a commander 
 and take control of a small group of solders. I really like how they have done the game like the 
 enemies AI just right and the effects in the game are amazing. The downside to it is there are 
 some glitches and graphical errors but I wont get into them. The multiplayer on its has also been 
 done very well but Im not going to go into that very much because I havent been on multiplier 
 very much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master-Of-HALO
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 10, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Guys i promise you ---this is the greatest 3rd person shooter to date, and maybe this year
  
  by far its the greatest 3rd person shooter ive played, and thank god there is absolutly no 
 lag from what ive seen ---and ive been playing it 3 days straight now. Ghost Recon used to be one 
 of my favorite games then somewhere down the line it kind of faded away and i became a socom fanactic, 
 but now Ghost Recon is definitely back and better then ever ---so long socom hellllllo next gen! 
 
  
  So wat r u reading this for? Go buy the game! and if youve been waiting for a reason to buy a 360, 
 look no further! 
  
  I guess I'll c u guys online ---Kudos 
::::::

::::::
UserName: selek_99
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  I've been watching this game for quite some time and it came out a little earlier than I thought 
 it would. So far, the best game I've played on the 360 bar none... Better than Call of Duty and 
 it smokes all of the other Ghost Recon games that I have played. The physics of the game are scary 
 from the most real video game explosions I've seen to the awesome sound effects. The visuals are 
 beautiful. I can't wait to see it on High Definition! 
  
  One thing that really sets it apart from other war games such as older Ghost Recons, Call of Duty, 
 Battlefield series, etc is that it is almost entirely urban, which rules! 
  
  Everyone who owns a 360 should own GRAW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastergamerjohn
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 10, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  I mean this game is plan cool man because its just plan awsome because of the visal and the design 
 this game is the best Ghost Recon game to date i think becasue of the games and everything but 
 this does have the com system is the awsome thing i'v ever seen and if the real army is getting 
 this kind of technoigy i'm going to be signing up maybe lol, but this technoigy is really nice 
 and stuff and i usaully use that to protect me and my men from getting killed lol. but other then 
 that the game is great but they are some gluichs thou with the taking cover thing i been having 
 some problems with that and i think thats the hardest thing about the controls to get use to but 
 i'm getting the hang of it now but its all good.
  
  I wonder how many processors this game is taking to run it???????
  
  because i know they sad 
 it was taking only one for Call of Duty 2 and some other games as well but i wonder if this one 
 is uesing all three or just two of the power that the 360 have to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jizzypoo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 10, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter didn't look like much when they first showed it a while back, but 
 now it's out and it's one of the best games I have played! Excellent Single Player!! I beat it 
 the second day and now I have gone back for hard mode! 
  
  Great Sound! I play it on a 5.1 surround system and that is just sexually fulfilling. 
  
  The 
 detail they have put into this game is great as well. With explosions car alarms will go off, leafs 
 will fall, and if you are too close you will lose some hearing for a moment.
  
  Multi-player Is also a great aspect of this game. It's fun and will be for a long time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elzzato
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 10, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  The game is awesome from its gameplay trough the graphics too , it have a really perfect sound 
 that lets you feel inside the game . I just buy it the frist day and I just can't get out of the 
 seat the game is really adicctive and most in multiplayer online via xbox live , the maps are very 
 detailed the character models looks amazing too ,even the enemies. I really very surprised whit 
 the graphics when I played for first time and when I really saw the review here I just say wow 
 they think just like me , well all I can say now is grab a copy of the game while supllies last 
 in the store and time to play the game , well I just have to play my copy now I just put the game 
 in pause fro let you know about this really amazing title on xbox 360 . Hopefully you think like 
 me in this review ... if you read it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RavenElite
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 10, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  This game. Is. Amazing. Seriously, its one of those games everyone needs because its soo awesome. 
 If you dont have it, go buy it. If you have it, God Bless. This game has amazing graphics, amazing 
 gameplay, amazing quality.
  A great hit, and defidently deserves it rating by gamespot. If you like any games that takes tactical 
 thinking, as well as good skill for a FPS you need this game, The way you aim, the way you do everything 
 is just so smooth. I do dislike one thing though, and thats the text boxes, very plain, and squared. 
 which kinda makes it seem not as futuristic and army based as the game. Althought that doesnt affect 
 the gameplay, or story or anything of the sort, its still abit anoying. Nothing you shuoldnt buy 
 this game for. Pick It Up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: synaptic_decay
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  ghost recon: advandced warfighter is a welcome site for my starved xbox 360. the graphics/visuals 
 are top notch, but it's still a let down. what happened to the civies? the civies would have earned 
 this title a higher score. without the civies there, it made me wonder if the 360 could handle 
 rendering them (frame drops and slow downs) . the sound is par for the course like most top of the 
 line third and first person /tactical shooters. another issue that brought "graw" down is the squad 
 a. i. and squad formation/use of covers to cut down/cover all angles of fire. the a. i. at times 
 shot at the wall that the tango was behind. if told to destroy a soft target, the grenadier kills 
 himself and his other squad mates with the 40mm he fires. the bunching up of the squad is messy 
 and could get your squad destroyed. the enemy a. i. is no better; two irregulars guarding and approach 
 and i sniped one of them and the other one did'nt even respond.
  
  putting the a. i. and rendering cives aside, "graw" is fun and a welcome site for the 360. it may 
 not be rainbow six, but it provides a solid plot and it never gets dull. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lynch23
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 10, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  Great Value, Graphics, sound and all out crazyness online. Worth the wait!
  Multi player is where this game shines, one complaint though is they forgot to put in a clan option. 
 However, get a couple of your boys online and kick some mexicana ass. Nice change from WW2 themes 
 for a bit anyway. WW2 is where it is at. Cant wait for Brothers In Arms 3. 
  Co-op is a nice change of pace from killing each other online and the single player mode is very 
 well polishied. would hate to see how this game would have played out if they released it at launch 
 with the 360. Good job to the folks at Red Storm for not jumping on the band wagon! (looking at 
 you Perfect Dark) 
  If you are looking to trade in any games for GRAW be sure to hang onto Call of Duty 2, the folks 
 at Infinity Ward are sure to counter with updates to keep us WW2 boys hooked! So bust open those 
 porcilin piggy banks and gather your change... GRAW is really the Sh_ _!!! I was a sceptic how a 
 video game would look on an HDTV... I mean how real could a video game look? Well the truth is.... CRAZY! 
 After months of talking and pleading I finally convinced my wife to give in to the power of the 
 dark side. Thats right boys it is possible!!! So never give up hope or dreams for that ever elusive 
 HDTV.
  Enjoy, and keep an eye out for me online (lynch23) 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: redxwarriorxxx
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 10, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  It's hard to be critical of this game because if you played the whole series like I have GR2 left 
 a bitter taste in some peoples mouths. The graphics are of course great and the gameplay is fast 
 at times. The game turned into a melting pot of other Ubisoft games like holding our breath like 
 in Splinter Cell or tactics like in Rainbow 6, it even does Full Spectrum Warrior squad movements 
 which I hated that game because you didn't shoot anything. Now somethings got lost like looking 
 in the scope while running, my brother says he can do it in real life but I'm not so sure. The 
 controller setup is a little different and takes some getting use to.
  The thermal-night vision is a nice touch both in visuals and functionality. The one player mode 
 of the game looks and feels alittle different from the multiplayer and there are some problems 
 online. Some people on my friends list can' t join a my room when I'm the host so you have to join 
 someone else in the room. The ranking mode sucks because you can't play with your friends and if 
 you try it's a big production of sending invites and booting people out, but I know why they did 
 that, people would make a room and stack the team so bad all day long and the moment when a good 
 team was beating them they would exit the game or boot the best players. 
  I just like playing with my crackheaded friends and have fun so it looks like I will be ranked 
 a newbie, which is fine by me because I'll crush them into dust and throw them to the wind, Happy 
 Hunting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Echo13791
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 10, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  This games single player plays and feels next gen. The gameplay is awsome. Now, to the main part, 
 XBL (Xbox Live) . This is incredible, by far the best online game I have ever played. There are 
 many different modes of play. Another thing that is great is that this game takes skill and strategy 
 to play, not just run and gun skill. Someone on the boards was saying that it was annoying that 
 you could get killed with one burst to the chest, and there was no point in head shots. First of 
 all, the game is realistic, and second, you can't just stand in the open, you must take cover. 
 This might not sound very fun (I was a lover of Halo 2 online) , but I think that using tactics 
 and skill to kill is better than just running and gunning (this also makes being in squads fun) . 
 This might have been a short review, but thats all you need to know, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenJaws219
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 10, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  G. R. A. W. is Ubisoft's next installment in the Ghost Recon series. No one knows how far they game 
 will go with the future technology of cross-com and nar-com. The story is basically about a summit 
 between North America's presidents to set up a plan to strengthen boarder security. Not far into 
 the game, the summit is interupted by Mexico Rebels and the Canadian president is killed, and you 
 have to save the American and Mexican president.
  
  The one thing you'll notice about G. R. A. W. is the absolutly mind-blowing graphics, such as the 
 soft dynamic lightning and the near-perfect background and re-creation of Mexico City. THe multiplayer's 
 graphic aren't as good as the single-player to avoid framerate drop or lag issues, which is a smart 
 move by Ubisoft.
  
  The thing you hate about G. R. A. W. would be the dozens of time you die, a few bullets can kill you 
 in normal mode, so I couldn't imagine what it would be like in difficult mode. Not saying this 
 is letdown, but it just makes the game that much realistic, and it encourages you to use cover 
 ALL the time and peek around corners to take "safe" shots at your enemies. But even when you're 
 just peeking around the corner, enemy AI detects you within a second and start to shoot you. 
 
  
  You get to control a squad of 3, and Ubisoft really simplfied the control buttons, but enough to 
 make them effective and dangerous.
  
  There's just so much to talk about G. R. A. W. and I know this is getting long, but the multiplayer 
 mode and the co-op mode is something you MUST try. The co-op is massive when I heard it could be 
 more than 10+ players, because I was just expecting around 5-8 to make up a small squad. Playing 
 with real life people is great, and the level adjusts to how many players you have participated 
 in the match to suit you with the appropriate number of AI. The multiplayer mode is reallt standard, 
 except you can customize the match any way you want.
  
  G. R. A. W. is definately the best Xbox 360 game out right now, whether it's graphic or gameplay. 
 It's also the game to showcase to your friends to show the power of the Xbox 360.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsnizj3
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 10, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  I have never been a big fan of ghost recon games but this game is definetly worth the 60.00 bucks 
 that I shelled out. I have been waiting patiently for a game that justiied my purchasing the 360 
 to my wife. The graphics are as close to what I expect from a next gen game. The sound is above 
 par and the most important part of a game is the gameply and it was is so much better than the 
 past recon games that I have played. I have been thinking about selling my console and getting 
 the old black box again because most games that I am interested in are also going to be on the 
 x-box except for Gears of War. Call of Duty 2 was an excellent game but it did not have a very 
 strong mutiplayer mode. I have not had achance of playing alot of co-op considering I have had 
 it for about 12 hours and my sidekick (son) had to go to bed early. So we are going to give it 
 go today . We have been looking forward to a shooter that has co-op campaign and our prayers have 
 finally been answered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blkgsr
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 10, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  Just wanted to say this game was one of the reasons I bought the 360 in Nov. I was bummed when 
 it got bumped back ,but im glad because the game is kick ass. The only complaint is its to hard 
 and frustrating at times but at least you cant breeze through it. And multi player is the best 
 game on live so far, I would recommend this to anyone. I just don't see how some people think this 
 is a bad game at all, if they liked any of the other tom clancy titles they should definitely like 
 this one its the best hands down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commandstation
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of Ghost Recon since the first one came out on the XBOX (including GRIT) . I didn't 
 care much for GR2 because you didn't feel the suspense like you did on the first one. 
  
  Enter GRAW! 
  
  Okay, the graphics are supurb! Everybody will agree with that. 
  
  The 
 sound is taken directly from the real guns. Atmosphere sound makes you feel like you are really 
 there (if you have 5.1) . 
  
  The music is motivational and sometimes a life saver in multiplayer - you'll figure that out. But 
 let me tell you the story of my online experience... 
  
  My 3 teammates are cautiously moving through the streets. They all have rifles, but I chose an 
 automatic machine gun for up close and personal situations. I turn the corner and I see the enemy 
 exit the library heading my way. He sees me and takes aim. 
  
  I quickly raise my rather large gun at his direction. He opens fire before I can pull the trigger. 
 His bullets rip apart the side of the building I'm standing next to, but he misses. I find my marker 
 and open fire on him. Bullets riddle the street, up the grassy mound --- dirt and debris fly up 
 in the air from the impact of the bullets --- like you would see in a movie --- and kills my target. 
 He staggers and falls to ground. 
  (...) 
  The excitement continues and it has me completely hooked - along with the other guys I was playing 
 with on XBOX Live. 
  
  There are many multiplayer maps that are greatly varied - from jungles, to beaches to even snowy 
 areas. Beautiful! 
  
  This game is a solid 10+. Go out and get today! Now! 
  
  I'll see you online. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: voyager007
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 11, 2006 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter was said to be the best in its series and have great graphics. 
 Unfortunately it has not turned out to be either of these. The gameplay of GRAW is much too easy 
 for the normal difficulty. Given I have not attemted the verteran difficulty however the computer's 
 AI in this game is atrocious. The enemy just stands and ducks. Not to mention that your backup 
 dies every ten seconds, never shoots back at the enemy, and wastes your time reviving them because 
 when you order your other men to help heal him they don't listen! Graphics in this game are ok, 
 i expected much more from a system with a 500mhz graphics card and 3 system cores. GRAW reminds 
 me so much of Full Spectrum Warrior that it isn't funny. The multiplayer is alright. I played some 
 of it last night on live and found that some aspects of it needed to be worked on a little more 
 before it was released. For instance in the level that i played (mind you) I was not able to climb 
 up on what appeared to me a rock that was obviously accessible somehow. Also the control scheme 
 on the single player is horrible. Any game developer with the right frame of mind would NOT allow 
 the aiming component of the game be used by clicking the right analog stick. Just like in COD2. 
 What a terrible way to aim! I have always loved tom clancy games until now. I am a huge fan of 
 all of his games and i must say that this one TO DATE is the worst Tom Clancy/ubisoft game. However 
 in saying all the terrible things that most of you are going to hate me for know this..... I will 
 still be playing the game because some aspects of the game are fun to play. I am not totally against 
 this game even though it may look like it. 
  This part of the review is updated:
  
  This is a horrible game and retract any comment I might have made that claims this game has any 
 quality to it. HORRIBLE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE!
  Sorry! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rob_Job
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 10, 2006 6:32 am PT
Review:  Everything is absolutely great. The campaign is hard and challenging and the enemy AI is well done. 
 When i first saw it on my TV i felt like i was in the game. The graphics simply are the best. I 
 feel sorry for those who have only played the crappy xbox version because the 360 version is a 
 masterpeice. The multiplayer is awesome also. When i played Ghost Recon 2 i hated the online play 
 because of spawn killers. In GRAW you have very limited ways to spawn kill and if you try you still 
 get your nuts kicked in. The spawn killers are ineffective in this version so thank Ubi Soft for 
 actually taking it into consideration. The accuracy system is improved and there is no lag or very 
 limited lag. The only downside is if you don't have a widescreen TV because the cmpaign is set 
 for that format and i cant find a way to change it... i need a widescreen... so if anyone knows how 
 to change it please let me know... but other than that one down fall the game ROCKS!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tok3d
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 10, 2006 5:29 am PT
Review:  G. R. A. W is probabley the best 360 game to date. Just the games graphics alone surpass everything 
 on the 360 so far. G. R. A. W has you rescuing 3 diffrent presidents from a terrorist attaack, where 
 the Canadian prime minister was killed (grrr.. im Canadain) . The game is a really fun and fast paced 
 action game.
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay is great, like it has always been for Ghost Recon series. But new online play features, 
 such as online Co-op play, Ghost Recon surpasses all those games. The game is always exiting, and 
 there is never a level that you will hate, because they are all great. Ubisoft made a first canditaite 
 for the game of the year.
  
  Graphics
  They are amazing. Certaintly the best graphics on the Xbox 360 so far. the detail is massive, and 
 the cities, and roads and everything just look so polished.
  
  Sound
  Great gun sounds. And its good to have you, and felllow team members scream out when they cant 
 do something, or when you tell them what to do.
  
  Value
  Your not putting this down any time soon. It is an addictive game, expecially if you have online 
 play, you will enjoy this game alot. 
  
  Overall
  Ghost Recon: A. W. is a must buy. It is most likley the best game on the 360 to date. And the graphics 
 show the power of the 360. Game of the year candidate, and if your not intrested in tactical gameplay, 
 at least give the game a run; iam sure you WILL like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 10, 2006 5:29 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  Gorgeous graphics that expands from character models to the detail of the entire land. Perfect 
 sounds make you feel like you're in the war zone instead of watching it. Easy for even an average 
 gamer to pick up and start playing. Well designed missions.
  
  Cons:
  Unlike the other platforms, the game's first person mode does not feature a visible gun. Very few 
 graphically glitches such as tearing. A. I. could use a small bit improvement.
  
  Overall:
  Now this is what next-generation gaming should always look, sound, and play like. Such 
 a wonderful layout and a great multiplayer experience. A must buy for a gamer looking for good 
 tactical shooting or war simulation.
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  I've played every Ghost Recon game to date and loved them all. It seems to be one of those series 
 that actually get better game by game. GRAW is no exception. When you first get through the training 
 mission, you'll soon realise that this one is actually going to be everything you could hope for 
 in a tactical shooter. But then, the game continues and begins to show you a fully, 3D and highly 
 detailed world... but all from a helicopter! As you look down from the copter, you'll see hundreds 
 if not thousands of highly modeled buildings and towers from Mexico City. It's just an amazing 
 looking game from the beginning and then dances on the other shooters by adding the helicopter 
 overlook scenes.
  
  A feature that stands out a lot is the sound and how they use it. For instance, the gun sounds 
 are terrifyingly realistic. For every gun is it's own very distinct sound and for every explosion 
 is a nice blast of bass from your subwoofer, and enough to make your neighbors think we're being 
 invaded. The voice acting is done by obvious professionals, touching on what is a very realistic 
 gaming experience.
  
  Another really nice feature is your HUD. The cross-com is a very nice add-on to the game and although 
 might not help you much, is there for you to get an extra view on things around your team. The 
 head bob is the best I've seen in a 3rd person shooter too. While hiding behind crates and such 
 and enemies firing, you can actually see your head move around realistically just to keep from 
 having a bullet ricochet into your face. 
  
  The weapons range from sniper rifles to rocket launchers. I'm not going to lie; I have no idea 
 if these handle realistically because I've never fired off a gun. But the fire rate seems to be 
 realistic from what I've seen in movies and popular shooters in the past.
  
  The multiplayer is a totally different story. This is the best multiplayer on the 360 at the moment 
 and will probably remain that way for a while. There are thousands of custom things you can do 
 to the games you play online and make it all for a really exciting game play. If you're ever looking 
 to play around online, my Live name is DryvBy84. I'll be there (if not running through single player) .
 
  
  The only real downfall I found in the game besides the lack of a suprise viewable gun in first 
 person mode, is the A. I. tends to wander around aimlessly and very unaware of what's going on around 
 them. In the first mission alone, I ran into about 4 or 5 terrible A. I. issues such as them running 
 right past me and just standing in it's scripted spot. It was a little annoying but overall, the 
 A. I. served a good purpose as being difficult.
  
  If you're looking for a great game this March, Oblivion and this should be the 2 games that are 
 MUST buys. If you can only afford one, it really depends on what you prefer, but the multiplayer 
 will be long lasting in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldgeek44
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2006 5:11 am PT
Review:  First let me say I think the game is awsome for all the reasons that have already been mentioned 
 by everyone else: The incredible graphics, the realism, the small details like it getting darker 
 at night when the moon goes behind a cloud.
  
  My 8 rating is because of the things that aren't in the game that make it harder to get up to speed 
 for a new game player. Yes believe it or not, there are new people getting into game playing all 
 the time and many of them are not veteran game players like most of you here at Gamespot. 
  
  I first got my Xbox 360 a few months ago and that is the first game console I have owned....... also 
 I am an older game player...... I have been a techie all my life....... just didn't get into game 
 playing until later in life. 
  
  With that said, this is what frustrated my about the game after loading it up. Let me also say 
 that I had been playing Call of Duty 2 and was used to it's play. 
  
  After first loading it I went to missions and completed my Training. At least I thought I did. 
 As I went back into Missions I excpected to find my first mission.... but NO..... there was training 
 again. So I completed it again... thinking there must have been a glitch. Went back into Missions 
 and there it was again.... Training. OK, now I am wondering what the heck is going on. So not being 
 too bright I completed Training one more time and got the same results. Now I am getting mad and 
 thinking..... I paid $60 for this piece of crap. I reread the instructions and it says "Complete 
 your training mission and you will be given your first mission." Well this clearly isn't the case. 
 I finally find some online buddies and they tell me I have to create a new Campaign, then complete 
 the training again then I will be given my first mission. Why the hell didn't it say that in the 
 manual???
  
  OK.... after I get through that first frustration I start my first mission. I go walking down the 
 street and POP...... I am dead, Game Over. I thinik.... Man that was quick.... not like COD2 where 
 you get a little notice that someone is shooting at you, so I have to start the game over again. 
 Ok I am more careful this time..... walking down the street and I get the first two guys this time.... OK... I 
 think... doin pretty good. I move down the street a bit  Over...... I 
 start over again. Now I am thinking....." This sure isn't like COD2 where I can start out with 
 an Easy Level ...... get used to the game and then move up to a harder level." This game throws 
 you in at an advanced level right off the bat. This is probably GREAT for all you veteran game 
 players..... but for an old fart and new game player like me, it is super frustrating.
  
  Well, those are my 2 biggest gripes. Don't just design the game for Veteran Gamers..... think about 
 the newer gamers and the old farts ( people out of high school ) that might be trying to play this 
 game. Give us some levels of play so we can start out easier and move up to an advanced level. 
 
  
  I have to say that now I am addicted.... even though I suck at it at this point.... but I am trying 
 to improve.... slowly..... very slowly!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiafraBeliever
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 10, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  I've never been a huge fan of the ghost recon series until now. This game will really pull out 
 the power of the xbox to bring you a graphic power house. This game is amazing. I made an oath 
 to myself saying that if this game was good, i'd never go back to playing halo, and I won't.
  Everyone who owns an xbox 360 must get this game, cuz until halo 3 comes out, i can't imagine any 
 other game beating this one out. The campaign mode is by far the best aspect of the game. It has 
 the intensity and difficulity to make you keep playing until beat the game. It is by far the best 
 campaign mode i've played since halo 1. At first it can be a little frustrating because you can 
 only take 2 or 3 hits until you die, and you can't heal yourself in anyway, but once you get into 
 it, you just flow. The business with there being no people isn't a problem for me. Cuz if mexico 
 city is 9 million in population, then imagine having all these civilizans running around while 
 you're in the middle of a battle, it will make it very anoying if you ask me.
  In conclusion, this game is the best x360 game yet. this game will unleash what that box can really 
 do graphicaily, and will blow you away. If you are someone like me who played halo a lot, getting 
 used to the gameplay will be a little anoying, but will come quickly. But overall, this game is 
 a must for x360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redzed24
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 10, 2006 1:22 am PT
Review:  I have been anxiously waiting for this game and I must say, I am not disapointed in the least. 
 I have not played through it or even gotten that far, but I am so impressed by how good it is compared 
 to its previous iteration and to all other 360 games to this point, that I feel I can recommend 
 it without hesitation. 
  
  It has beautiful graphics, great gameplay, amazing sounds, and a wonderful atmosphere. You may 
 just get killed a few times because your too busy looking around at all the eye candy.
  
  If you like this genre, then you dont really have a choice but to go out and get this game. I went 
 to the store about an hour after it arrived and was lucky enough to get the last copy. This game 
 is hot, so stop reading and get to your local game store and pick up this masterpeice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geebus
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 10, 2006 12:42 am PT
Review:  I remember reserving this game before launch, hoping after hours of waiting in line at walmart 
 that sometime soon I would be playing it. Well a couple of months later here it finally is... and 
 all I can say is WOW. The game is awesome. The controls are tight and easy to use. The multiplayer 
 is fast and very balanced. The graphics are amazing and finally bringing out what the xbox 360 
 can do. Buy this game. The single player is fun aswell, but I will definately say you will be spending 
 most of your time playing multiplayer without a doubt. It gets a 9.5 in my book. If your still 
 not happy, rent Perfect Dark and this game. I promise you will be playing this more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RavenSoS
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Life-like visuals, tight controls, intelligent story, realistic modern combat, and awesome in-game 
 assets at your disposal. The difficulty may turn off more casual gamers but anyone half-way decent 
 will get plenty of enjoyment regardless. This game makes up for the other lack-luster games in 
 the series and is definitely a game to consider for your 360 collection whether or not you are 
 a fan of modern military shooters. Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter is one of the best 360 games 
 to date in my opinion and should definitely be changing certain opinions about the 360 not having 
 any true "next-gen" titles. Pick it up now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pookers47
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 9, 2006 10:43 pm PT
Review:  This game surprised me alot. I played the first ghost recon on xbox a few years back and i really 
 hated it. In the first one the controls were weird, your team was weird, you couldn't see your 
 gun and it was not very appealing. I am not generally a fan of tactical shooters like this series 
 or rainbox six games. I tend stay in the halo and counter-strike area but this really turned it 
 around for me. These is one of those games that introduce players who don't normally play games 
 of a certain genre and make them enjoy it. Kind like how i was not really into rpgs until kotor 
 or fable ( can't wait until oblivion) . But this is perfectly adequate for the average gamer. Its 
 is intense, tactical yet still action packed, team oriented, strategic, and nevers gets boring. 
 It always has various things to do such as going about solo, with your team, riding in a helicopter 
 gunning down terrorist, calling in air strikes, using tanks and choppers for fire cover. The cross-cam 
 and hud is a nice idea and introduces a fresh and original exeperince from other shooters though 
 kind of cheap with all that technology. The game plays from a over the shoulder view similar to 
 splinter and resident evil 4 and works nicely but can be changed to fps view though you are less 
 immerse and i don't recommend it. The controls take a while getting use to but are tight and intuitive. 
 The gameplay is great from using guns, rifles, sniper rifles, grenades etc. You carry one primary 
 weapon, a pistol and smoke and frag grenades. Weapons can be swapped from fallen enemies or from 
 checkpoints. The graphics are beautiful definitely xbox 360 worthy though they kind of tone down 
 in multiplayer. There are no cutscenes but you always know whats going through your cross-com and 
 hud. The sound is unparallel. No game has come as close to making these guns sound as realistic 
 as they do. I haven't played much online just a few rounds but it seems fun so far and very addictive, 
 lots of game types. The replay value is extremely high and this game is a definite buy for current 
 360 owners definitely best game online and probably the next best shooter since call of duty. Definitely 
 take a look at it, even if u don't find it appealing. ps can't wait until oblivion!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HD_Gamer_J
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2006 10:00 pm PT
Review:  This is the most innovative game I have evr seen or played in my life. The online multiplayer is 
 so well done and the features such as the cross com and the drone come in handy so much. I love 
 how teamwork is key in this game. Also the co op is phenominal. The visuals are amazing in 720p. 
 In fact I would pay all the money you have on a Hogh Def TV just for this game if I were you. Yes 
 it looks that good!. This game will go down in history of being the first to actually make the 
 "Next Gen" leap. It is kinda sad however to play this game knowing somewhere out there someone 
 is playing it on PS2, just very sad. The single player is remarkable and I am usually strictly 
 an online gamer and I even fell in love with it. This by far is the best game I have ever played 
 and I believe it will be the best game out for a long while. Ubisoft has outdone themselves on 
 this one. I believe this game should have atleast gotten a 9.8. Unbelievable. I wish I could make 
 up my own language to express to you all how great this game is and that EVERYONE should have it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videohead20
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 9, 2006 8:54 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game! I thought it was going to the same old ghost recon. I was wrong. First of 
 all the visuals were great. The other recon games looked good but still needed a lot of work. This 
 had it down. The one thing that really made me knotice was the reflections off of cars. When you 
 look in the glass there was a perfect reflection of what was behind you. And did it look great. 
 The AI in this game also is very nice. They dont pull the stand still dummy thing and actually 
 try to avoid your fire. The squad movements were easy and their AI was very improved from previous 
 games. I did wish the controls were a little bit faster for easier targeting but I can deal with 
 it. The sound on the game was also great. I think if you like the recon games then you must pick 
 this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teh_zax
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 9, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Ok so the game looks amazing, the sound design is the best I've heard in a long time, and the controls 
 (though hard to get used to) are realty well layed out.
  
  It took me awhile to get the hang of controling my squad and myself at once, but once I got it 
 down I was on my way. Unfortunately the tutorial isn't all that great. It get's you comfortable 
 with movement, but squad control is only touched upon.
  
  I can't judge the multiplayer to well since I had no luck playing it. I just plain suck at it. 
 But it is fun and very fast.
  
  I love this game so far, and I plan on playing it alot in the next few weeks. Hopefully by then 
 I can manage to kill someone in elimination.
  
  
  See you on the battlefield 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesseandnikki
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  With each installment in the Ghost Recon series, it gets better and better. With Advanced Warfighter, 
 there is a big leap from GR2s gameplay. 
  
  The diffculty level is PERFECT. Just enough to make it fun while keeping a tactical feel. Ordering 
 your team is probably the best part of the game, even though their AI is a little slow, and sometime 
 annoying, they are still a valuable asset to staying alive. You may not agree until you play the 
 first level where you're all alone.... with only a sniper, a pistol, and some grenades.
  
  All of the levels are awesome and pact with intense action and firefights. Not to mention graphics 
 and sound effects are absolutley amazing. Never before has a Ghost Recon game looked this good 
 on a system. Explosions are of course the most astounding thing you will ever hear from a video 
 game, and each gun makes it own noise, giving it an even more sense of realism and individuality 
 between weapons. 
  
  Gameplay has taken a real innovative turn with Advanced Warfighter. Adding the smooth flow of gameplay 
 between levels makes it seem more like an interactive movie than a video game. No cutscenes or 
 cinematics found here, and loading screens do appear, but you could blink and miss them.
  
  I havn't had a lot of hands-on with multiplayer, but what I've played is really fun. The only problem 
 I have with co-op is being limited to FPS w/o gun view when doing split screen, and it's not the 
 "no gun" that bothers me, it's having nothing but a reticule to look at. I love watching the smooth 
 character animations that my 360 Advanced Warfighter can create, and since I'm a movie buff, I 
 feel like I'm stripped of that "movie feel" that you get in Single Player. 
  
  However, if you don't have bunches of friend's who want a 360 and love Ghost Recon, then you dont 
 have to worry sharing your GRAW with them, and you can have all the OTS greatness in Multiplayer 
 you want.
  
  Blood effects are also found here, which is good, because GR2 didn't have any at all and Summit 
 Strike had some, but not enough to confirm a kill or hit, which, in my opinion, takes away a lot 
 of the realism.
  
  Enemy AI is OK. Maybe a notch or two up from GR2 and GR2SS. At least you can sneak up on the enemy 
 sometimes unlike GR2 where it could be pitch dark with you laying in tall grass in the forest and 
 still have the guy 20 feet away see you and start unloading his AK. But sometimes sneaking up makes 
 the enemy seem stupid, especially in co-op. I walked by two guys once, and since they didn't shoot 
 I thought they were friendlys.... but they got me (stupid me!) .
  
  Last but definatley not least, voice acting is really good in this game, especially Scott Mitchell. 
 You're team can be repetative at times, but they're not a tro of chatterboxes, so they only talk 
 when you give them orders, if they get shot, if you get shot, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disturbed00
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  i dont know.. something about this game just blows me away. i can honestly say this is the first 
 game to ever beat my "Halo 2 standards."Everything in the game is absolutely flawless. The  
 all go together so good. The campaing is incrediable because of the amount of stuff you can do. 
 The graphics are the best ive ever seen in a video game. My favorite thing about this game is the 
 multiplayer.. by far. There hasnt been any lag what-so-ever... there is a great weapon choice for 
 all levles.. and speaking of levles the maps in the multiplayer are just perfect. The game variants 
 are really basic.. but really cool. You have the deathmatches.. team deathmatches... objective based 
 games like CTF.. and the Co-Op is really fun too.
  Point is.. GRAW is the best game on the 360 so far. If you dont have this game.. you are missing 
 out on probally the best game in a LONG time.. so please go get it? =)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrarmagedon
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 9, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Well it's finally out, GRAW! And it is in my opinion the best game in the series and the best game 
 that is out for the 360. The graphics are wonderful and multiplayer is just a blast. The best thing 
 about this game in my opinion is the co-op while it isn't ranked and there is only four missions 
 it is quite fun blasting the crap out of rebels with 16 other people on your side! The multiplayer 
 itself can be customized in just about everything making every multiplayer match seem like a whole 
 other game type on it's own. 
  
  The single player is also very awesome. The game is set up very nicely with actual gameplay taking 
 place instead of cut scenes to progress the story a little faster. Your squad is also a lot more 
 flexible this time around. Since you can now actually tell them where to go and what to attack. 
 You can also sometimes command heavy support. From gun ships, apc, tanks the works! So basically 
 the single player is a tactical shooter and strategy game rolled into one. And while it does take 
 getting used to, once you get it down issuing commands and playing the game is actually pretty 
 simple. All these factors make a great single player mode.
  
  The game does have it's downsides though. The A. I. isn't the best I've seen mainly for the squad 
 members. They may cut in front of you when you firing or may not fire back at the enemy. But this 
 doesn't happen most of the time There is also some glitches. Like sometimes you can shoot through 
 walls or corner or the clip doesn't come out of the gun while your reloading it but hay nothing 
 is perfect. It is also not very well supported for multiplayer clans, hopefully there will be a 
 patch to fix this. People also suck very bad at hosting multiplayer for this game. Sometimes the 
 will just end the game for no reason at all or they won't even know how to enable stuff for the 
 multiplayer match. That's not the games fault though.
  
  So if you have a 360, like military shooters, like multiplayer where you have to actually have 
 a strategy, like strategy game, than go out and buy this for god sakes!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheeserlord
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  GRAW is just an amazing accomplishment by ubisoft. This game is just polished so well and is so 
 incredibly detailed and fun that its overwhelming. So many good things can be said about GRAW, 
 one of the most profound things is the graphics which are undoubtly the best i have seen on any 
 console. The recreated Mexico City is just teeming with incredible detail. Another astonishing 
 thing about GRAW is its gameplay which is a brand new look on shooters. Ok time for the biggest 
 part of the game, THE MULTIPLAYER. The multiplayer in graw, in my opinion can contend with Halo 
 2's. The shear amount of multiplayer options is incredible, the maps are all incredibly amazing 
 to play on and theres so much more. I could rant on and on about the mulitplayer but just let me 
 tell you this, its AMAZING. Well to sum it up graw is an incredible achievement and a game that 
 no absolutely no 360 owner should be without. Go get a copy now!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iasfdglai
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 11, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Halo 2 since I got my 360 and spent an extra 100$ on it to get it from Ebay. 
 Finally a game worth getting 360.
  
  Graphics - amazing, sometimes I get distracted while fighting just to look at all the detail. The 
 best looking 360 game out there so far, kinda wierd playing a Rocon game with graphics that are 
 up to date. =P
  
  Sound - with my surround there is nothing better then when an explosion rocks your HUD and the 
 action music starts up. top notch
  
  Gameplay - it's Recon with a few new things all done well but online there are a couple of things 
 that get annoying esp sniping. It is basically impossible to snipe anyone who is moving so I doubt 
 there will be many snipers. 
  
  Value - BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
  
  one more thing that brought the tilt down- you can't join ranked with friends and that's just beat 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: froggut198
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 9, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-9- The gameplay is absolutely amazing! Nearly flawless except for the fact that the controls 
 are a little awkward to first time players. The game is fast paced action and copious firefights. 
 If the controls were better it would be a perfect 10.
  
  Graphics-10-Flawless! Every detail is put into the environment, shadowing is nearly identical to 
 real-life (from what I've seen thus far.) The only thing graphics-wise that bothers me is the reloading 
 animations, they don't actually pull out the clip if you look closely, but that is unimportant 
 as long as he looks like he is pulling out the clip and such.
  
  Sound-10-All of the weapons sound nearly identical to their real-life counterparts (from the few 
 guns I've actually heard ha ha.)
  The voice acting is also done well in my opinion.
  
  Value-10-Already I can tell that there is allot of replay value in this game. With over 1,000 customizable 
 multi-player game types, 4 player split screen, XBL, etc.
  
  Value-10-This game is well worth the $60 with all the features it has.
  
  Tilt-10-I don't know 
 what they mean by tilt but I don't want that to affect the game's rating, ha ha.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zam319
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  I have been A huge fan of the Tom Clancy games. They have moved to become much better and less 
 tactical games. GRAW really doesnt have anything in the way as gameplay that resembles the older 
 games in the series. Though this change seems to be for the best. GRAW offers graphics that compete 
 with the likes of of the best of the 360 (pgr3) . The sheer amount of detail in the gamespresentation 
 is enought to justify the purchase of the 360. The sound is of the same quality as the graphics. 
 If you have a good sorround sound setup your ears will become second sets of eyes. But it is really 
 the gameplay that counts. GRAW has complex and satifying controlls that allow you to easilly bust 
 down terrorists. The framerate has some hick ups here and there but its nothing to complain about. multiplayer 
 is awsome. though one problem I had with it is that when you join a game that has already started 
 you are forced to wait in the lobby. That is really boring. but you can just put on some tunes to 
 help pass the time. The enimies arn't that smart but what makes me mad is your ghosts ai. They 
 just are retarded. But when they die you can always just heal them up and wait for them to get 
 themselves killed again. You are always geting intel from the generals back at home. They give 
 you objectives on the run. This gives you the feeling that you are really in a warzone. Graw has 
 the whole package and is a must buy for 360 owners but a few flaws keep it from really being outstanding. 
 Graw is all its cracked up to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da6t3
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  G. R. A. W. Great, Realistic and Worthwhile. It doesnt bother me in the slightest, when game studios 
 push back a release date. More often than not, they use this time to iron out the wrinkles, tweak 
 the gameplay or polish whatever needs polishing. The game is released, I buy it, I LIKE it, I PLAY 
 it and I KEEP it. Occasionally, a studio will push back a release date and when its launched, 
 I buy it, I HATE it and I SAVE it to trade on something else in the near future. Case in point, 
 DOOM3, Rainbow 6 Lockdown, Tiger Woods PGA 06. I digress, G. R. A. W. is an extremely well done game. 
 On HD, with 5.1 Surround Sound and the Music Tracks turned OFF this game is completely captivating. 
 I made my way through training and the 1st mission in order to get a feel for it. WOW! I too, have 
 played the other games from this series and I have to agree, this one is definitely the best yet. 
 BUY IT, PLAY IT, KEEP IT! If you dont like it, you can always trade it in for something else. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 22, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. It's so fun and challenging. the feel of it is great. When u play u really feel 
 like you're an American soldier at war. Everything in this game is fantastic.
  
  The gameplay is good, but there are no civilians. If this game had civilians, it could get a 9.5 
 or something. But the enemy soldiers are tough and can tick you off a bit. Overall though the gameplay's 
 fine.
  
  The graphics and sound are awsome. The graphics are ture Next gen graphics and will stand out for 
 a long time. The sound is very realistic and everything.
  
  This is a valuable game too. Yesterday i went to EB Games and asked if a unit of Ghost Recon Advanced 
 WArfighter was in stores. They said all of that day it was sold out. It was WWAAAAAAAAAAAY too 
 popular.
  
  Overall, this game rocks and you'll have fun playing and you will keep playing for hours on end. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oni_Ookami
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 9, 2006 5:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is awsome, graphics, gameplay, and online are all awsome. online is where the real fun 
 is at though, with online co-op and 8v8 player matches the fun never stops, good lobby system, 
 and stable servers. 
  
  Single player is gret as well, the graphics are awsome, controlling your squad of 4 is easy to 
 pick up, shouldent take too long to figure out though the AI for your team is a bit... slow... you 
 will tell them to get behind that wall and yet somehow one of them will stand in the open and get 
 shot to bits... and some times the bright sunlight can obscure our vision to the point where you 
 cant really see anything, and since almost 90% of your kills will from a distance it can get anoying.
 
  
  Otherwise this game is great. a must own for 360 owners.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockokla4life
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 9, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  G. R. A. W. brought amazing gameplay, beautiful graphics, and an easy enough learning curve for even 
 the newest of game players! From the opening menu this game will keep your attention until you 
 have beaten the game! This in my mind is one of the first legit xbox 360 titles to come out! I 
 Haven't had a chance to try out the multiplayer, but I am extremely optimistic for it though. in 
 my books this game is superb, terrific, all its cracked up to be! GO PICK IT UP NOW!! If this doesn't 
 make you have an enjoyable time on your $300 or $400 dollar 360 I don't know what will!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: africandragon
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best on the 360 so far. I would recommend this game over any other game on the 
 360. I have one problem which is that some of the missions are frustrating and hard. Since you 
 can die in a couple of hits and you have to start back at the last save point it can take you many 
 tries before you finally beat it. This happens to be the worst part I find about this game. One 
 slightly bad part also is that your team mates are sometimes really stupid. Online is really fun 
 and coop is a fun thing to do too. BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ET3B
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  awesome... Feels very tactical not arcadey. The best tom clancy game to date and the best 360 game. 
 
  
  
  Downside 
  
  Theres only small problems
  
  -trigger pull- you have to pull the trigger way too hard.
  
  - running right through your own 
 men.
  
  - your reflection does not show up in windows vehicles etc..
  
  As for the dynamic lighting very real.... some say its hard to see but think about it when you go 
 outside on a sunny day you cant see very well for a while and it works exactly the same way in 
 the game.
  
  We are getting closer to rela life graphics.......... good job 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trojan-Tuba
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  G. R. A. W. is Tom Clancy's latest Ghost Recon game. It is a third person/first person shooter. The 
 first person doesn't show the gun, which sucks. You can switch between in mid-game.
  The campaign takes place in the year 2013. And you are Scott Mitchell, leader of an elite U. S. 
 military Special Force unit made up of the best of the best. First into any conflict and last to 
 retreat, we handle the missions that no one else can. Inserted deep behind enemy lines, we strike 
 swiftly and suddenly, and then... vanish.
  The campaign is pretty hard in my opinion. But I do like the fact that any shot in to the head 
 can kill you. But that also sucks at the same time.
  The multiplayer is the real selling part for me. I love it. Playing online is so much fun. And 
 the maps are just right. The high definition with surround sound and the lights off really gets 
 your adrenaline going. This is the best game for the Xbox 360 to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 9, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for a run and gun type of game... think again. This game is all about taking 
 cover and taking out your enemies behind cover. For me being a newbie to this type of game on the 
 360. I thought it was going to be a breeze. Man was a wrong and doing the training and I don't 
 even know what the hell am I suppose to do. The learning curve in this game for anybody that's 
 playing it for the first time is going to be a couple of hours. I mission are not difficult but 
 is going to take you a couple of tries to learn from your mistakes. I can not compare this game 
 to some of the other tactical games I've play. I tried to compare it to call of duty 2 but this 
 game stands on it's own. The graphics on this game are just simply beautiful and very detail. The 
 sound is incredible throwing a grenade over and hearing the sound affect after it goes off could 
 make you feel like you're right there. That's how long it is. Also when there's a big explosion 
 your visor is all glitch after the bombs go off it's a pretty nice seen. I've played some of the 
 Tom Clancy games before this one and none of them look as good as this game does. It's pretty hard 
 but if you're an experience player from previous ghost recon games this will be a piece a cake 
 for you. But for those that are new will take them a while to get use to. Plus if you're not so 
 not into the single player you can always go on xbox live like myself and just go shooting a way 
 for hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tooterbutt66
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 9, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  First off, the game is an instant classic, and for once ghost recon has the spot light from splinter 
 cell, which is a great game.
  The graphicsthe bestthat all i can say and that if you have a 360 then you better have this 
 game. The story is great , it is such a real situation.
  The game play is also very good the only problem i had was that in a online you couldnt do as much 
 as you could during the single player game.
  BUT that is nothing to whine about, the sound got me shaking and looking around thinking someone 
 is shooting at me.
  My advice is to get it, and do you self some good and get it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: o_sausage
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  WOW. All these years of Ghost Recon and this is what we get... Near perfectness in a game. 
  
  If this is your 1st GR game I suggest you go to single player first. The reason is b/c you 
 die easily. 2-3 shots to be exact. The single player actually seems to me the highlight of the 
 game. there are more things to do and more moves in the game. These moves are basically stuff like 
 the slide into crouch and there is a much better longer higher jump going into prone. The levels 
 are beautiful and is obviously the best looking game for any console.
  
  On the multi player side of things it is less intense and more intense depending on how you look 
 at it. In one way your screen does not shake and do all the other cool things when bullets whiz 
 by like in single player. But on the other hand you know the person is is capable of killing you 
 easily one on one. There is no lag at all in these games but the match system sucks you may end 
 up having to wait a long time before getting into the game you are in. And during these waits you 
 are in lobby not talking to other people or watching the game.
  
  This game is worth the price tag of $60 for just single player. Hell I'd pay $70 for this game.
 
  
  I would give it 9.9 but if you move one slider to 9 it will go to 9.7 
  so 10/10 it is
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: runcollie
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is awsome. I mean every last detail about this game makes me Qauke. it feels so real when 
 I play it. I mean I feel like I'm in a acutal war zone. every thing from the movment to the shooting 
 feels real. THIS GAME IS THE BEST! and trust me I played alot of war games in my time. man I can't 
 wait to paly it online. A MUST HAVE! SO GET THE HELL OF YOUR COMPUTER NOW AND GO GET IT!
  
  [X360 version only]
  
  gamertag [the budda]
  
  I need to write at least a 100 words so 
 don't read the rest
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: E2ESQUARE
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 9, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  GRAW is finally here. After a discouraging delay, and no Tom Clancy games at the Xbox 360's launch, 
 we finally have what we were all waiting for. GRAW is here, and its a AAA game that belongs in 
 every collection.
  
  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is the best game of 2006 thus far, bar none. Its been over a year 
 since it was announced and its been well worth the wait.
  
  GRAW is a tactical shooter, which is a bit of a change from GR2 and Summit Strike. It has the slowest 
 pace of all the ghost recon games, which may be a bit to slow for some, but for those who can live 
 with it, its worth while. The biggest difference is the addition of the advanced warfighter system, 
 which gives your team dominating control of the battlefield from the get-go. You have a little 
 robot hovercraft that is equipped with a camera that feeds into your comlink on the top left of 
 your HUD. You can move this camera around above the area and see enemies, track their movements 
 and plan your attacks accordingly. In this way, it gives you more options then GR has ever given 
 you before, and therefore it is much more strategic in its approach. However, the biggest difference 
 is your new best friend, who is a tank that follows at your command. Unlike GR2 where you always 
 needed a bazooka at your side to take on the enemy tanks, you can just call on your tank and blast 
 the hell out of anyone that gets in your way. The tank is not in every level, and it cant always 
 be deployed, but it can save you from a big jam and provide safe passage across heavily guarded 
 areas. The last major difference is the level design. Once you complete a mission, you get into 
 a helecopter and fly to your next mission. During this process, you enter a long cutscene and heal/refill 
 ammunition. Once the cutscene ends, you are back in the gunner, and you usually have to use the 
 helecopter's machine gun turret to clear a place to land. The turret is awesome and fires fast 
 with execellent accuracy, but it overheats if you leave it firing for to long, which causes the 
 accuracy to drop as it heats up, so be sure to conserve whenever you can.
  
  If there was one way GRAW takes above and beyond, its the gameplay. Its slow paced and often times 
 simply requires moving from point A to point B, but it is top notch all the time. Firefights and 
 enemy patrols hinder your progress, and you will find yourself and your team of ghosts pinned and 
 outnumbered, but you are the ghosts, and you dont go down so easy. You HUD has evolved since the 
 last time you went into battle. You now highlight enemies in red, objectives in yellow and friends 
 in blue and green. Its a simple change, but it puts into perspective that you are the ghosts and 
 you are fighting a tactical war, and that you and your team are better, stronger and more efficiently 
 equiped. You will engage at your own will, but be warned, 3 shots to death, no more no less. From 
 the training mission on, you will learn that cover is your best friend. You can fire from cover 
 with minimal exposure to enemy fire, and the more precise you aim, the more you must expose. By 
 the time you get into using the scope at full magnification, you are completely out of cover. Any 
 way you slice it, you will be using cover, and it works to perfection. Your AI unfortunately are 
 not so smart and tend to go Rambo and stand up and take the shots like a target dummy. Your squad 
 will get kills, but they just arent as cautios or as smart about themselves as you are. On the 
 flipside, the enemy AI are brilliant, especially on hard. They will take cover, and change cover 
 if necessary. They can flank and cover each other, and the biggest difference from GR2 is that 
 the enemy AI can kill you fair and square. They can flat out beat you at your own game if you aren't 
 good enough.
  
  The other big feature in GRAW is the team commading. Obviously you are the leader, and you control 
 the team. You can issue basic orders like move there, go here, follow me, attack, take cover and 
 get down. Your AI are generally smart enough to comply, but sometimes they get stuck or cant move 
 over obstacles, but if you leave them on "follow me" they will generally perform better then if 
 you try to control them every step of the way.
  
  GRAW's campaign is about 12 missions that will take most poeple 8-12 hours to complete on normal, 
 and about 13 hours on hard. Its a solid run thats definetly wirth a second go around, especially 
 if you are after the achievements for btoh difficulty settings.
  
  The multiplayer is where it is really at in GRAW. Every gametype you have ever thought of is here 
 in all of its brilliance. However, the best part is that there are over 200 different options that 
 can be tweaked and changed to fit your every need. You can literally play the game for months and 
 never play the same gametype because the options are just fantastic and make it work differently 
 each time. In terms of multiplayer, there is a pectacular 4 mission co-op campaign, run of the 
 mill deathmatch/team deathmatch, CTF gametypes, all of which support 16 players online and 4 offline. 
 GRAW's multiplayer and online modes are posetively stacked to the breaking point. If there is one 
 point in this game that will last you the longest, its the online multiplayer. Rock solid, you 
 wont be done with GRAW online for a long time.
  
  From a technical standpoint, GRAW is the most "next gen" game availible. It looks stunning, and 
 when its in HD, you will be shellshocked that you are playing a videogame. It sounds fantastic, 
 handles well (although the control stick is almost completely unsensitive in the menus, but you 
 can jsut use the D pad) . There is no flaw in this game from a technical standpoint. A grade A game.
 
  
  Overall, GRAW is this years first must have AAA game. Even though its a multiplatform game, the 
 xbox 360 version is the one to get if you can, and if you have Xbox Live, this game will keep you 
 occupied for a very long time to come. AAA for GRAW, and bravo to Ubisoft, keep up the good work. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lewos1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is great to play and watch. The graphics are breathtaking and the gameplay is amazing. 
 I've only played this game for about an hour (so far) and i instantly wanted to write a review. 
 Its great being killed and then learning from your mistakes and pummeling the smug ba**ard who 
 gunned you down. Your team are not baggage at all like some games prior and it would be foolish 
 and arrogant to even attempt a mission without them because believe me the enemy A. I. is very impressive 
 and smart. They will surround you with heavyfire and if you position your team correctly then its 
 really satisfactory counter-acting their tactics. Its a great game and i recommend it to any gamer 
 at any level and its by far the best thing to appear on the 360 to date and probably for the next 
 few months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: notetoself1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 9, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  this is by far the best game on the xbox 360. it has everything you would expect from a next generation 
 game. graphics are flat out amazing and the game play is the better than its ever been. the single 
 player is unbelievably good. this is a must purchase for the system. it has the best of everything, 
 on line is great too. the whole game is just perfect. it deserves what it got cause thats how good 
 it actually is. def. go out and buy this over any other game, cause i guarantee its the best to 
 buy right now. 
  
  great game, excellent everything , must buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MondoGordo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 9, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  GET THIS GAME!! I have played all the GR series that ever came out for the PC and I have to say, 
 if this looks awesome on the 360, I will definitely pay to play this again on a PC. I like the 
 control and precision that the mouse can offer and I use to find the console controllers a bit 
 awkward for these types of games. However, playing this game using the xbox 360 controller is not 
 too bad at all (which is a "biggie" coming from a PC fanboy) .
  
  This is the most awesome game to be released for the 360.. WITHOUT QUESTION!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psmashio
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 9, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Not that none of the XBOX games before this were any good, but this game is the first 360 to really 
 jump out as a next-gen title.
  
  The High-Dynamic Range Lighting is really impressive, this was the first thing that really jumped 
 out at me, but there is so much more than that when it comes to the graphics. When you first get 
 that awesome helicopter view of Mexico city, you will really appreciate the added power of the 
 new generation. While watching it, I was just imagining that this could be what a new GTA looks 
 like in the future!! That would be truly sweet.. lol
  
  But beside just the graphics, the gameplay is solid as well. The controls seemed a little overwhelming 
 to me at first (only played the very first Ghost Recon, and it was on the PC.. quite different) , 
 but after the first mission or two they really started to feel natural. I have only tried to play 
 online once so far, and there was really minimal online competition, I was unable to play because 
 i was only able to connect to room with one other person in it, and after 20 mins of waiting with 
 no new joins, I decided to check back later.
  
  The story is kinda stock stuff, but in the pretty cool setting of Mexico, which really adds to 
 the whole experience by tying in the entire graphical style with the setting. You will consistently 
 feel like you are in Mexico, its very engrossing!
  
  The gamespot review says you will notice how the vast city is empty besides the soldiers and their 
 equipment. I totally didn't notice it at first, I was just too impressed by the environment. But 
 now I do notice, and its really not a big deal, the game plays better this way I think (rather 
 than having civilians and the like amonst the already kinda crowded battlefields) .
  
  All in all, a great game. Feels like a more futuristic / military themed Resident Evil 4 is what 
 I thought. A must have for shooter fans on the X360! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jets06ya
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 9, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Let me start of by saying GRAW has changed videogaming with its graphics and sound affects. The 
 game itself is great too. There are a couple of concerns though. One the gameplay is slower then 
 gr and gr2, i own them both so i know what im saying, also there is a slight frame rate problem 
 that can get pretty bad in heavy fire. Besides that this game is a gem, the graphics are the best 
 ever and the sound is innovative, it looks like your in mexico city and it feals like it too. The 
 missions are fairly difficult which is frustrating but challenging. The only other problem i have 
 is that whenever you slowdown you character goes into a annoying crouch and walks really slow, 
 online is fun and coop missions are great. I would reccomend this over any game out now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreyHairedGamer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  I cant think of anything to say that hasnt already been said about this game. It completely surpassed 
 my expectations. 
  
  As a long time Clancy fan I cut my teeth on the PC version of Ghost Recon. When the Xbox versions 
 started coming out I was like most skeptical, but I played them and enjoyed. 
  
  GRAW takes the series to a point where PC gamers (myself among) them can no longer say Console 
 games are inferior to their PC brethren. I believe it is not quite the opposite. With GRAW the 
 360, in my opinion, rules the tactical gaming community. Here is my take on the key categories 
 for rating:
  
  Difficulty: Medium  To me this is the perfect blend of difficulty in a tactical situation. Between 
 commanding multiple units and controller your own unit balance is there.
  
  Learning Curve: I despise the category. Everyone learns at a different rate. Just enjoy the game!!!
 
  
  GamePlay (9/10) : Having only played a couple of missions I can say that it is the best gameplay 
 of all the GR games and Ill even throw in the Rainbow series for good measure. The storyline is 
 compelling and keeps you wanting more information. The action is intense and I have found myself 
 holding my breath at times namely when trying to shoot! Enemy AI is better then your teams AI 
 but it isnt horrible by any measure. I havent had a guy run in front of me was I was sniping 
 someone so I think it has improved.
  
  Graphics (10/10) : PC, 360, etc. It doesnt matter the platform GRAW has the best graphics of any 
 game I have played to date. For the first time the videos were less impressive then the actual 
 game. I rave on about the graphics but you can read in other posts that they are fabulous!
  
  Sound (10/10) : I love the sound quality. The voice acting, in my opinion (and I didnt think 
 Crash deserved Best Picture Award) , is excellent. The sounds from explosions and gun fire are amazing 
 to say the least. Blend this with the graphics and gameplay and you have a very real feeling 
 experience.
  
  Value (9/10) : As with any game value is in replayability ( Is that a word?!) . This game 
 has some excellent replay value. Thats enough for me to rate it a 9 
  
  Tilt (10/10) : Im a long time fan of the Clancy series. After playing this for a few hours all 
 I can say is GIVE ME MORE! I hope they come out with a Rainbow Six game on the 360 just like 
 this.
  
  I hope to see all of you online. Happy gaming and welcome to Next Gen!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  I have had this game for only a few days but it is amazing! I am very impressed with the single 
 player (it is crazy hard but in a good way) and can't wait to get my buddies over to my place for 
 some eight player system link! The graphics are by far the best on the system and the gameplay 
 is stellar! The game is so intense and immersive. I am used to playing run and gun shooters so 
 I have had some trouble adjusting but it's not a big deal. I really don't see any flaws with the 
 game except that I can't figure out how to do over the shoulder view when I am playing split screen. 
 I don't know if I just can't figure it out or if it is something that you can't do in split screen. 
 Oh well, it's a minor thing seeing as the game is flawless in 1st person view as well. This is 
 the best game on the 360 by far and if I could give it a 20 I would. Every 360 owner needs to try 
 this game just so they can see how amazing it is, even if you don't like shooters. That's how good 
 this game is! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imafnpro
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 13, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Not because the controls were difficult to pickup. Not because your buddy flying the chopper (who 
 leads you through the tutorial) wasn't providing adequate directions. My problem and I'm assuming 
 others will have the same difficulty is the game is so beautiful I found myself wandering around 
 looking at how the games lighting lit the environment or how my rounds impacted everything in sight.
 
  
  Later, during the first mission, I found myself noticing a shiny red semi-truck cab. I ogled the 
 reflections again what light was doing, my shadow as it affected the reflections... In my amazement 
 I failed to notice the bad guy creeping up on me until it was too late. Upon reload I quickly hurried 
 back to the truck, dispatched the infidel in order to spend more time admiring the game developers 
 handiwork.
  
  This is one game for all to enjoy - fast action, incredibly tasty graphics, intuitive interface/controls 
 and a ton of content (from what I hear) to boot.
  
  the catch - connecting games, via xbox live, through GRAW, isn't a sure thing. some friends and 
 i connect up without a hitch where others, no matter what we try, are unable to join each other 
 in a game. so, for this, the games mark slides nearly a full point southward.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: clcougars33
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 9, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  By far the best 4 hours I've spent on my 360 was playing this game today. Single player feels amazing 
 everything is really tight, great transition from mission to mission. I only played the first two 
 levels, on single player because I wanted to try out the multiplayer. I played Old Town, Boneyard, 
 and I believe it was Dry Docks. The multiplayer just speaks for itself, if you have a good team 
 with enough people you will be very happy. However I did play one round - 30 minutes with only 
 one other person on Old Town.... It was rather long. The maps size definitly needs the players 
 to fill it. Also when I first started on multiplayer I noticed that the controls were somewhat 
 loose, it felt a bit weird at first, but with time you don't even notice it. This game is a must 
 have, for the multiplayer alone. I don't care if you dont have the money go rob a bank get this 
 game! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaultgod_thir
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 9, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Just a great game all around, from the visuals to the gameplay and sound this game does it all 
 right !!! The graphics are amazing, especially when played in 720p, but 420p and 1080i look great 
 as well. The lighting engine is argueably the best lighting to date. Surfaces in the game react 
 with life like qualities when they reflect the sun's beating rays. And speaking of the sun the 
 game does a great job of recreating Mexico city's scourching heat. While the graphics are by my 
 count the best to date on 360, the gameplay doesn't dissappoint either. The game does a great job 
 of making the time between missions fun. Cutscenes aren't used, instead you usually start in a 
 helicopter or an APV recieving orders via your integrated goggles. The missions are fun and faced 
 paced with lots of room for you to make your own decisions on how to complete the objectives. While 
 in the mission you will recieve updates and other messages through your goggles as well, which 
 makes for on the fly changes in mission objectives. If you were a fan of the previous Ghost Recon's, 
 GRAW is a must have. Well for that matter GRAW is a must have for anyone who owns an X-box 360, 
 its the best game to date on 360!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kroz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 9, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  By far the best 4 hours I've spent on my 360 was playing this game today. Single player feels amazing 
 everything is really tight, great transition from mission to mission. I only played the first two 
 levels, on single player because I wanted to try out the multiplayer. I played Old Town, Boneyard, 
 and I believe it was Dry Docks. The multiplayer just speaks for itself, if you have a good team 
 with enough people you will be very happy. However I did play one round - 30 minutes with only 
 one other person on Old Town.... It was rather long. The maps size definitly needs the players 
 to fill it. Also when I first started on multiplayer I noticed that the controls were somewhat 
 loose, it felt a bit weird at first, but with time you don't even notice it. This game is a must 
 have, for the multiplayer alone. I don't care if you dont have the money go rob a bank get this 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funny_bunch71
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter is everything you could ever look for in a shooter. It takes tactical 
 shooting to an entirely new level by generating phenominal graphics with outstanding gameplay which 
 is something not many games do anymore. The first level after the training shows true power of 
 the xbox 360 using awsome lighting effects with great shooting to pull you into the game. The multiplayer 
 pushes ghost recon to the next level with thousands of variations in your multiplayer with a entirely 
 new game for an online co op so after playing this game I give it the perfect 10 because I did 
 not find one flaw that could ever put me off or put down the game for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MTHoodlum423
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is awsome. This game is beautiful. The graphics are absolutly amazing, the best on the 
 360 so far. PS2 or the XBOX couldnt compete with the graphics on this game. The online gameplay 
 is superb. Extremely tacticle. Great maps. Great controls. I have had no problems with lag so far. 
 If you are wondering just how many people are playing this game online, at the end of the first 
 night the game came out I was looking at rankings, and the bottom of the ranking system is over 
 10,000. Single player is fun but it is lacking. Most Tom Clancy games do. Infact all of the have 
 so far from the ones I have played. If you are buying this game for single player only, I wouldnt 
 suggest it. Its fun, but the replay value isnt very high. However if you are an online gamer, its 
 a definite buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TransAm-Jeff
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Wow. This game has really surprised me. I've never been a TC's fan but wanted to give GRAW a try 
 mainly because of the lack of a good FPS on the 360 other than CoD2. 
  
  GRAW is amazing. 
  
  I've only played the game for about 3 hours but I'm already liking this 
 game more than COD2. 
  
  What I like: If you get shot, you don't last long. On normal, an enemy can take you out in 3 shots. 
 Hard, it's usually 1 shot. So, using cover is key. If you go into a hot zone with guns blazing, 
 you and your entire team will be dead in seconds. YOU MUST USE COVER effectively to survive. If 
 a team member goes down, you or another member can give them medical attention. Beware though if 
 they're lying in the line of fire. Then enemy will wait for you to come to them and then open up 
 on you. If you don't get them fast enough, they will die from their wounds. I thought this was 
 really cool. I had 2 team members die cuz I couldn't get to them without getting killed myself. 
 When you heal them, they don't go back to full health, they go to 25%. If you get injured you can't 
 heal yourself at all. If you get killed, game over. 
  
  When you use the scope on your assault rifle, you can hold your breath like in CoD2 to steady your 
 aim. You can hold it longer though which is more realistic than CoD2. I mean who can't hold there 
 breath for at least 10-20 seconds? I haven't tried the sniper rifle yet but it has a heat sensor 
 on it allowing you to see through walls. It can even shoot through thin walls to take out a target. 
 Pretty neat.
  
  The last mission I played, I had to go rescue the Mexican president and escort him to safety. Keeping 
 him alive isn't easy so using your squad tactics is key. 
  
  What I don't like: Not much. ;) I actually wish your squad members would take cover more effectively. 
 That's really the only gripe I have so far.
  
  Great game, go get it NOW!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Longfire3000
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 9, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  This is an amazing game. Graphically amazing the gameplay is great, you need to buy this game. 
 It is a must have. Xbox Live is fun on Co-Op and in deathmath. The city is soo detail. It does 
 feel a bit freaky walking aroound empty streets. Overall this is an amzing game a must have if 
 you don't buy it you'll miss out. One of the best in the series in my opion. The cross com works 
 fine and its cool comanding your sqaud around. Mexico city is a greeat choice because it is big, 
 there are many places to go around to, the missions can be widespread without having to go back 
 to the same place twice. The skyscrapers look real. To be honest when I first saw game pictures 
 of this game I though they were photographs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heretic1987
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 9, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  The best ghost recon game to date. The graphics are amazing on the 360. The levels are amazingly 
 put together. There is so much detail in the entire game. The sound effects are great, especially 
 when firing the grenade launcher. The weapons are the best, greatly balanced. The cross com is 
 the best invention since the microwave. Its very easy to select and command soldiers, helicopters, 
 and tanks. Though the voices are somewhat over the top the game is excellent. Even on the normal 
 setting the game is challenging and makes you choose differents ways and times to flank the enemy. 
 The enemies are very good. they will take you out if the see you first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 9, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  Well worth the wait, This is why I bought the 360 in the First place.
  
  I played though the campaign mode and its fantastic, lots of action and theres never the feeling 
 of being crowded and having no where to go. 
  
  Mexico City is huge and the game really shows that off. Everything about the game if Beautiful.
 
  
  The Multi-Player and Online modes are great there are so many match type and all your buddies can 
 join you in through the campaign mode.
  
  Muti-Player plays just like Ghost Recon 2 for those of you familiar with that game and the Maps 
 are just awesome. Some times you just wanna look at things and forget your in battle and people 
 are trying to kill you.
  
  If you own a Xbox 360, this is the game to buy. Great replay-ability and you can spend hours online.
 
  
  I'm giving Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter a 9.7, because its just about perfect in My opinion.
 
  
  Thanks for reading my review please check out my others.
  Love You All
  -Crim
  
  Rated in the TOP 500 Game Reviewers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldschool12790
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 9, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  Now, im going to admit that the other Ghost Recons were not my favorite, but I decided to pick 
 this one up anyway. As soon as I started the training part I was hooked, this game is amazing. 
 This is the epitemy of "Next-Gen" graphics. I wasn't a fan of previous Ghost Recons but I am a 
 fan of SOCOM (I know, weird) and the multiplayer in this game is like Fire Team Bravo mixed with 
 Halo and insane graphics. There are two things that stood out to me in this new Ghost Recon, the 
 AMAZING graphics and the new HUD (which the developers say the US will really have in the coming 
 years) . It is amazing, the way it outlines the enemies and shows you exactly how they are moving, 
 its kind of hard to explain. In conclusion I would like to say pick up this game ASAP and play 
 some mulitplayer, its amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djreign
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  All I can say about this game is that GRAW is the best in the clancy series and stands out as probably 
 the best shooter to date. Thank god for ubisoft a developer who cares what the gamers think. If 
 you are wondering if the 360 has what it takes, just play GRAW and you will become a believer. 
 At least there are some developers that aren't waiting for ps3 to come out, and they are showing 
 you that the 360 has staying power. This game should win over many people who haven't thought of 
 buying a 360. I am a true believer that if ubisoft can take the time and create a great game like 
 this that other developers will look at this and say holy crap now I see what we can do and do 
 it finally on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingotnw
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 9, 2006 10:40 am PT
Review:  This game is unreal. Not since the original Ghost Recon for the PC have I loved a game this much. 
 This is a pure tactical shooter... Run and gun will get you killed in a hurry. This game also has 
 the best graphics available on any console game onthe market. The only place the game sort of falters 
 is the sound, not the effects mind yo, but the voice acting leaves alittle to be desired, its not 
 that big of an issue though. If you own a 360 you should own this game, if you want this game and 
 you are considering buying a 360 to get it, you should do that. Yes, it is that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekey
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  This game is OUT STANDING!!! Period! Nothing more to say. This is a TRUE next-gen game. I mean 
 this completed game is more than I ecspected. It's fulll of action and you can tell that this game's 
 graphics cannot be done on PS2 or Xbox. (even though there are these versions. They do not look 
 remotely like the 360 and PC versions.)
  
  This game has it all graphics sound, First person 3rd person camera views action and LOTS OF MULTI 
 PLAYER value with a steller multi-player campaign! (yes thats right you can play through the game 
 with up too 16 people in the campaign mode!!!)
  
  Not to mention the superior multi-player xbox live special and on top of that they give you a free 
 48 gold trial subscription as well!!! This game is by far the best game on the already solid 360 
 library! I highly recomend this to every one with a 360.
  
  360 owners MUST have this game!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biga407
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 9, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  the graffics are killer, the sound of the guns and recoil is right on point, and its the 1st time 
 sense rainbow 6 black arrow that ive played a game so long online the 1st day i got it. i Played 
 online for about 6 hours strait trying 2 rank up and its VERY ADDICTING. This game is the killer 
 app weve all been waiting 4. Ive played just about every tom clancy game in the seris and this is 
 by FAR the best game. Its the first ghost recon game that acctully has a injoyable story and the 
 1st of the seris that i will accutally play through the single player. i dont know what else i can 
 say but if you can get ur hands on a copy of this game you BETTER DO IT QUICK becuase people are 
 online right now getting there rank up... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emperor420
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  Finally the next gen is here! This is why to have a 360! These graphics are un f-in believable. 
 On-line multiplay and co-op features are still top-notch and then some now. There is just so much 
 to be said, I cant think of where to start, just go get this now. I cant think of what I liked 
 the most, the amazing look of the campaing, or the multiplayer feels likes its finally running 
 at the right speed, or the new co-op missions. Only issue I can think of is the difference in graphics 
 between the SP game and co-op/multiplayer, but if anything this will encourage players to actually 
 play the main game. I run into so many people online who never play the main game to thier current 
 multiplayer title. Well this SP needs to be played. If you have a 360 and even partially into this 
 genre, YOU MUST OWN THIS NOW! Why are you still reading this, you must get this now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  In short.... this game Rocks! The graphic detail will amaze you. I had average expectations for 
 this game and when i popped it in, it blew me away. The realism in the city and environments is 
 unmatched. The fact that there are no civilians is probably a good thing. You figure that this 
 is War Torn Mexico city. Most civilians would have evacuated or be hiding. You wouldn't see women 
 doing laundry in the middle of a firestorm. The action is so intense you probably won't even notice 
 there aren't any civilians. This game is a must buy. If you even remotely enjoyed a ghost recon 
 game in the past you will love this game. This is what next-gen is all about. Great Job Ubi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: longboardlife
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 9, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  This game looks and sounds awesome. The weapons and the maps are flawless. As a predominanty multiplayer 
 person, I personally think the equipment is too advanced. The lobby is the way it should be (wink, 
 wink COD2) and the ability to customize game load-outs is perfect. The game modes are plentiful, 
 leaving nobody out. The CO-OP Campaign mode is nice. 
  
  My only problem I have with the game play is the fact that your soldier cannot climb over any wall 
 or barriers. The smoke grenades are weak and the lack of civilians are also little things that 
 I would change. Another thing is that the AI on this version seem a little less inteligent. ALL 
 -IN-ALL a MUST BUY. BRAVO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RUFUS342447
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  While it is one of the sweetest games I have ever played, they seriously need to get more weapons 
 into the game with download patches. The selection compared to previous installments is limited. 
 Like for instance, you only have four gunner weapons to chose from. Several choices that was made 
 on the game also confuse me, like you have the M8 rifleman, M8 grenadier, but no M8 compac or M8 
 marksman. They also removed the M29 OICW, and there are no airburst grenades. I also miss the M14 
 DMR, while you can argue that it is too old, I can just remind you how old the M60, H&K MG21, and 
 the PSG 1 are. They also took out the MSG 90, which is I think newer than the PSG 1. Another thing 
 is there are no gunner weapons with 200 round mags or red dot sights. But the weapon selection 
 is very limited, they seriously need a download patch or two. I would also like to see more custimizable 
 features, like more face options, and have a choice of not only your bdu camo, but also change 
 the tactical harnesses and vests colors as well. The missions were very well done, every one of 
 them is non linear and has more than just two ways to complete it, can't wait for the following 
 chapters. One feature that I really like is you are now much more accurate while firing on the 
 run. This really helps eliminate camping. I have not played alot of team or solo games, but from 
 what I have played, it is completely kick ass. I think that it was almost everything I had heard 
 it was going to be. One thing that kept popping into my mind was in my gameinformer mag, it said 
 one mission to like 45 minutes even at a quick pace, and the longest I ever witnessed was just 
 at 30 minutes. Another quick thing, is not all features on the offline campain, are available in 
 the online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 20, 2006 8:35 am PT
Review:  *Update* I'd just like to add... after extensive online play I'd like to say this. This is a awesome 
 xbox live game, one of the best. But, several things about it I feel could be better. The first 
 thing you notice.... you can't take cover or do tactical slides in multiplayer like you can in 
 single player, you should be able to do anything in multiplayer you can do in single player, that's 
 my opinion. Also, I wish that the IWS suit was one of your options when selecting your online appearance. 
 What really gets me about that... not one of the appearances you can choose from include the cross 
 com HUD. Isn't cross com the big feature of Adv. Warfighter? That all being said, Adv Warfighter 
 has some of the BEST action online. The action and graphics are so good, it's very easy to over 
 look it's flaws. Still given it a 9.7 cause it's one of the best, just putting acouple complaints 
 here hoping the developer will read this and make changes in the innevitable sequal.
  
  From the moment the 360 fired up Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, I knew it was going to be something 
 special. And it was, the first game to truely make me feel that the next generation of video gaming 
 is here.
  
  Pros: This game is incredible. If you turn up the sound, and ignore everyone in the house, this 
 game can be truely immersive. The graphics are very convincing at times, some of the best I've 
 ever seen. The gun fighting is great, alot faster paced then previous Ghost titles.... while still 
 being more tactical and challenging. Glass, partical, and explosive effects are more convincing 
 then the trailers led you on to believe. The thermal vision is very helpful. The unmaned drone 
 is easy to use, and very affective when used tactically. Cross-com is very cool. Using satelites, 
 what you see, and what other units see... cross-com targets enemies red, even through walls. Cross 
 -com connects you to the living world around you. Giving you news flashes, orders, back up, and 
 needed information. It's a new sense of immersion. I haven't played online yet since my internet 
 has been down for acouple days, but I'm looking forward to it. Who knows, maybe Ghost Recon Adv. 
 Warfighter is the new Halo?
  
  Cons: The one thing about this game that bugs me, sometimes when you die your gun stays attached 
 to your shoulder instead of falling on the ground or in your hand.... but it's cool. That not even 
 enough to change more score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Equality3531
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2006 8:35 am PT
Review:  All i can say is that this is an all around amazing game!!! everrything in this game is absolutely 
 perfect and i would definately recommend it to everyone. The new targeting system and HUD is extremely 
 cool and satisfying to use. Everything in this game control's flawlessly. The only problem i had 
 w/ it was some unintelligent AI at times, and i feel that there were occaisional clipping issues 
 as well. The graphics in this game are simply astonishing.. i have never seen a game of this graphical 
 quality before. Overall, this is definately the best game that the Xbox 360 has to offer. A muust 
 have for the system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElRey216
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 9, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  I am going to say it again..... Ghost Recon is the Best Tom Clancy game made up to this point...... It 
 has amazing graphics on the 360 and xbox, the action is beefed up but it still maintained the stealth 
 aspect of the game
  
  I personally didnt find it difficult to move ur men in the other GR but some people did, but they 
 shouldt have that problem in the one..... The AI is great, both the enemies and the your men are 
 smart so it makes the games run at a faster pace.
  
  For you players that play games on easy or normal, then dont play the game cause ur not gonna get 
 the full affect of the game...... on hard the enemies shoot faster and they are smarter..........
 
  
  My favorite part of the game is setting up ambushes on those mexicans......... lol...... and blowing 
 stuff up...... when took that rocket launcher and blew up a tank, i was thinking if the games had 
 a rewind button then i would use just to see that explosion over and over.......... The grenades 
 have a new level of importance in the game..... if there are enemies behind a car dont be affraid 
 to throw a grenade and blow up the car to high hell, or just tell ur men to fire a rocket at it 
 or tell them just unload on the car and it will eventually blow up......
  
  And for u players that re lazy and dont feel like doing things on ur own and u want to take the 
 easy way out, then just tell ur men to do it for you..... whatever u can do, ur men can do........ But 
 dont abuse that power cause sometimes the games gets pretty difficult when u dont have ur men.... You 
 can heal them but, if u take to long to do it then they just die and then ur gonna hate urself 
 for letting then die on ur watch.........
  
  This is my review..... if u dont like too bad..... if u do then reply 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthkiLer
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  Great game cant put it down. Must have if you dont have it go BUY IT NOW!!!!. this game would keep 
 you busy for hours i would put this game in hard mode it would give you a challenge. if you have 
 a 360 you know wht i mean about the graphics all ready look great better then on the xbox. You 
 got to have a surronded system for your tv and 360 if you dont get one GUYSSSSS. the sound is just 
 great on sound syetem. That all iam going to say if you love war games and ghost recon games this 
 the game for you . GAME OF THE YEAR FOR 360.!!!!!!!!!! Worth to buy for 60 bucks on my list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilwezzy360
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 9, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  this is a perfect game. the best graphics, gameplay and the most fun. i had as much fun playing this 
 game as i did playing halo 2 and call of duty 2. i think everyone should by this game. it is the 
 best xbox 360 game and the best tom clacy game ever!!!!!!!!!!! and rite now its only on the xbox 
 360!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! if you like games like halo2, call of duty 2, and all 1st person shooter games 
 you need this game. if you go out to buy a game and you have to choose from call of duty 2 and ghost 
 recon advance warfighter i would choose g. r. a. w. i had so much fun playing this game. the graphics 
 are amazing and sound of the guns shooting is amazing. the music of the gameis perfeact so when 
 you about to go into a room it cganges the mood of thing. all in all its the best 360 game out now 
 for the 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _LEGIONS_
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  Although I've played and bought all the Ghost Recon games on the old Xbox, I was never an avid 
 fan of the series. Yes, I enjoyed them to a certain extent, but they didn't draw me in like some 
 other shooters have.
  
  Now Ghost Recon comes on a new next-gen console, with spanking brand new features, and one heck 
 of a nice coat of paint. Yes the game can best be described as being revolutionary in its class.
 
  
  Graphics
  First of all, when you pop the disc in, the graphics scream and overbleed with the terms "next-gen". 
 Character models are nicely done, and the whole ambiance and seamless city makes the experience 
 that more enjoyable.
  IMO, if you really want to show off your new next-gen console, then GRAW fits the bill perfectly.
 
  
  Sound
  You need, I repeat, you NEED a 5.1 sound system to experience what this game has to offer. Never 
 has the sounds of war sounded so realistic and crisp. Even the little voice acting there is, makes 
 the setting very realistic and engrossing.
  
  Gameplay
  This game will keep you busy. Yes, all the buttons are used and many complex operations are needed 
 from the user. The learning curve for some might be a bit high, but once one has passed the learning 
 curve, the controls becomes second nature.
  Although the game seems slow paced, it is far from it. There is plenty of white-knucle action and 
 pure dynamic gun fights to make it an experience of its own
  
  Conclusion
  GRAW is a fantastic game. Although not everyone might appreciate it, those who are interested in 
 AAA games, will surely find much enjoyment to be had in this true-next-gen revolutionary title. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rexoverbey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2006 7:10 am PT
Review:  Initial Reaction:
  First let me start by saying that no game in the last couple of years has hyped me like this one. 
 Not since the Halo series have I been so eager to get a game. The graphics are something that have 
 to be seen to be believed. It is closer to CGI than any game has approached so far. A very realist 
 looking game with very realist Physics too. When you throw grenades you'll be surprised of their 
 impact. It is so awesome to see big vehicles being taken out with explosions that take you by surprised. 
 Also seeing the smoke tossed up by helicopters is so cool, or blowing a box across the screen, 
 or seeing shards of glass explode. One thing I noticed was that you could not go very far beyond 
 the borders of the city or you com get static and then you cannot see.
  
  Multi player:
  At first I did not think that the multi player graphics would be that great. Then I saw all of 
 the different settings you can play it is just great. Plus you can practice alone with AI controlled 
 opponents which I thought was cool. The maps are very big and very, very detailed. The lighting 
 effects are just great too, and that is in single player as well.
  
  Achievements:
  Some of these seem really hard especially the top of the leader board achievements. Also some seemed 
 really strange like playing the game for 8 hours straight to get an achievement. 
  
  Control:
  The game controls really well and had no problems. Sometimes I noticed that when you 
 give a command the soldiers and vehicles can not maneuver around obstacles very well. Maybe it 
 is just me on this one because everything else was smooth.
  
  AI:
  Seemed good enough but your soldiers are not always the best and get injured easily.
  
  Conclusion:
 
  The game is great game for 360 and probably the best one out right now. This is the game that 
 should of been with the launch and will hold you over till Gears of War and Halo 3 come out. Well 
 worth the money and lots of replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceXdude05
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 9, 2006 6:28 am PT
Review:  Wow, its look freaking sweet on my HD. THe visuals greatly enhance gameplay, the authenticity of 
 weoponry, sounds and detail are gorgeous. The firefights are intense. The enemy ai is preety good, 
 except for their psychic abilities ( they stay behind cover sometimes because they know you are 
 looking at them) .. lol. Everything about singleplayer is perfect, and bo o boy multiplayer its practically 
 its own game. I dont think that the ghost ai are that stupid like alot of people are saying. I 
 i know is you really need to know where to put them in coperation with you to get the best out 
 of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webproserv
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  This game gets a perfect 10 out of 10, anyone who says different is living in shame. The graphics 
 are a perfect blend of real and umm real. The gameplay is a great, great, GREAT mix of tactics 
 and action. You will never feel bored or not knowing what to do next in this game. Ghost Recon 
 Advanced Warfighter has plenty for you to do for weeks even months. The single player campaign 
 is between 12-15 hours long and the multiplayer will have you fragging those terrorist neighbors 
 of yours for a long long time! The multiplayer is so deep, so deep enfact I think the titanic is 
 actaully sitting rotting away in this game. There is just so much customization in this game from 
 customizing your player to a complete arsenal of customizations for all types of multiplayer gameplay. 
 The controls are top notch and are easy to handle and get used to quickly. The two views in the 
 game are third and first and let me tell you I strongly prefer the third person view but for you 
 Ghost Recon fanatics out there you will heavily enjoy the first person view you are so accustomed 
 to. The sound is top notch, enfact the sound will have in Mexico City praying for somebody to rescue 
 your sorry ass from the heat of the Mexican sun and the approaching thugs with AK-47's. The total 
 replay value of this game is the best since Halo 2. Ahh yes, there it is, I compared this game 
 to Halo 2 and yes I am confident enough and strongly believe that anyone who thought Halo 2 was 
 great this game is better, WAY BETTER. Halo 2 was more run and gun, this game will have you running, 
 gunning, hiding, screaming, crying, laughing, well you get the picture. This game is great and 
 I mean GREAT! For more gaming information be sure to check out http://GameWired. tripod. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekid23
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 9, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  This game is intense, beautiful and just plain fun. If you got a 360, scoop it up.
  If you turn of the display reticule and try and play without knowing where the enemys are, it is 
 truly difficult. You never know where a bullet is gonna come from and then u got to plan accordingly.
 
  I would suggest trying this, maybe wait till you beat it first, because u may hate the amount 
 u get killed when you dont have the technology advantage.
  The only issue I have is that the AI of your squad can be a little annoying. Sometimes they just 
 stand in the open, other times they will kill a guy and just keep shooting... so I'll think hes 
 still there... Ill be throwing grenades and emptying clips then I realize they are just pelting 
 a wall... If you go a certain path on the first level, one of your guys gets stuck and you can get 
 him to come with you. Which was annying... but it caused me to take the high road and get the advantedge 
 on my enemies whorolled up below.
  Very openended game with lots of choices and tactics. Choose your squad and weapons, send ur squad 
 ahead to draw enemy fire, or be a hero and lead the way (wouldnt suggest this to often) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcgillmaine01
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 9, 2006 5:50 am PT
Review:  Well the time has come. Ubisoft finally released Ghost Recon Advanced War fighter. This was one 
 of the only reason I waited 13 hours in line at best buy for the 360. And now Im glad I did. This 
 game has to be one of the best shooters on 360 (which there's not that many) .
  
  Game play: With MP being the focus on most games now days. Graw didn't forget about the SP mode. 
 I always had been a fan of MP. Just don't like AI. But Graw SP is something you won't forget. The 
 mission is set in Mexico City. And it's a War. The action never stops. Then you command a team 
 of three. This is very easy to do. All you need to do is tell them to follow or move or attack. 
 Real simple. And your team's AI isn't bad. Sometimes you might wonder what they are doing. But 
 for the most part they do there job. You can also use drones which are cool for mapping out the 
 area before you move in. The controls have been change a bit. But for the most part it's still 
 GR only better.
  
  Graphics: If you think you seen good graphics with the few lunch titles. Then you haven't seen 
 anything. Graw has to be the best looking game on 360. Mexico City is done so well. And the player 
 models are all correct. This game looks real. And most games don't. But the look alone makes you 
 love this game.
  
  Sound: Can you say 5.1? If you can't then youre missing out on one of the best things in this 
 game. I was playing one mission and this blast came out of no where. It made me jump out of my 
 set! Then the choppers sound like they were took right out of black hawk down. And the sound also 
 helps with locating the enemies. 
  
  Value: GR games always had great and long replay value. Sense the 1st GR, all my playtime (Xbox 
 live) has been on one those games. And graw brings more to the table this round. You can customize 
 your online character. Which you have 4 classes to choose from. The maps are well balance for 8-16 
 people. Then there a Co-op mode that has 4 missions. So after the great SP, You can jump on to 
 MP and ride this game till the next one comes out. And dont forget about downloadable content!
 
  
  Overall this has been the game I been waiting for sense the lunch of the 360. Now it's here and 
 it was all worth the wait. If you like War shooters or just need a killer app on the 360 Graw should 
 be your 1st choice.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spanxxx
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 9, 2006 5:08 am PT
Review:  so happy that 360 has got it together must keep it going you can see the work that has gone into 
 this game its clean and fast and smart. if this is the begining of next gen i cant wait to see 
 what will come down the gaming road. however i hope that we will not only see repeats of games 
 but new and fresh ideas. we need new types of games so that the evelution of game tech improves. 
 kudos to all involved in this game this game makes it all worth the hours spent being a hardcore 
 gamer ican see that the future will be bright in the gaming world 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaFalconX15
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 9, 2006 4:11 am PT
Review:  When I first reserved they game a couple months ago I wasn't expecting much special but...... I 
 like shooters so i wanted to give the game a shot because the some of the gameplay screenshots 
 looked good. When i got the game yesterday I was amazed at the amout of detail put into everylittle 
 thing.
  What I was most amazed with was the Enemy AI when there are enough on the map. Last night I played 
 a match with a couple people on 10 mins Infinite on Defend. We were trying for 2 hours before we 
 beat it and that was usually with an 8 man squad. The AI puts up one hell of a fight and are very 
 smart. They will flank if they see the opportunity and throw grenades if your in a concealed spot.
 
  The music is good from what I could hear over the screaming and gunfire. Nothing too out there 
 to set people off, just some good war music that matches the personality of them game. The guns 
 sound real, each have there own unique sound that i think if was matched to the real gun would 
 atleast sound somewhat similar.
  Graphics are phenomenal, I believe on one of the night lvls you can look up the sky and see the 
 moon, and the whole night sky looked so real. Some times when you play a game like this you just 
 don't notice nice things like that but it looks all so real with no framerate issues. Of course 
 there might be room for improvement but my hat goes off to the developers because it's one of the 
 nicer looking games for the Xbox 360.
  Single Player is very good but only do it if you got the time to put in because you might be there 
 for a while. The missions are challenging and make you want to come back for another try.
  Multiplayer is great, you might go as far to say it could hold it's own against Halo 2. I think 
 that myself aswell. All games are customizable and you can edit your character for your own little 
 personalized look of things. The game types are in a huge abundance where you can go from Team 
 Elimination To Co-Op Firefights and Defends to an Online Campaign mode.
  I don't need to preach to you about how good this game is......... just look at what the other players 
 and other websites gave it as well. Forget renting it because your going to waste time returning 
 it and then buying it because I know your going to like it. So do me a favor? Buy The game and 
 I'll meet you on the battle field!
  -TheCheat4088
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bballgrda
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 4:12 am PT
Review:  GameplaySingle Player- This easily has the best gameplay of any tactical shhoter out there. THis 
 was my first Ghost Recon game and it was easy to beat the tutorial and go. Sometimes it feels as 
 if you're one of the soldiers in Full Spectrum Warrior. The shhoting par is great as well with 
 a massive selection of guns and classes to produce endless customization. The level design is beautiful 
 in both SP and MP allowing you to have an open map in SP makes for many flanking strategies. The 
 cross-com was also one perfectly easily allowing you to command other units rather than your squad 
 for a tactical advantage. The shooting controls are tight as well making ia more of action game 
 out of it.
  
  Multiplayer- This is the area in which this game thrives. The customization is unbelievable. There 
 is a large variety of maps which are all really good and are just mindblowing. THe customazation 
 in MP is great how you can choose your class and looks to stand out. The cross-com is also pretty 
 coo so if you're traveling with someone you see what they see. This has saved my life atleast a 
 few times. The map is great letting you put and orange marker where ever it may be you need to 
 go. This is very useful for territory and tactical games. The game is 8 on 8 which is my only gripe 
 but it's not thta big of a deal. THe MP is also very balanced no one class or gun dominates. Alot 
 of who you are and what weapon you have being good depaends on the map you're playing. This game 
 allows quick firefight where it basically only take one or two shots to fall someone. Another great 
 thing about the multiplayetr is the co-p campaign. This is just sheer awesomeness having 16 people 
 and a bunch soldiers storm through a level. The only downside is that there's no way to revive 
 some, and the levels are long. So unless your amazing you'll probably need 4+ players. Overall 
 I think this is the best MP on an Microsoft console since Halo 2.
  
  Graphics- GRAW definately thrives in this are. It has some of the best lighting and shadowing effects 
 I've ever see. I was even sniping once and my brother though and ingame glare was on my TV. Really 
 it was in the game. The enviroments also look amazing especially the city and a few MP maps. THe 
 metropolis is massive with no end in sight. Character models are good most of the time except when 
 a GHost says "following" and it zooms in his face. That part makes me squint but "meh".
  
  Sound- Overall the sound is great most weapons sounding different and lifelike. The soundtrack 
 in Sp is ok but doesn't touch games like Halo. Overall the sound is awesome just not perfect.
 
  
  Value- Xbox Live anyone? I'll be playing this game for months to come over XBL. This adds so much 
 value to the game I'm suprised GS gave it a 9 in this area.
  
  Overall this game is the best available on the 360 and should be picked up by anyone who owns a 
 360. If you don't own one tha this, Oblivion, and the rest of March might make it more appealing,
 
  
  BTW this is my first review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeavysetHollis
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 9, 2006 3:16 am PT
Review:  This is what the xbox 360 community has been waiting for!
  
  now don't get me wrong, PDZ and NFS were great games but they were 
  just like chips and dip 
 before the meal.
  
  the multi player has changed and for the better new maps, new guns
  and a new way of playing brings a whole new depth to single player
  and multi player.
  
  
 Single Player: One of the most involving single player story modes I have played in a long time. 
 not only are the graphics great but after you reach the 3rd mission you are sucked in even further, 
 with the non-stop action and bombardment of objectives the fun never stops for about 10-15 hours!
 
  
  Multi player: A little more fast paced this time around, with you cypher and cross-com finding 
 your opponent is a bit less frustrating than before.
  
  With an almost flawless aiming system and a great gun selection to help,
  you will find yourself 
 in battle after battle with your friend kickin' butt and takin' names in a matter of hours!
  
  Audio & Video: the sound is amazing and right on the money at that.
  graphics are good and 
 high-def makes it all the better.
  
  I only have on problem with the graphics, some of the textures early in the game are a little bland 
 but other than that best graphics in a game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashokmeena
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 9, 2006 1:53 am PT
Review:  GRAW have most stunning graphics ever on any console.. The new HUD Display is cool.. Team-mates 
 field of vision display is very good.
  
  You never feel pressure downsizing. Halicopters, Armered Vechicles, etc are in plenty.. Only with 
 help of gadgets you are able to take down enemies..
  Earlier games in the series had week AI.. Everything depended on who saw first, killed other, But 
 still it was fun especially multiplayer.. 
  GRAW's AI is neither too strong nor too week.. It's great to play against AI.. 
  
  Sound is 
 kinda good.. 
  
  There should have been neutral stuff in the game like civilians, cars, etc..
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xrm150
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2006 1:14 am PT
Review:  I have always like the Ghost Recon series on the pc; but ive never been that big of a fan of shooters 
 on a console. They just didn't feel right. But as soon as you start playing Ghost Recon you know 
 they got this one right. The controls are very easy to use. You really get your moneys worth when 
 you play this game. The graphics and sound are just amazing! Out of all the previous Ghost Recon 
 games this one is by far the best one.... even if you play on a controler. Multiplayer in this game 
 should be fun as well. Can't wait for some death-match and co-op...16ppl.... it will be a blast! 
 If you havn't gotten this game already.... GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poporing123
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2006 12:47 am PT
Review:  Lets get this over with. This game was worth the wait and the reason for me getting a 360.
  
  Modes:
  i played campaign mode on normal and played through a few levels and found it to 
 be quit difficult in some areas. Controls maybe hard to get used to the first levels, but after 
 you get used to it, you begin to notice the game gets faster paced. killing doesnt become much 
 of a task as surviving.
  I did however find a few glitches and missing essentials. some camera glitches and missing compass. 
 all this high tech stuff this soldier is supposed to have on him and it doesnt even tell you the 
 direction you're facing? odd
  
  multiplayer... mmmmm tastes so good.
  on the first day of playing on live, finding a game with 16 people is hard. since most people is 
 probably still playing campaign mode. but i made quite a few friends. which ended up in bigger 
 games. which also came with absolute chaos. hahaha so fun
  live is extremely fast paced if you set the respawn on infinite and the kills high. but you can 
 also have slow and strategic games just by changing the options. (like conterstrike) . 
  I didnt have the change to play anything other than elimination (deathmatch) , but there are a couple 
 or modes i think. territories and objectives.
  GUNS GUNS GUNS. wow there are so many guns. which one should i choose. little bit of advice. choose 
 a different one each time, time you have one that you just seem to rock with. thats what i did. 
 i started with the M8 most of the time. just a simple assault rifle with zoom.
  i actually love live matches here. the only problem is if you get more than one person trying to 
 control one drone (flying thing that helps you see where the enemy is) that and no compass once 
 again.
  
  multiplayer co-op... im confused
  i really dont see the point in this. do you just kill all the people on the map?
  i think you 
 will have to mess around with this, and figure out yourself. sorry
  
  overall, this game is bad... BAD A$$!
  
  Stick it in your xbox and play it, and if you dont 
 have it, GO BUY IT!
  
  like the black hick i was playing with said, "god dayam this mdlak-asdf ddff
  fakin game is alsdkf 
 ddooo weee pom AWSOME!!! HA-HA -HAAAAAA wwoooooo!!"
  
  ..... he mumbles a lot. lol
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
